19-03-2021||Other||Four UP districts asked to enforce ban on loudspeakers from 10pm to 6am||Inspector general of police (Prayagraj range) KP Singh has issued instructions to senior police and administrative officials of all four districts of his range —Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh and Fatehpur — to enforce a ban on the use of loudspeakers from 10pm to 6am as per the orders of the Allahabad high court delivered on May 15, 2020.The instruction comes days after Allahabad University vice chancellor Prof Sangita Srivatasva’s letter to Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami regarding the high volume of loudspeakers during azaan (call for prayer) at a mosque near her home causing great inconvenience to her.Copies of her letter were sent to other top police and administration officials.The IG (Prayagraj range) said a letter had been forwarded to the district magistrates and SSPs/ SPs of the four districts to strictly implement the instructions of the court, regarding playing of loudspeakers and public address systems which caused inconvenience to others. He further said that officials of the four districts had been told to restrict playing loudspeakers at all religious places between 10pm to 6am. Action will be taken in case of violation. “The high court has given clear instructions that azaan is a religious practice, but use of loudspeakers for giving azaan is not a fundamental right. Under the Pollution Act [Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000], use of loudspeakers and public address systems at public places is restricted during the nighttime. They can be used under special circumstances at halls, cultural programmes etc with special permission of officials concerned only. The loudspeakers cannot be played on a regular basis during the nighttime as it is restricted under the Pollution Act,” the IG said.Allahabad University (AU) vice chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava, through a letter dated March 3, had urged senior administrative and police officials of Prayagraj to get azaan through loudspeakers stopped, claiming that the early morning call for prayer from the loudspeaker of a mosque near her home was disturbing her sleep. The vice chancellor had cited headache and loss in work hours as fallout of the morning azaan while seeking a quick response, officials had confirmed. Following the complaint, the mosque management committee on March 17 had changed the direction of one of the two loudspeakers on the minaret and also reduced the volume by half. Kaleem-ur-Rehman, muttawali (caretaker) of Lal Masjid on Clive Road, had said that after being informed by the local police about the problem being faced by AU VC, the mosque management committee immediately decided to take steps to redress the issue.“The volume of the system, which was already a decibel less than the norm set by the court, has been further reduced by half and direction of one of the loudspeakers has also been changed, so that it points away from the VC’s home,” he had said.The muttawali said that if the VC had simply spoken to the members of the mosque management committee, then they would have been obliged as their aim was never to cause any inconvenience to anyone living near the mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-up-districts-asked-to-enforce-ban-on-loudspeakers-from-10pm-to-6am-101616178386424.html
19-03-2021||Pune||22-kg marijuana seized from youth in Bibwewadi||The Bibwewadi police station sleuths seized 22 kg marijuana worth ₹5.16 lakh from an Osmanabad resident identified as Nisar Modin Jamadar (25). The Detection Branch (DB) of Bibwewadi police station, Pune city police seized the drugs. Jamadar (25), a resident of Loni Kalbhor and originally comes from Sindgaon in Tuljapur taluka of Osmanabad district of the state. A team led by assistant police inspector Rajesh Usgaonkar, in-charge of the Detection Branch (DB) crack team was patrolling during the night of March 16. It was around midnight that the sleuths came across Jamadar who was waiting near Aai Mata temple near Goyal Garden on Gangadham-Shatrunjai Mandir road. He was carrying the marijuana in a sack on a motorcycle and immediately taken into custody by the patrolling team. An FIR was lodged against Jamadar for offences under relevant sections of the NDPS Act. He was produced before a local court that remanded him to police custody until March 20. The arrest took place under the guidance of DCP (Zone 5) Namrata Patil, ACP (Wanowrie division) Rajendra Galande, and senior police inspector Sunil Zavre. The team included police inspector (crime) Anita Hiwarkar, API Rajesh Usgaonkar, and police personnel Sham Lohomkar, Amit Pujari, Satish More, Atul Mhangade, Amol Shitole, Tanaji Sagar, Shrikant Kulkarni, Dipak Lodha, and Rahul Kothawale. On March 10, the anti-narcotics cell (I) of the Pune city police crime branch arrested six foreigners, including three women, for illegal drug trading. The anti-narcotics sleuths had recovered ₹68.86 lakh worth of Mephedrone (MD) and Cocaine drugs from the accused. The arrested persons were identified as Manfred Daud Manda (30), Annastazia David (26), Hasan Ali Kasid (32), Bekai Hamis Faomi (42), all natives of Tanzania; and Shamim Nandawula (30) and Persey Naiga (25) from Uganda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/22kg-marijuana-seized-from-youth-in-bibwewadi-101616178267054.html
19-03-2021||Pune||Two booked for assaulting police constable in Hadapsar||The Hadapsar police have booked two youths for allegedly smashing a beer bottle on the head of a constable who was trying to convince them that the beer shop was shut. The incident took place around 11 pm on Wednesday night. The victim constable identified as Ravi Ratan Rathod (28), a resident of Chintamani Park has lodged a complaint with the police stating that he was attacked with a beer bottle on his head by the duo and sustained head injuries in the attack. Rathod had finished his duty and was on his way home when he saw two youths in an argument with his acquaintance identified as Aba Sale. The duo was arguing with him over liquor. He intervened in the matter and instead received a hit on his head by a youth identified as Omkar alias Bunty Kakade (28), a resident of Manjri, and his associate identified Ashwin alias Bhau Padghamkar. The duo physically assaulted him besides attacking him with a beer bottle on the head, the complaint stated. The police have formed a team to trace the accused who are still at large. Hadapsar police station in-charge Balkrushna Kadam said, “A case has been lodged related to physical assault and the accused have been booked in the case. The investigation is on and they will be arrested soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-booked-for-assaulting-police-constable-in-hadapsar-101616178266374.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Resurgence of virus cases in Himachal, govt mulls fresh curbs||In the wake of a surge in coronavirus cases across the hill-state, the Himachal Pradesh government on Friday decided to impose fresh curbs on social events, including fairs and other social functions across the state The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.The government had earlier decided not to impose restrictions on fairs in Himachal. But it reviewed its decision amid resurgence of Covid cases. The CM will hold meetings with deputy commissioners of all 12 districts to take stock of the situation. The government is likely to issue new guidelines and restrictions after the meeting. Further, the Cabinet approved the ‘no mask, no service’ formula. Health secretary Amitabh Awasthi made a presentation in the in the meeting to apprise the Cabinet on the status of virus cases in the state. The government will approve fresh standard operating procedures for fairs being organised after March 23. It further decided to strictly implement the social distancing norms . No stalls at the fair will be allowed to open after 8pm while social functions will be allowed only with 50% attendance. Virus cases that had begun to reduce at the beginning of the year have witnessed resurgence in the hill-state. The surge began in the last week of February. Himachal has recorded 1,743 new infections till March 18, a rise of over 57% as compared to February when 1,109 cases were reported in the state. Twenty-one people have died due to the virus while active cases have climbed to 1,124 from about 200 in February-end. The state has recorded 60,389 infections so far while 58,248 people have recovered, and 1,003 people have died. Meanwhile, the state government on Friday imposed new curbs banning the fairs from March 23 onwards and people found without mask would be penalized. 181 new cases Meanwhile, the state today recorded 181 fresh infections on Friday. Of the new cases, 65 were reported in Una, 52 in Kangra, 24 in Solan, 10 in Shimla, nine in Bilaspur, eight in Mandi, five each in Hamirpur and Kullu and four in Sirmaur. Shimla is the worst-hit district with 10,649 cases, followed by Mandi with 10,352 cases, and Kangra with 8,894 cases. Solan has 7,003 cases, Kullu 4,490, Sirmaur 3,723, Una 3,429, Hamirpur 3,153, Bilaspur 3,061, Chamba 2,987, Kinnaur 1,390, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,258.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/resurgence-of-virus-cases-in-himachal-govt-mulls-fresh-curbs-101616178207795.html
19-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid cases breach 30,000 mark with 292 infections, four dead||The district’s daily Covid-19 count shot up to 292 on Friday, pushing the total cases to 30,066, just four days after the tally crossed 29,000.The fresh infections took the active cases to 1,643, while the death toll also rose to 1,072 with four casualties. As many as 27,350 patients have recuperated so far.Friday was the fifth consecutive day to witness over 200 cases, while 23 people lost their lives to the virus during this period. The pandemic had claimed four lives on Thursday, five on Wednesday, six on Tuesday and four on Monday.On Monday, the week had started with 226 cases, followed by 245 infections on Tuesday, while 233 cases were reported on Wednesday and another 237 on Thursday.The latest fatalities include three women and a 45-year-old man from Ajlod village in Samrala. The women were a 72-year-old and a 62-year-old from Khanna, and a 38-year-old from Detwal.Six students, six teachers positiveThe positive patients included six students, including two from Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Multipurpose School, and one student each from DD Jain College, Kadwai Nagar; Khalsa College for Girls; PAU and CFC School, Haibowal.Besides, one teacher each from St Soldier School; GSSS, New Subash Nagar; GSSS, Gill; Sacred Heart Convent School, BRS Nagar; Harvest School, Jassowal; and BCM School, Shastri Nagar, also tested positive.5,442 receive Covid vaccineAs many as 5,442 people were inoculated against Covid-19 at various government and private health facilities in Ludhiana on Friday. These included 2,247 senior citizens and 1,256 comorbid people aged between 45 and 59.Besides, 476 healthcare workers came for the first dose, while 147 received the second dose. As many as 1,064 frontline workers also got the first dose and another 252 turned up for the second dose.So far, 93,660 people in the district have been immunised against the virus.PAU asks students to vacate hostels till April 2Taking note of the rising Covid-19 cases, Punjab Agricultural University vice-chancellor BS Dhillon has directed students, except foreign nationals, to vacate all hostels from March 22 to April 2. Meanwhile, the classes will be held online.Private hospitals told to ramp up bed capacityIn a move to strengthen city’s healthcare infrastructure to deal with the spike in Covid cases, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal have directed private hospitals to augment their bed capacity without any delay.According to the DC, around 350 patients are admitted in private hospitals, with majority of them being serious. Similarly, 30 patients are undergoing treatment at government hospitals and many among them are also critical.“The positivity rate has spiked to 6% with 240 to 250 daily cases. Deaths per week have also increased from seven to 25 to 30, while hospitalisation has jumped to 10%,” said Sharma.He added that the administration had constituted teams to conduct audit of bed capacity at hospitals, which will start on Saturday.The officials appealed to people not to take symptoms lightly and contact doctors soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-covid-cases-breach-30-000-mark-with-292-infections-four-dead-101616178086998.html
19-03-2021||Pune||Survey finds physical abuse in non-marital relationships among youth in Pune||A survey conducted among youth in Pune has revealed that even in non-marital relationships physical abuse co-occurred with emotional or sexual abuse. Of those reporting physical abuse, 64 percent reported emotional abuse, and 35 percent reported sexual abuse. Researchers found that physical abuse in the form of slapping, pushing, pinching, pulling hair, twisting hands, beating up was reported by 13.8 percent women and 2.9 percent men. The survey was conducted by the Prayas health group based in Pune. The study was focused on unmarried youth between the ages of 20 to 29 years. A total of 1,240 participants were enrolled in the study out of which 653 were men, 584 were women, and three participants marked their gender as other. The median age of the participants was 23 years. Trupti Darak, one of the researchers on the team said that this study is important as it explores the challenges the youth of this city is facing. “We often focus on marital relationships, but non-marital relationships are becoming a norm among youth and they face a plethora of circumstances in their relationships. We have found that many participants, men as well as women have experienced sexual abuse in their childhood, and this affects their relationships now. We have also seen that many participants are fearful and uncertain about their next relationships because of previous experiences,” said Darak. She further added that due to the stigma attached to the non-marital relationship, there were no support systems present for the participants. The study also finds that emotional and physical abuse was reported more in serious relationships compared to when the relationships were labeled as casual or exploring. However, sexual abuse did not differ according to the type of relationship. “Due to no support systems for the victims, they never shared any abuse with their family and so, they were very burdened for this, this resulted in depression, mental health issues, and anxiety. It is important that we look at these relationships very seriously as they affect the future decisions of the youth,” said Darak. The negative experiences during childhood such as experiencing sexual abuse during childhood, restriction by family, and experiencing severe parental disputes in the form of frequent quarrels or fights between parents were also factors related to higher reporting of sexual abuse, revealed the study. Key Findings Info: A survey has revealed that physical abuse co-occurred with emotional or sexual abuse in non-martial relationships *65% of participants reported experience of at least one form of child sexual abuse. The proportion of women experiencing any form of child sexual abuse was significantly higher than men (86% vs 47%). *More women (61%) reported depression compared to men (39%) * 84% women and 70% men of the participants reported having at least one relationship. *Almost 10% of the participants reported having five or more relationships that lasted for at least a month. *Of the 252 men who ever reported depression, a majority (89%) reported only one episode. Of the 390 women who ever reported depression, 65% reported only one episode and 35% reported more than one episode. *Of the total episodes of depression, 333 episodes were reported within 12 months from the interview dates and can be considered as current episodes of depression. Of these current episodes, 218 (65.5%) episodes were among women and 115 (34.5%) were among men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/survey-finds-physical-abuse-in-non-marital-relationships-among-youth-in-pune-101616178026901.html
19-03-2021||Pune||Kondhwa police take legal action against PFI for Covid violations||The Kondhwa police are taking legal action against the Popular Front of India (PFI), Pune Chapter including its activists in connection with violation of the Covid-19 rule norms. According to the Kondhwa police, the PFI district president Mohammad Qais organised a closed-door beginner’s course for party workers at KZ knowledge centre in Ashrafnagar, Kondhwa for which no prior police permission was taken. Kondhwa senior police inspector Sardar Patil visited the spot and found between 40 to 50 persons in the training programme in violation of Covid-19 regulations on Friday. “They violated Covid-19 rules and organized a public programme and so we are taking action against them,” said Sardar Patil, in charge of, Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kondhwa-police-take-legal-action-against-pfi-for-covid-violations-101616177967765.html
19-03-2021||Pune||Cops: ₹100-crore dormant account at prominent bank was fraudsters’ target||The cybercrime investigations into the conspiracy behind the execution of data fraud and subsequent siphoning off crores of rupees in connection with the ₹216 crore dormant bank account scam has revealed ₹100 crore lying in a dormant account at a prominent private-sector bank. Deputy commissioner of police, economic offences wing and cybercrime Bhagyashree Navtake said, “We are shocked to find out the staggering amount of ₹100 crore which is there in a dormant bank account. Besides, we have found four active accounts and investigation is on to trace the source of money, data hacking, and sensitive financial data revelation to fraudsters. The accused were planning to target all the accounts where they wanted to defraud the respective banks. We have expanded the scope of investigations and looking into the role of bankers regarding compliances and other details related to the fraud.” The cybercrime sleuths have arrested 11 persons in connection with the multi-crore fraud. The arrested include highly educated stockbroker Anagha Modak (40), who has done an MBA in finance and faces multiple previous cases of cheating in Pune, Ravindra Mahadev Mashalkar (34), a resident of Ambejogai road in Latur; Mukesh Harishchandra More (37), a resident of Yerawada in Pune; Rajshekhar Yadaiha Mamidi (34), a resident of Hyderabad; Rohan Ravindra Mankani (37), a resident of Sahakarnagar in Pune; Vishal Dhananjay Bendre (45), a resident of Aurangabad; Atmaram Harishchandra Kadam (34), a resident of Mulund in Mumbai; Varun Shrikadam Verma (37), a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Vikaschand Mahendrakumar Yadav (25), a resident of Surat in Gujarat; Rajesh Munnalal Sharma (42), a resident of Aurangabad and Paramjitsingh Sindhu (42), a resident of Aurangabad. The accused have been charged with theft of countrywide sensitive data of bank account holders and trading the information with buyers in their bid to siphon off the money. Amongst the arrested accused, four are software engineers who are working with data centres of private banks, and their role behind the alleged stealing of data is being probed in detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cops-rs-100-crore-dormant-account-at-prominent-bank-was-fraudsters-target-101616177966373.html
19-03-2021||Pune||MSRDC aims to complete land acquisition for ring road project before monsoon||After the state finance Minister Ajit Pawar allotted ₹26,000 crore for the Pune ring road project in the state budget on March 8th, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has started the land acquisition for this project. The MSRDC is aiming to complete this process before the Monsoon season. The ring road is proposed in two parts, east, and west. The Joint Measurement Survey (JMS) is going to begin in 38 villages in the western part in the next few days and is expected to be completed in 15 days. Also, the detailed requirement of land in the eastern part will be declared in the next 15 days and after that, the acquisition will begin in the affected 46 villages in this part.“We aim to complete the land acquisition process before monsoon. We have started the process of land acquisition for the Pune ring road project. For the western part, the Joint Measurement Survey (JMS) process is going to begin now. We have sent notifications/notices to all the stakeholders. After the JMS town planning department will do the evaluation process and then finally the money will be transferred to the villagers’ accounts,” said Sandeep Patil, sub-divisional engineer Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).The MSRDC has appointed Monarch Surveys and Consultants for aiding in land acquisition proceedings and related activities for the construction of the ring road. The Pune ring road is a proposed circular outer road for the Pune Metropolitan region. The state government has given a nod to land acquisition for the 173.70-km ring road project. It is to be implemented by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). The Ring Road project would require the acquisition of almost 1,600 hectares of land. The total project cost of this road is ₹26,000 crore and ₹5,000 crore is estimated for the land acquisition. BoxHeader: The Ring Road project (Western Route) Info: The ring road is proposed in two parts, east and west. The Joint Measurement Survey (JMS) is going to begin in 38 villages in the western part in the next few days and is expected to be completed in 15 days.Urse (Mumbai Pune Expressway) Parandwadi Pimploli Ghotawade Mutha Malkhed Ghera Sinhgad Kalyan Kusgaon Kelawade (NH 48 Pune-Satara road)Total affected villages in the western part - 38(Maval - 6 villages Mulshi - 16 villages Haveli- 11 villages Bhor -5 villages)Land required- 763.12 hectaresThe Eastern Route Urse (Mumbai-Pune Expressway) Talegaon MIDC Indori Bhandara hill Khalumbre Chimbali Alandi Solu Lonikand Wadebolai Sortapwadi (Pune Solapur road) Tarade Dive Chambhali Somurdi Kelwade (NH 48 Pune Satara road)Total affected villages: 46(Maval: 11 villages Khed:12 villages Haveli: 15 villages Purandar: 5 villages Bhor: 3 villages)Land required- 859.88 hectares||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrdc-aims-to-complete-land-acquisition-for-ring-road-project-before-monsoon-101616177967083.html
19-03-2021||Pune||Amazon Pune delivery personnel on strike after reduction in per-package charge||Delivery personnel working for Amazon in Pune are on strike from March 16, alleging that the firm has reduced the per-package charge. Delivery personnel have decided not to deliver packages until their demands are met.“We used to get Rs35 for a big package and Rs22 for a small package. Now they have reduced it to Rs17 and Rs10, respectively. It’s outrageous. It’s less than half. That’s why we have stopped working. There are between 15,000 and 20,000 Amazon delivery personnel in Pune,” said an anonymous delivery personnel An Amazon statement on the Pune strike, read: “Our network of partners play an integral role in enabling us to serve our customers and we are deeply committed to empowering them. We have created entrepreneurial and earning opportunities for more than 280 Delivery Service Partners and their thousands of associates, and more than 28,000 micro-entrepreneurs with the I Have Space program. We place enormous value in having regular conversations with our partners, listening to their feedback and addressing them effectively to improve the experience for their employees and our partner network.” Amazon customers in the city are experiencing delays in getting parcels delivered. “I had ordered a few things. The delivery date was March 17, but now it shows that delivery has been delayed. No specific delivery date is shown,” said Sharayu Keche, a resident of Hadapsar. Addressing the delays of deliveries, Amazon said, “The delivery of some customer orders have been delayed in some parts of Pune. Customers have been informed and we will attempt to deliver these packages at the earliest.” An Amazon official claimed that for associates of its Delivery Service Partners, Amazon offer group accident insurance and group medical insurance. Amazon also claimed that the KYC of Amazon pay customers is optional and associates make extra earnings on each KYC. According to the delivery staff on strike, each person delivers 70-80 packages in a day. They also claimed that no one from Amazon has tried to contact them over this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amazon-pune-delivery-personnel-on-strike-after-reduction-in-per-package-charge-101616177906342.html
19-03-2021||Lucknow||Non-compliance of orders: UPRERA imposes ₹1.24 cr penalty on 11 promoters||The UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA) revoked registration of the Sushant Golf City, pocket 4 sector 0, project of the Ansal API in the state capital on various charges and constituted a committee for completion of pending work of the project at its 59th meeting on Friday. This is the third project of Ansal API whose registration has been revoked by the regulatory authority.Presiding over the meeting, UP RERA chairman Rajive Kumar also imposed a fine of ₹1.24 crore on 11 promoters for non-compliance of orders of the regulatory authority. “A project monitoring and advisory committee under Bhanu Pratap Singh, member UP RERA, has been constituted for facilitating the remaining work of the project,” said Kumar. “The Authority has taken this step for protection of the interests of the homebuyers and to ensure compliance of the provisions of the RERA Act,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/noncompliance-of-orders-uprera-imposes-rs-1-24-cr-penalty-on-11-promoters-101616177726433.html
19-03-2021||Lucknow||IIT-K develops touch-sensitive watch for the visually impaired||A professor and a research associate at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, (IIT-K) have developed a novel touch-sensitive watch for the use of visually impaired people to sense time accurately.“The watch we have developed is a haptic watch with a tactile interface that makes it easy for the visually impaired people to read time easily. The watch has tactile hour indicators of different shapes that makes it easy for the visually impaired people to recognise them,” claims prof Siddhartha Panda of IIT-K who developed it with Vishwaraj Srivastava, a research associate at the National Centre for Flexible Electronics, IIT Kanpur.“The user has to touch and scan the touch sensitive watch’s hour indicators and with the help of different vibration patterns, the watch communicates back the time information that is easily perceived by the user. This way, the person is able to read time,” the professor said. The institute has applied to get it patented.“As there is no need for an audio feedback, this watch will provide privacy of use. Also, one of the advantages of this watch over a standard mechanical watch is that unlike the mechanical needles present on that watch, this watch has no moving parts,” prof Panda said.“Our entire watch surface is one sturdy tactile surface and thus there is no fear of breaking the needles while touching the watch,” he added.Presently, there are some watches available for the visually impaired. The current mechanical watches were not user friendly. The user has to feel the needles of the hour hand and minute hand to know the time. “Also, as there are moving parts (i.e. these needles), there is a scope of breakage. Another available option is watches with an audio feedback. Again, there could be privacy issues with an audio output. So, we realised that there existed a need for a user-friendly, silent and sturdy watch,” Bharadwaj said.IIT Kanpur director, professor Abhay Karandikar tweeted, “A novel touch-sensitive watch for visually impaired has been developed by prof Siddhartha Panda and Vishwaraj Srivastava of IIT Kanpur to sense the time accurately and silently based on touch sensing and vibrations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitk-develops-touch-sensitive-watch-for-the-visually-impaired-101616177607770.html
19-03-2021||Other||State’s first open gym for girls to come up in Baghpat village||It sounded like a dream come true for Priyanka Sharma, 28, a gym trainer, when divisional commissioner Surendra Singh gave a positive response to her request to set up state’s first open gym (outdoor gym) for girls in her village Bijraul in Baghpat district during a ‘Jan Chaupal’ recently. Priyanka, a mother of three who earns her livelihood by imparting training at a gym in Baraut as her husband has some spinal problem, made the request when the commissioner was hearing issues related to the villagers and seeking their suggestions for the development of the village on Tuesday. Commissioner Singh admitted that for a while he was taken aback.“It was the first instance in my career that a woman was demanding an exclusive gym for girls in a village,” said Singh and he looked towards Baghpat DM Rajkamal Yadav who was equally surprised at the idea of a village woman.Singh said they announced then and there to establish an exclusive open gym for girls in the village, claiming that it would be first-of-its-kind in the state. Singh said it would give a boost to the CM’s message to empower girls and women under the ongoing Mission Shakti in the state.While praising Priyanka, district magistrate Rajkamal Yadav said work had already been started and the gym would be established in the next 15 days. “If girls and women show enthusiasm, we can also establish an indoor gym for them in future,” said Yadav and elaborated that multipurpose gym machines would be installed in the open gym.He said it was good to see that girls and women in villages wanted to join gym for their physical fitness and assured full support to them. The DM said since the district had produced many players of repute in shooting, Kabaddi and wrestling, the district administration would soon launch a sports promotion drive in the district working on different dimensions of sports to promote it further among the youth. As for Priyanka, she had to step out of her home to earn after her husband Situ, a marginal farmer, developed some problem in his spine some five years ago. First, she joined a women’s self-help group in the village and started earning ₹2000 per month.A fitness freak since her childhood, Priyanka decided to join a gym in Baraut town (6 km from the village) when she saw some boys of the village going there three years ago. Although it was difficult for her to shell out ₹500 per month for the gym, she somehow managed. Impressed by her dedication, the gym owner offered her the job of trainer around a year ago, she said.“Now I earn ₹5,000 per month and also keep my passion for fitness alive,” said a visibly enthusiastic Priyanka. She claimed that like boys, girls of the village also aspired for jobs in police and armed forces and therefore they kept doing running, jogging and other exercises for physical fitness. She also claimed that at least 10 to 12 girls of the village had been selected in Delhi police and other similar jobs.Former village head Ch Upendra Singh said like boys, girls of the village too gave importance to their physical fitness. As per him, many of them did running and jogging on a 400-metre track made around the field of Ch Shah Mal Inter College. “Officials’ decision to set up an open gym for girls in the village would inspire more girls and women to keep themselves healthy,” said Singh.Another village woman Puja Rani, 28, a mother of two, is practising for running a distance of 2400 metre in 14 seconds. “I have been selected for the post of jail warden and I have to undergo a physical test, including covering a distance of 2400 metre in 14 seconds”, said Puja.“For now, I take 16 seconds and therefore practising hard to be able to cover the said distance in 14 seconds,” she added. On the open gym for girls, she said, “It would be a boon for village girls and women who seldom get proper fitness equipment for exercise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/states-first-open-gym-for-girls-to-come-up-in-baghpat-village-101616177426981.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Daily Covid cases cross 700-mark, a first since Dec; positivity rate also on the uptick||The number of daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi crossed the 700-mark on Friday -- it touched 716 -- for the first time since December-end, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – also jumped to 0.93%, an increase of 0.3 percentage points in just two days. This is the highest positivity rate since the 0.98% recorded on December 28, when it had dipped below 1% consistently for the first time in the city. With the positivity rate inching close to 1%, doctors across the city said Delhi may be looking at another surge in cases. The Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday had said, “The positivity rate is currently under 1%, it has been so for a couple of months now. Till the time the positivity remains below 1%, it is okay but people should remain alert and wear masks. Compared to other cities, Delhi is in a better position. Maharashtra has a positivity rate of 19.3%, Punjab 4.96%, Madhya Pradesh 4.89%, Kerala 3.49%, Haryana 2.88%, and Gujarat 1.92%.” The number of active cases, or those currently living with infection, also crossed the 3,000-mark on Friday. According to the daily health bulletin, there were 3,165 active cases in the city till Thursday night, of which more than half – 1,624 – were in home isolation. There were 820 people hospitalised across the city. Delhi has also increased the number of tests being conducted as per the Centre’s directive to states that are seeing an increase in the number of Covid cases. There were over 73,000 tests conducted daily, on average, in the past seven days as compared to 67,000 tests the week before, and nearly 61,000 the week prior to that. However, Delhi still hasn’t reached its testing capacity. In the third week of December, over 83,000 tests were conducted each day, on average. However, only 53% of the tests were done using the more accurate RT PCR method as compared to over 62% in the past seven days. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology, the Indian Council of Medical Research, said, “With the increase in the positivity rate, we have to now focus on testing as many people as possible and detecting as many cases as possible. Then, there is a need for extensive contact tracing for each case and testing those contacts. The focus has to be on RT PCR tests.” As the RT PCR tests amplify the genetic material of the virus to detect it in patient sample, it is more accurate as compared to the rapid antigen test that is known to throw up false negatives for as many as half of the positive people tested using that method.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/daily-covid-cases-cross-700-mark-a-first-since-dec-positivity-rate-also-on-the-uptick-101616177426255.html
19-03-2021||Gurugram||Vehicle-free trial in Sadar Bazar starts today||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will commence its one-week trial of turning Sadar Bazar into a vehicle-free, pedestrian-friendly market from Saturday, according to a statement issued by the civic body Friday.Despite its narrow lanes, Sadar Bazar has a footfall of around 20,000 people during weekends and congestion has become its hallmark. It is the city’s oldest market, set up in the 1930s and has more than 1,200 shops and 400 street vendors.As per a design plan prepared by the MCG for the trial, 18 entry and exit points to the market will be barricaded and passes have been issued to all shopkeepers to station vehicles at five designated sites, chosen by the municipal body in the market’s vicinity, less than 100-150 metres from shops.For the general public, the MCG has shortlisted sites at Old Jail Complex, Grover ground and the ground near the session house to park vehicles.A feeder service of 15 e-rickshaws will ferry commuters from these three parking spots to the market.Overall, a 650-metre stretch of the market, between Jama Masjid and Head Post office — the market’s main street — has been chosen for the trial and will remain completely vehicle-free till next Saturday, said MCG officials.Besides barring entry of vehicles, the MCG is also setting up dedicated street vending zones on lanes running parallel to the 650m stretch, installing benches, streetlights, and developing green belts.“The week-long trial will be a quick, innovative and low-cost project. The main street of Sadar Bazar will be kept free from vehicles and there will be a system for parking vehicles of shopkeepers and shoppers. This trial will not only benefit citizens visting Sadar Bazar but also shopkeepers,” said Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner, MCG.Kaur further said if the market is “orderly, safe, encroachment-free, clean and beautiful,” then there will be an increase in the number of shoppers and as a result, business will also thrive.The trial stretch is nine to 13 metres wide but encroachment and haphazard parking has reduced the available space significantly.The trial was scheduled to be held last month from February 26 onwards, however, just a day before it was scheduled to start, MCG had deferred it indefinitely citing technical reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vehiclefree-trial-in-sadar-bazar-starts-today-101616177307046.html
19-03-2021||Gurugram||Chief of right-wing group detained for trying to stop Friday prayers at Sec 40 park||The Gurugram Police on Friday detained the chief of a right-wing group for protesting against Muslims offering Friday prayers at a local park in Sector 40. The Bharat Mata Vahini group was demanding that offering prayers in public parks and spaces be stopped. Anticipating a law-and-order situation, the police said they had deployed a large number of personnel in the area at the time of the prayers. No untoward incident happened and the congregation offered prayers and left the park peacefully, police said.A senior police officer, who was present at the spot, said they had detained chief of the group, Dinesh Thakur. “Thakur was detained as soon as he reached the spot. He had come alone and was not expecting the police to be present there. He was detained for around three hours before being allowed to go,” he said, requesting anonymityA group of Vahini members, who reached the spot later, allegedly tried to create a commotion but left after they were warned of arrest. “We ensured that there was no confrontation. No one will be allowed to create trouble in the city in the name of religion,” the senior officer, quoted above, said. Thakur was later released, he added.Thakur said they had submitted a memorandum to the Gurugram police on Thursday demanding that religious prayers in public spaces be stopped as they were against the rules.“We had gone to the Sector 40 park to protest peacefully against this practice of offering prayers in parks. Why are Hindus not allowed to offer prayers or religious programmes in parks? We had submitted memorandums on Thursday but the manner in which I was detained was illegal,” said Thakur. In 2019, there was tension in the city after a few Hindu groups opposed the Muslims offering religious prayers in public parks and spaces. “This incident has come into our notice and we are working with the district administration and police to resolve all issues peacefully. We will hold discussions with everyone and ensure that there is no trouble in the city,” said Haji Shehzad Khan, chairman, Muslim Ekta Manch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/chief-of-right-wing-group-detained-for-trying-to-stop-friday-prayers-at-sec-40-park-101616177306297.html
19-03-2021||Lucknow||Bhojpuri film producer lodges FIR against actor||Bhojpuri film and TV serial producer Rajkumar Pandey had lodged an FIR against the Bhojpuri film star Khesari Lal Yadav alias Shatrughan Yadav at Lucknow’s Gudamba police station on Wednesday for making threat calls and sending offensive messages, said inspector of Gudamba police station Fareed Ahmad here on Friday. He said Pandey had accused the actor of defaming and maligning his image on social media platforms. The inspector said Pandey with his crew members was shooting at a club on Kursi Road between February 1 and March 2 when he received multiple calls and messages from the actor and his aides. He said the complainant, who is a resident of Mumbai, mentioned in the FIR that the actor was also demanding share in his property. He said Pandey stated that Yadav had rivalry with his son Pradeep Kumar alias Chintu, also an actor, following which he and his aides often made threatening and abusive calls. He said the complainant claimed that he had saved recordings of threat calls from Yadav and his aides as evidence. The inspector said the complainant alleged that Yadav and his aides even instigated their followers on social media platforms to make derogatory comments against him. He said the complainant accused that he and his son were being targeted by Yadav and his aides for the past two years. The police had registered an FIR under charges of criminal intimidation, insult and misusing social media platforms to malign one’s image and further probe in the matter was on, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bhojpuri-film-producer-lodges-fir-against-actor-101616177249747.html
19-03-2021||Other||MCG order will have heavy impact on business, say Gurugram meat shop owners||GurugramA day after the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) decided to shut meat shops in the city every Tuesday, stakeholders said the move will further impact their business, which has already been hit by the pandemic and the recent avian influenza scare. They also said that people turned up to buy meat on Tuesdays as well and there was not much slowdown in sale on that particular day.The MCG’s house meeting on Thursday saw two councillors proposing that meat shops in the city remain closed on Tuesdays keeping religious sentiments in mind. Even though the municipal commissioner, Vinay Pratap Singh, said that it was an individual choice, the proposal was approved after officials pointed out that as per the provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation bylaws, 2008, any municipal corporation across the state has the power to close meat shops on a single day of a week, with immediate effect.MCG officials on Friday said the new rule will be implemented from next week onwards. “Over the last 12 months, a number of factors beyond our control have impacted and reduced business already. The direction to close shops one day a week is only going to hit our businesses further. The MCG should realise that only one community, that also a few members from among them, does not prefer eating meat on Tuesdays. Others consume meat and MCG should factor this and cancel this decision,” said Arif Khan, a meat seller in sector 12.Pritam Bhagat, president of Jacobpura meat shops association said that the association will write to the MCG on the matter.“Besides writing to the MCG, there is little else we can do. Meat shops carry out sizeable business on Tuesdays. Closing them will only lead to loss of business. We will write to the MCG to withdraw their decision,” said Bhagat.A few meat shop owners said that they were waiting for official communication or notice from the MCG on the matter.“We have only seen the development on social media and in news. We are yet to receive any official communication from the MCG on the matter. We will take requisite action after receiving an official communication,” said David Watharkar, owner David & Company, a meat shop in DLF Phase 1. Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, who oversees issuance of licences to meat shops, besides fining and seizing of illegal ones, said that the civic body will start enforcement measures starting next Tuesday and close meat shops found operating on the day.Singla said that the owners will be initially given verbal warnings from the MCG to shift to this change, and continued violation will invite penalties and the possibility of sealing of their shops.“Similar to other enforcement measures, we will give ample time to meat shop owners to shift to this change. After official warnings, we will start levying fines on them and if they continue to disobey the order, we will seal their shops,” said Singla.He further said that the MCG will be meeting before Monday to constitute teams of officials for enforcement measures and for issuing an official notification to meat shop owners, regarding the closing of meat shops on Tuesdays.MCG officials also said that they will be examining the provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation bylaws, 2008, to see if online meat delivery stores will also come under the purview.At least two online meat delivery stores did not comment on the matter. The closure of meat shops also took a political turn with the ruling party and the opposition having a different stance on the matter.“Every occupation has one day off in a week. The MCG has taken a decision to shut down meat shops on Tuesday on the advice of meat shop owners. The shopkeepers are of a view that fewer people eat meat on Tuesday and their business will not be affected by observing off on Tuesday,” said OP Dhankar, Haryana BJP president.In the Haryana Legislative Assembly on Friday, Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Leader of Opposition, however, condemned MCG’s decision.“Gurugram is a cosmopolitan city, and such type of decisions should be taken after taking advice from various stakeholders,” said Hooda.With inputs from Pawan Sharma in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcg-order-will-have-heavy-impact-on-business-say-gurugram-meat-shop-owners-101616177249117.html
19-03-2021||Other||CM directs officials to increase chalans for violating mask discipline||Gurugram: With the city recording an uptick in coronavirus infections since the beginning of March, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday directed the district administration to strictly implement the challans against people violating the mask and social distancing rules. He also directed officials to keep an eye on large gatherings and crowding at public places such as markets. Gurugram reported 184 new Covid-19 cases on Friday — the highest per day infections in the past three months. (PLS CHECK)“Action has to be taken against people violating mask discipline. It has been directed by the CM to strictly challan people not wearing masks in public places. Testing and contact tracing will also be increased in the district to identify areas where infection has been prevalent,” deputy commissioner Yash Garg, who attended the meeting with the CM, said quoting Khattar. Officials said after a consistent decline in the fresh cases, people were fatigued with the pandemic discipline and turned complacent throwing caution to the wind. It has led to a dramatic increase in cases over the last two weeks, they said. On Friday, the total active case count in the city reached 742 and the total tally was at 60,385. The death toll due to the viral infection was at 360. According to the chief medical officer, Dr Virender Yadav, the test positivity rate — positive cases out of the total samples tested — has hit 3%. The union ministry health and family welfare data shows that Gurugram is among the eight affected districts across Haryana which has noticed spike in cases. In the last one week (March 13-19) at least 687 new infections have emerged compared to 474 reported between March 6 and 12. Following the state government’s directions to focus upon test, track and treat strategy, the district health department has started administering 4,000 tests from Thursday onwards. But they have been undertaking vaccination on priority to cover maximum people vulnerable to contract coronavirus infection. In the district task force meeting held on Friday, Yadav directed private hospitals to increase their vaccination coverage. “Antibodies against the coronavirus get developed in the body after 42 days of the first dose. Therefore, people should follow basic respiratory hygiene and wear masks to avoid getting infected,” said Yadav. The surge in cases has become a concern as schools have reopened, with government schools particularly reporting a good turnout. Khattar has also directed that Covid-19 protocols should be followed in schools. Besides, appropriate arrangements for social distancing in agricultural mandis have to be done where procurement of mustard and wheat has been scheduled from April 1 onwards, Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-directs-officials-to-increase-chalans-for-violating-mask-discipline-101616177248542.html
19-03-2021||Gurugram||Administration to form committee to keep watch on gatherings, RWAs to be roped in||The district administration — along with officials drawn from the health department and police force — will form a committee to keep an eye on social gatherings in the district in wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases. The committee will co-ordinate with Residents Welfare Associations (RWA), especially for the upcoming festival of Holi, to monitor compliance of all Covid-19 protocols in potential gatherings with large crowd.“As directed by the chief minister, the committee will have representatives from deputy commissioner’s office and those from the district health and police departments. The course of action is yet to be decided but letters will be sent to RWAs regarding events, where large crowd gathering is expected,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram on Friday. On Friday, in a state-level meeting with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and health minister Anil Vij, the district administration was directed to adopt several measures to control the resurgence of Covid infection, with special focus on keeping tabs on gatherings that have the potential of turning into super-spreader events. On February 2, the district administration had lifted the ceiling on the number of people attending gatherings in closed spaces. Earlier, functions in closed spaces had an upper limit of 200 guests. However, now there is no cap on number of guests subject to the condition that the guest number is equal to or less than 50 percent of the hall’s capacity. In open spaces, there is no limit on the gathering but capacity of the place to accommodate people has to be considered. States can even issue their specific guidelines for regulations on social, religious, sports, entertainment, education, cultural or religious gathering, according to the Central government guidelines issued on January 27.“Knowing that cases have increased in the last few days, we have been thinking to postpone the RWA’s Holi gettogether on March 27. Whatsapp messages are being sent to people to not hold any Holi celebrations in parks and to limit meeting people,” said Amir Singh Yadav, president, sector 15 (part 2) RWA. “We are also in the process of identifying eligible vaccine beneficiaries who have not taken the shots till now. They will be helped and encouraged to get vaccinated.” Sunil Yadav, president, sector 47 RWA, however, said that it is difficult to keep vigil in non-gated societies. “It is easy to monitor activities in condominiums and gated societies. We will be soon sending messages on RWA Whatsapp groups to follow basic hygiene, mask wearing and social distancing norms during Holi,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/administration-to-form-committee-to-keep-watch-on-gatherings-rwas-to-be-roped-in-101616177247519.html
19-03-2021||Other||From April 1, mine tags a must for heavy vehicles||KANPUR From April 1, mine tags will be mandatory for heavy vehicles such as trucks and dumpers engaged in transporting sand, crushed stones or red sand. Any vehicle without mine tag would not be allowed to transport such material, said Kunwar Bahadur Singh, district mining officer. “We are in the process of issuing mine tags and it will be completed by March 26. Any truck found plying without mine tag would be seized and legal action will be taken against the owner,” he said. In Kanpur, 2,000 vehicles have been identified for tagging. The tag would cost ₹187 plus GST, he said adding, tagging was being done at four places- Laghuakhera, Naubasta, Sajeti and Ghatampur.“Any vehicle registered anywhere in UP and involved with mining related operations can be tagged in Kanpur. The directorate of geology and mining has made a list of vehicles to be tagged,” he added. Kanpur is strategically located as trucks coming from districts where mining takes place pass through the city while taking the highways.The move is part of the plan to check illegal mining and overloading. As part from it, the toll plaza would be equipped with RFID scanner, which would be available at highways. Two hand-held scanners were being provided to the district mining office. The mine tags would be connected to the command and control centre set up in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/from-april-1-mine-tags-a-must-for-heavy-vehicles-101616177248036.html
19-03-2021||Gurugram||Three arrested for opening fire after dispute over construction of boundary wall||Three suspects were arrested by the police on Friday for allegedly firing at and injuring three people following a dispute over construction of a wall in Behrampur village on Thursday evening. The suspects had allegedly fired at the victims when they were constructing a wall of a farmhouse. The police said the victims — Ravi Bhati, Mohit Shukla and Himanshu Mishra — were undergoing treatment at a private hospital. The suspects arrived in a car and opened indiscriminate fire at them, before fleeing the spot, the injured men have told the police. The three arrested suspects— identified as Mahesh Kumar, Rishi and Karamvir of Behrampur village — had allegedly earlier asked Bhati not to take up the work of constructing the boundary wall and there was a heated argument between the two groups on Thursday evening, after which one group opened fire.A case in the matter was registered against the suspects at sector 65 police station under section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC and Arms Act. The three suspects were arrested by yhe crime branch of sector 31 a few hours after the incident and the car used in crime was also seized, said police officials. Preet Pal Sangwan, ACP, Gurugram police, said that the victims had taken a contract to construct a boundary, which was opposed by the Mahesh, Rishi and Karamvir. “There was a conflict between the two groups and on Thursday one group opened fired with an intention to kill the other three men. They were arrested within 24 hours of the incident,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-arrested-for-opening-fire-after-dispute-over-construction-of-boundary-wall-101616177246939.html
19-03-2021||Other||24/7 vaccination to be discontinued from April 1||Gurugram: Round-the-clock Covid-19 vaccination that was launched in at least six hospitals in the district on March 15 will be discontinued from April 1 due to low footfall during night hours, leading to vaccine wastage, Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said on Friday. According to the revised directives issued by the district health department on Friday, vaccination centres in 13 big hospitals of the city will now open from 8am to 8pm, and the remaining 143 sites will operate between 9am and 5pm. “Only a few people turned up for vaccination late in the night. The response has been poor in both government and private hospitals. Therefore, hospitals have been told not to schedule appointments for overnight vaccination after March 31,” said Dr Singh. Till March 17, only 27 people were vaccinated at the six hospitals during the night hours. Officials said vaccination timings at 13 hospitals have been advanced based on the suggestions given by the hospitals and also because it was found that people were more comfortable visiting the centres early in the day. “The time duration for vaccination drive in 13 private hospitals has been revised. The vaccination will now start from 8am and continue till 8pm. Earlier this week, schedules were revised to 9am to 9pm slots, which has now been changed to start vaccination early,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Among the 13 hospitals, 11 are private facilities — Medanta, Max, Fortis, Artemis, Narayana, Park, Kalyani, CK Birla, Paras, Signature and Medeor. The other two centres are Civil Hospital in sector 10 and Polyclinic in sector 31. Out of these facilities, five ran 24/7 vaccination centres to increase the coverage and to help people bring along their aged parents to the vaccination centre before or after their office hours. Data shows that less than 10 people have taken shots in private facilities during the night hours from March 15 onwards. With an aim to increasing the vaccination coverage, private hospitals have been advised to coordinate with Resident Welfare Associations (RWA) on holding drives in societies and condominiums, considering they have enough space to set up registration, vaccination and observation rooms within the premises. “Private hospitals can coordinate with RWAs to set up vaccination centres within the premises of the society. The hospitals will have to first prepare the plan, which will be implemented only after discussions with the health department,” said Yadav. Vaccination sites in the government set-up have also been increased. “Over 81 sub-centres under community and primary health centres have been activated to increase the outreach of vaccine in different areas. Vaccination will now be carried out at 156 centres, including 100 government facilities and 56 private hospitals,” said Yadav. On Friday, at least 2086 people above 60 years and 813 aged between 45 and 59 took the vaccine shots. Overall, over 140,000 lakh people in the district have been vaccinated from January 16 onwards. A helpline number (7015663108 and 108) for all Covid-19 vaccine related queries, vaccination sites and schedule has also been launched by the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/247-vaccination-to-be-discontinued-from-april-1-101616177246283.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Noida woman loses ₹9 lakh in online fraud||A 60-year-old woman claimed on Friday that unauthorised withdrawals to the tune of ₹9 lakh was made from her bank account last month. Dayawati, a resident of Harola in Sector 2, said she had retired from the department of social welfare of the Delhi government last year. “I got ₹14.5 lakh as retirement money from the government on January 30, 2021,” she said. Dayawati’s daughter Simran said that her mother had a saving account in a public bank. “Someone withdrew ₹9 lakh in multiple transactions in February,” she said. The complainant said she got to know of the fraud when she recently updated her passbook. “I had not received any call or message about these unauthorised transactions. The bank officials informed me that money was used in online shopping. We got the account freezed,” Dayawati said. The victim then filed a complaint at the cyber cell, which investigated the matter and then directed the Sector 20 police to register an FIR.Munish Chauhan, SHO Sector 20 police station, said that a case has been registered against unknown person under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC. “The police team is investigating the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-woman-loses-rs-9-lakh-in-online-fraud-101616177189395.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Jewar airport to be connected via Blue Line||Plans are on to connect the upcoming Noida International Airport at Jewar with the Delhi Metro’s Blue Line and offer a quick link across the national capital region (NCR).The metro corridor will be in addition to several other high profile connectivity projects to link the airport with Delhi and the rest of NCR.According to the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), the new metro corridor, the Jewar Metro, will connect to the Delhi Metro at the existing Botanical Garden Metro Station.“We we will build the Jewar Metro. We have got verbal approval from the state government and also seeking written sanction from them too,” said Yeida CEO Arun Vir Singh. Yeida is in charge of developing infrastructure for the airport along with Swiss company Zurich Internation AG. “Our objective is to provide Metro connectivity from Jewar airport to rest of Delhi-NCR smoothly by 2023-24.”Once completed, the Jewar Metro would be just over 35 km -- 33 km of which would be elevated and the rest till Jewar airport would run underground along Jewar-Sikandrabad road.This line will be in addition to the 14-km link between Botanical Garden Metro station to Noida Metro’s Aqua Line Sector 142 Metro station. The Noida and Greater Noida authorities and UP government will spend a total of around ₹2,000 crore on this project.“The detailed project report of 14km Metro corridor proposed from Botanical Garden to sector 142 is ready,” said Manoj Upadhyay, general manager of the NMRC.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation spokesperson said, “We are working on Metro projects in Noida and Greater Noida. But speficic details regarding these projects has to be provided by Yeida.”Zurich will start work at site by mid-2021 with a deadline to begin operations by 2023-24 with an investment of Rs25000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jewar-airport-to-be-connected-via-blue-line-101616177188667.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Yamuna expressway authority to launch commercial plot scheme||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Friday said that it will likely to launch a commercial plot scheme near Jewar Airport’s sector 22D next week.The scheme will comprise 57 units each between 35 square metres to 212 square metres and will serve residential projects expected come up in sectors 18, 20 and 22. Planned near Moonjkhera, the commercial complex will be established near the authority’s affordable housing scheme that has already built around 7,000 units and are ready for possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yamuna-expressway-authority-to-launch-commercial-plot-scheme-101616177187500.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Air quality improves slightly, strong surface winds predicted||Noida and adjoining regions breathed better air as ventilation improved over the last 24 hours, according to the central pollution control boar (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) data, but pollution levels were still in the “very poor category”. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast has strong winds for the next two days followed by possibility of rain next week. On Friday, Noida had a maximum and minimum temperature of 34.5 and 22.3 degree Celsius, respectively, as against 34.3 degree Celsius and 18.1 degree Celsius, respectively, on Thursday.“There is an increase in the minimum temperature because there is a cloud cover that leads to trapping of heat. Also the winds are southerly at times, which are comparatively warmer. The region will see strong winds for next two days and may see rains on March 22 and 23 which could help improving the pollution levels and cool down the temperatures,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Friday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 302 against 336 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 359 against 387 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 340 on Friday against 373 on Thursday.An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality may improve due to better ventilation over next 48 hours.“PM10 is the lead pollutant as long range transport of dust from the dry arid southwest regions continues to contribute, but likely to decrease for next 48 hrs. Surface winds are south southwesterly and moderate, forecasted improve during the next 48 hrs. Better ventilation is likely to influence AQI positively. AQI is likely to marginally improve and stay in the lower end of the Very Poor to Poor category for tomorrow and further improve to Poor AQI for 21st and 22nd March,” said a SAFAR statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-improves-slightly-strong-surface-winds-predicted-101616177187984.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Three persons including two Nepali citizens arrested in cyber fraud||Noida: Noida Police on Friday arrested three persons suspected of being involved in cybercrimes, including two Nepalis, on Friday. The police have recovered cash, valuables, and foreign currencies from their possession.The suspects were identified as Ashok Kumar, 40, a resident of Ballia district; Kamal Rabilal Sharma, 42, and Geeta Sharma, 38, natives of Rupandehi in Nepal. While Kumar lived on rented accommodation in Sector 78, the two other suspects lived in Sector 45. Additional DCP (Noida Zone 1) Kumar Ranvijay Singh said they had been informed that the three persons were involved in committing cybercrimes across different cities.Sub-inspector (S-I) Vishal Kumar said the three suspects lured vulnerable people from Nepal with the promise of jobs in India. “Once here, they got Aadhaar cards and bank accounts issued using their identities. They then sent them back home without any jobs,” he said.The suspects would share the Aadhar numbers and ban account details to others. “Our investigation showed that they would hack websites and bank accounts and transfer money to these accounts and immediately withdraw them from an ATM,” Kumar said. This way, it would be harder to trace the suspects.Police said they recovered 18 Aadhaar cards, 18 PAN cards, 11 mobile phones, seven passports, two LPG connection cards, seven DMRC travel cards, four debit cards, two voter IDs, three Nepali IDs, one laptop, one dongle, one hard disc and a chequebook of Bank of America from the suspects. Apart from this, police recovered 120 Nepali rupees, 21,500 Cambodian Riel, and ₹14,000 Indian currency. Kamal Rabilal Sharma allegedly told police that he travelled to different countries using the stolen money and hence he has international currencies and documents. Police are yet to figure out the number of people cheated by the gang.A case has been registered against them under Section 420 (cheating), Section 467 (forgery), Section 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC. “They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said addl DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-persons-including-two-nepali-citizens-arrested-in-cyber-fraud-101616177186929.html
19-03-2021||Other||Three injured in slum fire in Vasant Kunj||New DelhiA 35-year-old suffered burns while trying to save two children from a fire that broke out in Rangpuri JJ Cluster in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj during the early hours on Friday. Senior officers said the two children sustained minor burns in the incident. All three of them are stated to be stable. Police said the blaze started around 2.30 am at Bengali Basti, apparently from a heap of garbage that probably caught fire from a cigarette. The fire soon spread to nearby areas and at least 14 jhuggis were gutted. As soon as the residents of the jhuggi cluster spotted the fire, they raised the alarm. The police received a call reporting the fire at 2.45 am. They immediately alerted the Delhi Fire Service (DFS) and ten fire tenders were rushed to the spot to contain the blaze. Atul Garg, director, DFS said it took his men at least three hours of firefighting to contain the blaze. The cooling operations, however, went on for a little longer. “Three people — a man and two children — were injured in the blaze and they were taken to Safdarjung hospital by the police,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said that they have learnt that the man, identified as Mukesh Singh, 35, was injured while trying to save two children, who were trapped in one of the jhuggis during the fire. The two children are aged 4 and 2 years. They have also sustained minor burns. All three were taken to a hospital for treatment. All of them are fine now,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-injured-in-slum-fire-in-vasant-kunj-101616177128978.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Courts to return to hybrid hearings as Covid cases rise again||With Covid-10 cases in the national capital rising once again, the Delhi high court on Friday withdrew its decision to hold in-person hearings from March 15, both at the high court and the seven district courts . The courts will now return to its earlier system of hybrid hearings (virtual and in-person) and permitting lawyers to join the proceedings through video conferencing.Manoj Jain, registrar general of the Delhi high court, said in a meeting of the administrative and general supervision committee held on Friday, it was resolved that hybrid hearings and links would be given to lawyers.Earlier on Tuesday, the Supreme Court had asked the high court to reconsider its decision of throwing courts open to in-person hearings after a group of lawyers, led by advocate Rajiv Nayyar, had challenged the decision before the apex court.On February 20, the high court in an order had said that it, along with all district courts, would be holding in-person hearings from March 15 while adding that only in exceptional cases, the high court may permit any of the parties and/or their lawyers to join the proceedings through video conferencing, subject to the availability of requisite infrastructure. This, however, was challenged by a group of lawyers, even though no relief was granted by a division bench of the Delhi high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/courts-to-return-to-hybrid-hearings-as-covid-cases-rise-again-101616177126863.html
19-03-2021||Lucknow||Temple Trust purchases 2 more plots to augment facilities for devotees||: The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust has decided to purchase more properties around the Ram Janmabhoomi campus and other parts of the city to execute its projects related with Ram temple. As part of its policy to augment facilities for devotees coming to Ayodhya, the Trust has purchased two more plots. The combined area of the two plots is around 108000 sq feet and cost ₹eight crore. One plot is in Ramkot locality and another is in Tedhi Bazar. The two plots belonging to Harish Kumar Pathak were registered in the name of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust on Thursday. “Properties being purchased by the Trust will be used for augmenting facilities for devotees coming to Ayodhya from all across the country,” said Dr Anil Mishra, member of the Trust. Earlier this month, the Trust had purchased two other plots. The first plot measuring 10,800 sq feet was purchased from one Jagdish Shankar for which the Trust had paid ₹25 lakh. The second plot measuring 5400 sq feet had been purchased from one Deep Narayan for which the Trust had paid ₹one crore. Both the registries were executed on February 20 last in the name of Champat Rai, general secretary of Trust, at the Delhi address of the Trust. For expansion of Ram Janmabhoomi campus, survey of adjoining properties is being carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/temple-trust-purchases-2-more-plots-to-augment-facilities-for-devotees-101616177126309.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Woman cop, daughter chase and nab snatcher in Narela||A woman Delhi Police officer and her 14-year-old daughter, with the help of the public, caught a suspected snatcher within a few minutes of him snatching her bag containing ₹500and personal belongings from near a bus stop in outer Delhi’s Narela on Thursday. The suspect’s accomplice, who had managed to flee on a motorcycle, was caught later in the evening, as the woman officer had captured pictures of him as well the motorcycle’s registration number on her cellphone, the police said.Assistant sub-inspector Manju Tomar, who is posted on Supreme Court security duty, said she was standing near the CPJ College bus stop with her daughter, when around 11.30am, two men on a motorcycle stopped near them to ask after an address. When Tomar said she did not know the location, the duo left but stopped the bike a few metres ahead of the bus stop.“The man riding pillion got off and walked towards me, snatched my bag and fled. My daughter chased him and caught him by his shirt. A scuffle broke out between them and the items in my bag fell on the road. While my daughter was trying to overpower the man, I went to catch his accomplice, after a DTC driver showed me the motorcycle he was sitting on,” said Tomar.Tomar said she caught the other man, clicked pictures of him and his bike. However, the man claimed he was innocent and said he did not know the snatcher. Since her daughter was still trying to overpower the snatcher, she rushed to help her. In the meantime, the second man fled on the bike.“The snatcher managed to flee and we ran behind him. I raised the alarm and asked some bikers to catch him. After chasing him for 500-600 metres, I felt a pain in my abdomen area and stopped. Some bikers and passers-by caught the suspect and brought him before me,” said Tomar.The mother-daughter duo, who sustained minor injuries, handed over the suspect to the police who had arrived at the crime scene after receiving a call alerting them about the incident. Police identified the suspected snatcher as Jitender alias Tinku. Tomar filed her complaint and also handed over the pictures of the second suspect.“The second suspect was caught later in the day. He was identified as Vikas alias Kale. Both were booked for robbery, dishonestly receiving property and common intention, a case regarding which was registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 392, 411 and 34 at the Narela police station,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-cop-daughter-chase-and-nab-snatcher-in-narela-101616177067608.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Half carriageway between Daryaganj and Kashmere Gate to shut for a month||Delhi traffic police on Friday said in order to facilitate the redevelopment work of Chandni Chowk, half the carriageway between Daryaganj and Kashmere Gate, will be closed to traffic for a month, starting Saturday. Senior traffic officers said adequate diversions have been made to minimise the inconvenience to motorists. Police said the construction work is being carried out by the public works department (PWD), which will scramble a crossing at the Red Fort, between Digambar Lal Jain Mandir and Old Lajpat Rai Market, to carry out the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk, from Lal Jain Mandir to Fatehpuri Mosque. For that, half the carriageway width, going from Daryaganj towards Kashmere Gate would be closed to all vehicular traffic till April 20, in the first phase. Brijender Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner of police, traffic, said to minimise the inconvenience to public, the road from Daryaganj to Old Delhi Railway Station will remain open. “All buses will be diverted from Delhi Gate to Raj Ghat - Ring Road - Shantivan - Hanuman Setu and via the ISBT to Tis Hazari towards Morigate till Old Delhi Railway Station. All other vehicles will be diverted from Subhash Park tri-junction to Nishad Raj Marg to reach the Ring Road and from there to Shantivan,” Yadav said. He said traffic coming from the Jama Masjid side and heading towards Kashmere Gate or Old Delhi Railway Station will either take the service road from parade ground parking towards Kabootar Market and then go to NS Marg towards Nishad Raj Marg and proceed accordingly. Alternatively, they may also go from Jama Masjid to Brijmohan Chowk in Daryaganj to Subhash Park T-Point and Nishad Raj Marg and proceed from there accordingly. Police also said adequate traffic signage have been put up at appropriate locations to guide motorists and additional traffic personnel will remain deployed in those parts to ensure smooth and uninterrupted flow of traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/half-carriageway-between-daryaganj-and-kashmere-gate-to-shut-for-a-month-101616177066862.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||UTTIPEC approves transit plan for group housing colonies||The apex traffic and transportation body in Delhi, UTTIPEC (Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) Centre), on Friday approved the integrated transit plan made for handling the increased vehicular traffic around eight government group housing colonies that are being redeveloped by the Centre. The proposal, which includes the construction of a 14km long elevated corridor in South Delhi, aims at providing smooth access between Sarai Kale Khan and Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA).The Centre is redeveloping eight colonies -- Sarojini Nagar, Nauroji Nagar, Srinivaspuri, Kasturba Nagar, Netaji Nagar, Mohammadpur, Thyagraj Nagar and East Kidwai nagar-- in an effort to provide better housing to its employees. NBCC India has already redeveloped East Kidwai Nagar and the Centre is presently constructing over 25,000 dwelling units and a commercial complex in the remaining seven colonies. The proposal was tabled in the UTTIPEC meeting, chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, on Friday. After the meeting, Baijal tweeted, “After detailed deliberations following proposals were approved: Integrated Transit Corridor Development and Street Network/ Connectivity Plan for the corridor and influence zone from Sarai Kale Khan to IGI Airport.”Baijal had asked the Delhi Development Authority to discuss the funding plan for the ₹5,000 crore (approximately) project with the Union housing urban affairs (HUA) ministry before it is cleared by the UTTIPEC. HT had reported about this on March 1. The matter was duly discussed in a meeting between HUA minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Baijal on March 2.A senior official aware of the development, on condition of anonymity, said as the funding issue has been addressed, the project was tabled in the UTTIPEC meeting on Friday for approval.The transit plan includes a 14km elevated corridor from INA on Aurobindo Marg to Mahipalpur underpass on National Highway-8 and connecting all flyovers between Moolchand and Moti Bagh, just before the start of the elevated Metro corridor on the Ring Road.The feasibility study for the corridor was done by Delhi government’s public works department, while it will be executed by the central public works department. The project cost, a senior official said, will be included in the cost of redevelopment of the government colonies. The redevelopment of seven group housing colonies is a self-financing project and the cost will be recovered from the sale of the commercial space, officials in the know of the matter said.The elevated corridor between INA and Mahipalpur is needed to cater to the increased traffic volume, especially on Ring Road. Senior DDA officials said the corridor will be an alternative route to reach the IGIA and will cover all residential colonies which are being redeveloped.Another proposal approved in the UTTIPEC meeting was the multimodal intergration plan of Karkardooma Metro station. The DDA is planning a transit oriented development project around the station and the project was reviewed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uttipec-approves-transit-plan-for-group-housing-colonies-101616177006234.html
19-03-2021||Kolkata||TMC raises pitch against possible EVM rigging in upcoming Bengal polls||With just a week to go before the West Bengal assembly polls take off, the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress has raised its pitch against possible rigging of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs). While chief minister Mamata Banerjee issued an impromptu three-point checklist for her party workers to follow to prevent rigging of EVMs, a TMC parliamentary delegation submitted a memorandum to the Election Commission of India with a demand to tally VVPAT machines with EVMs. A BJP team too submitted a memorandum to the poll body in Delhi urging action against Banerjee for allegedly spreading propaganda against the BJP and the ECI. “On the polling day, even if they (polling officers) tell you that the EVM has malfunctioned, don’t go back home. Secondly, before the actual poll starts, they would press the buttons 30 times (mock poll) to show that everything is fine with the EVM. Then they would restart the EVM. But you insist that the EVM should be switched on and off at least twice before the actual poll starts. Thirdly, guard the EVMs (in the safe rooms) even after the polls. Don’t accept any food as it could be laced. If the security officials or police ask you to go away, don’t leave. It is your job to protect the EVM after the polls,” said Banerjee.Banerjee addressed three public rallies in three constituencies – Egra, Patashpur and Tamluk - in East Midnapore district. She repeated the same in all the rallies. Also read: 25% candidates in Bengal polls have declared criminal cases against themselvesWhile the eight-phase elections would kick start from March 27, counting would be held on May 2. The BJP took a jibe at Banerjee saying that the ECI had earlier thrown a challenge for political parties to tamper EVMs but nobody succeeded. “The chief minister raising the EVM issue and urging workers to guard the EVMs can mean only two things. Either she is apprehending that her workers are lacking the morale and enthusiasm to see it to the end and that’s why she is repeatedly asking them to guard EVMs till the last or she is suffering from fear of defeat. Their tenure has reached the fag end. The politically aware citizens of Bengal will not take such theories of the chief minister,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who addressed a rally in Bengal’s Purulia district on Thursday, tweeted on Friday, “BJP winning in West Bengal would mark the start of a new era of development in the state. At the same time, bullying by TMC cadres will stop.” Modi is scheduled to address another rally at Kharagpur in West Midnapore on Saturday. The TMC hit back saying the BJP was trying to hide its infighting with irrelevant tweets.“The tweet is irrelevant at this point because the Prime Minister is coming to West Bengal almost every day. Actually, the BJP knows that it is going to be defeated. It is just trying to hide the infighting which has cropped up within the party after the announcement of candidates and hence such tweets are being uploaded to create hype and divert attention,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-raises-pitch-against-possible-evm-rigging-in-upcoming-bengal-polls-101616176526919.html
19-03-2021||Other||Akhilesh, Jayant urge farmers to remain united||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary criticised the Centre’s three new farm reform laws while jointly addressing a kisan mahapanchayat in the Bajna area of Mathura district on Friday. They urged the farmers to stay united. “The farmers’ concerns will be addressed when there is a party in power that takes farmer’ issues seriously. The BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) could not keep its promise to double the income of farmers and, rather, brought steps like demonetisation, GST (Goods and Services Tax) and lockdown, which have wrecked the nation’s economy,” Akhilesh Yadav said. “All have to remain alert and maintain unity,” he added. Yadav described former Prime Minister the late Chaudhary Charan Singh as the greatest farmer leader of all times. Similarly, Jayant Chaudhary said, “Farmers should vote as farmers on the voting day and not get divided in the name of caste and religion.” “Farmers have to make it clear that they are a formidable force and they need to be recognised by those in power,” he said. “The BJP says that this is not a farmers’ agitation, but an agitation by Jats, when, in fact, this is not correct,” he said. “The BJP has ignored the demands by farmers, whose agitation is 114 days’ old, and more than 300 farmers have sacrificed their lives for the cause,” the RLD vice- president stated. Caption: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary at the Kisan Mahapanchyat at Bajna (Mathura) on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akhilesh-jayant-urge-farmers-to-remain-united-101616175266085.html
19-03-2021||Other||UP logs 393 fresh cases including 90 in Lucknow||LUCKNOW The state capital registered a sharp rise in fresh Covid cases as 90 more people tested positive for the virus on Friday while the health department began the exercise to make additional arrangements for Covid patients at hospitals and other facilities. On January 19, Lucknow had reported 73 fresh cases, after which a declining trend was witnessed. Uttar Pradesh also recorded a rising trend with 393 fresh Covid cases during the day, the highest since January 22, when the state had recorded 370 cases. The caseload went up to 6,06,609. Four deaths, the maximum in a day in March, were also reported in the state. Lucknow, Shahjahanpur, Bhadohi and Firozabad saw one each. Majority of the fresh cases reported in Lucknow were from Indira Nagar 16, Gomti Nagar six, Hazratganj four, Rae Bareli road six, Chowk five, Chinhat eight, Aliganj seven an dGudamba four, said a health department official.Keeping in view the rising cases, the health department asked more hospitals to keep infrastructure ready, particularly L2 level facilities, and decided to ramp up Covid sampling. During the day, 6,870 samples were taken. The health department conducted a meeting with representatives of the KGMU, SGPGI, Integral University, Lok Bandhu Hospital, Era’s Medical College and RMLIMS. These hospitals were asked to keep infrastructure ready keeping in view the rising cases. The KGMU has over 300 beds and four ICUs. “We are ready, and if the government demands, we will arrange facilities for Covid patients immediately,” said Dr MMA Faridi, principal, Era’s Medical College, which had catered to patients with 420 beds last year. Lucknow has till now reported 82,434 cases, of which 80,785 recovered and 1,191 deaths were reported. “The recovery rate in Lucknow is 97.99%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Elsewhere in UP, Kanpur reported 19 cases, Prayagraj 10, Ghaziabad 14, Gautam Buddh Nagar 26, Meerut 21, Varanasi and Bareilly 24 cases, Jhansi and Saharanpur 10. During the day, only 123 treated patients were discharged in the state, according to the data from the health department. UP has tested 33315662 samples till now, including 1,23,501 tested in the past 24 hours. RISING TREND IN UPMarch 19 -- 393 March 18 -- 321 March 17 -- 261 March 16 – 228 March 15 – 151 March 14 – 178 March 13 – 156 March 12 – 167 March 11 – 146 March 10 – 128 CASES IN LUCKNOW March 19-- 90 March 18 -- 77 March 17 – 54 March 16 – 44 March 15 – 35 March 14 – 19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-logs-393-fresh-cases-including-90-in-lucknow-101616174125767.html
19-03-2021||Patna||Criminals loot ₹9 lakh, injure van guard in Patna||Three armed criminals looted ₹9 lakh from a cash van and shot at the van guard Lal Saheb Singh near Alpana market under S K Puri police station here on Friday. Singh, who is Ara resident, been admitted to a private nursing home for treatment.Police said that the incident took place at 1.30 pm when the van came to deposit the cash in an ATM of the ICICI bank. “Three criminals on a motorcycle came and tried to enter the ATM with the intention of looting the cash bag. When the guard protested, the criminals opened fire at him during which he was shot in stomach. Thereafter, the criminals entered the ATM and looted the bag containing ₹ 9 lakh and escaped from the spot,” said police. Van driver Ajiat Kumar was sitting in the vehicle when the incident happened, said police.Manoj Kumar, an eyewitness of the incident, said, “One criminal looted the cash bag and two others were waiting on the road.They also looted the rifle of the guard and threw it after covering some distance.”On getting information, police rushed to the spot and investigated the matter. The police also found some CCTV footages of the incident. ity SP (central) Vinay Tiwari said that raids are on to trace the criminals. “Around 54 lakh was available in the cash van, which has been saved. The police recovered the guard’s rifle from the spot,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/criminals-loot-9-lakh-injure-van-guard-in-patna-101616172986068.html
19-03-2021||Patna||Govt considers hike for Ayush doctors||The state government is contemplating an increase in the remuneration of Ayush doctors on the same pattern of revision of MBBS junior doctors done a few years back. Health minister Mangal Pandey on Friday informed the state Assembly that the proposal of increasing the stipend of Ayush (indigenous medicine) was under active consideration of the government. He said the government had already increased the remuneration of Ayush doctors from ₹24,000 to ₹44,000 a few years back. Raising the issue, RJD’s Alok Kumar Mehta said the Ayush doctors were eligible for enhanced remuneration which are at par with MBBS junior doctors (done in 2019). The MBBS junior doctors, on contract, get a remuneration of ₹65,000. “ We are considering it,” the minister said. The minister said the government had already increased the stipend of post graduate medical students in all medical/ dental colleges as per an order on January 8,2021. Excess payment to a firm: Committee to probe allegations A House committee will be constituted to probe the alleged charges of granting excess payment to the company, Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited (MKCL), without the firm completing its work of putting up a portal as per the agreement. Labour resources minister Jibesh Kumar told the Assembly that the MKCL had entered into an agreement with the labour department for skill development of youths in 2016 for five years. The minister , while replying to a call attention motion, said the firm had not put up the portal for placement although it received an excess payment of over ₹24 lakh. The Opposition and ruling party members, however, alleged there had been wide scale financial bunglings in payments while demanding a thorough probe from the House committee. It was on the insistence of the members that the Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha directed that a House committee would be formed to look into the alleged irregularities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/govt-considers-hike-for-ayush-doctors-101616172985479.html
19-03-2021||Ranchi||Pathalgadi movement gets more refined, demands implementation of rules||Pathalgadi movement, once regarded as a tribal separatist movement, was now getting more refined and polished, as its supporters start to raise demand for strict implementation of laws meant for administration of scheduled areas (tribal region) identified under the Constitution.Pathalgadi is a practice adopted by many tribal villages in recent times to declare their gram sabha as the only sovereign authority, as per laws applicable in areas under fifth schedule of the Constitution.Under this practice, huge stone plaques, called Pathalgadi in the local dialect, were put up outside tribal settlements, mainly in Khunti district, stating that laws made by the Parliament or the state Assembly were not applicable in the region, besides warning outsiders from entering, wandering, living or settling down in the village.Many residents of such villages abandoned their documents, namely Aadhar, ration, and voter identity cards, as a show of protest. They also rejected development projects in the areas by disallowing entry of government officials.The movement was, however, quelled in 2018, following police action and arrest of its leaders, most of whom were charged with sedition.After a two-year long lull, the movement has regained momentum, but in a refined form. Now, emphasis was being laid on strict implementation of Panchayats (Extension of Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996, in Jharkhand’s 13 scheduled districts.The aforesaid law ensures self-governance through traditional gram sabhas for people living in tribal areas identified under the fifth schedule of the Constitution. It also protects tribals’ rights regarding land, water and forest, and traditional tribal social customs.On this line, social workers of five revenue villages in worst-hit Khunti district, which witnessed violent clashes between Pathalgadi supporters and police in 2017-18, summoned a two-day meeting of ‘Aadivasi Munda Samaj’ to create awareness about tribal culture and customs on March 18 and 19.Pamphlets were distributed to encourage large gathering at the event that was planned at village Hadadlama-Banapidhi under Arki block of the district.However, some locals alleged the meeting was convened with an “ill motive” to instigate village residents against the system. The district police and para military forces too swung into action and intensified patrolling in the region.However, chief guest at the function and national president of ‘Aadivasi Munda Samaj’ Daamu Munda refuted the allegations. He said, “It was planned to hold a peaceful meeting truly aimed at creating social awareness among dominant Munda tribe in the region. But, misinformation and rumours were circulated about the event by linking it to Pathalgadi. As a result, police became active and we were asked to postpone it. We, too, do not want to vitiate the atmosphere and disturb social harmony. We have, therefore, postponed our programme as of now.”He added, “As a result of Pathalgadi movement, our Munda society got divided into two factions, one led by its supporters and the other by those opposing the movement. It was also planned to reunite the two factions at the event.”Arki police station officer in-charge Pankaj Kumar Das said, “No such meeting was held in the area. Moreover, due to Covid-19, large gathering of people is not allowed.”Fearing police action, tribal social workers and supporters hesitate to directly link themselves to Pathalgadi movement. Softening their stand and acting within legal boundaries, they demand implementation of PESA in tribal dominant regions.Almost a month ago, more than 100 tribal people from Gumla district arrived in state capital Ranchi with a large stone plaque that they wanted to install near the Jharkhand high court. A delegation of these people under the banner of Kudukh National Council (KNC) also met the Governor at the time to raise their demands.Refusing to equate this practice of raising stone plaques with Pathalgadi, Daneshwar Toppo, a member of the KNC, said, “We wanted strict implementation of 2007 gazette notification of Union ministry of law and justice under order 229, declaring 12 districts in Jharkhand as scheduled areas. Through this notification, it has been made explicitly clear that executive power of the state of Jharkhand does not extend to the scheduled areas. These scheduled districts are the heritage of scheduled tribes and the administration of these areas will be governed and controlled by the common consensus of the gram sabha. There is no right to freedom for general public in the scheduled areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/pathalgadi-movement-gets-more-refined-demands-implementation-of-rules-101616172925508.html
19-03-2021||Ranchi||State will recommend SC to remove 50% cap on reservation: CM Soren||The Jharkhand government will inform the Supreme Court that the state was a votary to remove the 50% cap on reservation in government jobs to those belonging to Scheduled Tribe (ST), Scheduled Caste (SC) and Other Backward Categories (OBC), chief minister Hemant Soren (CM) said on Friday. Responding to budgetary discussions in the state Assembly, the CM chief said the apex court has sought views of all states on the issue and they will put forth their opinion accordingly. “Few states crossed the barrier of 50% reservation, following which the respective High Courts quashed the decision. Those states have appealed in the Supreme Court. The apex court has taken cognisance and has now sought opinion over removal of the 50% cap in all the states, as it’s a national issue. We have decided that we will recommend to go beyond the 50% cap,” said Soren. Increasing reservation, especially to OBCs in the state has been a long standing demand. All major parties in the past, including the BJP, JMM, Congress, AJSU Party, JVM (P), have promised to increase OBC reservation in the state, which currently stands at 14%.The reservation to the scheduled categories in the state was currently capped at 50%, besides 10% quota to EWS (Economically Weaker Section) in the general category. While STs get 26% quota, SCs get 10%.In the run up to the 2019 state polls, the BJP promised to increase reservation for OBCs in proportion to their population and within the ambit of constitutional provisions. Other major players, including the JMM, Congress, JVM (P) and AJSU Party, also promised to increase OBC reservation to 27% in their election manifesto. The ruling JMM, which is the lead party in the incumbent JMM-Congress-RJD combine government, promised to also increase reservation for STs and SCs by 2% each.In his hour-long speech in the Assembly, the CM elaborated on his government’s plans that he said “will give a direction to the state” and help in achieving the purpose for which the state came into existence two decades ago after a long movement. As the CM launched a scathing attack on the opposition BJP and its alleged “misadventures” during the previous Raghubar Das regime, the BJP legislators staged a walk out from the House and the CM gave most parts of his speech in absence of opposition members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-will-recommend-sc-to-remove-50-cap-on-reservation-cm-soren-101616172866148.html
19-03-2021||Ranchi||State capital rolls out ‘pink buses’ for women||Strap: The buses will cover a distance of nearly 7km between Kutchery Chowk and Rajendra Chowk at just ₹5 Buses meant exclusively for women, called “Pink Buses”, were rolled out on the capital city’s roads on Friday by Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC). The buses were flagged off by Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra and RMC chief executive officer (CEO) Mukesh Kumar from city’s Kutchery chowk. The bus will run between Kutchery Chowk and Rajendra Chowk, around 7km, at a nominal charge of ₹5.The service that takes its name from the colour of the bus was aimed at providing safe mode of transportation to women, who regularly face physical and mental harassment by miscreants on public transportation, officials said.Barring the driver, the buses have an all-female staff. However, the civic body was in search of a woman driver, officials said.It was to be noted that RMC was running two such buses earlier too. However, the service was suspended after thr lockdown triggered by Covid-19 pandemic was implemented in March last year. Besides, the old buses failed to get attention, as they were of the same colour as that of other city buses. Moreover, the old buses started to pick male passengers due to low turnout of female passengers.However, RMC officials were hopeful that the new pink buses will turn out to be a success, as they were rolled out exclusively for women. “A toll free number will be provided in the bus on which passengers can lodge complaint in case male passengers were given entry into the bus or other issues,” the Ranchi mayor said.RMC CEO Mukesh Kumar said, “Two more pink buses are being prepared. They will be rolled out between Dhurwa to Kishori Yadav Chowk via Kantatoli next week.”On the first day of being rolled out, the buses received positive response, officials said. RMC city manager Nandlal Baraik, who was looking after the city bus operation in Ranchi, said, “The buses received a positive response on the very first day. College students and working women used the buses. After seeing this response, more buses will be plied in the city.”Sarita Devi, a passenger, said, “The most attractive part of the pink bus is its fare. It is providing a journey of 7km at just ₹5, while other modes of transport, whether an auto or e-rickshaw, take at least ₹20 for the same route.”With the addition of the two buses, the number of buses plying on city roads rose to 32. Apart from the buses, “pink auto service” was also popular in the city since 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-capital-rolls-out-pink-buses-for-women-101616172865454.html
19-03-2021||Other||Covid death in Araria alarms authorities||ARARIAThe death of a 70-year-old woman in Araria on Thursday due to Covid-19 has alarmed health officials in the region, who said arrival of migrant workers from Mumbai, Punjab and Delhi for Holi celebrations at home only added to their concerns.Exactly a year ago, 65-year-old an Islamic preacher, Md Khairani Bin Lookman, had died in a mosque in Araria due to Covid-19. “The woman who died at Sikti block had tested positive for Covid-19,” Araria’s civil surgeon M P Gupta said. “We have disposed of the body after autopsy following due protocol.” He said three containment zones had been set up made in the village where the woman died and people tested. “We have not yet received the report,” the CS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-death-in-araria-alarms-authorities-101616172386465.html
19-03-2021||Other||Gangster shot at: Accused cop sent to 3-day police remand||A day after dreaded gangster Ajay alias Bittu was shot at outside the Sonepat court by a police personnel, who was escorting him, police on Friday produced accused cop Mahesh before a local court, which sent him to three-day police remand.Ajay’s family asked the PGIMS, Rohtak authorities to discharge the gangster on Friday and took him to a private hospital in Rohtak, where his condition is stated to be critical.Ajay, a notorious criminal, is booked in 12 cases including eight murders and he has an old rivalry with Ram Karan gang after his boss Sandeep Badwasni was killed by Ram Karan’s gang.On Thursday, Ajay’s father Krishan Kumar was shot dead allegedly by a group of 8-10 assailants who had barged into his house in Sonepat’s Barona village.Sunny Loura, spokesman of Rohtak police, said that the gangster is undergoing treatment at a private hospital here after his family members asked the doctors at PGIMS to discharge him.“He is on ventilator support and the next 48 hours are crucial for him,” the spokesman added.Sonepat superintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Randhawa said that they had produced the accused police personnel before the court.“During preliminary investigation, it came to fore that the attack on Ajay and his father had occurred due to gang war. We got to know many important details from the cop during investigation which will be revealed after completion of police probe. Security has been tightened outside the gangster’s house,” the SP added.A senior police official, who is part of the investigation, while pleading anonymity, said that the attack on Ajay and his father was executed by members of Ram Karan gang.“During questioning, the accused cop confessed that he had attacked the gangster on behest of Ram Karan, who had provided him the illegal weapon from which he fired shots at Ajay,” the cop added.“The cop was also doing illegal liquor business and the gangster had taken extortion amount of ₹15 lakh from him. After the gangster demanded more money from him, the cop joined hands with Ajay’s enemy Ram Karan, who is also a criminal and fired shots at him,” he said.Gangster Ajay’s brother Rajesh alleged that his brother had good relations with the accused cop.“The cop used to take help from my brother in executing his plans. Mahesh was running a nexus of criminals and was involved in illegal liquor business. He had taken money from my brother and was not returning the amount. He fired shots at my brother after getting backing of the Ram Karan gang,” he added.Sonepat police defamed for having links with criminalsThis was not for the first time that a cop of the Sonepat police was booked for wrongdoings.In April 2017, criminal Sandeep Badwasni, boss of the dreaded gagster Ajay, was killed along with two of his accomplices at the home of Sonepat police cop Sanjeet alias Boda.Last year, inspector Jasbir and other cops were booked and later they were suspended for having links with liquor trader Bhupinder in connection with liquor bottles going missing from godowns during lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gangster-shot-at-accused-cop-sent-to-3-day-police-remand-101616172386060.html
19-03-2021||Other||Politics plagues academics, says NACC report on ‘C-grade’ BN College||PATNAAfter the 156-year-old Patna College, the oldest institution under Patna University and once known as “Oxford of the East”, was ranked ‘C’ in 2019 by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), another premier institution of Bihar, 132-year-old BN College has also slid significantly from ‘B++’ to be ranked ‘C’ two years later. One of the key weaknesses cited in the NAAC report for abysmal show of BN College, set up in 1889, is that “many of the faculty members are actively engaged in the political activities of the state that affects the academic work of the college”, a well-known fact that heads of several colleges in the state talk about in private but are unable to raise it in public for the fear of backlash.Former PU professor and social scientist N K Choudharysaid faculty members engaged in full-time politics and not attending classes was not desirable. “It has both moral and legal aspects. A university job is not government service and hence teachers cannot be barred from participating in politics and political discourse after their teaching hours, but it cannot be allowed to happen at the cost of teaching. If a teacher gets some political assignment, he should be asked to go on leave. But unfortunately, when vice chancellors are political appointees, not much can be expected. It needs systemic improvement,” he said.The NAAC ratings have come as a rude shock to the prestigious Patna University, which has been unable to check the slide despite an illustrious past due to varied reasons. Patna Science College and Patna Law College had also earlier barely managed to be just a notch above with ‘B’ grade, while Magadh Mahila College slid from ‘A’ to ‘B++’. Patna University had also barely managed ‘B++’ in the first cycle. Earlier, BN College and Vanijya Mahavidyalay were disqualified by the NAAC due to alleged discrepancies in the self-status report (SSR) and unsatisfactory/or lack of replies to the explanations sought on their claims by NAAC. While BN CoIlege tried to make amends with fresh application, which was accepted, Vanijya developed cold feet. Other weaknesses identified include large-scale vacant teaching positions, no research projects in the last five years, no post-graduate programme and research centre, no medical facility in the college and improper condition of hostel and management system. A senior college functionary admitted that around eight of the 53 faculty members were actively into politics and affiliated to mainstream political parties. The most alarming trend is that like most other institutions of higher learning in the state, BN College, too, has fared poorly in student support and progression, research, innovations and extension. BN College principal Rajkishore Prasad said the institution at least expected ‘B’ rank, but it slipped due to reasons beyond its control. “The fact is that the student feedback is not good and there is acute shortage of teachers. Our history department has no teacher, while political science has just one. Expecting PG teaching and research with such faculty strength is sheer wishful thinking. We missed ‘B’ rank with a slender margin, but we will try again, provided we get the support to get our basics right,” he said.The rank of institutions is determined on the basis of CGPA (Cumulative Grade Points Average) calculation based on the scores obtained from the three sources, viz. the system generated source (SGS) of the quantitative metrics which comprise about 70% of the total, the scores from the qualitative, critical appraisal by the peer team through on-site visit and the scores obtained on the student satisfaction survey. These are collated through an automated procedure based on benchmarks for assessment on a seven point-scale, starting with A++, A+ and A, B++, B+ and B and C. Patna University had earlier barely managed ‘B+’, but it is the highest grade for any state university in Bihar and speaks about the condition of higher education. “The bitter truth is that the institutions alone could not be blamed for the slide. Many of the university websites are without syllabus, five-year question papers for students, activities’ calendar, though holiday calendar comes in advance. How can one expect student feedback to be good. If this is the condition of PU, one can well imagine the scenario in other institutions,” said a senior PU professor, adding that at least NAAC snub should work as a wake-up call for the state institutions as well as the government due to strict guidelines under the Rashtriya Uchchtar Shiksha Abhiyaan (RUSA). Accreditation status Patna University: B+ Patna College: C BN College: C Patna Law College: B Patna Science College: B Magadh Mahila College: B+ Vanijya Mahavidyalay: Disqualified||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/politics-plagues-academics-says-nacc-report-on-c-grade-bncollege-101616172326587.html
19-03-2021||Other||Council chairman orders house panel probe into working of Bihar Vidyapeeth||PATNAA committee of the state’s Legislative Council will probe the functioning of Bihar Vidyapeeth, an educational institution set up by Mahatma Gandhi near the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) office in 1921, for alleged misuse of its premises. Awadhesh Narayan Singh, working chairman of the Bihar Legislative Council, announced this in the House following debate on a question raised by Congress member Prem Chandra Mishra on Friday. Mishra alleged that Vidyapeeth, one among the three set up by Mahatma Gandhi as alternative institutions to impart studies during the pre-Independence era, had wholly diverted from its core objectives. Set up on a sprawling 32-acre campus, it also had a museum dedicated to the first President Rajendra Prasad and library of a noted educationist and freedom fighter Maualama Mazharul Haque. “Instead of pursuing the objectives of the institution, those in-charge of the premises are using it for commercial purposes,” Mishra alleged. Supporting Mishra’s contention, RJD member Sunil Kumar Singh said he had attended marriage celebrations at the Vidyapeeth, contrary to the contention of art and culture minister Alok Ranjan, who, citing a report from the department’s deputy director, claimed the premises were not being used for commercial purposes. RJD member Ram Chandra Purbe said Gandhi had established three institutions, Kashi Vidyapeeth, Gujarat Vidyapeeth and Bihar Vidyapeeth, as alternatives to the government’s educational institutions. Kashi Vidyapeeth is a university, while the one in Gujarat is also imparting good academic values. JD(U) member and littérateur Ram Vachan Rai too expressed his concern over misuse of the national heritage. The working chairman of Council, however, feared that the house committee might delay the submission of report, as has happened in the past. He said he had ordered an inquiry by a house committee during his previous stint as the chairman. “But members kept on retiring and the committee never submitted its report,” said Singh. Mishra, however, said the committee be given a deadline to submit its report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/council-chairman-orders-house-panel-probe-into-working-of-bihar-vidyapeeth-101616172325923.html
19-03-2021||Other||Bihar cancels leave of all health care workers||PATNAThe health department has cancelled leaves till April 5 of health staff, including doctors, nurses and paramedics, with immediate effect, amid rising cases of Covid-19 and indications of a second wave of the pandemic in the state. The health department, in its order March 17, cancelled leaves of all medical officers, up to the level of director-in-chief, principals and superintendents and junior residents of medical college hospitals and director of special medical institutions. The order was also applicable for all health care workers. However, those on study and maternity leave have been excluded from the purview of the order. Health care workers on leave were asked to report to duty as soon as possible. The decision has been taken to maintain special vigil and surveillance to contain the spread of the second wave of the pandemic, said the government order, issued by Anil Kumar, joint secretary, health department. Bihar had earlier cancelled leaves of all health care workers between March 13 and August 30 last year. New cases of Covid-19 have risen from 22 reported in a day on March 1 to 107 on Thursday. New cases, which had ebbed to six districts of the 38 in Bihar, had also gradually climbed up to 26 districts on Thursday. On Wednesday, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, following the interaction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Chief Ministers on the COVID-19 situation, said the state government had decided to increase the number of daily COVID-19 tests. Bihar had tested 59,076 samples on Thursday with 405 active cases. Bihar, which has reported 263,265 Covid-19 cases with 1,555 deaths so far, has a recovery rate of 99.26%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-cancels-leave-of-all-health-care-workers-101616172325367.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Face masks to curb Covid: Vij wants to create fear among public while CM asks officials to not create panic||Alarmed by the steady Covid-19 upsurge, Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday directed the Haryana Police to create fear among public by launching a massive drive to challan people roaming at public places without wearing masks.In a candid admission, Vij said that not only the public but also enforcement agencies such as police and health officials have lowered their guard in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic.“Let’s act tough. We have to create fear among the citizens that they will be punished if found violating the Covid guidelines put in place to contain spread of the contagion,” the minister told superintendents of police (SPs).Vij, who also holds the home department portfolio, directed the SPs to send him daily report containing details of total number of people challaned for not wearing mask.“People don’t mend their ways without strictness,” Vij said, during a meeting that chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar held on Friday to review preparedness to combat the recent surge in Covid-19 cases across state.Vij’s direction for acting tough coincides with Haryana reported 872 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest in recent months.Of these, Gurugram recorded 184 cases, Panchkula 166, Karnal 114 and Kurukshetra 86. On Thursday, there were 633 fresh cases and six fatalities in Haryana.It is in this backdrop that Vij repeatedly underlined the need of increasing testing along with strictness in ensuring that the standard operating procedures (SOPs) are followed to contain the virus.Vij, who attended the meeting through video conferencing from Ambala, said that at present people have formed the opinion that no one will hold them accountable for violating Covid guidelines.“I have no hesitation while saying that not only people but also officers have lowered their guard against the virus. Let’s ensure that not even a single person anywhere across state is seen without mask,” he said.Vij also flagged the issue of what “low testing as well as vaccination” being done in Fatehabad, Jind, Mahendergarh, Nuh and Palwal districts.Vij said that he will hold the district health authorities accountable for this.Testing in Fatehabad district against one lakh people is 744, in Jind it is 833, Mahendergarh 930, Nuh 983 and Palwal 984.Vij added that vaccination is also very low in these districts.“Low testing and vaccination shows the urgency of taking corrective steps. We have become complacent but need to be alert,” he said.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said, “While implementing the Covid-19 strategies, deputy commissioners should give utmost care to ensure that panic is not created among the public.”During the meeting, it came to the fore that the epicentre of the virus spread has changed from NCR region to GT Road districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vij-asks-police-to-challan-people-not-wearing-masks-101616172266124.html
19-03-2021||Other||Hooda seeks immediate withdrawal of Damages to Property Bill||Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda has demanded immediate withdrawal of the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property during Disturbance to Public Bill, 2021, passed by the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, stating that it will “strangulate democracy”.“The state government is trying to take away the fundamental right to Freedom of Speech and Freedom of Expression guaranteed to citizens by the Constitution. The purpose of introducing this law is to prove every citizen who raises their voice against the government as guilty,” Hooda said.During his visit to Karnal on Friday, Hooda said that every section of the society is disappointed with Haryana budget as the state government did not provide any relief to them.On the CM’s announcement that there is no need of JBT teachers, he said that it has come as a severe blow to the unemployed youth.He also slammed the Haryana government’s decision to shut down 1,057 government schools, and termed it a setback to the Right to Education.‘Damages to Property Bill against democracy’Meanwhile, in a statement, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Friday said the Damages to Property Bill is against democracy and will suppress the voices of people.“The Bill has been enacted in the legislative assembly to suppress the farmers’ movement. There are already enough laws, but the state government wants to create an atmosphere of fear. Holding a protest is the basic right of every citizen of a country, but the government wants to take it away,” Selja added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hooda-seeks-immediate-withdrawal-of-damages-to-property-bill-101616172089645.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar sets target of releasing 100% MSP payments directly to farmers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday announced to transfer minimum support price (MSP) payments directly to the bank accounts of farmers.He directed the officials concerned to hold timely talks with the commission agents who have been against this policy that the Centre has been pushing the state government to pursue.Last year, Haryana had transferred more than 50% of the payments directly to the accounts of the farmers and rest of the payments were made through ahrtiyas.It has been over three years since the Union government has been repeatedly advising the state government to pay MSP directly to the farmers, instead of transferring it to the ahrtiyas who later release the payment to farmers.Khattar’s announcement assumes significance as recently deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds food and civil supplies portfolio, said that payment of the procured crop will reach either the farmers’ own bank accounts or in the accounts of ahrtiya within 48 hours of submitting the J-Form.During a review meeting of Covid-19 vaccination, and crop procurement with administrative secretaries, deputy commissioners, senior superintendents of police, municipal commissioners, and senior and chief medical officers, through video conferencing, Khattar said that keeping in view the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the number of procurement centres are likely to be increased.He said that wheat procurement will start from April 1. Last year, wheat procurement was started on April 10.“During this year’s procurement process, the state government has decided to ensure 100% online transfer of payments directly into the accounts of farmers,” Khattar said, asking the officers concerned to hold timely talks with the ahrtiyas on this issue.State health minister Anil Vij also attended the meeting from Ambala through video conferencing.The DCs were directed to ensure that Covid-19 safety protocols are strictly followed at all procurement centres.The CM directed the DCs to issue directions in advance regarding timely lifting of crop, smooth functioning of the procurement process and to ensure that neither ahrtiyas nor farmers face any problem.Khattar further directed the DCs to ensure 100% crop registration including registration of vacant agricultural land on ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-sets-target-of-releasing-100-msp-payments-directly-to-farmers-101616171969035.html
19-03-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh sees 1,140 Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths, 556 recoveries||Madhya Pradesh on Friday reported 1,140 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 2,73,097, while seven deaths increased the toll to 3,901, an official said.He said 556 people were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 2,62,587.Four of 52 districts in the state did not report a new Covoi-19 case in the last 24 hours, the official pointed out."A death each was reported from Bhopal, Gwalior, Ujjain, Chhindwara, Khandwa, Shajapur and Umaria. Indore's caseload rose by 309 to reach 63.510, while that of Bhopal touched 46,383 with the addition of 272 cases. The active caseload in the two cities is 1,960 and 1,495 respectively," he said.With 20,770 samples being examined in the last 24 hours, the number of tests in MP crossed 60.92 lakh.Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 2,73,097 new cases 1140, death toll 3,901, recovered 2,62,587, active cases 6,609 number of tests so far 60,92,451.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-sees-1-140-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-556-recoveries-101616166265453.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records over 700 new Covid-19 cases, highest this year||In the steepest spike this year, Delhi recorded 716 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the infection in the national capital to 646,300. With this, the cumulative positivity rate in the national capital stands at 4.73%, according to the latest figures released by the health department on Friday. Four fatalities have been recorded since Thursday, which pushed the death toll in the national capital up to 10,953.The daily caseload in Delhi has jumped by nearly 200 in the last two days; the national capital recorded 607 infections on Thursday, and 536 on Wednesday.Meanwhile, a total of 77,352 tests, including 47,078 RT-PCR, were conducted on Thursday and the number of people under home isolation rose to 1,624, the health department's bulletin said.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereAs Delhi’s Covid-19 graph continues to climb, experts have advised residents to maintain precautions and get vaccinated if eligible.The doctors have blamed the weddings and other large social gatherings in the city for the upward trend. “There was euphoria when the number of infections in the city went down, as any viral infection does naturally. With over 50% of the population exposed to the infection, the transmission slowed down. But, people gathering for events such as weddings led to an increase. This is exactly what happened after Dussehra and Diwali,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences and chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care.Amid fear of the second Covid-19 wave in the country, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the national capital is ready to vaccinate all its adult residents within three months if the Centre relaxes the eligibility criteria for inoculation.“The Centre should make vaccines open for all those who are 18 years of age and above. India is producing enough Covid-19 vaccines now to get this done. Walk-in centres should be opened for all. I urge the central government to take this up on a war footing. If this is allowed, we can vaccinate everyone in Delhi (18 years and above) in three months,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-700-new-covid-19-cases-highest-this-year-101616171522016.html
19-03-2021||Other||Govt schools in UP to hold annual exams on Mar 25, 26||LUCKNOW Annual examinations will be held between March 25 and 26 for all the 1.8 crore students of classes 1 to 8 in government-run primary and upper primary schools, following directives by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said officials. In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, all students were promoted to the next level in March last year without examinations. Government schools remained closed for nearly a year. Upper primary schools reopened on February 10 and primary schools on March 1, with 50% attendance. “No students will be denied promotion to the next class. Under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, no child can be made to repeat a class till Class 8,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director-general, school education, on Friday.He said there will only be an oral examination of 30 minutes duration for students of classes 1 and 2. For students of classes 3 to 5, there will be a written exam of multiple choice questions of one hour duration for all subjects. There will be 50 questions.For classes 6 to 7 as well, there will be a written examination based on objective type questions and the duration of the exam will be one hour and 30 minutes. For Class, there will be a written examination, which will be a mix of multiple choice and objective type questions. Anand said answer sheets of classes 3 to 7 will be evaluated at school level and those of Class 8 by teachers of other schools. After evaluation, teachers are required to prepare report card that will help in assessing the academic performance of students. The answer sheets would be evaluated between March 27 and 30 and report cards distribution would be on March 31, in the presence of village education committee. The teachers, however, are not happy because the department has issued examination notification in a short time and evaluation work clashes with Holi holidays.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath recently said that promoting students without exam was the route of escapism. Instead of promoting students of basic shiksha parishad schools to the next level without examination, there should be an effort to prepare them for tough competition, he emphasised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-schools-in-up-to-hold-annual-exams-on-mar-25-26-101616171545272.html
19-03-2021||Ranchi||‘Jharkhand would recommend SC to remove 50% cap on reservation’: CM||The Jharkhand government would recommend the Supreme Court that the state is a votary to remove the 50 per cent cap on the reservation for the ST, SCs and OBCs in government jobs, chief minister Hemant Soren said on Friday. Giving his reply to the budgetary discussions in the Jharkhand assembly, chief minister Soren said the apex court has sought views of all states on the issue and they would put forth their opinion accordingly. “Few states had crossed the barrier of 50 per cent, following which the respective high courts had quashed the decision. States have appealed in the Supreme Court. The apex court has taken cognisance and has now sought opinion over the removal of the 50 per cent cap from all the states as it’s a national issue. We have decided that we would recommend going beyond the 50 per cent cap,” said Soren. Jharkhand is the second state after Rajasthan which would ask the Supreme Court to remove the 50 per cent cap on the reservation which was imposed in 1992 in the Indra Sawhney case that upheld the reservation to other backward classes.Increasing reservation, especially to the other backwards classes (OBC) in the state, has been a long-standing demand. All major parties, including the BJP, the JMM, the Congress, the AJSU Party, the JVM (P), had promised to increase the OBC reservation in the state, which currently stands at 14 per cent.The reservation to scheduled categories in Jharkhand is currently capped at 50 per cent, besides the 10 per cent quota to the EWS (Economically Weaker Section) in the general category. While the Scheduled Tribes (ST) get a 26 per cent quota, Scheduled Castes (SCs) get 10 per cent and OBCs have 14 per cent reservation.In the run-up to the 2019 polls, the BJP promised to increase reservation to the OBC in proportion to their population and within the ambit of the constitutional provisions. Other major players, including the JMM, the Congress, the JVM (P) and the Ajsu Party, had promised to increase the OBC reservation to 27 per cent in their election manifesto. The ruling JMM, which is the lead party in the incumbent JMM-Congress-RJD combine government, had also promised to increase reservation for STs and SCs by 2 per cent each, besides increasing the OBC quota.In his hour-long speech in the assembly, the chief minister elaborated on the plans of his government which he said, “would give a direction to the state” and help in achieving the purpose for which the state came into existence two decades ago after a long movement. As the CM launched a scathing attack on the BJP and the alleged ‘misadventures’ during the previous Raghubar Das regime, BJP legislators staged a walkout from the house and the CM gave most of his speech in the absence of opposition members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-would-recommend-sc-to-remove-50-cap-on-reservation-cm-101616171065815.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Women beat up BMC marshal for fining them for flouting Covid-19 norms||Two women were booked by Mumbai's Charkop police for allegedly beating up a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) employee for urging them to wear a mask as a Covid-19 preventive measure, said police.The BMC marshal, identified as Ashwini Chawan (35), stopped the women from violating social distancing norms given Mumbai's surge in Covid-19 cases, officers said.According to the officers, the marshal urged the women to wear a mask or pay a fine of ₹200. The women then started abusing the lady marshal and began beating her.The passerby took note of the incident, called up the emergency number and informed the Charkop police. When the locals tried to stop the women, they blamed the marshal for misbehaving."We have registered a case against the two women under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and also booked them for obstructing a public servant from doing her duty. We are taking legal action against the women," said Visual Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (zone 11).Maharashtra, India's worst Covid-19 hit state, continues to register a surge in its virus load. In the last 24 hours, the state is reported to have recorded 25,681 new cases, pushing the statewide tally to 24,22,021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/women-beat-up-bmc-marshal-for-fining-them-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-101616169477384.html
19-03-2021||Other||Honey is turning life sweeter for Kashmiris, 70k bee colonies come up||Many people in parts of Kashmir are able to earn a livelihood, thanks to around 70,000 honey bee colonies that have come up in different regions. With time, more and more young men and women are turning to bee-keeping as dozens of local honey brands have got established in Kashmir.The nectar collected by the bees from the meadows, orchards, forests, gardens is considered among the finest across the globe and fetches anywhere from ₹80,000 to 1 lakh per quintal.Officials said Kashmir produces four varieties of organic honey. The government is now planning to establish seven lakh bee colonies in the Valley that could generate more honey, revenue and employment for the youth. Last year, 7,206 quintals of pure honey was generated. Anantnag district alone produced 2015.06 quintals followed by Srinagar (1415 quintals).In north Kashmir’s Baramulla, Ishfaq Ahmad Dar, a young entrepreneur, got four apiaries for his small orchard outside his house for the pollination. After a good apple harvest, Dar decided to get more apiaries.“Initially, I didn’t think about honey but once I got good returns I decided to get more beehives. Now I have 150 hives through which I get five to six quintal of honey in a year,” Dar said. He said that he had engaged a couple of people as beekeepers and also seek timely advice from officers of the agriculture department for the maintenance of these apiaries.Also read: No threat to Amarnath Yatra, but sticky bombs a new challenge - J-K DGP“I am now able to earn ₹four to five lakh rupees and the market for real pure honey is always available in Kashmir,” he said, adding that he is planning to expand his beehives in the next season. “Its also a good business which seldom is in a loss,” he stated.Another beekeeper, Farooq Ahmad Shiekh, who hails from Kupwara, said that he gets honey three to four times a year from his 100 apiaries established in his backyard in Handwara.“I get two harvests in Kashmir and another in Jammu. I earn sufficient for my family. Though at times due to climate changes bee mortalities lead to losses. Most of the times, I generate good profit,” he said. Shiekh said that Kashmir nectar comes from the organic flora in the vast forests. “With every passing day, the demand for pure honey goes up,” he added.Officials said they are already organising training-cum-sensitization programs on honey bee and their management as there is a tremendous scope of beekeeping in Jammu and Kashmir.Director of agriculture, Kashmir, Mohammad Iqbal Choudhary, said that the department has prioritized upliftment of the apiculture sector and has designed and drafted Detailed Project Reports for promotion of high altitude honey in J&K under ‘Honey Mission’. “At present, we have more than 70,000 bee colonies and our target is to take this to seven lakh colonies by good management.He said that the idea is to establish seven lakh colonies within the next five years which could generate employment for 1.14 lakh families. “Ours is considered the world’s best honey and we are trying to get the GI tag for this honey,” he said, adding that the apiculture cultivation is a way forward to double farmer’s income by 2022 with the latest technological intervention. He said that this is the only thing that hasn’t got any negative growth.Choudhary said that the department has started the process of establishing viable beekeeping units as the sector has good potential to generate income not only in honey production but also in the production of by-products like beeswax, propolis, bee venom and royal jelly. “Apart from honey, its byproducts also have a great demand in the markets across the country,” he said, adding that a person with 100 hives can generate employment for four to five people.He said within his department and districts there are separate officials for apiculture who guide farmers and beekeepers from time to time.Javeed Iqbal, a wholesale honey dealer, said that people are always looking for quality honey as it has many health benefits. “Earlier we used to get most of our honey from other states and didn’t know about its quality. As more and more young people established beekeeping units, we turned to those units for honey. Even quality honey from Kashmir has a good demand outside Kashmir. The demand is growing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/honey-is-turning-life-sweeter-for-kashmiris-70k-bee-colonies-come-up-101616167285348.html
19-03-2021||Other||Tripura tables tax-free budget of ₹22724.50 crore||The Tripura government on Friday tabled a tax-free budget of ₹22724.50 crore for 2021-22 with a hike of 118.09 per cent from the previous year budget. The budget has a deficit of Rs. 773.43 crore that the state government would meet by tax compliance and austerity measures. The state had tabled a budget worth Rs. 19244.15 crore last year. This year, the budget has laid special emphasis on developing tourism, information technology, agriculture, health and education sectors. The budget has an allocation of ₹15.50 crore in the tourism sector against ₹7.14 crore in the revised estimates of the current fiscal year. In the IT sector, it is ₹56.77 crore against ₹28.68 crores. Also read: 76-year-old man arrested in Tripura for allegedly raping minor girlThe budget also showed growth in allocation in the education sector - from ₹3810.96 crore to ₹4152.62 crore - followed by the health sector that saw an increase of fund from ₹1057.12 crore to Rs. 1443.47 crore. The agriculture sector saw a hike in funds from ₹887.43 crore to ₹1250.47 crore. The budget also included 12 different schemes and projects, including Chief Minister’s Model Village, Chief Minister’s Swanirbhar Paribar Yojana, Chief Minister’s Infrastructure Fund, Chief Minister’s Rubber Mission, Mukhyamantri Pushpa Uddan Prakalpa, besides proposal for sustainable development and green technology, promotion of traditional musical instruments, setting up of a national law university in Agartala, among other projects. The state would spend 30.78 per cent for salary and wages along with 13.91 per cent for pension and other benefits, 3.02 per cent for repaying loans, 6.05 per cent for interest payment, 20.68 per cent for implementation of central schemes and 25.56 per cent for other expenditures. “We will meet the budget deficit through better tax management, austerity, transparency and simplification,” said finance minister Jishnu Dev Varma after placing the budget on the first day of the Assembly session that started on Friday. Like the previous year, the state has made separate budgets for the Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-tables-tax-free-budget-of-rs-22724-50-crore-101616167225676.html
19-03-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: 1-day lockdown in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur on March 21||Amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Madhya Pradesh government on Friday announced a one-day lockdown in three cities - Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur - on March 21. The decision was taken in a review meeting chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. It was also decided that all schools and colleges in these three cities will remain closed till March 31.These three cities have been chosen because the positivity rate is more than 5 per cent here, a home department official said.Indore and Bhopal have been under night curfew since March 15 (which is in place from 10pm to 6am). Only essential services - ration shops and eateries - are allowed to function during this period. Authorities ordered the closure of shops and establishments in Jabalpur, Ujjain, Ratlam, Chhindwara and other regions from 10 pm to 6am.Also Read| Maharashtra records 25,681 new cases of Covid-19, Mumbai crosses 3,000-markThe state on Friday logged its highest single-day spike of the year 2021 with 1,140 new Covid-19 disease cases and seven related fatalities, taking the caseload and death toll to 2,73,097 and 3,901 respectively. Friday’s figures have also been the highest since late December last year. Indore added the most number of cases (309) followed by Bhopal (272), an official told PTI adding that one death each was recorded from Bhopal, Gwalior, Ujjain, Chhindwara, Khandwa, Shajapur and Umaria. A total of 2,62,587 recoveries have been recorded in the state so far and more than 60.92 lakh people have been tested, he said.The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday banned movement of all passenger buses to and from Maharashtra - the worst-hit state - due to the massive spike in the cases there. It has also made it compulsory for all air travellers from Maharashtra to produce a negative RT-PCR test report upon their arrival in Indore and Madhya Pradesh.Meanwhile, Maharashtra saw another single day spike of 25,681 fresh cases and 70 more related fatalities on Friday. This is the second consecutive day that cases breached the 25,000-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-1-day-lockdown-in-3-madhya-pradesh-cities-on-march-21-101616166965906.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Open, happiness||Today, on the occasion of the official International Day of Happiness, let us put aside thoughts of gloom and doom, and remind ourselves of all the things — big and small — that bring us happiness in Mumbai.Happiness in Mumbai is an evening spent among familiar-looking strangers and unfamiliar-smelling smoke at Mehboob Studios, while listening to a world-famous saxophonist or an unknown poet, and feeling as if you were on the Left Bank in Paris, while sipping your beer from a plastic cup. Happiness in Mumbai is jostling in a queue to buy a perfectly made demi-glass of cold coffee at NCPA’s Tata theatre during the interval, between the Allegro con brio and the Andante con moto of Beethoven’s Fifth, surrounded by what looks like the world’s entire Parsi population, doing the same thing.Happiness in Mumbai is a windswept morning at Matunga flower market, redolent with the fragrance of fresh jasmines and mogras and the sound of bells ringing from Ayyappan Mandir next door. It is buying a bunch of rain-soaked, shivering sontakkas from an even more rain-soaked, shivering urchin at Kemps Corner traffic lights and knowing that the memory of his smile will last longer than the flowers he’s just handed you; Happiness in Mumbai is the sight of the devoted congregating on Tuesday evenings outside Siddhivinayak Temple at Prabhadevi to propitiate the Gods ; and happiness is seeing more or less the same faces, the very next day, outside the St Michael’s Church in Mahim for the Wednesday Novena.Happiness in Mumbai is Juhu beach, where on any given day you might chance upon a famous film star hoping to pass unrecognised on his afternoon off, or an unknown film aspirant in his Sunday best, hoping to be discovered. Happiness in Mumbai is the sight of middle-aged, early-bird joggers at the crack of dawn on Marine Drive in their shiny new athleasure gear, blithely undaunted by the fact that through all their years of sweat and flex, nothing seems to get sleeker except their expensive sneakers.Happiness in Mumbai is a fleeting glimpse of the magnificent Burma teak staircase at Wadiaji Atash Behram on Princess Street, as you drive past during rush hour — a chance, sudden opening of a door which transports you into a sanctuary of silence and solemnity; it is the astringent orderliness of Colaba’s Cusrow Baug, juxtaposed so delightfully against the endearing eccentricity of its residents. Happiness in Mumbai is the louche, cut-price sprawl of Colaba Causeway, where the man behind the counter at the leather store might speak to you in fluent Italian, while singing the praises of a trendy tote, but will switch effortlessly back to Hindi, while discussing its price.It is in the reticent, fairy tale charm of cottages named Ave Maria and Peace Haven in Bandra’s by-lanes, in the imposing aloofness of the Indo-Saracenic buildings of Ballard Estate, in the sleepy quaintness of Kotachi Wadi which wears its East Indian heritage like a talisman against the brash new developments encircling it. It is in the sensuous curve of the Sea Link and in the sweet spot at its Northern end, where lovers perch to woo and coo, foolishly under the impression that they are invisible to the occupants of passing cars.It is in the magnificent stained-glass windows of Mumbai’s oldest church — St Thomas’ Cathedral, and in the rotund sumptuousness of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya, with its dome set off against the brilliance of a full moon. Happiness in Mumbai is the iconic Rajabai Clock Tower, said to have been financed by a wealthy philanthropist so that his blind mother could hear the bells peal each evening and know when it was time for her dinner. If happiness in Mumbai were a taste, it would surely be dosas at Matunga’s Madras Lunch home, pani puri at Bandra’s Elco Arcade, brun from City Bakery, bhel puri at Chowpatty beach, and vada pav at Kirti College Lane in Prabhadevi.Happiness in Mumbai is the sight of fishing boats, festooned with flags after a good morning’s catch. It is a procession of stately, vintage automobiles ferrying their equally stately and vintage owners on a Sunday morning across Marine Drive. It is Queen’s necklace on any night and of course the sparkling sea that hugs the city with maternal pride every night. If happiness in Mumbai were a sound, it would be the tinkling of a piano in Juhu’s Theosophical Colony, the cacophony of the money-making machine at Dalal Street, the crackle of commentary at Brabourne Stadium during a cricket match, and the opening night roar of applause for an off-Broadway musical performed by local talent. If happiness in Mumbai were an emotion, it would be the profusion of yellow Amalta trees outside Byculla zoo; the vivid, purple, pink and white blooms of Bougainvillea across the city; and the all-too-fleeting shy grace of Mumbai’s own Gulmohars, which bloom only annually, between late April and May.All these and more are the aggregate of happiness in Mumbai; and given what the city has gone through and is going through and might go through, it would serve us well, gentle reader, to remind ourselves of all the things — big and small — that bring us happiness in Mumbai.So, what’s on your list? We’d love to know…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-open-happiness-101616167045257.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man arrested for raping woman on false promise of marriage||A 32-year-old chartered accountant has been arrested in Mumbai for allegedly raping a woman on the false promise of marriage, police said on Friday.The Vakola police have arrested Furquan Khan, a resident of Kurla, after a 25-year-old fashion designer lodged a complaint against him, an official said.According to the complainant, she met Khan on a social media platform in January 2020 and began chatting with him online, the official said. Khan soon borrowed ₹10,000 from the victim and in September, asked her to meet him so that can return the sum, he said.The accused met the victim at her house and during the meeting, he promised to marry her and then raped her, the official said, adding that Khan continued to harass her. The accused has been remanded to police custody till March 22 and further probe is underway, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-raping-woman-on-false-promise-of-marriage-101616166035374.html
19-03-2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Govt school in Pune receives cattle fodder instead of mid-day meal||A government school in Maharashtra's Pune on Friday received cattle fodder instead of mid-day meal for students, news agency ANI reported.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol called the incident "unfortunate" and said that an inquiry has been demanded. Although the school is run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the mid-day meal scheme is run by the state government, he clarified.Maharashtra: A Govt school in Pune received cattle fodder, instead of mid-day meal for students.Pune Mayor says, "Mid-day meal scheme is run by state govt. Municipal corporation is responsible for only distribution among students. It's very unfortunate. An inquiry is demanded." pic.twitter.com/9cO1wcfefQIn pictures posted by the news agency, several loaded bags of cattle fodder can be seen being checked by the concerned authorities. One of the bags had 'Nutri Rich Pashu Aahar' (nutritious animal fodder) written on it.In light of the Covid-19 lockdown, the Supreme Court in March last year directed all states to continue the mid-day meal scheme. The central government issued orders in July and August later that year, asking the states to supply foodgrain and pulses to eligible students instead of cooked meals.In light of these instructions, the Maharashtra government decided to centralise the process and not conduct the tendering for mid-day meals district-wise. In January, it issued a tender notice inviting bids to provide mid-day meals in the form of foodgrain to eligible school children in 7,549 schools across 19 districts at ₹245 crore.The mid-day meal scheme, run by the school education & sports department under the government of Maharashtra, aims to improve the nutritional status of children in classes 1-8 in government-sponsored schools in the state, according to an official release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-govt-school-in-pune-receives-cattle-fodder-instead-of-mid-day-meal-101616162872893.html
19-03-2021||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah's jibe at K'taka CM Yediyurappa: Where should we get vaccine against govt corruption?||Leader of opposition in Karnataka, Siddaramaiah, on Friday targeted chief minister B S Yediyurappa and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government over the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Taking it to Twitter, Siddaramaiah blamed the government's mismanagement for the for the spread of the disease.Referring to the state government’s budget for this year, Siddaramaiah tweeted, “CM had cited expenditure on Covid-19 as the reason for reduced expenditure for development. Had the govt worried about the pandemic so much, why is there no control in the pandemic? What does he have to say about this?” The Congress leader also accused Yediyurappa of hiding the details of ₹5,372 crores, the amount spent by the state government in managing the pandemic.There is vaccine for Covid19 now but where should we get the vaccine for @BJP4Karnataka govt's corruption?I just hope the govt will learn lessons from the first wave & effectively manage the second wave to save lives & livelihoods of people.4/4#coronavirusFurther sharpening his attack on the BJP-led government, the former chief minister said a vaccine against Covid-19 is available but from where should one get a vaccine against the state government’s corruption. “I just hope the govt will learn lessons from the first wave & effectively manage the second wave to save lives & livelihoods of people,” Siddaramaiah added.Also Read| Karnataka pre-prepared to handle Covid surge, says health minister as cases riseKarnataka on Thursday added 1,488 fresh Covid-19 cases and eight more deaths, taking the caseload to 9.65 lakh, according to the state health department's bulletin. Thursday’s figures have been the highest in almost three months and it is the third consecutive day that more than 1,000 cases were recorded. As many as 12,415 have lost their lives due to the disease so far while recoveries have climbed to 9,41,309, the bulletin showed. Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi, Bidar and Mysuru continue to be the worst hit regions in the state.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday instructed Karnataka to pay attention towards three districts - Bengaluru, Kalaburagi and Bidar - which are seeing a spurt in the number of people getting infected. CM Yediyurappa, on the other hand, appealed to all residents to observe Covid-approprite behaviour and the health department announced it would conduct 1,00,000 Covid-19 tests daily to ‘prevent and mitigate’ a second wave of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/siddaramaiahs-jibe-at-cm-where-should-we-get-vaccine-against-govt-corruption-101616163987209.html
19-03-2021||Pune||24x7 water supply project: PMC plans to raise ₹200 crore from bank loan||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to seek bank loan than raising fund through municipal bond for its ambitious project of equitable 24x7 water supply project as the present interest rates are low. The civic body has spent more than ₹465 crore on the project that is progressing at a slow pace. The administration has already raised ₹200 crore through bonds in June 2017 for the ₹2,550-crore project, and plans to seek another ₹200 crore from the open market. Civic activists have raised objection on the PMC’s decision. PMC has included water charges for the 24x7 project in property tax bills since 2018. The amount is around ₹110 crore per year. Till date, the corporation has spent around ₹462 crore on the project. Recently, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar reviewed the project and instructed officials to speed up the work. Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have sought loan details from banks.” In 2017, PMC had raised ₹200 crore through municipal bonds at the interest rate of 7.59 % for 10 years. It also got one per cent concession from the central government for municipal bonds. Hence, PMC is paying around ₹15 crore per year as interest. Ulka Kalaskar, PMC chief account officer, said, “At present, municipal bonds are not viable for PMC as interest rates by financial institutes are below 7%. We have given seven days to financial institutes to submit their proposals to PMC. PMC has a good credit rating (AA+).” Civic activist Vivek Velankar said, “PMC has ₹860 crore of fixed deposits in various banks. There is no need to take high-interest loan. If PMC takes a loan on this fixed deposit, they will get ₹200 crore at the interest rate of 4%.” Nandkumar Jagatap, PMC superintendent engineer of water supply department who is handling the 24x7 project, said, “From 2017 till date, the corporation spent more than ₹465 crore on the project. It includes ₹200 crore of municipal bonds, ₹200 crore of water charges and ₹65 crore from installation of commercial meter charges (40,000 commercial meters installed so far). Progress of project Particulars Existing proposed Water supply zones 35 141 Service reservoirs 30 80 Distribution network 350 km 1,618 km Transmission network 95 km 139.23 km Automatic meter installation 67,000 3.37 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/24x7-water-supply-project-pmc-plans-to-raise-rs-200-crore-from-bank-loan-101616165184229.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Air 'very poor' for third day in Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad||The air quality remained in the "very poor" category in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad for the third day in a row, while it was in the "poor" zone in Gurgaon, according to data issued by a government agency on Friday.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Friday was 340 in Ghaziabad, 359 in Greater Noida, 302 in Noida, 350 in Faridabad and 272 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.On Thursday, it was 373 in Ghaziabad, 389 in Greater Noida, 336 in Noida, 340 in Faridabad and 307 in Gurgaon.On Wednesday, it was 364 in Ghaziabad, 369 in Greater Noida, 328 in Noida, 314 in Faridabad and 309 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that an AQI in the "very poor" category may lead to respiratory illness on prolonged exposure., while air in the "poor" zone may cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all monitoring stations there. Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Noida have four such stations while Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-very-poor-for-third-day-in-noida-ghaziabad-faridabad-101616164464345.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Ambani security threat case- Sachin Vaze, Mansukh Hiran met on day SUV was stolen: Official cites CCTV tape||CCTV footage shows that suspended police officer Sachin Vaze and deceased businessman Mansukh Hiran had met on February 17, the day a Scorpio in Hiran's possession was `stolen', an official of the Maharashtra ATS said on Friday.The same Scorpio was found with gelatin sticks inside near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house on February 25.The Anti-Terrorism Squad, which is probing Hiran's suspicious death, has recovered CCTV footage of a spot near Chhatrapti Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in south Mumbai which showed Vaze and Hiran sitting in a Mercedes, the official said.Incidentally, the NIA, which is probing the recovery of the explosives-laden SUV, seized the same Mercedes car, allegedly being used by Vaze, after arresting him.The CCTV footage showed that Hiran and Vaze were in the car for about 10 minutes.Hiran had claimed that on February 17 while he was heading for south Mumbai from his house in Thane, the steering of the Scorpio jammed, so he left it on Mulund-Airoli road and proceeded in a cab. Next day he found the SUV was missing, he said.The CCTV footage showed Vaze leaving in Mercedes from police commissioner's office. Hiran is seen walking towards the car when it is parked outside CSMT.Both sit inside and ten minutes later Hiran steps out and walks away while Vaze drives back to the commissioner's office.The ATS suspects that Hiran handed over the keys of Scorpio to Vaze during this meeting, sources said.On February 25, the Scorpio was found parked near Ambani's residence `Antilia' with gelatin sticks and a threat letter.Vaze was arrested by the NIA on March 13 for his alleged role in parking the SUV near Ambani's residence.The NIA had earlier this week seized a black Mercedes car from a parking lot near CSMT and seized ₹5 lakh in cash, note-counting machine and some `incriminating' documents.Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. His family alleged that Vaze had a role in his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-security-threat-case-sachin-vaze-mansukh-hiran-met-on-day-suv-was-stolen-official-cites-cctv-tape-101616163384672.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Services delayed on Metro's blue line section due to track maintenance work:DMRC||Services on a section of the Delhi Metro's Blue Line were affected on Friday morning due to train speed restriction imposed on that segment due to overnight track maintenance work.The DMRC took to Twitter to inform commuters about the delay: “Blue Line Update Delay in service between Rajouri Garden and Kirti Nagar. Normal service on all other lines”.A spokesperson of the Delhi Metro said, “Track maintenance work was carried out in that stretch last night, so trains are running at a restricted speed in that section, leading to bunching, and hence delay”.He said that there was “no technical sang” and passengers will be updated through social media.Blue Line connects Dwarka in Delhi to Electronic City in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/services-delayed-on-metro-s-blue-line-section-due-to-track-maintenance-workdmrc-101616162572097.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||HC asks Centre to respond to PIL challenging FASTag rule for vehicles||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Union government to file an affidavit in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the decision to make FASTag, the electronic toll collection chip, mandatory for all vehicles at toll plazas on national highways.A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni asked the government if there was any law that said all toll plazas at national highways across the country will only have FASTag lanes.The bench was hearing a PIL filed by one Arjun Khanapure, challenging the decision of making FASTag compulsory.The plea also challenged the government's rule of imposing fines on vehicles flouting the FASTag rules.The petitioner's counsel Uday Warunjikar told the High Court that not all citizens were comfortable with technology.The Union government had given a short notice for vehicles to get FASTag chips fitted, he said, adding that vehicles that did not have FASTag, but entered the designated lane, were required to pay double the toll amount on national highways.However, the Union government did not have any valid power to impose such a fine, Warunjikar said.The court then sought to know from the Centre whether in light of the above provision on fines, some lanes on highways would be reserved for vehicles without FASTag, or if there had been any amendments to the Central Motor Vehicles Act or other existing laws to make all lanes FASTag ones.The Union government's counsel Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the court that the FASTag system had been implemented to prevent traffic jams at toll plazas across the country.Special booths had been set up and marshalls had been deployed at most toll plazas to help citizens get FASTag chips installed for their vehicles, he said.The High Court said it will consider all contentions in the next hearing on April 7, and directed the government to file its affidavit within two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-asks-centre-to-respond-to-pil-challenging-fastag-rule-for-vehicles-101616159692077.html
19-03-2021||Other||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED officials booked over deposition of main accused against CM||In an unusual move, the Kerala police on Friday filed a case against officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for allegedly forcing Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the sensational gold smuggling case, to give a statement against chief minister Pinrayi Vijayan. With assembly elections just three weeks away, the latest move has opened another front on the ongoing centre-state battle but the opposition Congress said it was a move aimed at diverting attention from burning issues. The ruling CPI(M) said the move is to implicate the CM and create a big poll issue.Earlier, the crime branch sought legal opinion on this and got the nod to book ED officials. In the First Information Report (FIR), the crime branch said it has clinching evidence against ED officials and later a leaked voice clip of the accused also confirmed this.Earlier, some women police officials, who escorted Suresh, also gave a statement saying they were witness to officials forcing her to take the name of the CM. The FIR said ED officials had questioned Suresh on August 13-14 last year and allegedly forced her to give a statement to implicate the CM in the case. The case has been registered under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 192 (fabricating false evidence), 195-A (threatening any person to give false evidence) of the Indian Penal Code. But a senior ED official, who did not want to be named, said the latest move was aimed at intimidating officials and the agency will seek legal remedies to address it. Earlier, a video clip, purported to be of Swapna Suresh’s, was leaked out from the jail in which she alleged that she was under tremendous pressure to take the name of many ministers and the CM. She is presently lodged in the women jail in Thiruvananthapuram. Later, two women officers who escorted her also claimed that they were the witness to ED officials forcing her to name important personalities including the CM. The ED, however, denied these claims. The Congress and the BJP said the latest move was aimed at diverting attention and weaken the case. “The ruling CPI(M) is cornered from all sides in smuggling case and Sabarimala issue. The case was a diversionary tactic,” said state Congress chief Mullappally Ramachandran. “The nervous CM is intimidating officials of the central agencies. It will not work,” said state BJP chief K Surendran. But CPI(M) state acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the state won’t allow a free run of the central agencies to discredit the government amid poll. “We will tell people about the nefarious designs of central agencies,” he said. The gold smuggling case surfaced in July last year after 30 kilograms of gold was seized from a consignment camouflaged as a diplomatic bag in the UAE consulate in the state capital. Later, many, including CM’s principal secretary M Sivasankar and a senior IAS officer, were arrested for helping the accused. After three months in judicial custody, he was granted bail later. The three main accused, including Suresh, were detained under Cofeposa (conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities act). Last month, the customs department had filed a shocking affidavit in Kerala High Court quoting Swapna Suresh’s statement under Section 164 of the IPC wherein she alleged that the CM, three of his ministers and the Speaker were aware of smuggling activities through the consulate. Later, the AG had sent a show-cause notice to the customs commissioner to explain why contempt proceedings were not initiated against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-ed-officials-booked-over-deposition-of-main-accused-against-cm-101616160264039.html
19-03-2021||Pune||PMC to appoint agency to check illegal underground cables||Pune: Following public complaints about unauthorised laying of underground optical fibre, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to appoint an agency to probe and fine offenders. PMC had sanctioned a trenching policy in the city to streamline the process of laying underground pipelines or cables and avoid occurrence of faults, requiring excavation for carrying out repairs and bringing the excavated surface back to its original status. The move will also keep a check on unauthorised or illegal laying of cables or digging in the city. However, the civic administration has received complaints from residents of private telecom companies flouting the trenching policy. The step to fine offenders will also boost their revenue, a civic official said. Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The appointed agency will survey the areas mentioned in complaints. We have completed procedures of tenders. The agency will use direct and indirect methods to find out legal and illegal underground cables in the city. In the direct method, it will use modern technology to find underground cables and use telecom companies’ data and PMC permission. We will give an initial six-month period to the agency after receiving work from the agency. We will continue the period up to three years based on requisite condition and policy.” According to Khemnar, PMC will also provide monetary assistance to experts who will help in finding illegal underground cables. “As per the trenching policy, there is a provision of three-time penalty,” he said. Lalit Bode, executive engineer of road department, said, “As per the demand of telecom companies, we will scrutinise applications and charge ₹10,155 per running metre. At present, we check maps and drawings submitted by agencies and visit the site to crosscheck the permitted cables and actual laid cables. There is no third-party checking. Since last two years, the corporation has not given permission to any company. Right now, the PMC road department has given around 150 kilometre of permission to telecom companies to lay underground cables.” Bode said, “Residents calls and register complaints to the road department late at night. We send an engineer next day to check it. We will impose a fine on the company and if they refuse to pay, we will seize the cables.” Meanwhile, two years ago, PMC had received complaints from residents of illegal laying of cables in Kharadi, Shankarshet road, Baner, Balewadi and Aundh areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-appoint-agency-to-check-illegal-underground-cables-101616159663081.html
19-03-2021||Pune||Despite increase in Covid-19 cases, mortality rate remains low in Pune, says Mayor Murlidhar Mohol||Amid the concerns over spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the Pune administration on Friday informed that despite a surge in positivity rate, mortality rate remains low in the city.Speaking to ANI, Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, "Despite Covid-19 cases increasing with every passing day in Pune, the mortality rate remains low. The mortality rate in Pune is at 2.29 per cent which was above 2.6 per cent earlier. However, the positivity rate which had gone down below 10 per cent recently has again reached 23 per cent in Pune."The Pune city administration has increased the Covid-19 testing upto 12,000 a day to combat the virus."Around 90 per cent of Covid positive patients are in home isolation and the severity of the cases is low this time. The Pune city administration has increased the Covid-19 testing upto 12,000 a day," the Mayor said.Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh continue to report a surge in fresh Covid-19 cases and they account for 80.63 per cent of the daily new cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.As many as 39,726 new daily cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra continues to record the highest daily new cases at 25,833, 65 per cent of the daily cases, followed by Punjab with 2,369 while Kerala reported 1,899 new cases.In terms of response, the Centre is actively engaging with all state and Union Territories (UTs) governments, especially those showing an upsurge in daily new cases and with a high caseload of active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/despite-increase-in-covid-19-cases-mortality-rate-remains-low-in-pune-says-mayor-murlidhar-mohol-101616157031666.html
19-03-2021||Other||3 suppliers fined Rs10 lakh each for bid rigging in Pune ZP tenders||PUNE The Competition Commission of India (CCI) issued an order on Wednesday to penalise three suppliers for bid-rigging of tenders floated by Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) for procurement of sewing machines.A penalty of ₹10 lakh each was imposed on M/s Klassy Computers, M/s Nayan Agencies and M/s Jawahar Brothers as the commission believed this had an adverse impact on the exchequer.The commission found an agreement between the three suppliers to rig the bids and quoted bid prices close to each other with just a difference of a few rupees.The ZP has multiple women empowerment schemes under which such machinery is provided to ensure financial independence for women in rural areas.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, ZP said, “These tenders were floated in 2015-16 and were investigated following a complaint against the three suppliers. Based on this order now we would take further action which could even include blacklisting the suppliers.”“These tenders were issued for one of the women empowerment schemes. We will also investigate the respective officials and committees that recommended the purchase under the said conditions. The CCI has found nothing against the ZP,” he said.The CCI found that the three suppliers fixed prices close to each other which was concluded coupled with other factors like single IP address, coordination in other tenders, call data record, mobile location, among others. is conclusive of an agreement amongst the bidders to fix price, resulting in rigging the bids in the impugned tender of Pune Zilla Parishad.The order issued on March 17, states, “The Competition Commission of India has found an agreement between three suppliers, to rig the bids in respect of a tender floated by Pune Zilla Parishad for procurement of Picofall-cum-Sewing Machine, in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(1) read with Section 3(3)(d) of the Competition Act, 2002, which prohibits anti-competitive agreements.”The commission concluded that quoting of bid prices which were close to each other with a difference of just a few rupees by the bidders for the impugned tender was not a mere coincidence, but a result of consensus/ understanding amongst the bidders.The commission also opined that such conduct in public procurements, besides defeating the tendering process, has an adverse impact on the exchequer.Further, a penalty of ₹10,000 each was imposed upon each of the individuals of M/s Jawahar Brothers in terms of Section 48 of the Act. The other two bidders are sole proprietorship concerns and thus, no separate penalty is being imposed upon their respective proprietors. Besides, a cease and desist order was also issued against these suppliers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-suppliers-fined-rs10-lakh-each-for-bid-rigging-in-pune-zp-tenders-101616157802770.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Centre stops Delhi govt's doorstep delivery of ration scheme||The Central Government on Friday stopped the doorstep delivery of ration scheme MMGGRY (Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana) of Delhi Government, scheduled to be launched on March 25.According to a notification issued by the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, the subsidised foodgrains being allocated by the department for distribution under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) cannot be used for running any state-specific or other scheme under a different name other than NFSA. The same is not permissible under the Act.The said notification has been issued to the Food and Civil Supplies department of the Delhi Government."The use of new nomenclature or scheme name for distribution of NFSA foodgrains by the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi is not permissible," the notification said.The notification further said, "The department will have no objection if a separate scheme is made by the UT government without mixing the elements of the NFSA foodgrains."Under the MMGGRY scheme, the Delhi government was planning to provide packaged wheat flour, packaged rice and packaged sugar under the Targeted Public Distribution System.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-stops-delhi-govt-s-doorstep-delivery-of-ration-scheme-101616155625852.html
19-03-2021||Other||Many heritage structures not on fire audit compliance list of PCB||Pune: Over 100 heritage structures under the Pune Cantonment area does not figure on the fire audit list of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), according to the board officials. The conservation of these historic structures gained public attention after the British-era Shivaji market, a grade I heritage structure, in Camp was partly gutted in fire on March 16. Albert Edward Library on East Street opposite Kayani Bakery that opened in 1975, 100-year-old Victory theatre that was once used as a playhouse for the British, and 160-year-old Hindustan Covenant Church which was burnt to ashes in November 2011 are some of the historic landmarks under PCB. However, the PCB fire department admits of not having a complete list of heritage structures as most of it are owned by private individuals. Prakash Hasabe, PCB fire department chief, said, “While Victory theatre has complied with fire audit directions issued by us, we do not have list of many heritage structures as they are privately owned. We have covered only Shivaji market and post fire audit necessary recommendations were made. Human life is important and fire audit guidelines are essential for keeping the area secure for cantonment residents.” Numerous heritage structures built during the colonial raj comprise residential buildings which dot the cantonment landscape since the British era. Conservationists and heritage lovers have expressed their dissatisfaction over the negligence of PCB in including them in the heritage list of protected monuments of the cantonment board. Except Victory theatre, none of the heritage structures figure on the list of fire audit or a formal heritage monument-cum-building list of the cantonment board. “INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) has named hundreds of structures under its heritage protection list and voluntarily submitted it to the cantonment board seeking protection and conservation of the cantonment monuments. There are many threats to these structures and fire is one of them. These monuments face threats like neglect and biological growth. In 1900, Saint Paul’s church was burnt, and later Hindustani Church also was reduced to ashes. These monuments have been neglected by successive board administrations,” said Kiran Kalamdani, former INTACH member and city-based architect and conservationist who carried out a detailed survey of all the heritage monuments in PCB area in 2011-2012. The cantonment board had earlier undertaken efforts to get only eight structures listed as national heritage monuments — National War Memorial, Race Course, Armed Forces Medical College, St Patrick’s Church, St Mary’s Church, Chhatrapati Shivaji market, Babajan dargah and Maratha War Memorial —under the central act. Social activist Netraprakash Bhog said, “Heritage structures under Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) like Vishrambaugwada and Shaniwarwada were saved by the citizens and preserved for future generation unlike what is happening in PCB. Similarly, all public and private heritage structures too must be taken care of and their fire audit must be conducted. PCB must restore Shivaji market to former glory and ready a list of heritage structures for public information. Currently, scant attention is paid on heritage buildings in Pune Cantonment area should be looked into immediately on a priority basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/many-heritage-structures-not-on-fire-audit-compliance-list-of-pcb-101616154864077.html
19-03-2021||Other||Official beats student for spitting on wall in Bihar’s Purnia||A block development officer allegedly assaulted a 22-year-old student with a stick, forced him to wash a wall for spitting in Bihar’s Purnea district, and later posted a video of the assault on social media.“I admitted to my mistake and continued to beg for forgiveness... [He] called me to his chamber and beat me badly with a bamboo stick,” the student said. He said he was standing in a long queue for a certificate when he spat.He alleged the officer got the assault filmed. “Soon after it was posted on social media, my friends and relatives started calling me... I feel greatly humiliated.”Also Read | Man stripped, beaten in Sangrur; seven bookedSatyendra Singh, the officer, said he caught the student spitting after chewing tobacco. “I asked him to wash it to send a message of cleanliness especially when the coronavirus cases are increasing.” Singh denied having beaten him or filming the assault. “Someone in the crowd may have made the video and posted it on social media.”The student has filed a complaint against Singh before the district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/official-beats-student-for-spitting-on-wall-in-bihar-s-purnia-101616154623153.html
19-03-2021||Other||Idols from temples across Uttarakhand to be given ritual bath in Mahakumbh||Apart from Shahi Snaan (royal bath) of Akhadas seers, a holy dip of idols of deities and religious signs of Char Dham and other shrines situated in Uttarakhand will be among the many major attractions of Mahakumbh 2021. Along with idols from shrines in Uttarakhand’s Garhwal-Kumaon division, some from neighbouring Himachal Pradesh will also be part of the holy dip in river Ganga. On April 25, deities’ palanquins and religious signs of shrines will be brought to Haridwar for the sacred Ganga dip. The state government will be providing a budget for the event with more than five hundred such palanquins expected to arrive from the state as well as Himachal Pradesh, Mumbai and Ujjain. In this regard, hoisting of the flag of Badrinath shrine and Lord Hanuman was done amidst the performance of religious rituals at Prem Nagar ashram on Thursday under the aegis of Shri Dev Bhumi Lok Sanskritik Virasat Shobhayatra Samiti. Tourism and religious affairs cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj assured of bringing through cabinet inclusion and financial budget for the bath of the deities which will be a regular feature of the Mahakumbh calendar. “Idols from these shrines will give more spiritual-religious aura to the ancient Mahakumbh. One can seek the blessings of Char Dham – Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, Yamunotri - Dhari Devi, Jwalpa Devi, Naina Devi, Binsar Mahadev and numerous other shrines from both Kumaon and Garhwal. We want to develop deities’ palanquin baths on the lines of Kullu Dussehra in Himachal Pradesh. It will showcase and preserve our religious-spiritual-faith and local deities’ heritage. People will know about their significance which will boost religious tourism in the state,” said cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj. Convener of the event, Mohan Singh Rawat ‘Gaonwasi’, pointed that way back in 2010 Mahakumbh, he had initiated having deities in the event which was successfully carried during the 2010 Ardh Kumbh. He said that the event has now got support from the state government. Rawat added that the idols on palanquins will arrive at Triveni Ghat Rishikesh and Siddhbali temple Kotdwar on April 24 and will be taken to the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri for Ganga dip on April 25 morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/idols-from-temples-across-uttarakhand-to-be-given-ritual-bath-in-mahakumbh-101616154563116.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Govt has taken number of steps to bring down pollution in Delhi: Javadekar||The government has taken a number of steps to address the issue of air pollution in Delhi, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Friday, and took a jibe at the AAP dispensation for taking credit for the work done by the Centre.Responding to a question on pollution in the national capital during the Question Hour in Lok Sabha, Javadekar said air pollution in Delhi is the "most serious problem", and noted that the air quality along the Indo-Gangetic belt is poor."The Centre has taken a number of steps to address the problem of Delhi's air pollution," he said.To address the issue of pollution in 100 cities, a National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) was also launched and a plan has been made for every city, Javadekar said.Listing out the measures, he said the Badarpur power plant has been shut down. and the Centre has also constructed the Eastern and Western Express Peripheral Ways which were pending for the last 10 years. Nearly 50,000 trucks which would pass through Delhi and add to the pollution do not come to the national capital now, he said.By investing ₹60,000 crore, less polluting fuel BS6 technology vehicles have been introduced, besides having electric two, three and four wheelers which are bringing down the pollution levels, he said."Which is why the pollution level in Delhi is less than earlier years, states a new report," Javadekar said.A recent report by Swiss organisation, IQAir, in the form of the 'World Air Quality Report, 2020' states that 22 of the world's 30 most polluted cities are in India, with Delhi being ranked the most polluted capital city globally.The report, however, shows that Delhi's air quality improved by approximately 15 per cent from 2019 to 2020.Without naming Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Javadekar said, "There are some people in Delhi, who have no contribution towards it, (bringing down pollution levels) are running for credit and giving advertisements in newspapers that pollution has come down by 15 per cent."He said the Centre got Piped Natural Gas (PNG) for 3,000 industries in Delhi. It also transformed 3,000 brick kilns using zig-zag technology to bring down pollution levels, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-has-taken-number-of-steps-to-bring-down-pollution-in-delhi-javadekar-101616154167920.html
19-03-2021||Other||Ajmer police submit charge sheet in minor’s rape case within 36 hours||Police in Rajasthan’s Ajmer district have said they completed the investigation into the sexual assault of a 6-year-old girl within 36 hours and filed a charge sheet before the special court.“Within 36 hours after the arrest of the accused, we completed our investigation and submitted the charge sheet... I requested the court to complete the trial as soon as possible,” said police superintendent Jagdish Sharma.The complaint against the accused was filed on March 15. The police videographed the scene of the assault besides having the girl record her statement before a magistrate. “After recording the statements of witnesses, documents related to the case were prepared and a charge sheet was presented on March 17,” a second police officer said, requesting anonymity.Also Read | 65-year-old man held for raping 4-year-old girl in Bihar’s Vaishali district“The complainant had spoken about an attempted rape, but after the statement of the girl, the police came to the conclusion that she had been raped.”The fast-tracking of the probe comes after another special court in Jhunjhunu completed the trial in a rape case involving a five-year-old in 16 days and handed the death penalty to the 20-year-old accused on Wednesday. Judge Sukesh Kumar Jain lauded the police for a speedy investigation.“The investigation done by the police is an example of an ideal investigation in which every evidence, including scientific, electronic, and physical, was corroborated very well. Senior officials of the police department should use this investigation as a case study,” Jain said in his judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ajmer-police-submit-charge-sheet-in-minor-s-rape-case-within-36-hours-101616153782817.html
19-03-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath releases 'development booklet' on completion of 4 years of govt||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday released a 'development booklet' comprising the government's achievements on the completion of four years."In the last four years, UP has emerged as the growth engine of the country. We aim to make the state India's biggest economy in terms of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP)," the Chief Minister said at the launch of the book."Earlier, the state's health infrastructure was considered the weakest, but today our Covid-19 management has been appreciated, with the World Health Organisation (WHO) also acknowledging our efforts," he added.The CM further said that when it comes to religious tourism, UP is at the top spot, adding that his government has initiated various projects from Prayagraj Kumbh to the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.He also said that the launch of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project has given a new identity to the state."In 2017, when we formed government, there were many villages without roads, schools, or any development works. In some tribal villages, people didn't even have voting rights. We ensured that they were not deprived of any of the basic amenities and rights," the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-releases-development-booklet-on-completion-of-4-years-of-govt-101616150831834.html
19-03-2021||Pune||Pune’s ‘pet parents’ dishing out big bucks for exclusive photo shoots of their animals||Pet photo shoots”, are currently a trend that is seeing much traction in Pune. “Pet parents” in the city are paying as much as ₹2000- ₹5000 to get professional photographers to snap their pets in exclusive photoshoots.The prices vary and it depends on the type of photos the pet parents want.“The concept of pet photography is in high demand in Pune. Especially during the lockdown, people have realised the importance of spending time with pets and now they are eager to capture their pets for posterity. The trend has surged since August 2020,” said photographer Prasad Ladde, who has so far done photoshoots of a rottweiler in New Sangvi and a Golden Retriever in Parihar chowk, Aundh. He charged ₹5000 each. “Prasad had lot of patience to handle my dog (rottweiler). I was excited for the shoot, but a little tense as to how he would do his work, but the end product was very good,” says Nilesh Mue of New Sangvi, Pune .“Pet photo shoots are happening like shoots for a new-born child. Pet parents want to capture a picture when the dog is one-month old and then, when s/he turns a year old,” added Ladde.Photo shoots are generally done in a garden, open ground or on a terrace. The biggest challenge photographers face is to capture the raw emotions of the dog or cat.“We can decide the theme of the photoshoot, but things will only progress according to the flow of pets on the given day. Balloons, balls, ribbons or sometimes, even cakes, are used to add effects during the photographs,” said Prathima Pingali, a Mumbai- based photographer and owner of Pawparazzi Pet Photography, who keeps coming to Pune for dog shoots.Pingali charges between ₹9,000 and ₹24,000 for one shoot.Before finalising the shoot, photographers have a detailed discussion with the pet parents on the behaviour of their pets as a safety measure.“While shooting a dog one cannot be sure about the next action, so one needs to have a lot of patience and allow the dog to settle in, before clicking a picture. Sometimes a shoot can go on for four hours, or sometimes if the dog is not in the mood, then the shoot has to be postponed,” explains lensman Sashwat Nair.“The shoots have increased these days as many people are gifting pets on special occasions, like birthdays and anniversaries. So special shoots are conducted on such occasions,” added Nair.“Sheru (labrador) is like our family member and I wanted to have an album for my dog. I knew Sashwat via a common friend so I went ahead with the photo shoot,” says pet parent Mohini Verma.Rithima Khurrana, a Koregaon park resident, said, “When we bought our German Shepherd in January, our kids wanted to have a photo shoot with him. The photos came out really well and now we will have another photo shoot when our Bruno turns six- months old.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-pet-parents-dishing-out-big-bucks-for-exclusive-photo-shoots-of-their-animals-101616152104518.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hospitals asked to step up Covid vaccination in Punjab||Taking note of the low vaccination numbers in the state, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday asked all private and government hospitals and health facilities to offer hassle-free vaccination services for at least eight hours daily, seven days a week, till March 31. There should be no requirement of a separate certificate if an eligible 45+ years person brings the medical record regarding co-morbidities, he said. Also read: Punjab closes schools, colleges till March 31 amid Covid spikeThe directions came during the Covid review meeting chaired by the chief minister, who pointed out with concern that of the 1,291 registered private facilities, 891 have reportedly not administered a single dose. He asked the district administration to act strictly against such hospitals, stressing that private hospitals need to join the government battle against Covid. Be prepared for a long battle: Capt The chief minister said the Covid incidence in Punjab has remained relatively low over the last one year, and the state has consistently remained at the 18th position among states in terms of the number of Covid cases. Though the death rate has been a matter of concern, but at 206 deaths per million population, Punjab compares well against Delhi at 542 and Maharashtra at 431, he said. After bringing the problem under control by the end of last year, the state is again seeing a surge for the last one month. From a low of around 200 cases daily and deaths in single digits, Punjab has gone to around 2,000 cases a day, and the deaths are also increasing, he said. “We have to be prepared for this second surge,” he said, pointing out that the 1918 Spanish flu had four spikes. “We have to be prepared for a long battle,” he warned.The Chief Minister assured, however, that his government was fully prepared to deal with the second wave. Punjab Congress puts rallies on hold till March 31 Punjab Congress will not hold any political gatherings for the next two weeks in view of the spike in Covid cases in the state, Captain Amarinder Singh said, appealing to other political parties and their leaders to keep their gatherings within the prescribed 50% of capacity, subject to maximum of 100 in closed and 200 in open spaces. “No political gatherings should take place in the most affected districts,” he said. Underlining the need for strict enforcement, the chief minister ordered compulsory enforcement of wearing of face masks in the state. He directed the police and health authorities to take all those moving around in public areas, and on the roads, without face masks, to the nearest RT-PCR testing facility for taking nasopharyngeal swabs to ensure that they are not asymptomatic Covid cases. He asked the Amritsar deputy commissioner to talk to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbhandak Committee (SGPC) and the management of Durgiana temple to encourage devotees to wear masks inside the shrines.Rural areas equally hit this time The rise in cases was a matter of concern, particularly in the rural areas which had seen fewer cases last year, said the chief minister, directing departments to launch awareness campaigns in villages. Earlier, state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said unlike previously, when there were more cases in the urban areas, Covid cases are now almost equally divided between the urban and rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hospitals-asked-to-step-up-covid-vaccination-in-punjab-101616152102729.html
19-03-2021||Kolkata||Saradha scam: TMC's Madan Mitra, Vivek Gupta depose before ED officials||TMC assembly poll candidates Madan Mitra and Vivek Gupta on Friday deposed before Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials here in connection with the probe into Saradha chit fund scam.Mitra, who has been fielded by the party from Kamarhati assembly constituency, was, in the past, arrested by the CBI for his alleged involvement in the case, and later granted bail."I was asked by the ED to appear before its officials today. I will continue to cooperate with the investigation," the former state minister said.Gupta, who is contesting the elections from Jorasanko seat, admitted that he knew Sudipto Sen, the owner of the blacklisted firm, and said he visited the ED office to submit income tax details.The agency, probing the money-laundering aspect of the multi-crore Saradha scam, has also sent notices to former IPS officers Surajit Kar Purkayashtha and Rajat Majumdar. Sources in the ED said both of them have been asked to depose before the agency officials next week.Majumdar, the former DGP of West Bengal, was earlier apprehended by the CBI in the chit fund case. The Calcutta High Court later granted him bail.Purkayastha, currently the state security adviser in West Bengal, had apparently attended several meetings organised by the now-defunct company.The Saradha group is said to have defrauded thousands of investors by means of fraudulent schemes floated by it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/saradha-scam-tmc-s-madan-mitra-vivek-gupta-depose-before-ed-officials-101616149490719.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab puts off procurement to April 10 amid Covid surge||In view of the Covid spike in the state, the Punjab government will kickstart procurement operations from April 10 this year. The decision to delay the procurement was taken at a Covid review meeting, chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.Also read: Covid-19: More districts to see night curfew in Punjab; schools, colleges closedFood, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu told the meeting that the department needed more time to make arrangements to ensure safe procurement amid the surge in Covid cases. He urged the chief minister to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for extension in the PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-puts-off-procurement-to-april-10-amid-covid-surge-101616149642821.html
19-03-2021||Bangalore||Tiger found dead in Karnataka’s Kodagu district||A tiger was found dead in Karnataka’s Kodagu district on Friday, state forest department officials said. The big cat is suspected to have killed at least three people and nearly 30 animals over the last eight months in the coffee-growing region, they added.“We have some images and it [the dead Tiger]; it appears to be the same. We are rechecking this,” said Karnataka’s principal chief forest conservator (wildlife) Sanjai Mohan. He added the cause of death and whether it is the same “human-eater” is being ascertained through a series of tests and investigations.Over 150 forest department personnel and other agencies were looking for the tiger for at least two weeks. The inability to capture the tiger led to protests in the district. Resident blocked roads and highways demanding its capture.Also Read | Lion injures man who entered its enclosure in Kolkata zooA ruling Bharatiya Janata Party legislator from the district, Apachu Ranjan, also sought permission to gun down the animal. The forest department denied him permission, saying there was no such provision and assured him that it was looking for the tiger.Officials said wild animals often venture into human settlements in search of food amid increasing territorial fights, depletion of resources in the forests, erosion of buffer zones, and the lack of corridors.At least 434 cases of tigers attacking cattle and humans have been reported in the state since 2020. This marked a 37% increase in such cases. At least nine humans have been killed in these attacks, according to forest department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/tiger-found-dead-in-karnataka-s-kodagu-district-101616149582120.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Antigen test compulsory to enter crowded public places in Mumbai||In light of the spurt in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to conduct rapid antigen tests at all crowded public places such as malls, markets, shopping complexes, bus stations, and railway stations. A person will be allowed entry into such premises only if (s)he tests negative for Covid-19.However, if a person is carrying a negative result of an RT-PCR test conducted no earlier than 72 hours, they do not need to take the antigen test to enter the public premises.This decision was taken following a meeting between the government task force and municipal commissioners across the state on Thursday evening. Among the conclusions of the meeting was the decision to ramp up testing in Mumbai to quickly identify Covid-19 patients and isolate them.Also Read | Covid-19: Maharashtra announces fresh curbs, theatres to operate at 50% capacityWith 2,877 cases in a single day, Mumbai on Thursday reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the pandemic outbreak on March 11 last year. Until this Thursday, the highest number of cases reported in Mumbai in a single day was on October 7-- 2,848 cases. Experts and doctors have categorised this as the yet another peak in Mumbai’s Covid-19 graph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-antigen-test-compulsory-to-enter-crowded-public-places-in-mumbai-101616149462116.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Women footballers’ time to shine: Renewed vigour, high hopes||There is no dearth of sporting talent in Delhi — all it needs is the right training and platform. And a testimony to this is the Women’s League, which will allow female footballers from Delhi clubs, as well as across India, to showcase their potential and prowess. After a year of almost no matches amid the pandemic, players are looking forward to the event with renewed vigour. ‘Empower and inspire women towards Football’“Players have been out of action for almost a year. If everything is open, why not resume football,” says Football Delhi president Shaji Prabhakaran adding how it is important to resume football activities following all Covid-19 protocols and safety measures. “We have been working towards inclusivity in the sport and the Women’s League will allow great women players from the state to have opportunities to showcase their skills and play on state and national levels. Competitions like these help in breaking traditional mindsets that believe girls can’t play football, and empower and inspire them,” adds Prabhakaran. ‘Culture of Football in Delhi has grown’Players in different city-based clubs have geared up to compete in the Women’s League, with practices being organised on different grounds across the Capital. Age is no bar - teams have players as young as 15! “I started playing while I was in school, around 10 years ago; there used to be a handful of women players and 6 clubs. But 21 clubs is a testament to the growing culture of football in Delhi, both on club as well as school and college levels,” says Dhwani Kitchlue, a member of Hans Womens Football Club, one of the oldest women’s clubs in Delhi. ‘Lack of funds, pandemic has affected practice’Vikrant Singh Baswara, coach to Growing Star Football club’s women’s team says while the organisation of the league is a welcome step, the pandemic has left players without practice. “Many clubs, who could earlier use school grounds, could not practice regularly during the pandemic. Additionally there is a lack of funds in football, especially women’s football, which also deters many prospective players from joining clubs if they charge high training fees,” he says. Players from other states in the league: The bench is dividedEach team at Women’s League is allowed to field a maximum of 25 players, in which players from other states can be transferred to play for a Delhi club. Nagendra Singh, coach of Hans Womens FC says this aspect of the league isn’t fair. “The league is being organised to promote football in Delhi, so bringing players from other states negates the purpose. This is a league for amateurs, not professional players,” he says. But David Jones, who owns Royal Rangers Football Club, slightly disagrees and opines, “Players from other states who play with a club regularly can participate. But many clubs are virtually adopting other players, only for the league. This isn’t fair to domicile players, who may lose out on the opportunity to participate in the league.” Hope for government support, better rewardsPrabhakaran says for football to really grow in the city, and the country at large, we need additional government support. “We have no sponsors but have kept the cash prize of ₹50,000 for the winners of the league, ₹25,000 for runner ups, and ₹10,000 each for third and fourth positions. But we need great incentives to make the sport a financially sustainable livelihood for players. Only then will we be able to compete on an international level,” he adds.Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/women-footballers-time-to-shine-renewed-vigour-high-hopes-101616148278381.html
19-03-2021||Jaipur||Possible that children watch porn after online classes, says Rajasthan DGP||Rajasthan director general of police (DGP) ML Lather on Friday said that a youth who raped a five-year-old girl in Jhunjhunu last month used to watch porn, adding that it was possible that after online classes, "children indulge in such things".“It is true that incidents of crime against women are on the rise. But, as far as law enforcement is concerned, the police are taking swift action, whoever is the culprit will be arrested timely,” the officer was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He was responding to media queries on the issue of women’s safety in the state.When questioned on whether there’s a need to change the mindset, the DGP said, “Like in the recent Jhunjhunu case, it has come to light that he used to watch porn and consume drugs. As we all know, due to Covid-19 lockdown, students have been forced to take online classes. Therefore, parents have had to purchase smartphones for their children. It is possible that after their classes, children indulge in such activities. Parents should be careful about what their children are doing on smartphones besides attending online classes.”Incidents of crime against women are rising.Police is taking action...In Jhunjhunu case,it emerged that accused use to see porn&consume drugs.Due to online classes due to COVID,children now use smartphones,it may be that after classes they indulge in such things: Rajasthan DGP pic.twitter.com/z5elxm28NrIn Jhunjhunu, on February 19, a minor girl was allegedly abducted by a 20-year-old youth who then took her at an isolated place and sexually assaulted here. The trial was fast-tracked, and on March 16, a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court convicted him in just 26 days. A a day later, it sentenced him to death. The court had also lauded the police for a "speedy investigation".In recent days, several incidents of crime against women have been reported from various parts of Rajasthan. In state capital Jaipur, a woman on oxygen support was raped by a hospital staffer. In Baran, a woman was allegedly gang-raped in front of her husband, while a police official was terminated by the Rajasthan government for allegedly demanding sexual favours from a rape survivor in exchange for action in cases lodged by her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/possible-that-children-watch-porn-after-online-classes-says-rajasthan-dgp-101616147002101.html
19-03-2021||Kolkata||ED questions TMC leaders in connection with chit-fund scam ahead of Bengal polls||At least two Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders, who have been fielded as candidates for the upcoming assembly election, were questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the multi-crore Sarada chit-fund scam on Friday. While Madan Mitra, the state’s former transport minister, will be contesting from the Kamarhati assembly constituency in North 24 Parganas, Vivek Gupta, a former TMC MP has been fielded from the Jorasanko assembly constituency in Kolkata. The central agency has also summoned another former TMC MP and two former IPS officers in connection with the same case on March 24 and March 25. One of them was given a plush post by chief minister Mamata Banerjee after his retirement. Earlier this week, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh was summoned by the central agency. Also Read | Amit Shah, Nadda hold meetings as protests break out in BJP over candidate listBoth Mitra and Ghosh were arrested earlier and later released on bail.“I received a letter from the ED and that’s why I came. Earlier too I have cooperated with them. I will cooperate whenever they call me,” Mitra told reporters outside the ED office. Meanwhile, the ED also attached an asset of TMC youth leader Vinay Mishra and his arrested brother Vikas Mishra in a money-laundering case linked to alleged cattle smuggling across the India-Bangladesh border in West Bengal.While the TMC has alleged that the central agency has suddenly become hyperactive before the assembly election on the BJP’s directions , the latter has rubbished the allegations. “What were the central agencies doing all these days? Why have they suddenly become so active just before the polls? Soon after the elections are over this hyperactivity will die down again. This is a vindictive attitude and is very unfortunate. They are acting on the directions of the BJP,” said Tapas Roy, TMC spokesperson. “This has nothing to do with politics. We have said earlier too that the central agencies are not controlled by the BJP. We don’t need to do such things. This is false propaganda, and the people of Bengal are fed up with such versions,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJPs state spokesperson. The Saradha group allegedly cheated around 1.7 -1.8 million depositors , mostly poor and lower middle class people, promising them abnormally high returns on investments in its illegal schemes. The scam began to unravel in the first quarter of 2013 and finally blew up in April 2013 when the chairman of the group that ran the ponzi scheme, Sudipta Sen, and the company’s executive director Debjani Mukherjee, were arrested. The Saradha scam generated great controversy since several leaders of ruling Trinamool Congress were allegedly involved with the scam. The West Bengal assembly elections are scheduled to begin from March 27. The BJP has set a target to win more than 200 seats out of the 294 assembly seats. The TMC has said that the BJP won’t even get 100 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/ed-questions-tmc-leaders-in-connection-with-chit-fund-scam-ahead-of-bengal-polls-101616147301780.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab closes schools, colleges till March 31 amid Covid spike||Clamping down on the Covid-19 surge, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered state-wide restrictions beginning from Saturday, with the closure of educational institutions till March 31 and restrictions on cinema/mall capacities. All educational institutions, other than medical and nursing colleges, will remain closed till March 31, with restriction of 50% capacity in cinema halls and not more than 100 people in a mall at any time. He appealed to the people to keep social activity in their houses to the bare minimum for the next fortnight to break the transmission chain. Not more than 10 visitors should be entertained in homes, he urged. Also read: Covid-19: Maharashtra announces fresh curbs, theatres to operate at 50% capacityMalls to be closed on Sunday in 11 districts In the 11 worst-hit districts, a complete ban has been ordered on all social gatherings and related functions, except for funerals and weddings, which will be allowed with only 20 people in attendance. This will be enforced from Sunday. In the districts under night curfew from 9pm to 5am, the chief minister has ordered cinemas, multiplexes, restaurants and malls to remain closed on Sunday, though home deliveries will be allowed subject to night curfew. Industries and essential services shall be allowed to function. One-hour silence every Saturday from 11am to noon Starting next week, one hour of silence will be observed across the state every Saturday from 11am to 12 noon in memory of those who lost their lives to Covid, with no vehicle plying at this time. In the 11 worst-hit districts of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ropar and Moga, the chief minister ordered restrictions on in-person public dealings in government offices, with citizens to be encouraged to visit offices only for essential services. The situation will be reviewed after two weeks, Capt Amarinder Singh said, chairing a meeting of the Covid Task Force. Testing to be ramped up to 35,000 a day Directing health officials to ramp up testing a day to 35,000, the chief minister said focus should be on super spreaders, government employees and teachers. RAT testing should be stepped up along with RTPCR testing, he said, while directing contact tracing and testing to be taken up to 30 per positive person.The chief minister directed the department of medical education and research to immediately complete recruitment of specialists/super-specialists. Hospitals have been advised to restore the Covid beds and postpone elective surgeries. Reopening educational institutions led to surge: Dr Talwar Dr KK Talwar, who heads the state government’s expert team on Covid, said the surge in cases appeared to be the result of opening of schools and colleges, with young asymptomatic people appearing to be spreading the virus. There was no evidence as of now to show that the spike was due to the mutants, as only two cases of new strains had been found in Punjab so far. At present, the state has 40% cases from the under 30 population, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-closes-schools-colleges-till-march-31-amid-covid-spike-101616146281808.html
19-03-2021||Kolkata||Lion injures man who entered its enclosure in Kolkata zoo||A lion attacked a man when he managed to sneak into the big cat’s enclosure in the Kolkata zoo on Friday morning.The man had to be rushed to the trauma care centre of the state-run SSKM Hospital. According to a zoo official, the incident took place between 10.30am and 11.00am. A man wearing a saffron outfit jumped into the lion enclosure after crossing at least two fences.Also Read | Amit Shah, Nadda hold meetings as protests break out in BJP over candidate list“A man who seemed mentally unstable managed to enter a lion’s enclosure. He suffered some injuries and had to be hospitalised. We have ordered a probe,” said VK Yadav, chief wildlife warden of the state. The man, Gautam Guchait, told the media while on the hospital bed: “I came to save the lion. It is a wild animal and hence should not be kept in a cage. I climbed the wall and went inside, but the lion attacked me.”Similar incidents have taken place before. In 1996, two men entered the enclosure of the tiger Shiva. While one had been killed instantly, the other had been badly mauled. In 2000, a drunk man managed to enter a tiger’s enclosure. He was killed when the tiger Bob attacked him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/lion-injures-man-who-entered-its-enclosure-in-kolkata-zoo-101616142141183.html
19-03-2021||Bhopal||MP farmers organise marriage at Rewa mandi to send message to Centre||Two farmers solemnized the marriage of their son and daughter at a grain mandi in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district, over 500 km east of Bhopal, to send a symbolic message to the Central government. The Rewa Mandi has been the venue of a sit-in protest against the three Central farm laws for the past 75 days and the marriage was meant to convey that farmers were prepared for a marathon campaign till the repeal of the controversial laws, claimed farmer leaders.Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Ramjeet Singh married off son Sachin to Asma Singh, daughter of farmer Vishnukant Singh of Cirrhata village of the district, on Thursday.The couple exchanged garlands and took pheras (a Hindu marriage ritual) around the idols of BR Ambedkar and Savitribai Phule. Later, they took an oath to protect the Constitution of India.“We want to give a message to the Central government that the farmers are staging a protest in every district and town of India. We will continue our protest till the withdrawal of all three new farm laws,” said Ramjeet Singh.Now, farmers have decided to organise and celebrate all family and social functions including marriages and festivals at the protest site only, he added.Farmers in several states have been protesting since November last year against the three new laws passed by the Parliament, alleging the laws would destroy the Mandi system and dilute the minimum support price (MSP) offered by the government for their produce, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by the corporates. The government has refuted these allegations and said that the laws were necessary for increasing farmer incomes, unlocking the potential of the farm sector, including infrastructure development through private participation. Several rounds of talks between the government and the farmer representatives have failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-farmers-organise-marriage-at-rewa-mandi-to-send-message-to-centre-101616141660917.html
19-03-2021||Other||65-year-old man held for raping 4-year-old girl in Bihar’s Vaishali district||A 65-year-old man allegedly sexually assaulted a four-year-old girl in Bihar’s Vaishali district on Thursday evening, police said. The accused lured the girl with chocolate before assaulting her at his home.“The child’s parents...lodged a police complaint, based on which the accused was arrested on Thursday night,” said Subodh Kumar Singh, a local police officer. He added the further investigation was underway.The girl’s medical examination confirmed injuries to her private parts. The accused has been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 376 (rape) and 376 (AB) (raping minor under 12), and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.The neighbours of the accused said he had earlier also sexually assaulted a minor, but no complaint was registered then because of social stigma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/65yearold-man-held-for-raping-4-year-old-girl-in-bihar-s-vaishali-district-101616141480959.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Power restored at Mantralaya building in Mumbai after brief outage||A power outage was reported in Mantralaya, the administrative headquarters of the Maharashtra government in Mumbai, just before noon on Friday, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) said, noting that its engineers restored the power supply in just seven minutes.“The power supply to Mantralaya, Foreshore Road and Maharshi Karve Road was affected at 11:55 am due to a fault in the feeder. BEST's engineers and technicians restored the power supply in just seven minutes,” said Manoj Varade, PRO, BEST.Built in 1955, and located in south Mumbai, Mantralaya is a seven-storeyed building which houses offices of most of the departments of the government of Maharashtra. The office of the chief minister, currently Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray, is on the sixth floor of the building.Friday’s incident comes just months after Mumbai witnessed a major power outage, in October last year. A grid failure resulted in massive power outages in the city and its suburban areas on October 12, 2020; while electricity supply for essential services was restored after two hours, that for other places was restored in a phase-wise manner.However, late last month, a US-based cybersecurity firm said that its research had shown that the outage was due to the targeted activities of a China-backed hackers’ group. Incidentally, the development had taken place at a time India and China were engaged in a military standoff in the mountainous region of Ladakh.Also Read | ‘Mumbai power outage due to human error, no proof of China’s role’: Union power minister RK SinghThe central government denied that there was any cyber attack, with Union power minister RK Singh saying that ‘there is no evidence’ over possible involvement of either China or Pakistan. The Maharashtra government, on the other hand, said that a preliminary report of the cyber cell of the state police indicated that there was, indeed, ‘a cyber sabotage by some foreign countries.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/power-goes-out-in-maharashtra-govt-headquarters-restored-in-7-minutes-101616137501291.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew extended by 2 hours in Ludhiana as Covid-19 cases surge, to begin from 9pm until further orders||The night curfew timing in Punjab’s Ludhiana has been extended following a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases reported in the district, news agency ANI reported. “Positivity rate has spiked by 5 to 6 per cent with 240 to 250 daily cases. Deaths per week have increased from 7 to 25-30 while hospitalization has spiked by 10 per cent,” ANI quoted the district’s deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma as saying.“We have imposed night curfew between 9pm to 5am till indefinite period. We will do a review later but now it is for an indefinite period. Night curfews are intended to discourage unnecessary gatherings at night,” Sharma added. The remarks from the deputy commissioner came as Punjab reported over 2,300 new cases and 32 related deaths on Thursday.Also read | ‘Every vaccine doesn't require universal immunisation': Harsh Vardhan in LSEarlier on Thursday, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced an extension of night curfew by two more hours in nine districts, including Ludhiana, which have reported over 100 daily new cases. The existing night curfew in these districts began at 11pm and would be in effect till 5am. However, until further orders, the new restrictions would begin at 9pm with no change in the closing time, according to news reports from PTI.Meanwhile, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday said that an upward trajectory in the number of daily new Covid-19 cases has been observed in eight states across the country. The states are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana.Also, five districts in Punjab namely, Jalandhar, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Hoshiarpur, have the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases. Of these, except in SAS Nagar, the night curfew has been extended in the remaining four districts. The state of Punjab accounts for 5.3 per cent of the total active cases in India as of date, the ministry noted.Also read | Covid-19: These states in India are least affected by 'second wave'According to the state government data on Thursday, Jalandhar reported 467 new Covid-19 cases, followed by Ludhiana with 237 cases, Amritsar with 230 cases, Hoshiarpur with 216 cases and SAS Nagar with 214 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-curfew-extended-by-2-hours-in-ludhiana-as-covid-19-cases-surge-to-begin-from-9pm-until-further-orders-101616140222081.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Cellphones—the most treasured item inside India’s largest prison complex||Authorities have expedited efforts to ensure an end to cellphone use at Tihar prison, the country’s largest, days after a Telegram message claiming responsibility for the parking of an explosives-laden vehicle outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in Mumbai on February 25 was traced to a phone inside the jail. The phone was among the two later recovered from jailed terror convict Tehseen Akhtar’s possession. The phones were found after Tihar authorities conducted searches inside the prison to trace the origin of the message. Investigators have ruled out a “terror angle” in the Mumbai case and arrested police officer Sachin Vaze in connection with the bomb scare. An inquiry is separately underway to probe how Akhtar, who was involved in multiple blasts, managed to have cellphones smuggled into the high-security prison. The prison authorities have held at least two meetings over the last week to fully block cellphone signals in the prison complex spread over 400-acre in western Delhi. The prison houses all types of prisoners—gangsters, murderers, rapists, politicians, and terrorists. Many of them have been influential, even rich too, and infamous. But inside the prison, they are all under one roof and locked up behind the same high walls. The number of murders, their dreaded past, or the wealth the prisoners once had does not matter. What matters here is if they have the prison’s most treasured item—a cellphone. HT spoke to former, current prisoners, serving and retired jail officers to understand how cellphones are smuggled and used inside the prison.A status symbolSunil Gupta, a former law officer who worked at Tihar for over three decades, said the cellphone is a status symbol inside the prison. “Outside Tihar, a cellphone is the most common item. Everyone has it; whether rich or poor. But in the prison, it is the most sought-after item. The prison has a phone facility, which is free for everyone. But many inmates, who refuse to reform, do not use it. They need cellphones to run their operations.” Gupta said many criminals use cellphones to issue threats and run their businesses. “They cannot do this through the prison’s phone facility.”Also Read | Engineering aspirant to IED developer: Tihar inmate at centre of Ambani caseThe Delhi Police have over the last two weeks busted at least two gangs trying to extort money by claiming to be making calls from the prison. “They were making calls using jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana’s name. It is human psychology to be afraid after hearing that the threat call has been made from prison. In these two cases, none of the persons, who made the calls, were from the prison. They were only posing as jailed gangsters,” said a crime branch officer, who did not wish to be named. The officer added the calls they have intercepted show at least three gangs continue their extortion activities from behind the bars.Former Delhi Police inspector Anil Kumar, who was lodged for over 15 years in Tihar after his conviction in a shoot-out at Delhi’s Connaught Place in 1997, said only a few people secretly use cellphones. “These hardcore prisoners identify spaces in prison; do not let anyone near them and then use the phones. It is a wrong notion that everyone is using phones behind bars. The authorities are strict about this. This is the reason why so many inmates are caught at the gates trying to take the phones inside,” said Kumar, who was released last year.It was not always like thisUnlike the calls made from the prison’s phones, cellphone calls cannot be intercepted unless the police or intelligence agencies are monitoring them. Delhi Police records show that in recent months, there have been at least three cases of jailed gangsters making threatening calls.Gupta said before the phone facility was introduced in Tihar, they would give postcards to the prisoners to write to their families. “But some of them misused this facility. Through these postcards, threats were sent... Some also used human couriers to warn their rivals. During the weekly meetings with their relatives, the gangsters would send messages or letters. That was enough to create fear in the minds of the victim that the message had come from inside Tihar. Postcards have replaced cellphones now.”Also Read | Tihar has no jammers that can block 4G signalsJail records seen by HT show that in 2019, the prison authorities seized at least 60 phones. In 2018, at least 54 phones were confiscated. The actual number of phones smuggled and successfully hidden could be more.Heater before cellphonesGupta said until two decades ago, a room heater was the most prized item inside the prison. “Any prisoner who had it was seen as someone whose status was above other prisoners. They would use it not only to keep themselves warm but also prepare food after buying raw items from the jail’s canteen,” said Gupta. He added prisoners would smuggle heaters in clothes, etc. “Some rich prisoners would bribe jail guards and get a heater. Or their accomplices outside prison would throw them inside the jail from the main road outside the prison wall. The method of smuggling is the same. It is just that a cellphone has replaced the heater.”Many prisoners had only heard about cellphones for years but had never seen one.Former Youth Congress leader Sushil Sharma, who spent over 23 years behind bars including the first 20 without parole in a 1995 murder case, said he first saw a cellphone when he was taken for a court hearing. “Cellphones came to the prison very late. We would read about it in the papers or see actors use it on television. Many years after it became common outside, I remember seeing a lawyer using it for the first time more than 20 years ago.” He said he would read articles about the use of cellphones inside the jail, but only a few used it. “And they did it secretly. The jail officers have enough informers even among the prisoners. If they involve too many people, the informers will tip off the guards. The prisoners, who continue using cellphones, are those who do not want to be reformed. It is because of them that the image of the jail gets tarnished.”One phone, multiple usersAn under-trial, who is currently out on bail in a 2012 murder case, said that once a cellphone enters prison, it is used by several people. He added even junior jail guards would smuggle the phones. “Unless a prisoner hides phone parts in body cavities or someone successfully throws one from outside the prison gate at an identified spot, a cellphone cannot enter the prison complex without the connivance of the prison guards.” He said guards would charge anywhere between ₹10,000-20,000 for smuggling a phone. “Maybe it is even more. Often, they may not even know who the real user of the phone is. The worst that can happen if a guard is caught is a temporary suspension.” He added in most cases, they manage to get cleared. “With the prison already facing a shortage of guards, it is not practical for the top bosses to sack every employee caught for such violations.”The under-trial said a bottle cap, or a spoon, are improvised in Tihar to make a weapon. “For more than 50-60 years, this prison has beaten all kinds of technology. You may bring any technology. It is only a matter of time before the inmates find a solution.”Also Read | Delhi orders inquiry into Ambani case’s Tihar linkWith 18,000 prisoners, Tihar is the most crowded prison in the country. It has high-risk inmates such as underworld don Chhota Rajan, gangster Neeraj Bawana, gangster-turned-politician Mohammed Shahbuddin, terrorist Yasin Bhatkal, and Akhtar. There are fewer than 1,500 jail officers to manage so many prisoners.A prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said until a few years ago, many inmates would barter cigarettes or tobacco in return for making calls from smuggled phones. “Until 5-6 years ago, some prisoners would charge money to let others use the phone... a prisoner [once] charged an inmate about ₹100 to make a call to his girlfriend. Now with calls rates really cheap and all phones offering free calls, a phone is shared by many prisoners. Often, they use a common phone but have their own SIM cards. SIM cards are easy to smuggle because of their small size.”Finding ways to stop the callsThe recovery of phones from Akhtar’s possession has prompted prison authorities to look for a permanent solution to the problem. The cellphone jammer at the prison is unable to stop 4G signals. The authorities are working on getting the latest jammers or some other latest technology.Prison officers, who did not wish to be named, said every cell inside the prison was raided over the last week.Sandeep Goel, the prison’s director-general, said they will adopt the dominant tower technology to block the signals. “With permission from the telecom department, we have installed one cellphone tower at Mandoli jail complex. It worked effectively there. This tower blocks all signals from that particular area. We will install similar towers in Tihar, too, which will cut off all signals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tihar-authorities-seek-to-end-use-of-cellphones-a-status-symbol-for-prisoners-101616140524274.html
19-03-2021||Patna||Bihar litchi farmers fear losses due to weather-hit crop this year||The irregular weather conditions since mid January may impact the litchi crop’s quality and quantity in Bihar, fear farmers and agriculture scientists. Muzaffarpur and neighbouring districts account for more than 62% of India’s litchi production, down from 70% registered till a couple of years back. 45,000 litchi farmers are estimated to be in Muzaffarpur district alone, according to officials.“Litchi is grown on 46% of cultivable land in Muzaffarpur district, which on an average produces 1.5 lakh tonne of the fruit. But the temperature has played a spoilsport, resulting in a drop in the produce this year. The farmers of the north Bihar region fear a reduced crop,” said Bhola Nath Jha, one of the largest producers and exporters of the tropical fruit from the state.Vishal Nath, director of National Research Centre on Litchi (NRCL) in Muzaffarpur, said for thousands of farmers, litchis were the primary source of livelihood. “Muzafffarpur’s shahi (royal) litchi is famous for its big size, unique flavour, aroma and taste. It is not available anywhere else. But because of the unpredictable weather conditions, its quality can turn out to be poor some times as is feared this year.”Dr SD Pandey, a senior scientist at NRCL said litchi was affected by weather variations more than any other summer fruit. “Litchi is a sub-tropical fruit and requires a specific climate, unlike the off-season rains and unexpected temperature fluctuations seen in the current litchi season. Diurnal temperature variations (difference between day and night temperatures) too, play an important role in regulating the overall fruit growth, including total soluble solid content of the fruit, its acidity and sugar-to-acid ratio,” he said.Pandey claimed that the usual growth of the fruit seen during this period did not take place this time. “Fruit growth was slow because litchi grows under a specific micro-climatic condition. The temperature was very low during the flowering of the fruit and it was not good for its natural growth,” said the expert.The feared loss in litchi crop’s quality and quantity will result in a second consecutive year of heavy losses to farmers, whose fortunes were hit by the outbreak of coronavirus last year, said Bachcha Prasad Singh, a progressive farmer and the president of National Litchi Growers’ Association.Ashok Choudhary, a manager of a large litchi orchard in Jhaphan, said that the bad signs were beginning to show. “Traders were not lining up to buy the orchards. Earlier, we used to sell our orchard by the end of February. The reason is none other than an estimated loss in crop due to unfavourable weather conditions. We have sold litchi orchard spread over three bighas of land for ₹80,000 this year. What can we do? There is a problem in the market,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-litchi-farmers-fear-losses-due-to-weather-hit-crop-this-year-101616139740769.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Congress list of candidates for Dharamshala MC by Sunday: Sukhu||The Congress will declare its list of candidates for the April 7 Dharamshala Municipal Corporation (MC) election by Sunday. Announcing this, Nadaun Congress legislator Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, who is also the party’s in-charge for the elections to the Dharamshala MC, said: “In some wards, more than three aspirants have applied for the Congress ticket. We have sent panels for each of the 17 wards to the party high command for final selection. The list will be out by Sunday.” Nominations for the elections are to be filed from March 22 to 24 and scrutiny of the papers will be done on March 25. Candidates can withdraw nominations on March 27. Vision document being preparedSukhu said the party has also formed a committee to prepare a vision document for the Dharamshala MC. The six-member panel, headed by former legislator Yadvinder Goma, has local leaders Jitender Sharma, Ashok Pathania, RP Chopra, Rakesh Rana and Saroj Guleria as members. Sukhu, a former Himachal Congress chief, met party leaders from the area on Thursday night to draw up the poll strategy. Former Dharamshala MLA Sudhir Sharma, Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan, former MP Chander Kumar, former state party president Kuldeep Kumar, state Congress spokesperson Kuldeep Pathania and outgoing Dharamshala mayor Devinder Jaggi attended the meeting. BJP starts campaign, holds gatheringsSukhu expressed confidence that the party will repeat its 2015 performance when the Congress had won 14 of the 17 wards, while the BJP could manage only three seats. This time, the saffron party hopes to wrest control of the Dharamshala MC and has taken a lead in the campaign by holding ward-wise meetings. The BJP is, however, yet to finalise its candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-list-of-candidates-for-dharamshala-mc-by-sunday-sukhu-101616139260398.html
19-03-2021||Other||Slam Dunk: An alternative philosophy to basketball talent development||In the last column, we observed the development of youth basketball players through what is currently a popular model of talent development in the USA. This philosophy involves putting youth basketball players in high-pressure situations from an early age, as young as seven, all the way through their teenage years. The athletes that can survive the rigors of the “pressure cooker” competitive environments over approximately a decade-and-a-half eventually make it into professional competitive basketball leagues. While this approach has certainly led to all-time great talent being produced (one could point to several NBA All-Stars that developed this way), there can also be an alternative approach to talent development in youth basketball. In this development model, youth athletes are consistently focused on the big picture goals of maximising their talent and learning a wide variety of basketball skills. Through hours of gameplay and creative constraints-based “instruction”, youth athletes develop a range of technical basketball skills needed to succeed in game environments which are complex and present rapidly changing scenarios to players. With the focus of this model being development of all basketball skills, athlete’s creativity and competitiveness is challenged through their problem-solving ability and how they respond to scenarios in which they “fail”. This model may create more creative players who might make a few more “mistakes”, however, the combination of technical skill and decision-making ability of players who develop in this way sees them often utilise their creativity in ways beneficial to their team’s success. This talent-development model certainly requires an increased focus on longer-term goals, which may lead to a lack of positive outcomes in the short-term. There are numerous present-day examples of NBA All-Stars who developed in this way, such as the Denver Nuggets Nikola Jokic, Dallas Mavericks Luka Doncic, and the future NBA Hall-Of-Fame player Manu Ginobili from the San Antonio Spurs. In the world of competitive sports, wins are prioritised at the highest level because of the direct financial benefit it brings to big sports clubs. At younger levels, if the focus is to truly develop athletes, then the argument could be made that the primary priority should be the development of all technical abilities of an athlete for their sport. There is an interesting parallel to draw between European powerhouse Barcelona FC and their football stars from the La Masia Academy, or the renowned Dutch football club Ajax FC in the Netherlands. In both these environments, at a younger age there is a focus on players skills and decision-making abilities and less focus on the outcome of matches. Considering the psychological benefits of such an approach is also an integral part of youth basketball improvement. As a younger athlete, the mental capacity and ability to handle praise, criticism and a spotlight are not fully developed. Therefore, focusing on positive outcomes in skill development at younger ages could have an increased benefit psychologically for an athlete when considering long-term improvement. The improvement in skill may lead to a greater desire to practice the sport in order to be competitive at it, which is a key ingredient in playing at the highest level in the most competitive basketball leagues, such as the NBA. As is often the case, melding the two approaches is likely to enable youth basketball talent to get the best of both worlds – developing decision-making and creative technical skill followed by consistently seeking out the best competitive environments will lead to maximum improvement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/slam-dunk-an-alternative-philosophy-to-basketball-talent-development-101616138239601.html
19-03-2021||Lucknow||'Reform, perform, transform': UP CM Adityanath on completion of 4 years in power||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath addressed a gathering to mark the completion of four years of his government on Friday. The mantra of 'reform, perform, transform' adopted by the government took the state out of its 'laggard' condition to make its economy the second biggest in the country, he said.Accusing the previous regimes of not taking initiative to improve the state's condition, he said, "This is the same UP where earlier, no festival could be celebrated peacefully. On the contrary, there have been no riots in the state in the last four years."  The government brought about extensive police reforms, he claimed, adding that it introduced a zero tolerance policy against crime and brought it down by 44 to 60 per cent in various categories."We see positive results in all sectors, be it agriculture or MSMEs. The per capita income has doubled. Rural connectivity and interstate connectivity has improved," he added.Further, the CM said the government focused on improving the education standard in the state. "Our government brought about extensive changes in education. The state was known for students copying in exams and we put an end to it and even improved infrastructure.""For students who were preparing for competitive exams and needed coaching, we brought in the Mukhya Mantri Abhidaya Yojna. As many as 18 lakh students are already connected with it," he said, claiming that 18 Atal residential schools and 30 new medical colleges were also opened in these years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/reform-perform-transform-up-cm-adityanath-on-completion-of-4-years-in-power-101616136865200.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Man injured while saving 2 children from fire in Delhi’s Vasant Kunj||A 35-year-old man sustained burn injuries while trying to save two children after a fire broke out in Rangpuri JJ Cluster in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj early Friday. Senior officers said the two children also sustained minor burns, but all three of them are now stable. Police said the blaze started around 2.30am at Bengali Basti, apparently from a heap of garbage that probably caught fire from a cigarette or due to friction. The fire soon got spread to the nearby area and at least 14 jhuggis (huts) were gutted. Soon the residents of the jhuggi cluster spotted the fire and raised an alarm.Also Read | Delhi AQI remains very poor due to dust from dry regionsThe police received a call reporting the fire at 2.45am. They immediately alerted the Delhi Fire Service and nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot to contain the blaze. Following at least three hours of firefighting, the fire was doused; however, cooling operations went on for a little longer.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said they learnt that one man has been injured while trying to save two children who were trapped in one of the jhuggis during the fire. “The man was identified as Mukesh Singh, 35. The two children aged 4 and 2 years also sustained minor burns and all three were taken to a hospital for treatment. All of them are fine now,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-injured-while-saving-2-children-from-fire-in-delhi-s-vasant-kunj-101616135900611.html
19-03-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot announces ₹5 lakh health insurance under Chiranjeevi Yojna from May 1||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has named the newly announced universal health coverage scheme CM Chiranjeevi Yojna and said it will cover annual medical insurance of up to ₹5 lakh for every family in the state beginning May 1. He also proposed a reform to allow lateral entry of subject experts in government departments such as mines, health and education. The announcements came during the CM’s reply to the debate on state budget in Rajasthan assembly on Thursday.Lateral entry in government parlance translates into direct and often temporary appointment to ad hoc positions, which are not filled through routine channels.The CM said that registrations for the ₹3,500 crore universal health coverage scheme, first announced during the state budget in February this year, will begin from May 1. He also announced to increase the annual area development fund for MLAs from ₹2.25 crore to ₹5 crore. Replying on the debate on Finance Bill 2021 and Appropriation Bill-2021, Gehlot also expressed concern over the “reduction” in funds given to the state by the Centre.He also urged the opposition to support the state government in taking up the issue of Eastern Rajasthan Canal Project (ERCP) and stalled railway route projects with the Centre. The ERCP proposes to provide drinking water to 13 districts of Rajasthan along with water for irrigation for 2.8 lakh hectares of land through 26 different large and medium projects. Gehlot has been demanding that the Centre grants its national project status in line with PM Narendra Modi’s “promises”.“I am ready to fight for ERCP just like the refinery project in Barmer. We have given 25 MPs in the Parliament. We all should work together,” Gehlot said.To opposition attacks over his government’s record on job creation, he claimed that the government provided more than 1.70 lakh new jobs during its two and a half years long tenure.“We have given 97,000 jobs till now. Examination results have been released for recruitment to 17,000 jobs. Advertisements have been issued for recruiting another 37,000 employees while the process of issuing advertisements for 23,000 new recruits was underway. In this way, our government has provided more than 1.70 lakh jobs in the last 2.5 years,” Gehlot said.The assembly passed the Appropriation Bill, 2021 and the Finance Bill, 2021 by a voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gehlot-announces-rs-5-lakh-health-insurance-under-chiranjeevi-yojna-from-may-1-101616134579830.html
19-03-2021||Jaipur||New Covid-19 cases tripled within a week in Rajasthan, Ashok Gehlot takes stock||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot instructed all health and administrative officials to use their experience and available resources including enforcement of restrictions, intensified testing and crowd control to contain the second wave of Covid-19, during a video-conference to review the situation on Thursday at the chief minister’s residence in Jaipur.“It is very worrying to see a three-time rise in the positivity rate of coronavirus infection within a week. On the basis of our shared experience of fighting Corona during the last one year, we have to save the people from the danger of the second wave. For this, discussions will be held with various political parties, social organisations, activists and religious leaders, etc. We have successfully fought the war against Corona so far by taking all sides together and coordinating with each other,” Gehlot said. CM said it was noted in the chief ministers’ meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday that the rate of infection was on the rise across the country and the situation was worrisome in many states. Gehlot asked officials to review the functioning of oxygen plants, testing labs, quarantine areas, and management of containment zones to deal with the rising cases. Gehlot also called for strict action against those responsible for crowding in markets and other public places and a comprehensive awareness campaign to promote Covid-appropriate behaviour. Medical and health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said more than 300 new Coronavirus positive cases were reported on each of the last two days in the state and the total number of active cases had gone past the three-thousand mark. “It is a matter of satisfaction that most of the active cases are in home isolation. The health department has planned to increase sampling, isolate suspected patients and immediate treatment to control the infection. Necessary instructions have been given to the district-level health officials for this,” said Mahajan. Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma said, “We will have to take all possible measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. At present, positive cases have increased in only a few districts and the resurgence can be controlled in this initial phase. Officers of the department have to control Corona through precautions while efficiently coordinating with other departments.” Principal of SMS Medical College, Dr Sudhir Bhandari said the infection can only be contained through early detection and treatment. “Based on the past years’ experience of coronavirus control, it is important that we make full use of investigative facilities to identify and isolate suspected patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/new-covid-19-cases-tripled-within-a-week-in-rajasthan-ashok-gehlot-takes-stock-101616129959476.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||PMLA cases totally independent of base offences: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court has held that investigations by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) are totally independent of and can continue irrespective of the outcome of the scheduled base offences.A single-judge bench of Justice AS Gadkari on Tuesday said for probing a money laundering case, registration of a scheduled offence mentioned in the schedule to the PMLA is necessary. But he added once an enforcement case information report (ECIR) is registered under the PMLA, it stands on its own and thereafter does not require the support of the scheduled offence.The court said the ED’s probe thereafter does not depend even on the ultimate result of the scheduled offence. “Even if the scheduled offence is compromised, compounded, quashed or the accused therein is/are acquitted, ED’s investigation is not affected.”Also Read | ED books Agra builders’ firm for duping investorsThe court was hearing a plea of Babulal Verma and Kamal Kishore Gupta, promoters of a realty firm in Mumbai, against whom ED has started investigation under PMLA. ED’s probe was based on a case of cheating and a criminal breach of trust registered against them in Aurangabad in March 2020.ED in December registered an ECIR and started an investigation. Verma and Gupta thereafter cleared all dues of the complainant and accordingly, the case against them was closed in February.The two later sought their release on bail citing the closure of the scheduled offence. They moved the high court after a special PMLA court in Mumbai rejected their plea on February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmla-cases-totally-independent-of-base-offences-bombay-hc-101616128699482.html
19-03-2021||Patna||Non-bailable warrant against Sharad Yadav for violation of model code of conduct||A Bihar court has issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) of arrest against former Janata Dal (United) national president and Union minister Sharad Yadav in a case of alleged violation of the model code of conduct. Yadav is accused of provoking religious sentiments while campaigning for assembly elections in 2015. The NBW was issued due to Yadav’s non-appearance in the court despite repeated summons.Additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM-1) court in Biharsharif, Prabhakar Jha ordered the issue of a NBW on March 18 against the veteran leader, who in a poll meeting on October 9, 2015 said that those who would not vote for JD (U) candidate would land in the “Jehanum” (hell).A case was lodged against Yadav at the Bihar police station in Nalanda district on the basis of the statement of then circle officer Sunil Kumar Verma. The former Union minister surrendered in the court on May 21, 2019 and got regular bail in the case. The case was pending for framing of charges against Yadav.Additional public prosecutor Suruchi Kumari said the court on January 25, 2021 imposed a fine of ₹1000 on Yadav for non-appearance before the court despite several reminders. According to Suruchi, the court cancelled his bail bond and issued an NBW.Yadav formed Loktantrik Janata Dal after he was expelled from the JD (U) for alleged anti-party activities in August 2017. He contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Madhepura as a Grand Alliance candidate and lost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nonbailable-warrant-against-sharad-yadav-for-violation-of-model-code-of-conduct-101616125579140.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal asks for relaxation in Covid vaccine criteria: What prompted request||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday appealed to the Centre to relax the eligibility criteria for Covid-19 vaccinations. Here is all you need to know about his comments and what prompted them:• Kejriwal said his government can inoculate all adult residents of Delhi within three months to tackle steadily rising infections that have triggered concerns of a fresh wave.• He emphasised that vaccination is the most effective way to control the spread of Covid-19.• Kejriwal said that his government will increase daily inoculation capacity from 30,000-40,000 to 125,000 by doubling the number of centres from the existing 500 and extending their timing by four hours.• Health care and frontline workers, along with people over 60 and those aged at least 45 with specified comorbidities, are currently eligible to get vaccinated. • “The Centre should make vaccines open for all those who are 18 years of age and above. India is producing enough Covid-19 vaccines now to get this done. Walk-in centres should be opened for all. I urge the central government to take this up on a war footing. If this is allowed, we can vaccinate everyone in Delhi (18 years and above) in three months,” Kejriwal said.Also Read | 9am-9pm: Window for jabs to be expanded at Delhi govt hospitals• Kejriwal said they will write to the Centre about allowing states to relax the eligibility criteria.• Infections continued to rise in Delhi on Thursday, with the city reporting 607 new cases, the highest daily infections since January 6. • Even though the positivity rate remains low, experts believe the latest spike is a matter of concern and could spark the fourth wave of infections in the Capital if strict measures are not ensured. • The seven-day average of cases, which denotes the case trajectory, currently stands at 456, the highest in over two months, or since January 12. • This number has now been rising for the past 24 days in the city, which has led to experts saying that it may be the start of the fourth wave of infections in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-asks-for-relaxation-in-covid-vaccine-criteria-what-prompted-request-101616124199926.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Tikri, Singhu remain closed; Ghazipur open||Tikri and Singhu borders, connecting Delhi and Haryana, remained completely closed on Friday as farmers continue their agitation against the three farm laws. The traffic at Ghazipur border, however, remained open on one carriageway, for those heading Ghaziabad from Delhi, as the farmers continue blocking the other road of the elevated highway. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu against the three farm laws since November 2020.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi attacks govt for not paying tributes to farmers died during protestThe Delhi Traffic Police in its advisory asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The Delhi-Noida Chilla border is also open for commute on both carriageway.The entry and exit points between the national Capital and Haryana -- passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh -- continued to remain closed on Friday.The traffic police also advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad.The police have also diverted traffic from Mukarba and Grand Trunk Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-tikri-singhu-remain-closed-ghazipur-open-101616123178805.html
19-03-2021||Patna||Senior Patna AIIMS faculty facing termination charge, quits||A senior faculty member of Patna AIIMS, facing termination charges, resigned from service and could be charge-sheeted by the institute for allegedly not possessing the basic qualification at the time of her appointment, following an inquiry, which will help take a final call on her possible termination along with two other senior doctors facing similar charges.Sushmita Das, an associate professor in the department of microbiology in the institute, resigned on March 4 citing personal reasons, days after the governing body, the apex authority on appointment and termination of services of doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, ratified a proposal on February 18 to terminate services of three senior faculty members for lacking basic qualification on the date of their appointment in 2021-13. Das was one of them. However, the institute was yet to finalise the minutes of the February meeting. Show-cause notices with an internal charge-sheet may be issued to the three after the proceedings of the governing body meeting were finalised. An inquiry will be conducted before the institute finally takes a call on their termination of services, said Dr PK Singh, director of AIIMS-Patna. “We are working on it. We expect it to be ready next week,” Dr Singh said referring to the minutes of the governing body meeting. In her letter to Dr Singh, Das said she wanted to discontinue her job to relocate to Kolkata with her family after the superannuation of her husband from government service on August 31, last year. She also requested that her resignation was accepted with only one month’s notice period, effective from March 4. As per AIIMS rules, faculty members were supposed to give three months’ notice period before quitting. While her resignation had been accepted, it was still not clear if her request for serving only one-month notice period will be granted. “Das has tendered her resignation. I’ve sent the file to the dean office. Let it be processed and we will take a call on it soon,” said Dr Singh. The faculty members in question were issued show-cause notices three years back as well on the insistence of the health ministry, but they became in fructuous after the ministry constituted a four-member high-power committee, comprising the directors of AIIMS Bhubaneswar and Patna, the deputy director and the registrar of AIIMS-Delhi to inquire into the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/senior-patna-aiims-faculty-facing-termination-charge-quits-101616122758926.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI remains very poor due to dust from dry regions||Delhi’s air quality remained in the very poor category on Friday morning due to dust transported from dry regions. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 309. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 315.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 is poor, 301 and 400 is very poor, and 401 and 500 is severe.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said that the air quality in the Capital had deteriorated and PM10 was the primary pollutant.Also Read | Ministry issues guidelines to keep pollution from making Covid-19 infections worse“The overall Delhi air quality is in the lower end of the very poor category. PM10 is the lead pollutant as long range transport of dust from the dry arid southwest regions continues to contribute to it. Surface winds are moderate and west southwesterly. However, AQI is likely to marginally improve and stay in the lower end of the very poor to poor category for tomorrow [Friday] due to slow down of gusty transport. Poor AQI is forecast for March 20 and 21,” Safar said in its daily bulletin on Thursday.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature is likely to be at 17 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to be at 35°C.The minimum temperature on Thursday was 16.4°C and the maximum temperature was 35.3°C -- five notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-remains-very-poor-due-to-dust-from-dry-regions-101616122518855.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||9am-9pm: Window for jabs to be expanded at govt hospitals||Keeping vaccination centres open for 12 hours and increasing the number of inoculation sites across the city are two of several measures that the Delhi government said it is taking to increase the number of daily vaccinations from nearly 40,000 now to 125,000.Speaking at a press conference on Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged the Centre to relax the eligibility criteria for Covid-19 vaccine jabs, adding that the state government could inoculate all adult residents of Delhi within three months if it were done.“The number of centres will also be doubled from 500 right now. At present, Covid-19 vaccination centres operate daily from 9am to 5pm, but their timings will be extended to 9am to 9pm daily,” Kejriwal also said at the press conference.Towards that end, the Delhi government on Thursday also ordered all its hospitals to extend the timings of their centres from Monday. “It is hereby ordered that with effect from 22.03.2021, all Delhi government hospitals will operate vaccination sites functioning on their premises up to at least 9pm. All facilities will ensure deployment of adequate manpower at these sites to ensure proper functioning of vaccination sites. Non-compliance shall be viewed seriously,” read the order from special secretary (health) SM Ali.In addition, all Delhi government-run hospitals have also been asked to increase the number of vaccination sites on their premises to at least six. Even the Lok Nayak Hospital currently has five vaccination sites while the Rajiv Gandhi superspeciality hospital has four.One of the vaccination centres at the 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital, which was the biggest Covid-19 treatment facility in Delhi, already runs round the clock. But, this is meant only for frontline workers who can get shot once after their shifts end.“Currently, we get around 30 to 40 people each day after hours at the centre. Now, everyone in the priority group will be allowed to come between 9am and 9pm to get the shots. From Friday, the hospital will start assessing the space needed for the additional centre and the staff strength to keep it open till 9pm,” said a senior administrative official from the hospital.Increasing CentresDelhi will start immunisations at all its dispensaries next week. “Inspection of dispensaries is complete and in the next couple of days, all of them will start the vaccine drive — people will have centres closer to their homes,” said a senior district official.There are around 260 dispensaries run by the Delhi government in the city and they currently operate from 9am to 5pm. “We have to check staff availability and other logistical issues before extending the timings of dispensaries,” the official said.There are, at present, 550 vaccinations sites — in 208 hospitals and 40 dispensaries — in Delhi, according to the CoWIN portal. Of them, 325 are in government facilities and 225 in private ones.The government is now looking to bring on board several private sector hospitals as well.“One round of inspection has been conducted at several small hospitals and they are likely to be added to the centres’ list next week. We have also got requests from private hospitals to keep centres open on Sundays. That is likely to happen soon,” said another senior district official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/9am9pm-window-for-jabs-to-be-expanded-at-govt-hospitals-101616111784008.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Cops rescue 12-year-old who was kidnapped, forced into sex work||A 12-year-old girl who was kidnapped from south-west Delhi in January, burnt with cigarette butts, forced into prostitution, and raped by several men, was rescued by the Delhi Police on Tuesday.Police also arrested two men, Sanjay Rajput and Anshu Sharma, and two women, Sapna Goyal and Kanika Roy, who allegedly kidnapped and forced the girl into prostitution.Police said there could be a wider prostitution racket run by the four persons.The police are now probing the racketeers to know if they had kidnapped other children and forced them into the sex trade. The identities of the men, who allegedly raped the minor girl, are also being ascertained as it appears that some of the men knew that the girl was a minor.According to the police, the child lived with her mother in south-west Delhi. Her mother reported her missing on January 21 after which a kidnapping case was registered at Kapashera police station.The police probe has now revealed that the girl was kidnapped when she went out to buy chips from a local shop. The four kidnappers — two of them from her own neighbourhood — took her to a nearby house on the pretext of offering her a piece of a birthday cake. The cake, however, was spiked and the girl fell unconscious after eating it, said Urvija Goel, deputy commissioner of police (west).Thereafter, to force the girl into prostitution, they tortured her and offered her drugs, the details of which are yet to be ascertained, the DCP said.Once the girl was not in a position to resist, she was pushed into prostitution and raped by men in Delhi and Bihar. “There are text messages to reveal that some men looking for young women were offered the child and informed that she was a minor,” said the unnamed investigator quoted above.The prostitution gang dealt with their customers through WhatsApp. “There were over 150 WhatsApp groups of this racket and had a thousand customers from across India,” Goel said.Police said a team from Rajouri Garden police station in west Delhi was trying to trace some missing children when this girl’s name cropped up. Sometime last month, the police team got in touch with the girl’s mother and realised that the girl was kidnapped by traffickers.“About a month after her disappearance, the kidnappers allowed the girl to make a phone call to her mother. Her mother wasn’t told about her location,” said a second investigator.Eventually, the police used the communication between the mother and the kidnappers to pursue an online trail left by the suspects. The police traced the girl to Majnu ka Tilla in North Delhi on Tuesday from where she was rescued.Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson, said local police as well as the crime branch, have been pursuing prostitution rackets, particularly those suspected of trafficking women and minor girls. “We also take every missing complaint related to children very seriously. Even this child was traced due to our constant efforts to trace all missing children,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-rescue-12-year-old-who-was-kidnapped-forced-into-sex-work-101616111133706.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Nehru Park jogging tracks against green norms: Forest department||Three months after the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) was issued a notice by the city’s forest department to stop work on a synthetic jogging track being installed at Nehru Park, the civic agency is continuing work, violating the Forest Conservation Act (1980).Deputy conservator forests (south division) Amit Anand, who slapped the NDMC with the notice on December 17 for constructions in Nehru Park, which is a deemed forest, said continuing work despite instructions was a violation of the FC Act.“This is surely a violation of the FC Act and they (NDMC) are overlooking the directions of the notice. Since the agency is not following the directions of the notice, action will have to be taken by the union ministry of environment, forest and climate change’s (MoEFCC) regional office,” said Anand.In the notice issued to the NDMC in December, the forest department had pointed out that Nehru Park was a deemed forest and any non-forest activity here, including construction of any kind, was prohibited.In Delhi’s context, “an area above 2.5 acres having a density of 100 trees per acre as well as stretches along roads and drains having a length of one kilometre,” are considered ‘deemed forests’. To undertake any “non-forest related activity” in such area permissions have to be sought from the union ministry of environment, forest and climate change under the Forest Conservation Act (1980).A senior NDMC official said the agency in a response sent to the forest department, said the 80-acre Nehru Park was not a “forest”, but a recreational park.“Nehru Park is not mentioned in the list of Delhi’s forests. It is a park meant for recreational purposes. However, any additions made to the park will in no way hamper the ecology of the area,” the official said.Apart from violating the FC Act, another restraining order was issued in January to the NDMC for concretising 40 trees in the park. After the restraining order was issued, the civic body claims to have de-concretised the trees and submitted a status report to the forest department.On January 14, deputy inspector general forests (central range) Prachi Gangwar, in a letter to the city forest department asked for a “factual report based on field visits in reference to both complaints”.HP Singh, superintendent engineer (roads), NDMC, on Thursday said they have responded to the forest department notice issued for the construction of the synthetic jogging track and the concretisation around trees.“We have replied to the forest department and are also maintaining the required distance around the trees,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nehru-park-jogging-tracks-against-green-norms-forest-department-101616110053045.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||DUTA protests govt’s ‘pattern of assistance’||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Thursday requested Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to order the government to withdraw the “pattern of assistance” document issued by to 12 fully funded government colleges in DU. The teachers’ body took out a protest march from DU Vice Chancellor’s office to the L-G office on Thursday against the introduction of a new pattern of funding in these 12 colleges.Delhi government’s higher education department last week asked the governing bodies of these colleges to pass a resolution stating that the pattern of assistance, as suggested by the Delhi government, and not that of the University Grants Commission (UGC), will be followed for the release of grant-in-aid.The resolution was also to state that colleges can use “surplus funds” available for the purpose of paying salaries.Earlier on Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting with principals of these colleges and assured that the government will meet the DU officials to discuss the matter. He also ordered to release of all pending funds to these colleges.“The Delhi government is forcing these 12 colleges to adopt in their governing bodies the pattern of assistance issued by the directorate of higher education...The pattern of assistance document needs to be withdrawn,” DUTA said.A government official said, “The government has assured principals of 12 colleges that it will take every effort to resolve the matter."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/duta-protests-govt-s-pattern-of-assistance-101616109183812.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal to address farmers in Jind on April 4||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal will be addressing a gathering of farmers in Haryana’s Jind on April 4 on the three contentious farm laws against which a large number of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders for more than three months now, said AAP’s Rajya Sabha member and Haryana co-in charge Sushil Gupta on Thursday.“The Aam Aadmi Party has been supporting farmers on the issue since Day One; from the streets to the Parliament. We will continue with our protest and our party chief Arvind Kejriwal will be addressing a gathering at Huda Maidan in Jind on April 4 in this regard. It will be a mahapanchayat and we demand that the central government repeal the three laws,” Gupta said in a press conference.Last month, Kejriwal addressed a similar farmers’ gathering in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut.Thousands of farmers from states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have gathered at Delhi’s borders for nearly three months now, protesting against three contentious farm laws passed in the Parliament in September last year||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-address-farmers-in-jind-on-april-4-101616108807428.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A fable in the cemetery||She was a cabaret dancer in Paris and a maharani in Kapurthala—but her tomb, surprisingly, chose not to mention it.Like all graveyards, the Christian Cemetery in central Delhi’s Prithviraj Road is something of a book, whose pages would be the hundreds of graves it is home to.One can spend an entire day here, walking from one grave to another, reading the heartfelt inscriptions written to celebrate mothers, fathers, grandparents, husbands, wives, siblings and children.But Stella’s memorial seems to be neither of those. She is just Stella of Mudge. A quick Google search, right by her graveside, reveals her to be somebody extraordinary. She features in a New Yorker magazine report on the Maharaja of Kapurthala, way back in 1945. She also appears in a 2003 book entitled Wicked Women of the Raj. A caption on the UK-based art auction house Christie’s website, accompanying the picture of a silver and enamel cigarette box, turns out to be a brief biography of the lady of the grave—“This box belonged to Stella Mudge, the stage name of Alice Villiers (1904-1984), a Kent-born cabaret dancer at the Folies Bergère in Paris where she met and was seduced by Maharajah Paramjit Singh of Kapurthala (1892-1955). She became his third wife and took the title of Maharani Narinder Kaur on their marriage in 1937.”The grave’s middle portion has disappeared. How can a maharani meet such an afterlife?A recent piece written on Medium website by Hemant Arya, a city flâneur, narrates Stella’s life in more detail—her modest English origins, her career in a Paris cabaret, and her destiny-altering encounter with a married Indian prince. Later, her reputation as a “money grabber” in princely India, her glamorous heydays with her car frequently getting “painted and upholstered to match her clothes,” her coronation as the Maharani of Kapurthala, and her eventual downfall following the Maharaja’s death, leading to her derelict days in a Simla hotel, and lonesome death in a Delhi hospital, aged 79.It is believed that the headstone on her grave was installed by an anonymous person in 1999. It reads—“Stella of Mudge, a fable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-fable-in-the-cemetery-101616098437717.html
19-03-2021||Other||Two held for 7kg heroin seizure in Amritsar with ₹15 lakh drug money||AMRITSAR Police have arrested two persons involved in 7-kg heroin seizure case and recovered ₹15 lakh drug money from their possession in the Gumtala area of Amritsar, on Thursday. Vishal Sharma of Kot Budha village and Prabhjit Singh of Bowal village in Tarn Taran were arrested after a tip-off, said the police.On Wednesday, an anti-drug special task force (STF) had recovered 7-kg heroin that was concealed in an empty battery of a tractor, from across the barbed wire fence in an Ajnala village on the India-Pakistan border.A case under Sections of the NDPS Act, The Foreigners’ Act and the Indian Passport Act was registered against unidentified persons at the Ajnala police station.SSP-rural Dhruv Dahiya said a team under the supervision of deputy superintendent of police (DSP-detective) Gurinderpal Singh Nagra and DSP-Ajnala Vipan Kumar was formed to investigate the case. “A secret informer told the team that the accused had been roaming in Gumtala area on the Ajnala road. A raid was conducted and the accused were arrested with their Volkswagen car (DL-12-C-5431). We have also recovered ₹15 lakh drug money from the accused.” He said investigation was on to arrest more members of the gang and more recoveries were expected during police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-for-7kg-heroin-seizure-in-amritsar-with-rs-15-lakh-drug-money-101616098457086.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||UT excise department receives 162 bids for 80 liquor vends||UT excise and taxation department has received 162 bids for 80 liquor vends. The bids will be opened and vends allotted on March 19.The department had put 96 liquor vends on auction for the next financial year, up from 94 in 2020-21.The e-auction began on March 10 and the last date for bid submission was March 18.The highest reserve price of ₹7.95 crore has been set for a liquor vend in Dhanas. In 2019-2020, it had fetched the department ₹10.78 crore, highest among all vends. Last year too, it went for ₹7.05 crore, the second-highest bid.Other vends with the highest reserve price this year are at Khuda Lahora/ Khuda Jassu ( ₹6.75 crore) and Sector 30 ( ₹6.4 crore). Vends near Chandigarh’s border with neighbouring states generally fetch high bids as liquor in the city is cheaper than Mohali and Panchkula.Meanwhile, the reserve price of a vend in Sector 9, which had fetched the highest bid of ₹7.56 crore last year, is ₹6.1 crore. To curb the menace of cartelisation and monopolistic practices, a single entity of firms/companies/individuals will be entitled to allotment of up to a maximum of 10 vends.In the Chandigarh Excise Policy 2021-2022 announced on Wednesday, the administration has decided to keep the licence fee and excise duty on beer and wine unchanged. On the Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), the duty has been increased by 6%, which is expected to increase the prices of popular liquor brands by 10-12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ut-excise-department-receives-162-bids-for-80-liquor-vends-101616098397270.html
19-03-2021||Other||Special Holi train to Gorakhpur chugs off from Chandigarh||The Chandigarh-Gorakhpur-Chandigarh (04924 /04923) Special Weekly Express departed from the Chandigarh station on Thursday night, as part of the six special Holi trains announced by the Northern Railway.Scheduled on Thursdays, the train departed at 11.20pm to arrive in Gorakhpur at 5.15pm the next day. It will depart at 10.10pm from Gorakhpur on Friday to return to Chandigarh by 3.30pm on Saturday. Another special train to Lucknow will be starting on Monday. The Nangaldam-Lucknow-Nangaldam (04510/04509) Weekly Special will arrive at Chandigarh at 2pm on Mondays and 8.50pm on Tuesdays during its return journey, and will halt for five and 10 minutes, respectively.The other special trains for the festival include the New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi (02445/02446) Daily Superfast Special, Bathinda-Varanasi-Bathinda (04998/04997) Weekly Superfast Express, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Varanasi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra (04608/04607) Weekly Express Special and Nangaldam-Kolkata-Nangaldam (04520/04519) Weekly Superfast Special train.All trains will also halt at the Ambala Cantonment railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/special-holi-train-to-gorakhpur-chugs-off-from-chandigarh-101616098277253.html
19-03-2021||Other||R-Day violence accused to be honoured at Red Fort on March 28: DSGMC chief||Amritsar Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said on Thursday that the accused of the Republic Day violence will be honoured at the Red Fort on March 28.He was talking to the media after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple, with a farm protester Ranjit Singh, accused of attacking cops at Singhu border. Ranjit, of Nawanshahr, got bail from a Delhi court on March 16, and was released on Wednesday evening.“Sewa (volunteer service) is our future. Resentful of our service, some people started terming the Red Fort as sacred for them. The Red Fort has given many sufferings to the country... Guru Teg Bahadur (ninth Sikh guru) was also martyred in the fort…..How can the fort be venerable for you the walls of which are painted with blood?” said Sirsa.“We revere the front of the Red Fort where the Nishan Sahibs are hoisted, and which is connected to Guru Teg Bahadur. The youth who were defamed in the name of the Red Fort, will be honoured there itself,” he said, adding that 141 protesters (Singhs) had come out of jails and they hoped that the remaining will be released by March 28.He claimed, “Ranjit Singh was tortured and his religious faith was disrespected in jail, but he didn’t lose his courage.” Ranjit’s video grabs of being beaten with lathis and picked up — seemingly unconscious — too had gone viral. Ranjit said two days after the Republic Day, he was present near the farmers’ stage at Singhu border, when a mob had attacked the farmers with stones. He said he showed his sword with an intention to spread fear, but didn’t attack anyone, before he was hit and dragged away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rday-violence-accused-to-be-honoured-at-red-fort-on-march-28-dsgmc-chief-101616098038515.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Stone crushing, mining put Yamunanagar on 26th spot among world’s 30 most-polluted cities||Yamunanagar has been ranked 26th among the top 30 most-polluted cities in the world and found its name among nine places of Haryana and 22 in India, as per a report released by IQAir, a Swiss air quality technology company.As per the report that was released earlier this week, this Haryana district has an average air quality index (AQI) of 74.5 that stands “unhealthy” based on the air quality measured in terms of levels of ultra-fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) that is said to be the most harmful to human beings due to its far-reaching health risks. An official of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HPCB), who didn’t wish to be named, said that the air quality, in this case, is measured through transport and industrial emissions, road dust, and construction activities among others.Situated on the banks of Yamuna, the Jagadhri-Yamunanagar twin towns have many air-polluting industries engaged in timber and metal production on large scale, along with units involved in stone crushing and mining activities. As reported in November, despite fewer stubble burning cases during the winter season, experts had agreed that dust, along with the poor quality of roads and heavy traffic movement, is major contributor to poor air quality in the district.The regional officer of HPCB, Nirmal Kashyap, had back then also blamed owners of the industrial units for not following the guidelines and cited that the AQI measuring device has been positioned at the busiest intersection near Gobind Pura. Kashyap didn’t respond to calls and messages for a comment on the recent ranking.DC Mukul Kumar said that he will analyse the situation with Kashyap to determine the major factors behind this.“However, the pollution board has time and again issued instructions to the industrial and mining units to cover their trucks during transportation of their goods and other materials,” the officer said.Other Haryana cities on the list are Faridabad, Jind, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bandhwari, Gurugram, Rohtak and Dharuhera. Neighbouring Ambala ranked 52nd with an average AQI of 58.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stone-crushing-mining-put-yamunanagar-on-26th-spot-among-world-s-30-most-polluted-cities-101616098037233.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bring more groups under ambit of vaccination drive in Chandigarh, say experts||With the city witnessing a resurgence in Covid-19 infections, voices for making the vaccine shots accessible for more groups have gone louder. Currently, as per the central government directives, people aged above 60 are eligible for inoculation, while those in the age group of 45 to 59 are eligible for the shot only if they have certain comorbidities specified by the Centre. This is hampering large-scale vaccination drive in the city even when it has reserved more than 80,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses with the daily capacity touching a minimum of 6,000 inoculations at around 45 centres in the city. Currently, the capacity utilisation is less than 3,000 in a single day. The rules are so stringent that the dose of vaccine is allowed to be wasted even if no beneficiary from the priority group is available. Due to this process, around 2% of the total 60,228 doses administered to date have been wasted. A vial of Covishield vaccine contains 10 doses which are subjected to be administered within four hours after the vial is opened. The central government protocol suggests that 10% wastage of the doses administered is allowed. Even the comorbid group has to get a certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner specifying that the person has a specific disease, which makes the entire process cumbersome.“At this stage, the government should urgently do away with the mandatory certificate required for inoculation and make vaccine shots available for all persons aged above 45 or 50,” Dr Yogesh Chawla, former director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said.Echoing the same sentiments, Dr KK Talwar, health adviser to the Punjab government and former director of PGIMER, said that Punjab has already appealed for bringing more groups under the ambit of vaccination.“There is a hesitancy among people and the process should be made as simple as it can be. The central government should give the authority to the state governments on how to go about it,” he added.Even the civil society groups are batting for relaxing the ‘restrictions’ on the vaccination. “I have already communicated to the administration to bring more groups under the ambit of the vaccination drive as the city has enough capacity to inoculate a large number of people in a single go,” RK Garg, president of Second Innings Association, said.Chairperson of Federation of Sectors Welfare Association, Chandigarh, Baljinder Singh Bittu, said as Covid cases are on a rise, it becomes necessary to decentralise the process and bring in more institutes to offer the shots without much focus on the eligibility. To make vaccines more accessible to the citizens, representatives have also suggested making provisions for administering vaccines at homes as well.“Many in the 60-plus age group want to get a jab, but they could not visit the facilities due to old age. The administration can actually provide the services for those persons by levying a nominal fee. This is something doable in the city like Chandigarh and we can lead by example,” Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, senior deputy mayor, Chandigarh, said.Dr Amandeep Kang, director of health services, Chandigarh, said they have enough capacity to start the drive for more groups and once the government gives a green signal, they will start it immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bring-more-groups-under-ambit-of-vaccination-drive-in-chandigarh-say-experts-101616097857077.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Trouble shooter-in-chief? Sharad Pawar steps in again to resolve Maharashtra govt’s crisis||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has once again stepped in to resolve the crisis the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government finds itself in. In fact, in the past 15 months, Pawar had to often intervene as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s inexperience in handling the government become a problem for the MVA, as was seen recently in the police officer Sachin Vaze’s case related to his involvement in the scare at industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house. As the MVA government, especially Thackeray, was cornered by the Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Vaze controversy, Pawar held parleys with Thackeray on Monday to work out damage control measures, more importantly to distance the government from a controversial officer like Vaze. He called senior police officers to figure out what could be done. Following this, it was decided to transfer Param Bir Singh as the government needed to send a clear signal that it was cleaning up the mess, according to MVA insiders. Pawar also made several suggestions to Thackeray as well as home minister Anil Deshmukh regarding handling the current situation. He also made it a point to address a press conference in New Delhi and said the government would co-operate with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in investigation and the officers who misused their powers would have to face the music. This is not the first time Pawar had to step in to help Thackeray handle a crisis. In fact, the NCP chief has been guiding CM Thackeray and the MVA government in handling crises right from the beginning. He had taken the initiative to form a three-party coalition to keep the BJP away from power in a crucial state and has been ensuring the government comes out of crisis every time. Soon after the unprecedented Covid outbreak, Pawar stepped in to guide Thackeray and state administration on handling the epidemic. Pawar who has been active in politics for six decades also has a vast experience in handling administration. He was the chief minister of Maharashtra for three terms (together seven years), two terms as union agriculture minister (ten years) and one term as union defence minister (two years). He was also lauded for handling relief and rehabilitation after Latur earthquake and restoring normalcy in Mumbai within days after serial bomb blasts in 1993. His experience in handling administration or difficult political situation has been coming in handy for the MVA government. During the controversy after Sena minister Sanjay Rathod’s name was linked to death of a woman in Pune in February, it was Pawar who advised Thackeray to drop Rathod from the cabinet to prevent damage to the government’s image. During the recent budget session of state legislature, when the opposition cornered the government over Vaze’s role, Pawar rang up Deshmukh after which the home minister announced transfer of Vaze out of the crime branch. It was only then the opposition decided not to disrupt the functioning of the assembly, said a senior NCP minister. Following the arrest of Vaze by the NIA as the government was seen struggling to face the opposition’s onslaught, Pawar suggested that the government should distance itself from the police officer as the BJP was accusing the ruling Shiv Sena of links with Vaze. “Pawar had to step in to defuse the situation and advise the CM how to navigate through the controversy. He won’t like to be seen as someone who is doing backseat driving, but intervenes whenever there is a problem and the government is in crisis,” said Pratap Asbe, political analyst. NCP however maintained that Pawar is guiding the government. “If there is a problem, top leaders of the coalition sit together and discuss the situation. The decisions are taken by the chief minister who heads our government,”said state minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik. “It is a fact that the MVA government gets the benefit of guidance from Pawar who has vast experience in handling administration,” he added. “Sharad Pawar is one of the few leaders in the country who has the most experience of running coalition governments. Everybody has respect towards his ability and experience. So, in times of crisis of this government every side listens to him. He has a big role in bringing together this government as well,” said Sanjay Raut, Sena leader and its chief spokesperson. He, however, said that it should not be looked as inexperience of Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trouble-shooter-in-chief-sharad-pawar-steps-in-again-to-resolve-maharashtra-govt-s-crisis-101616097797106.html
19-03-2021||Other||Transport department will end mafia in Punjab, says minister||Sangrur Four years into its tenure, the Punjab transport department is preparing to end the ‘Mafia Raj’ of private players in bus transport. State transport minister Razia Sultana, on Thursday, addressed the media on the occasion of the government completing four years. Accompanied by Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir, Razia, said, “What is the transport mafia? There are two types of mafia; one is illegal routes where more than permitted buses were being run. For this, we have filed a case in court. The second is the time table mafia, in which they use the time of other buses, as these run with the difference of five minutes. VTS will be imposed to end the transport mafia, as it will track location of all buses.”“VTS system will be installed on all government run buses. It will be compulsory for private buses,” she added.On the delay she said, “To control a mafia, you need planning and schemes take time for implementation.”BJP workers opposed the virtual address of CM Capt Amarinder Singh and the press conference of Razia Sultana by holding a protest and alleged that the Congress government has not met its pre-poll promises.Admitting that there had been a delay in conferring the district status on Malerkotla and the establishment of a medical college in her assembly segment, the Malerkotla MLA said she had raised these issues with the government and hoped for early execution.&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&Caption Punjab transport minister Razia Sultana addressing the media in Sangrur on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transport-department-will-end-mafia-in-punjab-says-minister-101616097677228.html
19-03-2021||Other||Illegal houses in Mohali’s Behlolpur: GMADA marks inquiry against erring officials, builder||Finally waking up after four years, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has decided to take action against its erring officials and the builder, who had constructed 58 illegal houses at Mohali’s Behlolpur area.On March 17, GMADA officials went to demolish the houses, but after stiff resistance from residents, the drive was deferred for 60 days. Residents had stayed inside their houses and asked the officials to carry on the drive, stating they were ready to die.As per information, in 2016, Deepak Kumar and Narinder Singh had constructed 58 houses on around 2 acres of agricultural land without the approval of GMADA. The size of houses ranges from 50 square yards to 100 square yards and were sold for ₹15 lakh to ₹30 lakh. The houses were built four years back and all were registered.Additional chief administrator of GMADA, Rajesh Dhiman, said, “We have ordered an inquiry against the erring field officials of GMADA, who allowed the illegal houses to be constructed. The inquiry report will be completed in two weeks and accordingly action will be initiated. We will not spare any one and even action will be initiated against the builder.”He further said that as the residents had lost the case in Punjab and Haryana high court, demolition will be carried out after 60 days to vacate the agricultural land.They are just threatening us: BuilderWhen contacted, colony’s builder Narinder Singh said, “No one can raze the houses and they are just threatening us. We will not allow them to hold a demolition drive.” On being asked why he had not taken approval, he refused to comment.A resident, Sayed Akthar, questioned why their houses were registered with the revenue department, and why they got power and water supply connections. “The builder sold us the plot saying that it was an approved colony, so we bought it,” he said.Another resident, Prem Singh Bhist, said strict action should be taken against the officials of GMADA and the builders. “What is our fault? We have bought the plots from our hard-earned money. We don’t know where to go and what to do. Our families will be left without homes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-houses-in-mohali-s-behlolpur-gmada-marks-inquiry-against-erring-officials-builder-101616097617192.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Dehradun youth killed in Zirakpur hit-and-run||A 25-year-old man was killed and his friend suffered injuries after a truck hit their motorcycle and drove off on the Zirakpur-Patiala road on Wednesday night.The deceased was identified as Wangchuk, a native of Dehradun. The driver of the truck, however, fled from the scene.Victim’s friend Tenzin told the police that they were returning to their rented room at Nabha Sahib village around 11pm on their motorcycle after finishing work at a resort in Zirakpur.Tenzin said he was riding the bike, while Wangchuk was sitting pillion, when a rashly-driven truck coming from Patiala side hit them. An injured Wangchuk was taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, where the doctors declared him dead.Investigating officer Sukhdev Singh said a case was registered against the unidentified driver of the truck and a manhunt had been launched to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dehradun-youth-killed-in-zirakpur-hitandrun-101616097497111.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||‘Only women with two or less kids eligible for maternity leave’||A woman can avail of maternity leave only if she has two or less surviving children, irrespective of whether they are biological or not, the Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled.The high court bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice Sant Parkash passed the order while dismissing the plea of a nursing officer, working with Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, who had challenged the hospital’s decision to reject her maternity leave.The petitioner had applied for the leave following the birth of her first biological child after marrying a man, who already had two children from his first marriage.However, the leave request for June 2019 to September 2019 was denied by PGIMER and converted into earned leave. She had challenged this before the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT). But did not get any relief and approached the high court in February 2021.PGIMER had told the court that the woman had entered the names of the two children from her husband’s first marriage in the office record, and availed of child care leave and treatment facility for them on many occasions. Citing Central Civil Services (Leave) Rules, 1972, the hospital had said that as she already had two surviving children, she was not eligible for maternity leave.The nursing officer had argued that she had sought the leave for her first biological child and PGIMER could not deprive her of her legitimate right to maternity leave on the artificial analogy of having two surviving children. While dismissing her plea, the high court bench observed that perusal of the service rules will reveal that maternity leave can be granted to a female government servant only if she had less than two surviving children. “Though the petitioner is not the biological mother of the two children born from the first wedlock of her husband, she cannot deny the fact that now she is their mother,” the court observed. It also took note of the fact that she has also availed of child care leave for the two children. “In view of this, any child born to her is to be considered as the third child,” the bench said, while upholding CAT’s decision to deny her relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-women-with-two-or-less-kids-eligible-for-maternity-leave-101616097378691.html
19-03-2021||Other||Petition in Pak court seeks direction to allow event in memory of Bhagat Singh||A petition was filed in a Pakistani court on Thursday seeking direction to the Punjab government to allow an event on the occasion of the 90th death anniversary of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev on March 23 in this city and provide fool-proof security to it.The Bhagat Singh Memorial Foundation’s chairman, Imtiaz Rashid Qureshi, filed the petition in the Lahore High Court after the provincial government refused to hold an event on the occasion, citing the Covid-19 pandemic.Singh was hanged along with his comrades - Rajguru and Sukhdev - by British rulers on March 23, 1931 at the age of 23 in Lahore, after being tried under charges for hatching a conspiracy against the colonial government and allegedly killing British police officer John P Saunders.Qureshi said he moved the petition seeking permission to hold an event at the Shadman Chowk to pay tribute to these freedom fighters. He also sought fool-proof security for the event. He told the court that COVID-19 guidelines will be strictly observed during the event.He made the Punjab government, Punjab chief secretary and home secretary, Inspector General Police and Lahore police chief respondents. Qureshi said that the government should not have refused to hold this event on the pretext of coronavirus pandemic. “The government should rather encourage such events as they give a peace message across the border,” Qureshi told PTI.He added that his foundation plans to install a plaque of Singh at Shadman Chowk where he was hanged 90 years ago. The foundation earlier in its resolution had demanded apology from the British Queen on the judicial murder of the three freedom fighters and compensation to their families. It also demanded the Imran Khan government name Shadman Chowk after Bhagat Singh. The resolution further demanded naming of a major road in Lahore after the three revolutionaries and their act of chivalry also be made part of school syllabus. It also demanded the British Queen to apologise from the families of the victims of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre (1919). It also demanded installation of a statue of Bhagat Singh at Shadman Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petition-in-pak-court-seeks-direction-to-allow-event-in-memory-of-bhagat-singh-101616097377276.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sisters shot dead by sarpanch’s son in Punjab’s Moga||An 18-year-old girl and her elder sister were shot dead at Manuke Gill village in Moga on Thursday evening.Nihal Singh Wala DSP Parsan Singh identified the accused as Gurvir Singh, son of Shekha Khurd village sarpanch Sukhwinder Kaur. He is on the run. The DSP said Kanwalpreet Kaur and her sister Amanpeet Kaur, 24, died during treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. According to the doctors, Kanwalpreet was shot in the head, while Amanpreet received a bullet injury on the neck. Both the women were running beauty parlours. Nihal Singh Wala SHO inspector Gurpreet Singh said, “The accused sped away in a car after committing the crime. We are yet to ascertain why the women were killed. A manhunt has been launched to nab Gurvir and an FIR is being registered.”Police sources said the women were inside the car with the accused before he forcibly pulled them out and opened fire near the bus stand. The women were rushed to the community health centre (CHC) of Nihal Singh Wala by some passersby.A doctor at the CHC said, “Some locals brought two women with gun wounds in the head and neck. There were no identification documents on them. We referred them to the GMCH, Faridkot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sisters-shot-dead-by-sarpanch-s-son-in-punjab-s-moga-101616097257136.html
19-03-2021||Other||Man stripped, beaten in Sangrur; seven booked||SANGRUR A video of a 26-year-old man being stripped naked and beaten up near Amargarh went viral on social media on Thursday. The victim alleged that he had gone to catch pigeons from a tree, but residents a nearby household beat him and made his video. Police have booked seven people at Amargarh police station and started an investigation as the cops say that they have also received a complaint from a woman against the man. Amargarh SHO Sukhdeep Singh said the incident took place on March 16 evening and the police registered the case after a complaint from Sunny, alias Babbu.“We are checking the authenticity of the video. However, a woman from the accused party filed a complaint that he had entered their residence illegally,” added the SHO.A case was registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC at Amargarh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-stripped-beaten-in-sangrur-seven-booked-101616096836939.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s daily Covid cases remain over 200 for second day in a row||The daily Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh shot up to 211 on Thursday against Wednesday’s 201, pushing the active cases to 1,466, highest in the past six months.The positive cases on Thursday were higher even though the number of tests, at 1,758, was lower than 2,171 on Wednesday. It was after six months, since September 24 last year, that the daily cases had crossed the 200 mark on Wednesday, after steadily rising over the past week. With 2,033 cases already in March, the situation is similar to October and November last year when over 2,300 cases were reported each month after the pandemic reached its peak in September.The city’s case tally now stands at 23,803, highest in the tricity. Of these, 21,978 patients have recuperated and 359 have died.Slight dip in Mohali, but cases still over 200Mohali saw a slight dip in the daily cases, with 214 people testing positive on Thursday, compared to 222 on Wednesday. Over 70% of these cases, at 150, were from Mohali city, while 18 cropped up in Kharar, 17 in Dhakoli, 11 in Dera Bassi, and six each in Kurali and Lalru.The fresh cases took the total to 22,654, of which 1,672 patients are still infected. As many as 20,574 patients have been cured and 408 have succumbed to the virus. The district has been reporting over 100 cases for the past nine days. The daily count had crossed the 200 mark with 206 cases on March 14, for the first time since September.As many as 35,089 people have been vaccinated at 27 private and nine government hospitals in the district since January 16. These include 13,900 senior citizens and 2,190 comorbid people aged between 45 and 59. As many as 4,960 people have received the second dose. 46 test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula’s cases dropped further on Thursday with 46 new cases surfacing across the district, taking the tally to 11,574.After 96 cases on Tuesday, the highest since November, the district had reported 60 infections on Wednesday. As many as 31 cases from Thursday’s tally came from sectors, while the remaining were from Batour, Khangesra, Mansa Devi Complex, Pinjore, Sarakpur, besides one from CRPF.The district has 464 active cases, 10,961 have been cured and 149 have died so far. Here, 38,861 people have been vaccinated to date, including 18,307 residents aged over 60.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-daily-covid-cases-remain-over-200-for-second-day-in-a-row-101616096777166.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||No parallel probes in an FIR: HC to Punjab, Haryana, UT||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed police of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh not to conduct parallel probes in an FIR.The high court bench of justice Manoj Bajaj termed such inquiries by police officers sheer and blatant interference with the process of justice, which can’t stand the test of justification. “It is unfair for the prosecution also to forward inconsistent reports, expressing diverse opinions with respect to the same facts, and that too without any other material or evidence. Once the investigation is complete and report is submitted before the Court of law, police has no authority to deal with another line of inquiry, without intimating the court,” the bench observed striking down Punjab police instructions of May 4, 2017, which facilitated such probes further holding that the police officers of higher in rank have violated the procedural law of investigation contained in Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).The court has now directed that after registration of FIR and commencement of investigation, no representation/request on behalf of accused to examine his/her innocence would be entertained by police and no parallel inquiry would be initiated. In cases, the state government or the state police orders transfer of investigation, then it would be necessary to intimate the magistrate in writing with reasons for transfer of investigation. Whenever, the investigating officer after commencement of investigation, decides to hold or stop the investigation in respect of all or any of the accused persons it would be mandatory for such officer to send the report to the concerned magistrate, it said adding that if, the trial court upon conclusion of trial finds that the acquittal of the accused is on account of deliberate lapses in investigation, it can pass appropriate orders for suitable departmental/penal action against the officers responsible. The court said that both the governments and Chandigarh administration would ensure that the police officers and public prosecutors are properly sensitised about on this aspect. The directions came when court was dealing with pleas filed by two accused from Punjab seeking bail. It had come before court that while probes into FIRs were underway. Either accused or someone from his side approached senior officers who ordered another probe. Without associating investigating officer assigned to the FIR earlier, parallel probes were conducted, which gave conflicting reports. In one case, chargesheet was filed against accused but after parallel probe, the accused was declared innocent. “This kind of multiple probes complicate the task of trial court to trace the culprits, who often hide themselves behind the bushes of favourable inquiry reports, and at times they succeed in escaping the punishment, because the disintegrated procedure of investigation throws doubts on the prosecution case and makes it fragile. These procedures of investigation and inquiries are unheard in the annals of criminal jurisprudence and do not find support from statutory provisions,” the bench observed.The court further said that the superior officers have the prerogative to transfer the investigation, if, there are justifiable reasons, but in such an eventuality the investigation is to be transferred as a ‘whole’. After transfer of probe, the newly appointed Investigating Officer or agency would continue the investigation from the stage of transfer, as fresh or de novo (from the beginning) investigation is not permissible in law, it added.The court also noted that DGP Punjab submitted wrong information before the court when a report was sought from him. It said that DGP responded in a “casual and inattentive manner” without realizing its sensitivity. However, court refrained from making any other adverse observation further observing that it expects that in future the officer would act carefully. It further directed that copy of the judgment be sent to home secretaries and judicial officers in both the states and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-parallel-probes-in-an-fir-hc-to-punjab-haryana-ut-101616096597143.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Capt confident Sidhu will join back in his cabinet||A day after his meeting with party MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu over tea, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday expressed confidence that the former minister will be back in his cabinet. The two Congress leaders had met at the CM’s farmhouse near Chandigarh and discussed the cricketer-turned-politician’s likely re-induction into the state cabinet. “Everyone wants Navjot to be part of the team. We had a cordial meeting. He has sought some time. I am sure he will be part of our team,” Amarinder said in response to a question at a press conference here to mark the completion of four years of his government. The meeting between the CM and Sidhu, who had quit the state cabinet in July 2019, was a result of All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat amid the central leadership’s efforts to rehabilitate the former minister by giving him an important role as the deputy chief minister or the state unit head ahead of the state polls. Asked if Sidhu wanted to be deputy chief minister or the state Congress president, Amarinder said it was up to the Congress president (Sonia Gandhi) to decide these things. “It is neither my, nor Sunil Ji’s (Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar) decision. It is for the Congress president to decide,” he said, adding in a lighter vein, “If he (Sidhu) wants my job, he can have it”. The Wednesday’s meeting was the second between the two leaders who had met over lunch on November 25, 2020, after a gap of one-and-a-half years, signing a thaw in their ties. Sidhu, who had quit the government after the CM divested him of the local government portfolio, on Thursday tweeted: “Tinke se halki rui, rui se halka mangne wala aadmi.... na apne liye maanga tha, na maanga hai, na maanguga..(Have not asked for anything)” . Asked if we would be extending a similar “olive branch” to other leaders such as (Rajya Sabha MPs) Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Dullo, the CM said that while everyone had their own ambitions, it was up to the Congress president to decide. “In a difficult hour, you have to set aside your own ambitions and stand with the party,” he added. To a question on him leading the Congress and being its CM-face in the 2022 polls, the two-time CM said the decision would be taken by the AICC chief. When asked about political strategist Prashant Kishor’s appointment, he said that in a democracy, every leader and party has a team of strategists. The CM said that Kishor was in Chandigarh and had already started his work. The poll strategist, who was appointed as the chief minister’s principal adviser with cabinet rank on March 1, held meetings with officials to take stock of the progress made on the 2017 poll promises and give a push to implementation of those that are still unfulfilled in next six months, according to sources. Capt rejects EVMs; for returning to paper ballots The CM also opposed the continued use of the electronic voting machines (EVMs) in elections, seeking return to ballot papers. “In this electronic age, advanced countries like Japan, Sweden and UK have ballot papers. Everyone has ballot papers. They know these things can be fudged. We should go back to paper ballots,” he said in response to a question on the demand made by several legislators in the recently concluded budget session of the Punjab assembly for use of ballot papers in elections. Amarinder said he was among the first one to voice his opposition when Manohar Singh Gill was in the Election Commissioner several years ago. Capt not for job quota for locals Amarinder opposed the policy of job reservation for locals being followed by some states. The CM said he was not in favour of the policy of excessive regionalisation being followed by certain states, announcing that “Amarinder stands for INDIA FOR INDIANS’. “I believe that India is one country and too much regionalisation is not a good thing,” he said in response to a question on the Congress’ promise on compulsory recruitment of locals by private industry. In its 2017 manifesto, the Congress had promised “compulsory recruitment of local youth by industrial investors in Punjab up to 50% of the total workforce”. Recently, neighbouring Haryana has reserved 75% of jobs for locals in the private sector. Pointing out that there was no state in India where Punjabis were not flourishing and doing a great job, the CM questioned why Punjabis cannot buy land in Himachal Pradesh or do not have certain rights in Kashmir and Rajasthan. “If we start regionalising, we will suffer,” he warned. ‘Will move SC if assent not given to Punjab amendments’ Urging the Centre to scrap the farm laws, Amarinder said his government “will go to the Supreme Court if the President does not given assent to the state amendment Bills”. He said the governor was still sitting on the amendment bills instead of forwarding them for presidential approval, even though they were passed by the Vidhan Sabha unanimously. The CM said he could not see any middle path to break the stalemate between the farmers and the Centre. ‘Won’t interfere in sacrilege cases’ The CM said the SIT probing the sacrilege cases would soon complete its investigation and he will not interfere if they decide to challan any senior police officers or politicians. “The cases will be investigated to their logical conclusion and the guilty will be punished, irrespective of who they are,” he added. Listing out some of the key achievements of his government, he said the government had successfully broken the backbone of the drugs chain, which is what he had pledged to do with ‘Gutka Sahib’ in his hands. Contrary to what was being wrongly claimed in the media, he clarified that he had never said he will eliminate the drugs mafia completely. “I had clearly said – main nasheyan di lak todanga (will break the backbone of drug mafia),” he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-confident-sidhu-will-join-back-in-his-cabinet-101616096478816.html
19-03-2021||Other||Reshuffle of cops to add to Maharashtra govt’s woes?||The minor reshuffle of top police officers, prompted by the state to appoint a new police commissioner for Mumbai to control the damage caused by the Sachin Vaze case, could become a headache for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.The state home department is in the process of sending a list of 12 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers of the rank of director general to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for the appointment of the new director general of police (DGP) from among them. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte confirmed that the government is in the process of sending the list to UPSC.The government could be in a difficult situation while appointing its new state police chief or DGP after the empanelment is ratified by UPSC, a process mandatory for the appointment. Among the four senior most officers in the race, three are the ones whom the government would not like to appoint for the post for various reasons.The empanelment of three officers from the list is mandatory as per the Supreme Court ruling given in 2006 in Prakash Singh case. The state has discretion of picking one of the three empanelled officers by UPSC.The home department has enlisted 12 Indian Police Service (IPS) from four batches (1986 to 1989) for the empanelment. The top five in the list are Sanjay Pandey, Hemant Nagrale , Param Bir Singh, Rashmi Shukla and Rajnish Seth.Nagrale was appointed as Mumbai Police commissioner on Wednesday after Singh was shunted out following the inept handling of the Antilia explosives scare and the alleged involvement of former cop Sachin Vaze in the case.Seth, who is the director general of the anti-corruption bureau, was appointed as acting DGP on Wednesday. Shukla is currently on the central deputation in Central Reserve Police Force. Pandey, the senior most contender (1986 batch), has openly expressed his displeasure for being sidelined amid the reshuffle. He was appointed as DG, Maharashtra State Security Corporation, which is assumed to be a side posting and has not been given any key posting in the recent past owing to his legal battles against the government.Shukla is assumed to not be in the list of MVA government’s “favourite officers“. A section of ministers in ruling parties believe that she was close to the previous Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government.“If UPSC choses three from the four senior most officers, Pandey and Singh would be the ones whom the government may not want to appoint as DGP, and it would be left with no option but to reappoint Nagrale for the post. When Subodh Kumar Jaisawal was appointed for the post in 2019, Pandey was not empanelled by UPSC, while the other two officers were Nagrale and Bipin Bihari, who retired in January. If Pandey is dropped again by UPSC, the third name could be that of Shukla. In that scenario, too, the government will have no option but to reappoint Nagrale as DGP,” said an official from the home department.If UPSC empanels Seth, who is fifth in the list in terms of seniority, the government is likely to continue him in the post by permanently appointing him as DGP. “To avoid the embarrassment, the government is expected to inform the UPSC panel about Shukla’s the deputation in the central services. In such a scenario, the state can expect Seth to be empanelled in the list of UPSC. The state chief secretary is a member of the UPSC panel that shortlists three names for the post. He may present the state’s case before the panel,” the official said.Meanwhile, Pandey has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray complaining about the ‘injustice’ meted out to him. “You overlooked me for the post of DG anti-corruption bureau, which was given to a junior officer, despite the tradition of giving it to the senior most officer. I was sidelined even when it came to the appointment to the Mumbai Police commissioner’s post. When Jaiswal chose to go on central deputation, the additional charge was not given to me, but to a junior officer, which was illegal as per SC ruling. The career built over several years is thus demolished due to some personal prejudices,” he said. Pandey confirmed writing the letter but refused to speak on the matter any further.When asked about the letter and the appointment of DGP, additional chief secretary (home) Manu Kumar Srivastava refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reshuffle-of-cops-to-add-to-maharashtra-govt-s-woes-101616096477131.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana admn’s move to include more groups for vaccination hailed||The district administration is being lauded for expanding the ambit of vaccination by including judges, lawyers, teachers, bank staff, journalists and members of NGOs. Ludhiana became one of the first cities in Punjab to offer the vaccine to non-listed groups. Amid an upsurge in the virus cases in the past week, the district administration had decided to include the people in the drive, who are in public dealing, including bank staff, journalists, teachers and lawyers. Divisional commissioner (Patiala) Chander Gaind said that deputy commissioners have the right to take the decision about bringing the groups under the ambit of vaccination according to the situation and so did the Ludhiana DC. More than 83,800 people had been vaccinated till March 16 in Ludhiana. Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, civil surgeon and nodal officer for Covid vaccination drive, said they have identified the groups who have public dealings. “Since frontline workers, including medical staff, police personnel, district administration officials are being vaccinated, they have identified and discussed to include some more groups, such as judicial officers, teachers, lawyers, bankers, members of NGOs and journalists. They can avail jabs at government hospitals,”Ahluwalia said. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma in a statement said the district administration has adequate stock of vaccine and vaccination is free in all the government hospitals, and available for ₹250 in private health institutions. Shiv Ram Saroye, president of Ann Jal Sewa Trust, welcomed the decision for including members of NGOs in the ambit of Covid frontliners. He said members of the NGOs have been helping the police and district administration in creating awareness and implementing the guidelines. Advocate Gurkirpal Singh Gill, president of District Bar Association, also hailed the decision of including judicial officers and lawyers for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-admn-s-move-to-include-more-groups-for-vaccination-hailed-101616096417895.html
19-03-2021||Other||Elective surgeries in hospitals across Ludhiana deferred in view of rising Covid cases||Those planning to undergo elective surgeries at various hospitals in the district will have to wait till April 1 as deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma, using his magisterial powers, deferred elective surgeries scheduled between March 19 and March 31. In a communiqué issued on Thursday evening, the DC said that in view of the need for critical care for Covid patients, ICU facilities in Ludhiana need to be reserved for them. Hence, in larger public interest and for saving precious human lives, elective surgeries planned from March 19 have been deferred beyond March 31 till further orders.The order further reads that all hospitals in district will have to adhere to it and any complaint received in this regard will be taken seriously and action will be initiated under National Disaster Management Act 2005, and Epidemic Disease Act, 1897.There are presently 18 ventilators in government hospitals available for Covid patients. Of these, 15 are currently occupied. With five major hospitals and over 1, 000 multi-speciality hospitals and nursing homes, Ludhiana is the hub of elective surgeries in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elective-surgeries-in-hospitals-across-ludhiana-deferred-in-view-of-rising-covid-cases-101616096178652.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Doaba becomes Punjab’s Covid hotspot||With 42% of states Covid infections reported from Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar and Kapurthala, on Thursday, the Doaba region of the state has become the epicentre of Covid-19 infections. As per the media bulletin released by the state government of total 2,417 fresh cases in the state, 998 are from the Doaba region. Jalandhar topped the list in the Doaba belt with 467 cases, followed by Hoshiarpur 216, SBS Nagar 143 and Kapurthala 101. On Wednesday, Doaba’s contribution to the caseload was 32% with four districts falling in the region witnessing 658 fresh cases out of total 2,039.Even maximum deaths due to Covid-19 were reported from the Doaba region on Thursday. Of the total 32 deaths in state on Thursday, 53% (17 deaths) were reported from the Doaba region with Hoshiarpur witnessing 8 fatalities, Jalandhar 6, SBS Nagar two and Kapurthala one. Of the 14,366 active cases in Punjab as on Thursday, 5,499 (nearly 38%) are from the Doaba region. Jalandhar has emerged as the hotspot in second wave of Covid-19 registering 2,162 active cases to date.Out of total eight districts of Punjab having caseload of more 1,000 active cases, four are from the Doaba region. Patiala 1,519, Ludhiana 1,549, SAS Nagar 1,672 and Amritsar 1,257 are the other four districts with caseload of more than 1,000 active cases.Punjab’s Covid-19 Nodal Officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said that Doaba region has given serious concerns for the state health authorities as maximum number of cases are being witnessed from this region. “We are still trying to find out why this region has become the epicentre.” Meanwhile, the night curfew in the worst-affected districts of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Rupnagar will now be in place from 9pm to 5am, instead of 11pm to 5am.3 areas declared as micro-containment zones in Patiala cityPatiala: Three areas in Patiala city have been declared as micro-containment zones after 179 positive cases were reported across the district on Thursday. Of total 179 cases, 137 have been reported in Patiala city only.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said an area of Urban Estate, Ranjit Nagar and Rama Enclave have been designated as micro-containment zones for at least 10 days.Holla Mohalla: Int’l visitors asked to bring Covid-ve reportRupnagar: People coming from abroad to attend the ‘Holla Mohalla’ celebrations here will have to furnish a negative Covid-19 test report not older than 72 hours, the district administration said on Thursday. The religious fair will be held from March 24 to 29 at Kiratpur Sahib and Anandpur Sahib. Administration officials said mandatory sampling of all those putting up at hotels in the vicinity would be conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doaba-becomes-punjab-s-covid-hotspot-101616096177630.html
19-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Guard ends life after ‘lover’ gets married to another man||A 28-year-old man, working as a security guard at a departmental store in the city, ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance after his alleged lover got married to another man.The woman, who is the manager of the same store where the 28-year-old worked, was in a relationship with him for the last nine years, his father claimed.On March 15, she got married to another man following which the 28-year-old consumed a poisonous substance at the grain market on Gill Road. He was rushed to SPS Hospital, near Sherpur, where succumbed during treatment on Wednesday.Police have recovered a suicide note, in which the man had claimed that he was taking the extreme step as he was cheated by his lover. A case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) has been registered against the woman, on the complaint of the victim’s father, who is a resident of Hamirpur of Himachal Pradesh. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ranjit Singh, the investigating officer, said the woman will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-guard-ends-life-after-lover-gets-married-to-another-man-101616095936885.html
19-03-2021||Other||Gangster shot at near Sonepat court, in critical state||Dreaded gangster Ajay alias Bittu was shot at outside the Sonepat court by a police personnel, who was escorting him on Thursday.As per information, the gangster, who is booked in 12 cases, including six murders, was allegedly shot at by a cop, identified as Mahesh, outside the Sonepat court complex in a police van.Ajay was rushed to Sonepat civil hospital from where he was referred to Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS).PGIMS spokesman Gajender Singh said that Ajay had received bullet injuries in the head and a team of doctors are treating him.“The patient is critical. We are making all attempts to save his life,” the spokesman added.An official of Sunaria jail in Rohtak, told HT over phone that the gangster was taken from the jail to Sonepat court to be produced in a case at around 9am on Thursday.“The gangster was lodged at Rohtak jail since March, 2020,” the official, pleading anonymity, said.Gangster’s father killed by 8-10 assailantsLater, Ajay’s father Krishan Kumar was shot dead allegedly by a group of 8-10 assailants who had barged into his house in Sonepat’s Barona village.In her complaint to the police, the gangster’s mother Anita Devi said that she and her husband were sitting in their house on Thursday afternoon.“A man asked my husband to open the door. When he did so, one of the assailants fired shots at him. When my husband ran towards a room, a group of 8-10 men carrying weapons chased him and pumped bullets into his chest, stomach and other parts of the body. My husband died on the spot,” she said.“We had old-rivalry with Munia of our village, Naresh, Sonu Malik, Jasbir, Ramesh Pahalwan of Ganaur, Haryana police personnel Mahesh and nearly 19 other persons. Three months ago, Mahesh and Sonu had threatened me of dire consequences,” she added.‘Accused cop booked for attempt to murder’Sonepat superintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Randhawa said a cop, identified as Mahesh, posted at Rohtak, had fired three shots at gangster Ajay when the criminal was sitting in police van after appearing before a court in connection with a weapon recover case.“Mahesh was escorting the criminal from Rohtak to Sonepat. The accused cop was arrested by his fellow cops on the spot. Later, Ajay’s father was shot dead by some assailants. We have registered two separate FIRs. Mahesh has been booked for attempt to murder and more than a dozen people are booked on murder charges at the Kharkoda police station. We are probing why Mahesh attacked the gangster,” the SP added.‘Gangster was threatening the cop’The gangster was arrested by the anti-vehicle theft team of Rohtak police after a brief exchange of fires in 2018. He is a sharp shooter of the Sandeep Badwasni gang and was heading the gang after his boss’s murder.Jail authorities had recovered three mobile phones from him when he was lodged at Faridabad jail, said a senior jail official.A senior official of the Sonepat police, pleading anonymity, said that Mahesh had fired shots at the gangster as the latter was threatening the cop and his relatives.“During questioning, Mahesh said the gangster had borrowed ₹15 lakh from one of his friends. When Mahesh and his friend asked Ajay to return the amount, the gangster threatened them of dire consequences,” police said.“We are not ruling out rivalry angle and Mahesh’s association with the rival gang,” police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gangster-shot-at-near-sonepat-court-in-critical-state-101616095817131.html
19-03-2021||Other||As Punjab extends night curfew timings, hospitality industry fears more losses||With the state government extending the night curfew by two hours, the hospitality sector stated that they will be forced to shut down their units if there’s no support extended from the government’s side.The curfew will now begin from 9 pm instead of 11 pm and continue till 5 am. The owners of hotels and restaurants rued that the business will be affected by over 70% owing to it and this will also result in large scale unemployment as they will not be able to pay salaries to the staff.They stated that if the government is taking these steps to control the spread of the disease then it should also support the industry by announcing some relief and help them cover the losses.President of Hotel and Restaurant Association Amarvir Singh said, “We will be left with no other option but to shut down our units as 65-70% business will be affected due to the decision taken by the government. People go to restaurants after closing their shops therefore, the footfall usually increases at around 9 pm.”“The sector is already struggling at this time of crises, and this decision will lead to large-scale unemployment as the owners won’t be able to pay salaries to their employees. A meeting of the association will be held in the coming days to discuss the matter,” he added. Bandeep Singh, owner of a food joint in Sarabha Nagar, said, “We understand that the government is taking these steps to contain the spread of the disease, but it should also think of our industry. The footfall starts increasing around 8:30 pm, but at that time we will have to shut down the units to be able to reach our houses before 9 pm.”The owners of marriage palaces raised similar issues, and stated that they were already finding it difficult to make ends meet as people are not organising events due to the cap on gatherings, and the extension in the night curfew has further increased their trouble.Amarjit Singh Sant, president of the Marriage Palace Welfare Association, said, “We were already receiving only 40% response due to the cap on gatherings and night curfew, and this decision will further bring down the business to 10%. Now, we will not be able to organise two events in a day as the events that were to be organised at night will now either be held during the afternoon or the customers will cancel the bookings.” Traders rue lossesSunil Mehra, general secretary of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, stated that the trade has already been affected at large during the post lockdown period.“The extension of night curfew will further inculcate fear among the customers especially, those coming from other districts. The footfall will decrease in the coming days, and traders will suffer huge losses,” he said.The traders stated that the government should focus on expediting the vaccination drive rather than extending night curfew timings.Amarjit Singh, president of Model Town market association, said, “The business will be affected by extension in the timings of the night curfew as people will not move out even in the evening due to fear. The government should rather take up the vaccination drive at large to control the spread of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-punjab-extends-night-curfew-timings-hospitality-industry-fears-more-losses-101616095758717.html
19-03-2021||Other||Raid on Samalkha Cong MLA’s properties: I-T dept claims tax evasion, benami properties of crores||On the second day of the searches being carried out at properties associated with Congress’ Samalkha MLA Dharam Singh Chhokkar, the income tax department claimed to have unearthed benami properties and tax evasion of several crores.In a press release, I-T commissioner (media and technical policy) and official spokesperson of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, Surabhi Ahluwalia, without naming any person or company said search operations were conducted on a group engaged in the business of real estate, housing, hospitality and retail liquor trade in Haryana due to non-compliance to faceless scrutiny assessment notices.“During the search, unexplained investment in jewellery of approximately ₹3 crore has been found. Four bank lockers of the group have also been found and put under restraint,” reads the statement. “There is not only misuse of the scheme but also tax evasion which is estimated to be not less than ₹36 crore. But during the search, evidence was found that the group has claimed bogus expenses on account of building material including cement, sand, and iron bars of around ₹100 crore, in the previous years, leading to huge evasion of taxes,” the statement further read.Substantial evidence has also been found that the group has routed their unaccounted income of ₹70 crore in the form of bogus share capital and unsecured loan through a shell company which has been invested in the buyout of a real estate project from a popular builder in Gurugram area, reads the statement.“The group is also regularly claiming huge bogus business promotion expenses in the previous years, and laundering the cash siphoned off as unaccounted investment in immovable properties. During the search, evidence has been found proving bogus booking of flats in the name of employees, relatives and unidentifiable persons in the affordable housing scheme project of the group,” reads the statement.The company has allotted houses to employees of the group members, whose un-encashed cheques have been found on the premises. Flats have been further sold to the actual buyer at a premium of ₹6-10 lakh each and the premiums have been received in cash and not accounted for in the books. The premium in cash has been charged from other buyers as well, in this affordable housing scheme, it added.The I-T officials claimed that notices under the Faceless Assessment Scheme sent to certain assesses were consistently not complied with.During enquiries, it was found that the persons to whom the notices were issued were engaged in liquor business run by the group and it was found that such persons to whom liquor licences were issued were benamidars of the main group members and they have stated on oath that they have no knowledge of the business being run in their names.“Evidence in the form of property documents and title deeds have been found regarding investment in benami properties in India as well as out of the country and the matter is being examined further. Besides, the group has incurred unaccounted expenditure for personal and office purposes in cash running into crores including expenditure for taking approvals for projects and lavish marriage expenses,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/raid-on-samalkha-cong-mla-s-properties-i-t-dept-claims-tax-evasion-benami-properties-of-crores-101616095757648.html
19-03-2021||Other||Ex-Mumbai top cop shunted out over unpardonable mistakes: State home min||Home minister Anil Deshmukh said that former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s transfer was not a routine one, but he was shunted out from his post owing to the “serious and unpardonable mistakes” committed by some officers in the commissionerate. Deshmukh said that the information had come to light from the preliminary inquiry into the Antilia explosives case.“The transfer of Mumbai Police commissioner was to ensure that the ongoing probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the state anti-terrorism squad (ATS) is not hampered. The decision was taken collectively in the meeting chaired by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray,” said the home minister, who was speaking at the Lokmat Maharashtrian of The Year Award event on Thursday.Deshmukh also said that the no officer will be spared, if found guilty in the probe. “Maharashtra Police has been doing a fantastic job. Its morale is high, but the entire force is made to bear the brunt of the mistakes committed by a few officers. Those officers, be it an API (assistant police inspector) or senior rank officer, will not be spared if found guilty. Singh was the commissioner and the case [of explosives] was under his jurisdiction. Vehicles belonging to the commissionerate were used in the incident. Drivers and colleagues were found to be involved in the case, and so a thorough probe is a must,” he said.When asked if Singh could be called by NIA for interrogation, Deshmukh said, “NIA has got the right to call anybody for an inquiry. Even ATS can call any officer for an inquiry.”Deshmukh also denied the claim made by leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, stating that CM Uddhav Thackeray had recommended API Sachin Vaze’s reinstatement in the force. “It is a political allegation levelled by Fadnavis. The decision related to the reinstatement of any officer of the rank of API is done at the level of police commissioner. A five-member committee headed by the commissioner, comprising other high-ranking officers at the commissionerate, take the decision after a review. There was no question of appointing Vaze at the government level. CM or home minister deal with the reinstatement of officers of the rank above additional superintendent of police,” he said.When asked about Fadnavis’s accessibility of the information related to sensitive cases such as the explosives scare, the home minister said, “ Like any other department, there could be a rift within the police administration, leading to the leak of sensitive information. Secondly, a central agency is investigating the case,” he said, referring to NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmumbai-top-cop-shunted-out-over-unpardonable-mistakes-state-home-min-101616095517497.html
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bogus admissions detected after Aadhaar-based admissions started||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday informed the Vidhan Sabha that over two lakh bogus admissions were detected in schools after Aadhaar-based admissions was introduced.Responding to Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal’s concern raised in the zero hour that the state government was reportedly closing 1,057 government schools, the CM said that the number of children admitted in government schools have come down by two lakh as these children were enrolled in private schools.Khattar said that students already studying in private schools were admitted in government schools to avail certain benefits.The CM said that the state government, as per rules, has also decided to shut one school out of two schools running within a radius of one kilometre.Former education minister Bhukkal had sought to know the compulsions to shut 1,057 schools. She said that earlier the government closed kisan model schools that the Congress had started and classes in the District Institutes of Education and Training (DIET) had been discontinued.CLP leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the state government should run kisan model schools instead of closing them.“We should take education to the doorsteps of kisans. When will you fill up the vacant posts of teachers?” Hooda asked.State education minister Kanwar Pal said that the state had more JBT teachers than required and that the new education policy will not require JBT teachers.The CM made it clear that the government would not start training courses including teachers training courses, which are not in demand.“When we don’t have requirement of JBT teachers, why should we run such training courses,” Khattar said, adding that the state will implement the New Education Policy from 2025.He said that although the posts of JBT teachers are sanctioned, their demand has decreased.He said that keeping in view the growing demand of doctors, opening medical colleges (private as well as government) in every district is top priority of the state government.He added that the state government has also increased validity of TET from five to seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bogus-admissions-detected-after-aadhaar-based-admissions-started-101616095460627.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Will Maharashtra home min Anil Deshmukh be the next head to roll after Param Bir Singh?||With Param Bir Singh shunted out of the position of Mumbai police commissioner amid the controversy over Mansukh Hiran’s death related to the Antilia bomb scare case, there are speculations that home minister Anil Deshmukh, too, may lose the portfolio. Party insiders said the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leadership is mulling replacing Deshmukh, but it is unlikely to happen immediately. “There are two things. First, by shifting Deshmukh out of home department, the party doesn’t want to create an impression that he was somehow responsible for the mess,” said a senior minister, seeking anonymity. “Second, the selection of home minister is tricky. The party chief will have to pick a candidate who is acceptable to the top brass and at the same time capable of handling the department well.” Deshmukh on Thursday said he will remain the home minister until NCP chief Sharad Pawar wants him to handle the responsibility. “Recently, Pawar saheb in a press conference in Delhi praised my work. I will remain in this position until he wants me to continue. His word is final in our party,” Deshmukh said in response to a question at a function organised by Lokmat Group. “In my political career spanning 30 years, there is not a single blot on my image. Both the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and anti-terrorism squad (ATS) are probing what happened. All those found involved will have to face the consequences,” Deshmukh insisted. In 2019 when the MVA government was formed, Pawar surprised everyone by picking Deshmukh for the job of home minister, although the names of Ajit Pawar, Jayant Patil and Dilip Walse Patil, all senior ministers, were doing the rounds. “As the Antilia bomb scare issue was discussed in the assembly, it appeared the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had more information than the home minister. Fadnavis kept attacking the government over the issue by citing one proof after other and Deshmukh seemed to be taken by surprise. How come Fadnavis managed to get a copy of call detail records (CDR) of the conversation between Vaze and Hiran? He was a step ahead of the home minister,” said a key NCP leader. “The party leadership is looking at this episode as Deshmukh’s inability to handle a sensitive department such as home, especially in the time of crisis, owing to which names of his probable successors are under consideration,” he addeed. Party insiders said the possible replacement could be deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and state party unit chief Jayant Patil. Besides, health minister Rajesh Tope who impressed the party top brass by his work during the Covid crisis is another option. Ajit would have been the first choice but he is not keen to take up the responsibility. “He (Ajit Pawar) doesn’t want to leave the finance and planning departments, as they are directly related to policy and governance whereas the home department is more about dealing with problems as they arise rather than planning,” said a NCP functionary. Jayant Patil led the home department for a year after then home minister RR Patil stepped down following the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks in 2008. But he is also comfortable with the water resources department he is heading now, in addition to the responsibility as the state NCP chief, said the functionary. Tope could be acceptable to all, just like Anil Deshmukh. “If both Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil refuse to take over the post, Tope might be preferred,” said the NCP functionary. Traditionally, in Maharashtra, a politically heavyweight is given the responsibility of the home department. From Gopinath Munde to Chhagan Bhujbal to RR Patil, Jayant Patil and Devendra Fadnavis, all home ministers were political heavyweights who commanded respect in the department as well as within the government. There were allegations of Shiv Sena leaders interfering with Deshmukh’s department and directly coordinating with police officers in Mumbai for local issues. Deshmukh had reportedly complained to the NCP chief that he was not given a free hand in the home department. This was also a reason why Pawar decided not to remove Deshmukh immediately. The NCP leadership also does not want to indicate that Deshmukh’s ouster is a fallout of the Antilia bomb scare case. “The one (Anil Deshmukh) having the responsibility of the home department has done a good job. Those involved in wrongdoings were found and exposed and it was proved that stern action can be taken,” Pawar told reporters in Delhi on Tuesday. He also expressed surprise over a question on removing Deshmukh as the home minister. “This is news to me,” he replied. On Wednesday, Patil, too, said news of Deshmukh’s ouster is just a rumour. State officials and former senior police officers feel the issue should have been handled differently. “The Mumbai police shouldn’t have gotten into these controversies,” said a retired home secretary, who did not wish to be named. YC Pawar, a retired IPS officer, “The home minister has not handled the case properly. It was not an ordinary extortion case. It was about the richest man of this country…Two statements made by the home minister are contradictory. In the beginning, he said investigation was in the right direction. On Thursday, he said the Mumbai police commissioner has been removed because they have found something in the probe and Singh failed to fulfill his duties... All this creates a suspicion of political patronage in this matter.” KP Raghuvanshi, retired IPS officer, who also headed the anti-terroism squad, said, “It is unimaginable that a police officer, who is part of an intelligence unit, will plant explosives for whatever reason. The officer should have been controlled by the supervisors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-maharashtra-home-min-anil-deshmukh-be-the-next-head-to-roll-after-param-bir-singh-101616095038350.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||TRP case: Will probe for as long as needed, state tells Bombay HC||Responding to the Bombay high court’s query on why Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami and ARG Outlier Media were not named as accused in the television ratings points (TRP) manipulation case, the state on Thursday said it was not in a position to answer the question immediately, but it had the right to investigate a case for long as needed. The court thereafter observed that there was a need for investigation agencies to have a reasonable approach as faith of the public in them depended on it. After the state assured the court that the interim relief against coercive action to Goswami and other employees of ARG Outlier would continue for two weeks, the court posted the hearing for Monday. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition by ARG Outlier and Goswami seeking quashing of the FIR and chargesheet in the TRP manipulation case, was informed by chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare submitted that as there were no statutory restriction, investigation would go on as long as needed. The court while accepting the submission however said that rather than keeping the petitioners on tenterhooks, the police could call on them as per clause 12 of the charge sheet which mentions chalak and malak (operator and owner) by issuing them notice. The court gave the example of the Dabholkar and Pansare case and said that it was not asking the state to give a time limit for completion of the investigations. Senior counsel Ashok Mundargi for the petitioners drew the attention of the bench to the fact that the alleged crime that the channel was involved in was influencing cable operators to place the channel at the top of the bouquet which they offered to subscribers. The action, Mundargi said, even if constituted an offence, could be dealt with by TRAI. He added that the company and Goswami were willing to cooperate with the investigation provided they were told what their alleged offences were. As the police was being evasive by keeping the investigations open ended, their apprehension of being arrested was not out of place, he said. He also referred to the two charge sheets filed till now in the case and said the claims that the TRP ratings throughout the country were manipulated by rigging a few barometers in Mumbai was not possible. After hearing the submissions the bench observed, “In a democratic set up, there has to be reasonability and objectiveness. Hence what we want to know when will you complete the investigation…There is a concept of welfare state. The state and the investigating officer should stop at one stage. It cannot continue for years together.” The fake TRP scam came to light in October when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. Hansa is one of BARC’s vendors on engagement with panel homes or people’s meters. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers. As per the police, some of these households were being bribed to tune into Republic TV and a few other channels. Republic TV has denied wrongdoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trp-case-will-probe-for-as-long-as-needed-state-tells-bombay-hc-101616095037107.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks CAG to File affidavit in Mumbai-Pune eway toll collection||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) to file a comprehensive affidavit regarding the claims made in the public interest litigation (PIL) which seeks discontinuation of toll collection on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway and the affidavit filed by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) justifying the extension of the toll collection contract till 2030. The court also directed the addition of the contractor as a party to the PIL and asked the state to file its reply within three weeks as well and posted the hearing to April 21. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Pravin Wategaonkar and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader Nitin Sardesai, was informed by Dr Milind Sathe for MSRDC that documents supporting the affidavit were being submitted as per court directions on Wednesday. While referring to disclosures in the MSRDC affidavit that nearly 20,000 vehicles were using the expressway without paying toll every day, advocate Girish Godbole, amicus curiae, said it was impossible to believe that such a large number of vehicles were exempted from paying toll even if the exemption was granted by the government. He submitted that in light of this, the allegation of Wategaonkar of under-reporting/misdeclaration of toll revenue had some substance. Godbole submitted that the under-reporting of toll revenue by the contractor could result in a loss to the Union of India. After hearing the submissions, the bench asked CAG to assist the court in the determination of issues involved as experts on the matter and to file a comprehensive affidavit dealing with the issues raised in the petition and affidavit in reply by MSRDC. Advocate Vinay Joshi for CAG sought time of three weeks to comply, to which the court granted two weeks. The court also directed advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state to file an affidavit based on the documents placed before the court. The court then observed that as the contractor was not a party to the PIL with regards to the nature of allegations levelled in the petition it was necessary to make him a party as issues raised could not be heard without allowing him to have his say. The court then directed the contractor to be made a party and also directed advocate Venkatesh Dhond for the contractor to file an affidavit in response to the PIL and posted hearing of the PIL to April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-cag-to-file-affidavit-in-mumbai-pune-eway-toll-collection-101616094618126.html
19-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s sees 200+ Covid cases for 4th day in row||The district witnessed four more Covid-19 fatalties in the last 24 hours even as the number of fresh cases breached the 200-mark for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday. With 237 fresh cases, the district’s case tally went up to 29,774. It now has 1, 549 active cases. The latest deaths took the district’s toll to 1,069. Of the total, 19 fatalities were added to the district’s toll in just four days. Thursday’s fatalities include a 79-year-old man from Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar (BRS Nagar), a 73-year-old male from Model Town, a 67-year-old man from Ghas Mandi and a 60-year-old woman from Haibowal.9 teachers, 5 students among infectedThose infected include two healthcare workers and nine teachers from the city. At Sacred Heart Convent School, BRS Nagar, two teachers were found infected, while one teacher each from St Joseph School Dugri, GNE College, Chhajjawal village’s primary school, Government Senior Secondary School, (GSSS), Bharat Nagar, GSSS, Dalla village, and Aswal Model School in Dugri tested positive. A professor at Punjab Agricultural University also tested positive for the virus.Besides, five students, including one each from Bhattal College, Sarabha, Sacred Heart Convent School, BRS Nagar, All Saints College, Jaspal Bangar, Multipurpose School, DPS School South City, Ludhiana, also tested positive. Besides, an employee at GSSS, Ladhowal, also tested positive.The district had recorded 226 cases on Monday, followed by 245 infections on Tuesday, the highest recorded this year and 233 cases on Wednesday. The virus had claimed four lives on Monday, six on Tuesday and five lives on Wednesday.4, 352 people inoculatedAs many as 4, 352 people turned up for Covid vaccination at various government and private health centres in Ludhiana on Thursday. These include 1, 952 senior citizens and 806 people with comorbid conditions in the age group of 45 to 59.Besides, 436 healthcare workers came for the first dose, while 104 received the second dose. As many as 830 frontline workers also got the first dose while another 221 came for the second dose. So far, 88, 218 people in the district have been inoculated against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-single-day-count-breaches-200-for-4th-day-in-row-101616094617017.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai integrated ticketing system: MMRDA appoints SBI as banking partner||In a significant step towards implementing the integrated ticketing system in Mumbai, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has appointed the State Bank of India (SBI) as a banking partner for the project. MMRDA is working towards creating a common mobility platform for contactless and seamless travel across all modes.RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said the aim is to start the services along with Metros. MMRDA is looking at operationalising Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) this year. The authority has begun pre-trials for the trains.According to the minutes of the executive committee meeting on MMRDA website, the authority got proposals from SBI, HDFC and ICICI banks for the project. The authority had also set up a committee under the chairmanship of the additional metropolitan commissioner for technical evaluation of proposals. The minutes state that SBI was the lowest bidder, quoting to charge 1.60% as the cost per transaction, and it has been appointed for the project.Owing to the pandemic, the authority set aside various options and has fixed on creating a “journey planner”, a mobile application to enable a contactless and seamless travel across public transport systems.The application will work across Metro, monorail, BEST buses, app-based cabs and the suburban railways.Currently, each transport mode in Mumbai has its own ticketing system — for suburban trains, commuters can use ATVM card apart from the physical tickets; the Mumbai Metro One also has its own card; Mumbai monorail has a token system; while all payments for taxis and auto-rickshaws and even BEST buses need to be done through cash. Across the world, big metropolises have single or multiple common mobility cards — London has the Oyster Card; Hong Kong, the Octopus card; Sydney has the Opal card; Toronto has Presto; and Manila has the Beep card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-integrated-ticketing-system-mmrda-appoints-sbi-as-banking-partner-101616094436902.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants bail to driver of car used in 2018 Rajeshwar Udani murder||The Bombay high court (HC) has granted bail to a 19-year-old who was booked as an accused in the kidnapping and murder of diamond merchant Rajeshwar Udani on November 28, 2018.Bail was granted on the grounds that the man, who was only a rickshaw driver, was asked to drive the car in which the murder took place by the other co-accused, and prima facie he did not seem to be involved in the conspiracy to kill Udani. The single bench of justice Revati Mohite Dere while hearing the bail application of Pranit Bhoir, one of the seven accused arrested for the murder of Ghatkopar resident Udani at Panvel, was informed by advocates Rahul Thakur and Ganesh Gupta that Bhoir was called by his cousin and co-accused to drive the car in which the murder took place. As Bhoir was an autorickshaw driver, he agreed, not knowing about the conspiracy of the passengers to smother and kill Udani. The advocates submitted that after Udani’s body was disposed by the other accused in Dehrang Dam in Panvel, Bhoir had gone home after informing his cousin of the developments. The advocates submitted that as Bhoir did not have any criminal antecedents and was merely driving the car in which the gruesome murder took place, he could not be incriminated for hatching the plan to kill Udani. In light of these submissions, the advocates sought bail for the 19-year-old. The incident was reported at the behest of Udani’s son who first lodged a missing complaint when his father failed to return home on November 28, 2018. Later, a case of murder was filed after the post-mortem report revealed Udani was smothered and strangled to death. Apart from Bhoir, Sachin Pawar, a political party worker; suspended police constable Dinesh Pawar; Siddhesh Patil; Mahesh Bhoir; Shaista Khan; and Nikhat Khan were arrested in the case. The conspiracy of kidnapping and killing Udani was allegedly hatched by Sachin Pawar who, according to actress Devoleena Bhattacharjee, thought Udani was romantically involved with her. Bhattacharya and Pawar were partners.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that while the role of the other accused in the murder was clear, Bhoir’s involvement in the conspiracy and murder was not established and hence deserved to be granted bail. Bhoir was granted bail for a sum of ₹25,000 with one or two solvent sureties in like amount. He has been asked to attend the police station once a month till the completion of the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-driver-of-car-used-in-2018-rajeshwar-udani-murder-101616094257020.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||TTE onboard Lucknow-Mumbai train tests positive for Covid-19||The train ticket examiner (TTE) onboard the outstation train Pushpak Express operating between Lucknow and Mumbai, has tested positive for Covid-19. Railway authorities are now preparing a list of passengers who may have been exposed to the TTE. The details of the passengers for contact tracing will be shared with municipal corporations in Mumbai, Bhopal and Lucknow. According to senior Central Railway (CR) officials, the TTE boarded the Pushpak Express from Lucknow railway station and alighted the train at Bhopal station on March 16. Later, the TTE boarded the same outstation train the next day and travelled back to Lucknow from Bhopal and reached on March 17. He fell sick soon after. The railway authorities were alerted about the incident.The TTE was sent to Badshahnagar railway hospital in Lucknow where he and his wife underwent a coronavirus test, and both tested positive. He has been kept under quarantine.“The TTE along with his wife are quarantined. We are preparing a list of passengers who could have been exposed to the ticket examiner and will be giving the details to the local municipal bodies. Other railway workers who came in contact with him onboard the outstation train and in Lucknow will be examined” said a senior Central Railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tte-onboard-lucknow-mumbai-train-tests-positive-for-covid19-101616094197046.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to stay release of John Abraham starrer Mumbai Saga||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday refused to stay the release of John Abraham starrer Bollywood movie Mumbai Saga.Ravi Mallesh Bohra, known in Mumbai’s underworld as DK Rao, and family members of late gangster Amar Naik moved HC for staying release of the film, which is purportedly based on the lives of DK Rao, late Amar Naik and his brother Ashwin. The movie is scheduled to be released on March 19.A division bench comprising justice Amjad Sayed and justice Nitin Jamdar refused interim stay on release of the film, primarily on the grounds that the petitioners had moved the court at eleventh hour.Relying on newspaper reports, Bohra, Ashwin, and the wife and daughter of late Amar Naik moved HC contending that the movie depicted and portrayed their lives and times. They have sought stay on release of the film contending that the release of the movie would violate the right to fair trial of Bohra and Ashwin, and the right to privacy of all the petitioners.They said the trailer of the film was published on YouTube on February 26 and clearly stated that the film was “inspired by true events”.Their petition added that on March 6, a legal notice was issued to the producer and director of the film, calling upon them to desist from going ahead with scheduled release of the movie as it depicted events concerning Bohra, and since the contents were not tested on the touchstone of the evidence on record of the pending case against him.Bohra and Ashwin have contended that both of them are under-trial prisoners, and the release of the film will prejudice their pending trials and also likely to affect the sanctity of the judicial process.Slain Amar Naik’s wife, Anjali, and daughter Akaksha, contended that they have already suffered immense trauma because of the encounter killing and stigma for being his family members, and added that the film will add to their woes. They have claimed that the film would tarnish the family’s image and will also breach their right to privacy and the reputation build by the mother-daughter duo following death of the gangster in an encounter with police.The mother-daughter duo further claimed that Naik was a reputed vegetable vendor and was implicated in several false cases at the behest of his business rivals, but was never tried for any of the alleged offences. They added that the family had to face disastrous consequences of the false implications, and both of them are still running from pillar to post for justice.They claimed the film will again show Naik in bad light, which will be detrimental to them as it would further the social stigma and may even pose a threat to their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-stay-release-of-john-abraham-starrer-mumbai-saga-101616094137401.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Air India pilots demand roll back of blanket ban on posting on social media||Air India’s union of Airbus pilots — Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA) — has appealed to its management to roll back their policy that does not allow any Air India employee, whether serving or retired, to post anything on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Wikipedia, WhatsApp or Twitter, blogs or video channels, be it during or after duty hours. ICPA has termed the policy to be entirely illegal and with no basis in law.Despite repeated attempts, Air India did not respond to HT’s queries.Besides other restrictions, the pilots, in a letter to its chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal, raised concerns on getting approval from the airline even for uploading personal content related to Air India or any of its activities. The pilots also pointed out that the policy implemented from March 1 this year states that the airline has rights to monitor comments or discussions about them, their employees, clients and the industry posted on the internet.The pilots said that India currently has no law that either empowers or remotely justified such an act by the employer, especially Air India being a state instrumentality under Article 12 of the Constitution, to impose such a blanket ban on the use of social media. The letter read, “While we note the concerns that Air India may have in respect of protecting its image over social/digital media, especially preceding its proposed disinvestment, the introduction of a policy as the present one, is entirely unheard of and infringes upon various rights of its employees. It goes on to categorically state that it covers conduct of employees as private participants on social media platforms, thereby making it patently illegal. The present Policy introduced by Air India, is most importantly, violative of the fundamental right of freedom and speech, guaranteed to the employees of Air India, under Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution, being citizens of India.”The pilots said, “Even assuming for a moment that Air India still has the authority and the power to introduce the present blanket policy, the same is expressly hit by the bar under section 9A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and cannot be allowed to subsist.”Stating the law in detail, the pilots reiterated that the introduction and enforcement of the policy by Air India without any consultation, discussion, notice or any other form of communication with the employees, will result in multiple violations by them and hence asked them to drop the policy.Aviation expert Mohan Ranganathan said, “Abusing the uniform in any situation is not accepted. Hence, if Air India has specified to not upload posts in the airline’s uniform, they are right. However, restricting personal posts unrelated to Air India is not accepted in any situation and is against one’s fundamental rights. Air India is run by the government, and restricting employees to even comment on posts and keeping a record of their activities on digital social media platforms is because they are dancing to the tune of the minister. They should be taking strict action against safety violators rather than coming up with such things.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-air-india-pilots-demand-roll-back-of-blanket-ban-on-posting-on-social-media-101616093957048.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||At 2,877 cases, Mumbai sees highest daily spike||With 2,877 cases in a single day, Mumbai on Thursday reported the highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the pandemic outbreak in the city on March 11 last year. Until Thursday, the highest number of cases reported in Mumbai in a single day was 2,848, on October 7. Experts and doctors have categorised this as yet another peak in Mumbai’s Covid graph. The previous peaks were reported during the festival season in September and October, and in May. Mumbai also reported eight deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the toll to 11,559 with a case fatality rate of 3.2%. The number of active cases in the city has also gone up to 17,153 on Thursday. Until now, Mumbai has reported a total of 352,851 Covid-19 cases. This has brought down Mumbai’s recovery rate to 91%, from the 94-95% recorded in January and February. This is a result of 23,402 tests that were conducted in Mumbai on Wednesday, with the single day positivity rate of 12.2%. In contrast, on October 7 last year, Mumbai had a higher single day positivity rate of 20.01%, as it had conducted 14,233 tests on that day. Positivity rate is calculated as a percent of positive cases to the total number of tests done. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the city has shot up to 0.51%, which was about 0.15% mid-February. The doubling rate has dropped to 136 days down from 455 days mid-February. Doubling rate is the number of days it takes for Covid-19 cases to double in the city. Experts have attributed the spike to unlocking of the city and opening up of economy. “There is also a Covid-bravado among all citizens – akin to a sense of living with Covid-19 which translates to non-adherence to hygiene such as wearing of face masks, hand sanitizing; and a sense of “relief that a vaccine against the virus has now come, and it is only a matter of time before citizens can live without fear of the infection,” experts say. Dr Rahul Pandit, a senior city-based doctor who is member of the government Covid-19 task force, said, “There is no doubt that the number of cases is alarming. This can be looked at as a peak in cases for Mumbai. We also need to see this in perspective of the number of tests done and the positivity rate. Mumbai has ramped up its testing capacity considerably, so it is one of the reasons for high numbers. It also means we are able to locate positive patients on time, with more tests.” According to Dr Pandit, Mumbai can expect this peak for a few more days. “There is no way to predict how many days this peak will last. Mumbai has typically not been like other places where it touches the peak and comes down. We have stayed at the peak for some time.” Mumbai on Thursday vaccinated a total of 39,644 beneficiaries, of which 23,599 were senior citizens and 4,525 were citizens above the age of 45 with co-morbidities. While 33,125 beneficiaries received the first dose of their vaccine, including healthcare and frontline workers, senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities, 6,519 received the second dose among healthcare and frontline workers. So far, Mumbai has vaccinated 768,261 people, of which 669,450 received their first dose, and 98,811 have received their second dose. So far, 351,767 senior citizens have been vaccinated, and 49,920 citizens above age 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated. There are 91 vaccination centres in the city. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, incharge of BMC’s health department,said, “Two conclusions were made in the meeting: to ramp up testing, and rapidly vaccinate the population.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-2-877-cases-mumbai-sees-highest-daily-spike-101616093837662.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dharavi sees 30 cases, most since September||Dharavi on Thursday recorded 30 fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time since September 11 last year when it reported 33 cases in a single day. Dharavi now has a total of 4,382 Covid-19 cases, over 315 deaths, and 140 active Covid cases.Over the past few days, daily cases in Dharavi have been increasing, for the first time since their decline over five months ago. In the past week, Dharavi has reported over 15 cases every day, up from around ten cases before that, and cases in single digits over the past few months.Active cases in the slum pocket had dropped to as low as 20 cases, crossed the 100 cases mark on March 10.Reacting to the spurt in Covid-19 cases, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) adopted several measures to contain the spread of the virus in Dharavi, during its peak in May. These include organising fever camps to conduct free tests for the population of the slum, testing via mobile vans, and door to door screening.The Dharavi slum is spread over 2.4 sq km, has a population of 653,000 lakh, but it is estimated that its actual population is 850,000 due to unaccounted migration, with a population density of 354,167 per square kilometre, compared to Mumbai’s population density of 20,634 people per sq km. About 80% of its population depends on 450 community toilets in the locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-dharavi-sees-30-cases-most-since-september-101616093717099.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Get masks in exchange for plastic at CSMT, Dadar railway stations||To increase the recycling of plastic waste materials on the suburban railway stations, the Central Railway (CR) has initiated the ‘Plastic Lao, Mask Pao’ campaign. Through this month-long campaign, which starts today, the passengers will be asked to donate plastic waste and get facial masks in exchange.Plastic waste collection kiosks are placed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Dadar railway stations. Passengers can deposit all plastic waste materials including bottles, polythene bags etc.“On the occasion of global recycling day, we have partnered with the United Nations Development Programme. Through this campaign, we hope to create awareness of the importance of collecting and recycling plastic waste. Railways also want to send the message to everyone that it is important to wear a mask to contain the spread of coronavirus.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, CR.The Central and Western Railway had also placed plastic bottle recycling machines on the suburban railway stations.Earlier, the Western Railway had installed benches made of recycled plastic. The benches were installed at Churchgate railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-get-masks-in-exchange-for-plastic-at-csmt-dadar-railway-stations-101616093597066.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Syllabus trouble for second-year direct entry engineering students||Admissions to first-year professional courses were hit with constant delays this year and students are still bearing the brunt of it. Among these are the direct second-year engineering (DSE) entry students who are faced with the task of completing the entire year’s portion in less than six months, while their batch mates have already finished a semester. DSE students are those who opt for a three-year diploma in technical education after the completion of Class 10 board exams and are then allowed direct or lateral entry into second-year engineering courses. Maharashtra, at present, has over 750 such diploma institutes with an intake capacity of around 1.5 lakh seats.“Unlike the first-year engineering admissions which got delayed, the regular second-year engineering batches started their lectures on time in October, last year, and completed their semester-three exams as well. Our admissions through the state common entrance test (CET) cell ended only in February, by then our batch mates had finished semester-three and we’re studying for semester-four,” said a student on condition of anonymity. He added that while their batch mates have six subjects to study for the current semester, DSE students will have to study 12 subjects from semesters three and four at the same time.“Our batch mates attend two-to-three-hour classes online every day, while DSE students are made to sit through seven-hours of daily online lectures to make up for the lost time. We are overburdened and have no time to prepare for examination at present,” said another student, as they all are still unsure when the semester-three exams will be held for DSE students.The Maharashtra Students Welfare Association (MSWA) has now approached the University of Mumbai (MU) seeking clarity in this matter. “The DSE students are worried that they might have to appear for exams for both semesters within six months, and this is something the university should have thought through in advance. What’s worse is that after repeated requests, the MU examination department has not yet clarified the examination schedule for this batch,” said Vaibhav Ekde, president MSWA.The MU examination department is still working on exam dates. “The exam for semester-three DSE students will mostly be held in the month of April, we will release the schedule soon. Students will have enough time to prepare for their exams of both semesters,” said Vinod Patil, director, board of examination and evaluation, MU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-syllabus-trouble-for-second-year-direct-entry-engineering-students-101616093424132.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra, Mumbai record their sharpest spike in Covid-19 cases||More than a year after Maharashtra reported its first Covid-19 infection on March 9, 2020, and Mumbai saw its first case two days later, India’s worst-hit state and city reported their sharpest one-day spikes of 25,833 and 2,877 infections, respectively, on Thursday, according to official data. Maharashtra eclipsed its September 11, 2020 caseload of 24,886, while Mumbai went past its October 7 record of 2,848. September 11 was the peak of the first wave of infections in the state. On Tuesday, the state government admitted it was witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 infections, days after a central team report said the state was in the beginning of one. The daily caseload in Maharashtra had dropped to as low as fewer than 2,000 cases in the first week of February. After reporting 1,927 infections on February 2, fresh cases started rising to 6,397 on March 1, 10,216 on March 6, 15,051 on March 15 and crossed the 20,000 mark after 172 days on March 17 (23,179 infections). Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said although it is the peak, one more week is needed to assess the situation. “We need to access whether the figures come down or go upwards from here. This will require at least a week. We have, however, managed to reduce the number of deaths from the peak of 350 to 60. Even this, too, needs to be curtailed further,” said Lahane, adding that cases have also increased owing to more tests being conducted. The state’s cases tally reached 2,396,340 on Thursday, while its toll went up to 53,138 with 58 more deaths. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the Centre has given its green light to 134 private hospitals to start vaccination and asked authorities to chalk out a plan to vaccinate 300,000 people daily.Dr Ameet Mandot, who runs Gut Clinic at Parel, blamed both the citizens as well as authorities for the steep rise in cases. “Citizens have become very casual and there is no seriousness shown by them in adhering to Covid-19 norms. In addition, authorities are failing to enforce rules as we are witnessing crowded marriage halls, functions sans social distancing and revellers in pubs dancing without any masks. There seems to be no effort by authorities to curb this,” said Mandot. Thackeray, in his review meeting on Thursday to assess the Covid-19 spread, told doctors to keep a watch on the various strains of the virus and guide the government in treating the same. He also ordered authorities to complete vaccinations of priority groups within the next three to four months. As of Thursday, of the 166,353 active cases, Pune continues to lead the state with 35,539 active infections, followed by Nagpur with 24,209, Mumbai and Thane take the third and fourth positions with 17,153 and 15,548 active cases respectively. The total number of recoveries stood at 21,75,565.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mumbai-record-their-sharpest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-101616093422757.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Board to announce guidelines for SSC, HSC exams in two days||Ahead of Class 10 and 12 state board exams that are scheduled to be held in April and May, the Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will release a set of detailed guidelines within two days on the conduct of exams amid the pandemic and the resultant lockdown. On Thursday, the board also urged parents not to believe in rumours regarding the exams that had recently surfaced on social media. “The expert committee that is planning the conduct of exams in the state has given its recommendations and a set of guidelines will be released soon. However, there are a lot of unverified reports pertaining to the structure and conduct of exams that are doing the rounds in the media and on social media which we want to dismiss. All official communication shall be shared with schools and parents soon,” stated the board. With exams drawing close, a lot of speculation regarding how they will be held has been doing the rounds on social media. For instance, a message stating that the board has decided to bring down the passing criteria from 35% to 25% has been circulated. Similarly, some reports also suggested that this year, students will be allowed to write their exam papers from their schools instead of the centres that are allotted to them every year. Officials at the education department have however said that these were merely suggestions that came from various stakeholders and are being studied. “Parents should not panic and believe in any of this until there is an official word from the board,” said a senior official. The HSC (Class 12) exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, 2021, SSC (Class 10) exams will be conducted between April 29 and May 20. Results of HSC will be out in July and for SSC in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtraboard-to-announce-guidelines-for-ssc-hsc-exams-in-two-days-101616093116947.html
19-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination centres rise from 10 to 91, response still low||Despite the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) move to increase vaccination centres across the city from ten – when the nationwide mass immunisation programme kicked off on January 16 – to 91 at present, inoculation has failed to gain the expected momentum. Medical experts have largely cited a lack of awareness and scepticism about the vaccines for low turnout, in addition to the inability of senior citizens to reach vaccination centres that are located far away from their homes. With the spurt in Covid-19 cases during the ongoing second wave, doctors are advising the elderly suffering from comorbidities to avoid crowded vaccination centres since they are highly vulnerable to contract the infection, owing to their compromised immunity levels. As against the civic body’s daily target of one lakh inoculations every day, the number of vaccine beneficiaries across three groups – healthcare workers, frontline workers and individuals, above the age of 45 – has barely crossed 45,000 to date. Going by the civic body’s daily target, 10 lakh inoculations should have been registered over the last ten days (March 8 to 17). The number of vaccinations during the same period, however, stands at 2,45,383 across the three categories which include 2,22,301 senior citizens. This despite a progressive rise in the number of vaccination centres over the last ten days. For instance, 40,502 were given shots at 65 centres on March 8, which on March 9 increased to 43,581 at 68 centres. On March 10, 42,702 people got inoculated at 71 centres. While the number dropped to 36,933 beneficiaries at 72 centres on March 11, the number of beneficiaries the next day increased to 44,264 at 77 centres. The turnout increased to 45,050 at the same 77 centres the next day. On March 15, the number of centres increased to 85, while the number of beneficiaries dropped to 44,683. It dropped further to 42,534 beneficiaries at 89 centres the next day. On March 17, almost a 10% drop was recorded with 38,369 beneficiaries at 91 vaccination centres. Civic officials are hopeful that the number of inoculations will gradually increase. “When we started the vaccination, we recorded only 50% turnout in the initial few days. But we gradually achieved almost 100% turnout in most centres. There is still scepticism among the public about the vaccines,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. Emphasising the need to increase awareness among the public through social media, pamphlets, among other mediums, doctors said misinformation spreading on ‘WhatsApp University’ often discourages people from getting the vaccine shots. “Now, with Covid-19 scare, people want to know about the details of the vaccination like its efficiency rate, probable side effects among others. So, once the civic body can gain their confidence, the number will shoot up,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of the Association of Medical Consultant (AMC). A section also highlighted the need to bring vaccination to the doorstep for better accessibility. “There is a need to introduce mobile vaccination vans which will help reach every corner of the city. BMC had taken up the same policy when they started screening public in slums for Covid-19,” said Ravi Raja, leader of opposition in BMC. A senior BMC officer blamed the Central government for tying their hands. “Though the delivery of health care largely rests with the states since health is a state subject, the central government is not giving us enough lee-way,” said the officer. Another senior health official said the Centre needs to change its approach. “To start vaccination centres in private hospitals, we have to send a list for approval to the Centre which often takes days. For instance, on March 9, we sent the names of 30 private hospitals to be included in the inoculation programme. But we haven’t got the approval so far. In fact, in many cases, if we send them 50 names of hospitals for approval, they select them in phases. This delays the whole process” In response, Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary said hospitals, both private and government, which are empanelled under Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojna, Central Government Health Scheme or any State Health Insurance scheme are automatically added to the list of covid vaccination centres with no need to send the list to the Central government.“However, states that don’t have empanelled hospitals in any of the above-mentioned categories need to get their hospitals approved by the Centre as they need to fulfil the guidelines meant for Covid-19 vaccination centres, including sufficient space, cold chain etc facility. Since states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi do not have empanelled hospitals they sent us the list for approval, and we only require them to ensure the list of hospitals fulfil the criteria. In Maharashtra, 419 hospitals have been approved,” he said. The sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 is also dissuading people from taking the jab since it entails standing for hours in over-crowded centres. “Now that it is confirmed that we are facing the second wave, senior citizens are being advised to avoid visiting overcrowded centres which can make them vulnerable to contracting the infection. This to some extent, affects the overall turnout,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital, Marine Lines. Vaccination numbers at glanceSince the beginning of the nationwide mass immunisation programme on January 16, 1,36,114 healthcare workers of the 2.5 lakh registered have been immunised. On February 4, BMC initiated inoculation for frontline workers at their centres. Of the 2 lakh who have registered, 1,26,644 have taken the jab. On March 1, the civic body started the third phase of the mass vaccination programme for senior citizens and those above 45 years with co-morbidities. BMC during their My Family, My Responsibility door-to-door campaign found that there are more than 30lakh senior citizens. Till March 17, 3,28,168 or 11% above 60 years have been vaccinated, and 45,395 citizens above 45 years with comorbidities have taken the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-centres-rise-from-10-to-91-response-still-low-101616092877407.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Woman raped on pretext of job in Noida||Noida: A 23-year-old woman from Kerala who worked as a nurse was allegedly drugged and then raped by a man on the pretext of providing a job. Police on Thursday arrested the suspect, who is also a native of Kerala. The suspect was identified as Raju, who worked with a private company in Noida. He was apprehended from near his house, police said. The incident came to fore on Wednesday when the woman approached Sector 24 police and shared her ordeal. According to her complaint, the suspect had been introduced to her through a common friend.“He had offered to help me find a job. He asked me to come to his house in Sector 12 on February 6 saying that his family would be there and I should give an interview,” said the woman in her complaint.When she reached the house, it was empty and upon enquiring, the suspect said that his wife had gone out and would be back shortly, police said. The suspect offered her apple juice after which she lost consciousness. The woman woke up disoriented in the middle of the night and went back to her house where she realized that she had been sexually violated, police said.She only approached police on March 17 after which she was sent for a medical examination. Based on her complaint, a case was registered against the suspect at Sector 24 police station under sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) and 376 (rape) of the Indian penal Code.“The woman is new to the city and only recently contacted us. It seems that the drink which was offered by the suspect was spiked and made her lose consciousness after which she was raped,” said Sudheer Kumar, station house officer, Sector 24 police station.The suspect was produced before a magistrate and sent to judicial custody for 14 days, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-raped-on-pretext-of-job-in-noida-101616092697104.html
19-03-2021||Other||K’taka reports 1,000 Covid-19 cases for third straight day, eight deaths||Bengaluru Karnataka reported 1,488 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in 24 hours on Wednesday, marking a third straight day with over 1,000 positives in the state, taking the total active cases to 11,359. The toll across the state jumped to 12,415 with eight more people succumbing to the infection.Bengaluru, meanwhile, accounted for 925 new Covid-19 cases, which took the city’s total active cases to 8,122. The city also reported seven out of the total eight deaths in the state.In the last one week, Bengaluru has reported 5,173 cases out of the total 8,163 across the state, recording a sharp spike, according to the state war room data.The war room also shared data on average contacts per patient as several experts indicated that the rise in Covid-19 cases was partly due to ineffective contact tracing. There are 38.41 contacts (average of primary and secondary) in Bengaluru, while the number is as high as 66.04 per person in Mandya. The total average in the state is around 4.46 in the month of March, according to the war room data.There are around 63,247 primary and secondary contacts in the state, according to the war room, including around 8,780 in Bengaluru alone.The number of people in active quarantine in Bengaluru rose to 15,189. The state government has so far vaccinated 1997005 people and there have been around 25 people who have developed serious complications post inoculation.The Karnataka government on Monday said it was putting together a concerted effort involving healthcare workers, officials and other personnel to prevent the possible second wave of Covid-19 in the state. K Sudhakar, state’s health and family welfare and medical education minister, said all agencies and personnel will work on “mission mode” for the next 50 days to prevent a rise in positive cases.Chief minister B.S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said the state will target vaccinating 300,000 people per day to counter the spike. He ruled out any restrictions on movement or another lockdown to contain the spread of the virus.The Centre, meanwhile, turned down the state’s request to set up vaccination centres in old-age homes, apartment complexes and hard-to-reach villages.In a letter, dated March 17 (but released on Thursday), the Union government conveyed that “it would be advisable that the state may consider limiting the Covid-19 vaccination services to health facilities as permitted by GoI.”The letter added that the state may consider cohort mobilisation of beneficiaries through special vehicles to the designated Covid-19 vaccination centres so that they may be comfortably vaccinated and also observed for 30 minutes for any AEFI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-reports-1-000-covid-19-cases-for-third-straight-day-eight-deaths-101616092638693.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Two kids among six injured in fire caused by cylinder gas leak||Noida: Six members of a family, including two children and a woman, sustained burn injuries after a fire broke out on Thursday morning at their home in Sector 28, police said. The fire broke out apparently due to a gas leakage from an LPG cylinder, they said. The incident was reported around 8am from the house of Jaiveer, a street food vendor. His brother Avneesh, who sustained minor injuries in the incident, said that Jaiveer was preparing snacks for the makeshift eatery when the incident took place.“It seems that there was a leakage in the gas pipeline of the cylinder. Soon there was a fire and it quickly spread to the regulator and then there was a minor blast. All of us escaped as soon as we could,” said Avneesh.In the incident, Jaiveer, his wife, two sons aged six and two years and two of his brothers sustained minor injuries, police said.The fire was brought under control by the neighbours who rushed the injured to the district hospital while a call was also made to police.“Teams were rushed to the spot. The injuries of Jaiveer’s brothers were minor and they were discharged from the district hospital after receiving first aid. The other four have sustained some blisters and were referred to a higher centre in Delhi for treatment,” said Munish Kumar Chauhan, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.All the victims are out of danger, police officials said, adding that the fire was controlled and did not cause too much damage.Chief fire officer Arun Kumar Singh said that the incident was not reported to the fire department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-two-kids-among-six-injured-in-fire-caused-by-cylinder-gas-leak-101616092637488.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Farmers protest against Greater Noida authority||GREATER NOIDA: Farmers protested against the Greater Noida authority, near its main administration office in sector Knowledge Park 5 from 11 am to 5 pm on Thursday, after the Uttar Pradesh government refused to provide them with residential plots and increase the land compensation among other benefits.Following the protest, top officials of the Greater Noida authority have assured the farmers that they will address their demands.The Uttar Pradesh government had earlier decided that it will not give the farmers a 4-time hike from the prevailing circle rate, 20% developed land against the total acquired land, and reservation in government jobs among other benefits. The state government took the decision after farmers from Bodaki and Palla sold their lands to the Greater Noida authority, through direct registration.There are two ways to take land from the farmers: either by implementing provisions of the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, or through direct land purchase.The farmers have given their lands to the Greater Noida authority through direct registration. They do not deserve the benefits given to the farmers from nearby villages, according to the UP government.“If the UP government and the Greater Noida authority do not accept our demands, we will protest again. We are ending our protest today, with the hope that the officials will address our issues and discuss it with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath for a solution,” said Manish Kumar, a farmer from Bodaki.Sachin Kumar, officer on special duty, Greater Noida authority, and other officials reached the protest site on Thursday and assured the farmers that their issues will be resolved soon.Around 500 farmers, including 200 women, reached the protest site in their cars and tractors. The authority has called in around 300 police constables, fire tender and buses to handle a crisis situation — only if the farmers try to disturb the peace in the area, said the officials.“The authority has assured us that our demands will be discussed, and the farmers will meet the UP CM in a month for a solution,” said Praveen Kumar, another farmer.Sachin Kumar, OSD, Greater Noida authority, said, “The authority will discuss their demands and take appropriate action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-protest-against-greater-noida-authority-101616092636876.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Air quality in Noida worsens||Noida: The air quality in Noida and adjoining cities worsened on Thursday amid a spike in the pollution levels due to the dusty winds. According to the weather analysts, the air quality in parts of Greater Noida and Ghaziabad was in the ‘severe’ category during the day, due to the dusty winds.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) in Noida on Thursday was 336 — on a scale of 0 to 500 — against 328 on Wednesday. On Thursday, the AQI in Greater Noida was recorded at 389 against 369 a day earlier, and Ghaziabad at 373 against 364 on Wednesday.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said that the “air quality will improve to the ‘very poor’ category soon”.“Surface winds are moderate and west south-westerly. However, the AQI is likely to improve marginally and remain in the lower end of the ’very poor’ to ’poor’ category on Friday. The AQI is likely to be ’poor’ on Saturday and Sunday,” SAFAR said in a statement on Thursday. Meanwhile, Noida recorded maximum and minimum temperatures at 34.3° Celsius and 18.1° Celsius on Thursday, against 34.4° and 18.1° Celsius on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-in-noida-worsens-101616092636254.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Five arrested for illegal construction in Greater Noida, premises sealed||Greater Noida: The Bisrakh police in Greater Noida arrested five persons on Wednesday for allegedly developing an illegal structure in Shahberi, and also sealed the premises. Despite a court’s stay order, the suspects were developing a housing project in the area.The complainant — Manoj Kumar Tomar, a head constable — said he had got a tip-off that some people were illegally digging the plot for the construction of a housing project. “When I visited the construction site, I saw that five persons — Vijendra Chaudhury, Sunil Tewatiya, Omvir Singh, Vinod Kumar and Bhola Prasad — were working on the housing project. We stopped the construction work, sealed the premises and seized the construction materials,” Kumar said.The Noida police had developed a police check post in Shahberi in November 2019, according to Anita Chauhan, SHO, Bisrakh police station. “It was also developed to keep illegal construction in check. The police team got a tip-off on Wednesday and conducted a search operation. Five persons were arrested from the spot and booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), and 447 (criminal trespass),” Chauhan said, adding that the arrested men were produced before a court, and sent to jail.On July 17, 2018, nine persons were killed when a twin building collapsed in the Shahberi village. The 47-year-old developer, Shahabudin Khan, had constructed the building without a layout plan approval from the Greater Noida authority. The accused had used bad quality construction material, which led to the incident, according to officials. So far, the police have registered FIRs against 181 developers, and arrested 50 of them in a crackdown.The Greater Noida authority had started the Shahberi land acquisition in 1994. It had acquired around 155 hectares by 2009, however, a group of farmers filed a writ petition, and the court stayed the land acquisition in 2011. The authority started land acquisition again in 2013, but the Allahabad High Court issued another stay order in 2014, directing the authority to maintain a status quo. However, rampant illegal construction was seen in 2017 and 2018, when the building collapsed. The Greater Noida authority estimated that there are around 1,453 illegal buildings in Shahberi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-arrested-for-illegal-construction-in-greater-noida-premises-sealed-101616092578577.html
19-03-2021||Noida||Yeida ropes in central govt agency for ₹300-cr pod taxi project||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) said on Thursday that it has roped in the central government agency, Indian Port Rail and Ropeway Corporation Limited (IPRCL), to work on a ₹300 crore pod taxi project that will connect the Film City with the airport.“We have given the work to the Indian Port Rail and Ropeway Corporation on Thursday. It has started working on this ambitious project that will play a crucial role in boosting the connectivity between the Film City and the airport. It will be a world-class and iconic project in this region,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO), YEIDA.The YEIDA will finalise the date following the completion of the project in a month, when the detailed project report (DPR) of the project will be submitted. The DPR will give exact details related to alignment, funding pattern and the completion of the work, Singh added.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has already given a green signal to the project and has directed the YEIDA to work on projects to enhance the connectivity between the airport and other important destinations across the Delhi-NCR.The distance from the proposed Film City project in Noida sector 21, along the 165 km Yamuna Expressway, to the Noida International Airport in Jewar is 6.5 km. The work on the ₹25,000 crore airport project is likely to be completed by 2023-24, as the concessionaire of the project — YIAPL, which is a 100% subsidiary of Zurich Airport International and has been incorporated to develop the Noida airport in Jewar, will start working at the site by mid-2021, said the officials. The airport will begin operating with two runways, and the airport will have five runways at its full capacity.“Our aim is to complete the pod taxi project before 2023, when the airport will start its operations. The DPR will be completed within a month. Once the DPR is submitted, work for the next stage will start,” said Singh.The YEIDA has also planned to connect Greater Noida with the airport, through a pod taxi route. “First, we will build a pod taxi from the airport to the Film City, and then we will start working on a 30 km pod taxi project to connect Greater Noida’s Pari Chowk with the airport. The UP government has asked us to build a pod taxi from the airport to Greater Noida as it will be a part of the multi-model connectivity project that aims to connect the airport with over one mode of commuting,” Singh added.According to YEIDA, the pod taxi project will cost around ₹40 crore per km. “For a 6.5 km pod taxi project, we need around ₹300 crore as per the initial estimates,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yeida-ropes-in-central-govt-agency-for-300-cr-pod-taxi-project-101616092577488.html
19-03-2021||Other||36% dip in budget for SC, ST, OBCs welfare||Bengaluru The allocation for welfare of Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), other backward classes (OBC) and minorities by the Karnataka government in 2021-22 has seen a decline of nearly 37% since 2019-20, according to official data. According to the Annual Financial Statement for 2021-22, released along with the Karnataka state budget, the allocation for welfare of these communities has come down from ₹278,345.12 lakh in 2019-20 to ₹176,082.83 lakh in 2020-21, registering a negative growth of 36.73%. The decline in allocations for marginalised sections come at a time when Karnataka chief minister B.S Yediyurappa has made large budgetary allocations for state’s dominant and politically influential communities like Lingayats and Vokkaligas with just two years remaining before the 2023 polls. Yediyurappa has cited revenue shortfalls from the Centre and the impact of Covid-19 for the lower allocations in various sectors, but this has been mitigated by higher borrowings, according to at least two Congress legislators. “There is an economic downturn and this is the main reason (for the decline). But the total allocation will not be lower than last year,” said a cabinet minister, requesting not to be namedEven the capital outlay on social security & welfare has seen a decline of 3% from ₹7,507.38 lakh in 2019-20 to ₹7,275.33 lakh in 2021-22, data shows. The decline in welfare and security comes even as the overall capital outlay on social services has seen an increase from ₹919,181.18 lakh in 2019-20 to ₹1,100,584.87 lakh in 2021-22. “The allocations should be in proportion to the population of these communities but there has been a steady decline in allocation completely,” KM Ramchandrappa, president of the Karnataka Backward Castes Federation , said. The private group that fights for rights of marginalised castes, which represents around 55 marginalised communities, is preparing to protest the declining allocation and importance given to these communities across the state from next week. Yediyurappa in this year’s budget announced ₹500 crore each to the Vokkaligas and Lingayats while setting up caste-specific boards to work to help improve both economic, social and educational conditions of these dominant communities. The state has also set up a Brahmin board with an allocation ₹50 crore in the 2021-22 budget. Yediyurappa has also set aside ₹1,500 crore for minorities. With just two years remaining for the next assembly elections in the state, Yediyurappa has taken it upon himself to bring the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to power, which would mean reaching out to dominant communities and caste groups that are seen to back other political parties, analysts said.While the Lingayats and Brahmins are seen to side with the BJP, the Vokkaligas, an agrarian community, are known to back former prime minister H.D Deve Gowda-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S), which has big presence in the southern region of Karnataka or the ‘Old Mysuru’ region. Others like backward classes, SC, ST and minorities tend to back the Congress. According to government data, there are at least 95 caste groups and over 370 subgroups within Category-I, who are entitled for 4% reservation. There are 102 main caste groups, including the dominant Vokkaliga communities, in Category-II (A) along with over 300 subgroups, who are entitled to 15% reservation. Category II (B) is reserved for members of the Muslim community. There are three main castes within III (A) and 34 subgroups with 4% reservation within them while there are at least 45 caste groups within III (B) including the politically influential Lingayats and their subsects who have 5% reservation.“We are not opposed to allocations to other communities. But an allocation of ₹1,000 crore to two communities that are believed to account for around 25% of the population, while the outlay for over 200 other castes that are extremely backward get just ₹60 crore. How is this justified?” Ramchandrappa said. According to the budget document, the allocation for SCP/TSP (scheduled caste sub-plan and scheduled tribe sub-plan) is ₹26,005 crore. “There is (a) decrease in total allocation due to the increase in committed expenditures like salary, honorarium, payment of principal and interest, pension etc., from ₹129,455 crore in 2020-21 to ₹142,855 crore in 2021-22,” according to the budget. Yediyurappa, however, clarified that it was a typo, and the allocation will remain the same as the previous year or ₹26,930 crore. “There is only an oral assurance but nothing on paper and we are sure nothing will come out of it either,” Priyank Kharge, former social welfare minister and Congress legislator, said. “We have seen a trend of declining allocations for marginalised communities. The decline is much more when it comes to nomadic communities,” CS Dwarkanath, an advocate who works with several caste groups and former chairman of the Karnataka backward classes commission, said. Experts on the subject said the actual picture and intent of expenditure of such allocations come out only the following year when revised estimates are presented, highlighting if the money was spent or not. “Such appeasing announcements are like magic cards. Whether any group gets the money or not is something we will know only the following year,” Dasanuru Kusanna from the Institute of Social and Economic Change said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/36-dip-in-budget-for-sc-st-obcs-welfare-101616092578126.html
19-03-2021||Other||Jarkiholi case: Absconding Journalist says SIT trying to fix his involvement||Bengaluru Naresh Gowda, a journalist wanted in the alleged sex tape case involving former state minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, on Thursday released a video claiming innocence. On March 12, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) questioned Gowda for his alleged involvement in leaking the video. Gowda has since been absconding.In the video, he claimed that he did not appear before the investigating officers because he believed he will be fixed in the case. “My name has been dragged into the sex tape case involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. There is a systematic effort to fix me in the case,” said Gowda.He also claimed that he was in touch with the woman in the video, adding that it was not for extortion but to “help a woman in distress”. “I want to clarify that I’m not involved in this case. It is a fact that I was in touch with that woman. But she contacted me as I was a journalist, and she has some problems. She got my number from some friends and called me to say that former minister Jarkiholi cheated her. I asked her to bring any audio or video clipping she has evidence… I might have interacted with her 15-20 times for this case,” he said in the video.Gowda added that since he got busy with family commitments, he lost touch with the woman. “Now it is said that I’m the mastermind who circulated the video. I want to clarify that only when the video came on my phone, I realised such a video was leaked and the woman had come to me earlier. I have no role in this video getting released. People have been claiming I got paid ₹5 crore for this CD, but the fact is that I’m paying ₹15,000 EMI for a ₹5 lakh loan I have taken. There have been a couple of times, where my cheques have bounced before my salary didn’t come on time,” he claimed.He further added, “…I should have helped her when I had the chance, but I was waiting for evidence... but now the situation is such that even though the woman is the victim in this case, police are painting a picture that Jarkiholi is the victim. They are portraying this woman in her 20s as an accused and harassing her.” He said he will appear before the investigating officers within eight days.On March 3, Jarkiholi resigned from the post of water resources minister after a social activist filed a police complaint accusing him of sexual harassment. The activist has since withdrawn his complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jarkiholi-case-absconding-journalist-says-sit-trying-to-fix-his-involvement-101616092576875.html
19-03-2021||Other||JD(S) will contest both assembly bypolls, call on LS seat in 3-4 days: Kumaraswamy||BengaluruFormer Karnataka chief minister and leader of the Janata Dal (Secular) H.D Kumaraswamy on Thursday said his party will contest the two assembly bypolls in the state to help rid the regional outfit of being seen as lending support to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He added that the party will take a decision on contesting the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll in next three-four days.“In both constituencies (Basavakalayan and Maski), no matter what economic promises the Congress and BJP roll out, we will strive to win,” Kumaraswamy told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday.The JD(S) announced the name of Syed Yesrab Ali Quadri, a former Congress worker, as its candidate from Basavakalyan. The party is yet to announce a candidate from Maski.In 2018, the two assembly constituencies were won by the Congress while the BJP won the Belagavi parliamentary seat. The Basavakalyan seat had fallen vacant after the death of B Narayan Rao of the Congress while bypoll to Belagavi seat was necessitated after the death of Union minister Suresh Angadi. Pratapgouda Patil of the Congress won Maski in 2018 but has since defected to the BJP. Meanwhile, the Congress on Thursday announced Mallamma, the widow of Narayan Rao, as its candidate from Basavakalyan seat. It also announced Basavanagouda Turvihal from Maski. Turvihal had contested the seat on a BJP ticket in 2018 but lost to Pratapgouda Patil by just over 200 votes.The Congress also announced Ashok Managuli as its candidate for Sindgi, where the date for the bypoll is yet to be announced. Ashok’s father M.C Managuli was a senior JD(S) leader and a former minister.The JD(S) allied with the BJP in the upper house of the state legislature to instate party veteran Basavaraj Horatti as the chairman of the council.However, Kumaraswamy, in an earlier interview to HT, said that this alliance is “non-binding”. The Congress has often termed the JD(S) as the “B-Team” of the BJP.The JD(S) and BJP see Congress as the common enemy and the regional outfit has allied with both parties in the past to remain relevant in the state.The JD(S) draws its strength from the Old Mysuru region in Karnataka where the dominant Vokkaliga community is its core support base. The JD(S) sees Congress as a threat in these regions and has often struck regional alliances with the BJP to win local, state and national elections. The Congress and JD(S) parted ways on a bitter note after its decimation in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections where both parties were reduced to just one seat each while the BJP swept 25 out of the total 28 parliamentary constituencies in the state.Patil was one of the 17 legislators who had defected to the BJP and engineered the collapse of the Kumaraswamy-led coalition government in 2019.Kumaraswamy said that by winning in these constituencies, mostly in the northern districts of the state, the party will send a strong message across the state.The JD(S) has also seen some of its workers join the two national parties in recent days. Madhu Bangarappa, a former legislator, joined the Congress last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jds-will-contest-both-assembly-bypolls-call-on-ls-seat-in-3-4-days-kumaraswamy-101616092576228.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Uptick continues: Delhi adds 607 Covid cases||The number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reported daily has jumped by nearly 200 in the last two days, with Delhi adding 607 infections on Thursday — the most since January 6, as the Capital’s Covid-19 graph continued to climb, amid a sharp nationwide rise increase in cases, with experts imploring residents to maintain precautions and get vaccinated if eligible.The test positivity rate on the day increased to 0.76%, also the highest since January 6.Delhi also added one more death of the infection in Thursday’s bulletin. Although the number of deaths have remained stable – an average of 2.1 deaths a day in March – the number of active cases and hospitalisations have increased.The number of active cases inched closer to the 3,000 mark, with over 1,500 people in home isolation as on Wednesday night, the highest since early January. The number of hospitalisations increased to 794, as compared to 579 recorded a week ago, shows government data.Delhi currently has 5,711 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 across city hospitals, down from over 18,000 reserved beds during the third wave of cases in November, when the city recorded an average of 6,122 new infections every single day.For the current uptick in cases, city doctors blame weddings and other large social gatherings.“There was euphoria when the number of infections in the city went down, as any viral infection does naturally. With over 50% of the population exposed to the infection, the transmission slowed down. But, people gathering for events such as weddings led to an increase. This is exactly what happened after Dussehra and Diwali,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences and chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care.He said he has is aware of super-spreader events, where between 30 and 40 people in a wedding party contracted the infection.“We now know that the infection spreads through droplets and aerosols. So, whenever people pull down their mask at such events, the risk of contracting the virus is very high,” he said.Dr Rommel Tickoo, director of internal medicine at Max healthcare also said, “Festivals and wedding are a hotbed for infections as people tend to forget to take precautions. I know of instances where 40 to 50 people in a wedding got the infection.”State health minister Satyendar Jain, however, sought to calm fears, and said the positivity rate in the city has been below 1% for two months.“The situation in Delhi is well within control as compared to other states. But I will still emphasise that people continue to remain cautious of the coronavirus,” said Jain||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-607-covid-19-cases-as-infection-graph-inches-upwards-101616092097860.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Parking space may be defined by dwelling units, not plot size||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Thursday approved dynamic parking norms to rationalise the existing provisions in a bid to address the growing parking problem in the capital. The policy was approved in a meeting chaired by Delhi Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal along with other key proposals such as Transit-Oriented Development and setting up of a committee to monitor the restoration work of the Yamuna floodplain.The dynamic parking policy, which will be put in the public domain for comments soon before being notified, mandates that parking space in residential areas will be based on the size and number of dwelling units on a plot instead of the total built-up area. DDA officials said this will help reduce congestion on roads, which in many places, have been turned into parkings by local residents.A DDA official said that to address the parking problem, especially in residential areas, there is a need to rationalise parking. “Presently, parking norms are based on the designated use premise. It has been observed that the surplus parking from buildings spills over to roads and results in congestion in the public spaces….The new norms are based on the number and size of the dwelling units instead of built-up area in case of residential projects,” said the official.The official added, “In case of government housing, the norms for GPRA colonies will be adopted. In the case of banquet halls, parking norms are enhanced keeping in view the orders of the NGT.”For hospitals and government offices, the parking norms will be based on actual usage, DDA officials said.TOD development around 12 Metro stationsThe DDA also approved the Transit-Oriented Development policy on Thursday. DDA officials said that 12 metro stations have been identified around which mixed-use development will be planned based on the TOD policy.As per the modification in the policy, the parking space will be one Equivalent Car Space (ECS) per 100 sqm of covered area with mandatory 5% of the parking area earmarked for bicycles and wheelchairs. The developer will have to provide at least 50% of all parking facilities within TOD schemes as public parking facilities and at least 10% of the parking area will have charging points for electric vehicles. The maximum Floor Area Ratio of a building on any plot in the TOD influence zone will be 500.Floodplain restorationWith the restoration of the Yamuna floodplain going on, the L-G constituted a committee to oversee the work. The panel named River Yamuna Management Committee will be headed by the L-G and have Delhi’s chief secretary, DDA vice-chairman, Jal Shakti ministry official and stakeholders, including UP and Haryana governments as members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/earmark-parking-based-on-dwelling-units-instead-of-total-area-dda-proposes-in-new-policy-101616092039781.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt plans light and sound show, photo gallery at CP to mark Martyr’s Day||Nearly 50 sunboard banners capturing the life of revolutionary socialist Bhagat Singh and the Independence struggle, a light and sound show depicting the freedom fighter’s life, cultural performances, and a talk show – that is how the Delhi government plans to mark Singh’s death anniversary on March 23, also observed as Martyr’s Day.The events will be held at Connaught Place and will be a part of the ”Freedom@75 celebrations” announced by the Delhi government in its annual budget last week.On Thursday, officials visited Central Park at Connaught Place to discuss the arrangements. Sanjay Garg, head of Delhi Archives, said the department will be displaying around 40-50 sunboard banners in Central Park detailing key events from the freedom fighter’s life.“We will mainly be focusing on Singh’s connection to Delhi -- the places he visited such as Feroze Shah Kotla; the detailed official report of when he bombed the assembly to make a statement; the SSP report which also states that schoolchildren of that time put up photos of Singh in their school – all these will be included in our gallery, apart from other chapters of the freedom struggle,” said Garg.Officials also said four photographs of the legendary leader will be displayed alongside a light and sound show on his life. “The light and sound show is based on a book on Singh and will highlight Singh’s contribution to the freedom struggle. The show will nearly be an hour long and it will be on our social media platforms as well,” said Rajinder Singh, secretary of the Punjabi Academy.Although the Delhi Archives has organised programmes on Martyr’s Day, the scale of programmes has increased in light of the Freedom@75 event, officials said. The department will also be working on multiple events on the freedom struggle celebrations.Along with creating video slideshows of digitized documents on the freedom struggle, the department is also planning to hold “mobile exhibitions” that will travel to different parts of the city, digital documentaries, and talk sessions, among others.Delhi Archives is also involved in a talk show on “the link between the freedom struggle and Delhi”, slated to be held on March 27 at the India Islamic Centre. “We have invited dignitaries such as Vinay Bharat-Ram, chairperson of DCM group, who have seen Delhi change over the years along with the families of freedom fighters Jugal Kishore Khanna, Jamia Millia Islamia co-founder Hakim Ajmal Khan and Mir Mushtaq Ahmed to speak on their memory of Delhi,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-plans-light-and-sound-show-photo-gallery-at-cp-to-mark-martyr-s-day-101616092036938.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Man who fired, injured police constable arrested after shootout in Ghazipur||A 25-year-old alleged snatcher, who along with his two associates had shot and injured a policeman on duty in outer Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy last month, was arrested after a shootout in east Delhi’s Ghazipur on Wednesday night.A total of five rounds were exchanged between the suspect and the police team. Of the two bullets fired by the police, one hit the suspect, identified as Adil alias Shakeel, in his thigh. Adil was injured and caught with a semi-automatic pistol, three cartridges and a bike. He was admitted to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital for treatment. His condition is stated to be stable, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said that on February 25 around 6pm, Adil and his two associates – Yogesh Verma and a minor boy – were roaming around on a motorcycle in JJ Colony, Bhalswa Dairy looking for a target, when they were spotted and challenged by two policemen on duty — constables Sandeep and Bhupender. The constables became suspicious and stopped the trio for checking at a police picket.“The policemen asked them to show the documents of their bike. But, instead the trio fled. When the policemen chased and tried to catch them, the suspects opened fire. One bullet hit constable Sandeep in his abdomen while Bhupender escaped unhurt,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.A case was registered and several teams started looking for the three suspects. Two of them, including the juvenile, were apprehended on March 1, following a gun battle with an outer-north district team in Rohini Sector-30. Adil, however, continue to be on the run.On March 17 (Wednesday night), the special cell team received information that Adil would be coming near the paper market n Ghazipur on a bike. Accordingly, a trap was laid and the suspect was asked to surrender as the police team spotted him. However, Adil again whipped out a pistol and opened fire at the police party, DCP Kushwah said.“Adil fired three bullets while two were fired by the police personnel in self-defence. He suffered a bullet in his right leg and was alter arrested. The bike he was riding was the one used during the firing on the two policemen last month,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-who-fired-injured-police-constable-arrested-after-shootout-in-ghazipur-101616091978860.html
19-03-2021||Other||‘Devious’: Mamata Banerjee backs AAP on Centre’s NCT Bill||Extending support to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over a central government bill that seeks to give increased powers to the Lieutenant Governor over the elected government in Delhi, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said it was a “devious, anti-democratic and anti-Constitution” move that will reduce the status of the Delhi CM to a “subordinate of the lieutenant governor”.In a letter to her Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday, Banerjee wrote, “The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 is a surgical strike on the federal structure of the Indian Republic, as enshrined in the Constitution. It also makes a mockery of the letter and spirit of democracy by disempowering the Delhi government, which is elected by the people of national capital.”Kejriwal thanked the West Bengal CM for her support. “Thank you didi for supporting people of Delhi against Centre’s unconstitutional step. Anyone who supports India and its democracy cannot support this Bill. I hope the BJP will withdraw this Bill. Please take care of your health. I also pray for your handsome victory in coming elections,” the Delhi CM tweeted.The Union government introduced the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on Monday to amend the 1991 GNCT Act. The Bill says that “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in the context of all legislation, and seeks to make it mandatory for the Delhi government to seek the prior opinion of the L-G before any executive action.Banerjee said she swill seek support for the AAP against the Bill. “They want to govern Delhi by proxy… What the BJP is trying to do in Delhi is hardly an exception. In state after state governed by non-BJP parties the Centre has been creating problems for duly elected government by misusing the office of the Governor… I shall write a letter to all non-BJP chief ministers in the country, urging them to extend their support to you.”In separate press briefings, AAP leaders Sanjay Singh and Satyendar Jain slammed the Centre over the introduction of the Bill. Singh, a Rajya Sabha MP, called the proposed legislation “unconstitutional” and “undemocratic”. Singh said the AAP will continue to protest against the Bill.“We will keep protesting against the Bill in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. We have support from several other political parties,” he said.Jain said the BJP was resorting to “unconstitutional” means after losing in successive elections in Delhi. “They just want to bring this Bill to stop all the welfare and good governance in Delhi,” he said.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless”. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “It is difficult to understand why the AAP government is protesting against the Centre’s move. It is only aimed at strengthening checks and balances in Delhi’s governance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mamata-backs-aap-over-centre-s-bill-calls-it-devious-move-to-make-cm-subordinate-of-lg-101616091978200.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Revised promotion policy for Class 9, 11 to continue this year||The Delhi Directorate of Education, citing “exceptional circumstances” arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, on Thursday announced that it was extending the one-time revised promotion policy announced last year for students of Class 9 and 11 in public and private schools this year as well.In May last year, the education department had announced a revised policy under which students of these classes, who appeared for their exams, were allotted grace marks to ensure they scored minimum marks required to pass —33%.Instead of giving weightage to annual exams, the revised promotion policy states that a student securing 33% marks in five subjects will be passed. The order stated that results will be calculated on the basis of annual exam, mid-term, and internal assessment or practicals. Previous promotion policies called for securing 25% in the 60-mark annual exams in the five main subjects. The department has also allowed schools to grant a maximum of 15 marks as “grace” to reach the 33% mark “in one or any number of subjects only for promotion to next higher class.”“The exceptional circumstances of Covid pandemic led to the closure of schools for a long period, without face-to-face classroom teaching-learning activities, Directorate of Education has decided to extend the Revised Promotion Policy 2019-20 as a onetime measure,” director of education Udit Prakash Rai stated in Wednesday’s order. Those failing to clear the exams can appear for compartment exam at a later date.The department has asked all government, government-aided, and recognised unaided (private) schools to comply with these guidelines. Private schools wishing to change the criteria — than the ones mentioned in the guidelines — can approach director (education) for approval.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, welcomed the revised promotion policy. “The promotion criteria have been simplified and will benefit students. We followed the guidelines last year and will do so this year,” she said.The revised promotion policy had effectively increased the Class 9 pass percentage (64.5%) to the highest in five years. The Class 11 pass percentage (96.2%) had also jumped by nearly 11 percentage points in the last academic session — meaning that an increased number of students would be appearing for the class 10 and 12 board exams slated to take place in May this year.Principals across the government schools believe that the implementation of the revised promotion policy will have an impact on the board exams of 2021-22 as well.Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, said, “While there is a need to help students who may have struggled due to the online and semi-online teaching modes, we have noticed that students who were promoted with grace marks are the ones not coming to our school for extra classes we are currently conducting. The no-detention policy means that all have to be promoted till Class 9 and there is no filtering.”Mary Jyotsna Minj, head of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, New Kondli, said, “Since education is continuing in blended mode, we will feel the effects of this on board students in next couple of years. It will be challenging for schools with more students as we have to arrange for staggered classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-impact-revised-promotion-policy-for-class-9-11-to-continue-this-year-says-edu-dept-101616091976934.html
19-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram meat shops ordered to stay shut on Tuesdays||Meat shops in the city will remain closed on Tuesdays, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram decided in its House meeting on Thursday. A few councillors raised the issue during the meeting citing religious sentiments and after long deliberation, the proposal was approved.There are 129 licensed meat shops in the city, with as many as 150 more operating illegally, according to MCG officials. They said that as per the provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation bylaws, 2008, any municipal corporation across the state has the power to close meat shops on a single day of a week, with immediate effect.The MCG had put forth an agenda before the House on restarting the issuance of licences to meat shop owners and doubling the license fee from ₹5,000 to ₹10,000. Soon after the agenda was tabled, MCG councillors Ashwani Sharma and Dharambir Singh, of wards 23 and 21, respectively, said that the civic body should raise the licensing fee to ₹50,000 and requested the closure on Tuesdays, citing religious sentiments.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, however, said that food was a personal choice. “One shouldn’t raise such issues, you may believe in closing meat shops on Tuesday. In my opinion, this is an individual choice. I eat meat but my wife doesn’t. I do not force her, and she does not force me. It is completely a personal choice. When households have differences on this issue, the House should give this a serious thought before making any decision regarding the entire city. Food is an independent choice,” said Singh.The MCG commissioner then left the decision on this matter to the House as councillors emphasised that bye-laws allow for the same. Mayor Madhu Azad also lent her support to the motion and subsequently, the resolution on closing meat shops falling within the MCG area on Tuesdays was approved.“As per the provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Byelaws, 2008, any municipal corporation can close meat shops on a single day during the week. Hence, such a decision can be implemented with immediate effect,” said Ashish Singla, MCG’s chief medical officer, who oversees the issuance of licences, fines and closure orders for meat shops in the city.Pritam Singh, the president of Jacobpura meat shops association, said the move would cause revenue loss. “If the MCG has passed this resolution, there is little else the association or the shopkeepers can do. The MCG should have taken into account that even if a few members of one community do not consume meat on Tuesday, other communities consume it. We were open seven days a week but now, will be forced to close on Tuesdays and lose revenue,” said Singh.The MCG’s original agenda of increasing the licensing fee from ₹5,000 to ₹10,000 was approved after an extensive discussion, after officials decided that ₹50,000 was not feasible.The MCG started issuing licences to meat shops in 2017. Singla informed the House that 129 meat shops were registered under this policy till March 2018, after which no new licences were issued.During the meeting, Vinay Pratap Singh also said that the MCG should increase the penalty imposed on illegal meat shops from ₹500 to ₹5,000 and the same was unanimously approved. He also said that if a shop is fined three times for illegally running operations, then the MCG should permanently seal the same.“With the MCG’s jurisdiction increasing recently and the demand for meat and opening of meat shops increasing, and the decision to reopen licensing was taken to increase the civic body’s revenue. Since 2018, we were only renewing the annual licences of 129 shop registered with us,” said Singla.Councillor Dharambir Singh declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/meat-shops-to-shut-on-tuesday-decides-house-101616091556200.html
19-03-2021||Pune||Senior citizens on front foot in Pune city vaccine drive||At least 93,721 senior citizens (above 60 years of age) have taken the Covid vaccine between March 1 to March 18, according to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). However, during the same period, the number of beneficiaries between the age group of 45 years and 59 years with comorbidities is only 17,332.Experts suggest that patients with comorbidities should get vaccinated as soon as possible as they are high-risk patients just like senior citizens.Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra Chapter, said that there is less awareness among beneficiaries who are between the age of 45 years and 59 years.“The list of 20 comorbidities shared by the central government excludes many beneficiaries. Also, not every beneficiary is aware that they are eligible to get a vaccine under particular comorbidity. For example, not many people are aware that persons with disabilities are also included in the list of comorbidities. There should be more awareness among the general public to get more people vaccinated,” said Bhondwe.He further added that vaccination centres should be increased and many should start 24/7 vaccination.“This will help working professionals get vaccinated sooner. Also, many private hospitals have the staff and infrastructure to start the 24/7 vaccination. This will help beneficiaries across the society in getting vaccinated,” said Dr Bhondwe.Ketan Kulkarni, a 54-year beneficiary with comorbidities said that despite booking a slot for vaccination, the process has taken the whole working day.“Earlier, I applied for the slot on Sunday. But there was no vaccination drive, so I had to come on the weekday. I had to apply for a half-day leave as my slot was booked for noon. But then I extended my leave for the rest of the day as the process was taking a lot of time. There is a need to start vaccination post office hours, as it will make the process hassle-free for working professionals,” said Kulkarni.He further added that he has to take another day off to vaccinate his parents who are senior citizens.Speaking about the low turnout for comorbid patients, PMC officials said that there is no data as to how many beneficiaries fall in the age group of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities.“There is no concrete data about the numbers as the beneficiaries have not registered with us like the healthcare workers (HCW’s) and the frontline workers (FLW’s). But the numbers show that the vaccination is less,” said a PMC official on condition of anonymity.As of March 18, at least 41,864 HCWs have received their first jab. Whereas, only 27,706 frontline workers have received their first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/more-senior-citizens-get-vaccinated-in-pune-city-101616082435731.html
19-03-2021||Delhi||Can vaccinate all of Delhi in 3 months, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday appealed to the Centre to relax the eligibility criteria for Covid-19 vaccinations, saying that his government can inoculate all adult residents of Delhi within three months to tackle steadily rising infections that have triggered concerns of a fresh wave.Emphasising that vaccination is the most effective way to control the spread of Covid-19, Kejriwal said that his government will increase daily inoculation capacity from 30,000-40,000 to 125,000 by doubling the number of centres from the existing 500, and extending their timing by four hours.Health care and frontline workers, along with people over 60 years and those aged at least 45 with specified comorbidities, are currently eligible to get vaccinated in India. The world’s largest vaccination drive was launched in the country on January 16, with two vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) being cleared so far for use.“The Centre should make vaccines open for all those who are 18 years of age and above. India is producing enough Covid-19 vaccines now to get this done. Walk-in centres should be opened for all. I urge the central government to take this up on a war footing. If this is allowed, we can vaccinate everyone in Delhi (18 years and above) in three months,” Kejriwal said.Addressing a digital news briefing after holding a review meeting with health minister Satyendar Jain and top officials of the Delhi government, Kejriwal said they will write to the Centre about allowing states to relax the eligibility criteria.He was speaking a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to chief ministers, stressing on the need to take “decisive action” in an urgent meeting during which the issue of expanding the drive was raised by at least three CMs.Delhi continued its trend of rising infections on Thursday, with the city reporting 607 new cases, the highest daily infections since January 6. Even though the positivity rate remains low, experts believe the latest spike is a matter of concern and could spark the fourth wave of infections in the Capital if strict measures are not ensured. The seven-day average of cases, which denotes the case trajectory, currently stands at 456, the highest in over two months, or since January 12. This number has now been rising for the past 24 days in the city, which has led to experts saying that it may be the start of the fourth wave of infections in the Capital“The daily number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has been increasing over the past three days, but there is no need to panic... Today, in the meeting, I have given strict instructions to intensify our Covid-19 management system of testing, tracing and isolation. Surveillance will be enhanced and the general laxity observed among people in following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour will be addressed by strict enforcement,” Kejriwal said.A senior official of the Union health ministry said on condition of anonymity: “We are focusing on people who are vulnerable; therefore, in need of the vaccine. Individuals who are vulnerable must be protected first; that’s our priority. Vaccine eagerness can become as big a problem as vaccine hesitancy.”Kejriwal said that if people are vaccinated, there is a good chance that they won’t get Covid-19 for a year or so. “Currently, we are vaccinating 30,000-40,000 people in a day and are going to increase it to 125,000 soon. The number of centres will also be doubled from the existing 500. At present, Covid-19 vaccination centres operate from 9am to 5pm, which will be increased to run them from 9am to 9pm every day,” he said.By Thursday evening, the health department issued two orders directing all hospitals to extend the timings as announced by Kejriwal and for all Delhi government hospitals to increase their vaccination centres from Monday onwards.Urging the Centre to also relax the parameters for vaccination centres, Kejriwal said that at present, only a few centres are open for 24 hours. “It has been more than two months since the inoculation drive started... So, instead of having a list of categories for the people who are eligible for vaccines, we should have a list of those who are not eligible. Rest all adults should be vaccinated,” he said.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said the Covid-19 numbers are likely to increase further in the coming weeks. “People have stopped following Covid-19 appropriate norms. It is seen most in marketplaces. Intensive campaigns and strict enforcement to ensure mask wearing and social distancing should be carried out,” he said.The Union health ministry has separately listed out districts in 12 states and Union territories where infections have grown significantly. From a low of under 11,000 cases every day in the second week of February – the lowest levels recorded since the peak of the first wave in country in September last year – India is now again recording over 29,000 new cases a day on a weekly average. On Thursday, it added 39,671 infections, highest since November 28, 2020.Except for Kerala, Odisha and Bihar, almost all regions are showing an increase in their outbreak, according to the University of Michigan’s India Covid-19 metrics tracker that shows all of the other regions with an R number above 1.India has so far delivered 38.92 million doses. In the last 24 hours, 1.78 million doses were delivered. “If more centres can be added and they work on a mission mode, we will reduce wastage... Also, keep in mind the expiry date of the vaccine. Use the earlier batches first,” Modi said in the meeting with chief ministers on Wednesday.BS Vohra, president of the Joint Forum of East Delhi RWAs, said if norms are relaxed, a lot more people can be vaccinated in the coming months, but suggested that the government carry out more campaigns to curtail vaccine hesitancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/can-vaccinate-delhi-s-adult-population-in-3-months-if-norms-relaxed-kejriwal-101616067615557.html
