20-03-2021||Other||Three arrested for posing as CBI officers, stealing Rs12.5 lakh||New Delhi: Three persons posed as Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officers and stole R12.50 lakh from the bag of a 55-year-old man, employed with a business firm, after stopping him for checking in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh on Friday evening, police said on Saturday. A case has been registered at the Karol Bagh police station and teams have been formed to identify and nab the impersonators, senior police officers associated with the case said.Deputy commissioner of police (Central) Jasmeet Singh said that on Friday evening, the police control room received a call about stealing R12.50 lakh from a man’s bag by three unknown persons who claimed themselves as CBI officers. A police team reached and met the complainant, Bhanwar Singh, who told them that around 7 pm, he visited a jewellery showroom in Karol Bagh for making a payment of R24.25 lakh.“The employees at the showroom did not receive the amount after which Singh left the shop. Outside the shop, three men came near him and introduced themselves as CBI officers. They asked him to show his bag. While checking the bag, they stole some bundles of banknotes worth R12.50 lakh and fled. The remaining amount was there in the bag,” said the DCP.The police are examining the CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene for clues about the suspects. They are also probing if any insider passed on the information about the money to the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-arrested-for-posing-as-cbi-officers-stealing-rs12-5-lakh-101616264496934.html
20-03-2021||Other||Court closes defamation case against AAP MLA||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Saturday closed a criminal defamation case against Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Somnath Bharti filed by a woman journalist in 2018 after she accepted his apology before the judge.The complainant, Ranjana Sharma, had filed the case against Bharti for calling her names during a live television debate show on November 20, 2018.Bharti submitted before the court that in 2018 while he was on telephonic conferencing with the complainant, “he had made certain statements and those statements and his words were not directed towards the complainant, but if his words have hurt sentiments of the complainant in any way, he offers his sincere and deepest apology to the complainant”.After Bharti’s apology, the complainant, represented by advocate Yogesh Swaroop, agreed to compound the case.“In view of the submissions made and statements of the parties recorded today, particularly statement of the complainant regarding compounding of the present complaint case against the accused, present complaint case stands disposed of as compounded,” Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta said in his order of Saturday.The court also noted that in the present case, the notice for offence punishable under section 500 of IPC was framed against the accused, which is compoundable in nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-closes-defamation-case-against-aap-mla-101616264436337.html
20-03-2021||Other||34 arrested in Uttam Nagar call centre scam||New Delhi: Thirty-four people were arrested by the cyber cell for allegedly duping foreigners through two fake call centres that they were running from a building in southwest Delhi’s Uttam Nagar, police said on Saturday. They were cheating foreign nationals in the name of social security number processing and providing technical to the clients of a leading cellphone company and antivirus support for the equipments of a leading cellphone and laptop brand.Deputy commissioner of police (CyPAD) Anyesh Roy said that the arrested persons also extorted money from foreigners by sending them voice recordings, pretending to be US Drug Enforcement. They sent pop-ups to unsuspecting people that their electronic devices have been hacked and then cheated them on the pretext of providing technical support by a leading anti-virus company. The arrested persons also used to send recorded messages pretending to be from the technical support team of a leading cellphone company and then cheated the callers.“Among the arrested persons are the owners of the two call centres. They have been identified as Kshitiz Bali, Abhishek and Dhananjay Negi. While Bali ran a call centre on the building’s third floor, the other two ran another call centre of the fourth floor,” added DCP Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/34-arrested-in-uttam-nagar-call-centre-scam-101616264076247.html
20-03-2021||Other||High court tells NHAI to seek fresh permission for cutting trees before constructing flyover in Dwarka||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to seek fresh permission for cutting trees for the construction of a flyover on road no 226 in Dwarka sector 22-23, after the Deputy Conservator of Forest (DCF) informed the court that earlier clearances given to the highways body have expired.Justice Prathiba M Singh, while hearing a plea challenging the construction of the flyover, said the application of the NHAI seeking renewal of permission will be decided within two weeks.The DCF, who was present during the hearing on March 17, told the court that the earlier permission which was taken by the NHAI in September 2019 was valid for three months and hence, the approval for felling of trees is not valid.“Accordingly, the NHAI is directed to apply for renewal of the said permission, which shall be considered in accordance with the applicable Rules by the Respondent No. 4 - Department of Environment, Forests and Wildlife, GNCTD,” the court said in its order on March 17.The order came on a plea filed by the cooperative group housing societies (CGHS) and residents of Sectors 22 and 23, where approximately 50 apartment societies and 12 schools are located along Road no 226. The plea has alleged that no permission was taken to cut about 980 trees and 1,500 shrubs and neither was any other mandatory clearance obtained for the flyover construction.The plea, filed through advocate Anand Varma, has contended that the construction is being carried without having obtained the necessary permissions/approvals from Delhi government, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC).It has said that under the garb of execution of the Dwarka Expressway Package 2, the construction is being carried out “for the ulterior and extraneous purpose of providing connectivity to an exhibition and convention centre”.On March 10, the court had noted that the project is an important project and the concerns of the residents are also valid. It had then directed the DCF, who had earlier granted the permission in 2019, to appear before the court.On March 17, the forest conservator told the court that permission was granted to the NHAI on Sep 14, 2019 for removal of 1047 trees in Sector 20 to 22, Dwarka. However, the approval expired after 90 days and no renewal has been sought by NHAI.The court, noting this, asked the NHAI to seek fresh permissions and posted the matter for further hearing on May 4. It also granted one last opportunity to the DDA to file their response on the plea.The petition has alleged that the “unapproved” construction carried out by the NHAI, to which the other authorities have turned a blind eye, would lead to exponential increase in traffic, air and noise pollution in addition to the creation of traffic bottlenecks, increase road safety issues for residents, not to mention the impact wrought by the felling of trees on the residential road.It also claimed that the residents were not consulted before the work began. Varma has said that from an RTI (right to information) reply given on July 22, they got to know that there was no record of the road being handed over to the NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-tells-nhai-to-seek-fresh-permission-for-cutting-trees-before-constructing-flyover-in-dwarka-101616264016839.html
20-03-2021||Other||Hospitals to start vaccination camps in condos, societies from today||GurugramSeveral private hospitals of the city will be holding Covid-19 vaccination camps in condominiums and gated societies from Sunday onwards to facilitate people above 60 years and those aged between 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities to take their vaccine shot. The health department has permitted private hospitals to hold vaccination drive in coordination with Resident Welfare Association (RWA) to increase the vaccination coverage by reaching out to senior citizens and physically disabled people who have been facing difficulties to visit hospitals to get the vaccine dose. “The hospital has already done a dry run at a community centre in Ansal Sushant Estate, sector 52 on Saturday, where we vaccinated 50 people. It will help us in extending the vaccination camp to multiple RWAs and scaling up the drive from next week onwards,” said Dr Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute. Following the Covid-19 vaccination guidelines, hospitals will be setting up separate rooms for vaccination and observation in clubs, within the premises of condominiums and apartments. In some cases, community centres will be used to set up vaccination camps. As per norms, vaccine beneficiaries will pay ₹250 for a dose and on spot registration can be done by showing ID proof. “We have contacted 30-40 RWA committees. They have all given us positive feedback about the onsite vaccination initiative, especially for the elderly. We are working on the logistics of sending our team of nurses and doctors to the RWAs,” said Arpita Mukherjee, vice president operations and head, Max Super specialty Hospital, Gurugram. At Vatika India Next Township, sector 83, the preparation has already begun where vaccination camp will be set up on March 23 and 24 from 9am to 4pm. “Arrangements are being made at the club house, within the township as per the vaccination guidelines. There are over 30,000 residents, out of which more than 1,000 are senior citizens and about 10,000 are above the age of 45 . Since Saturday morning, at least 375 people have already registered for the March 23 vaccination camp,” said Ajay Kumar Singh, president, Enviro. According to Singh, in order to streamline the vaccination while maintaining social distancing, at least 20 people will be given vaccine jabs every hour. “Gatherings or queues will be prevented. In a day only 500 people will be vaccinated. To cover the identified population group, we are planning to extend the vaccination camp further,” said Singh. The expansion of vaccination to residential societies will also help in expediting the vaccination coverage, which has been gradually declining in private facilities due to multiple factors. “There has been gradual decline in overall turnout in hospitals for vaccination as people are a little reluctant of visiting hospitals for the fear of contracting the virus. Some people are finding it difficult to bring their parents to vaccination sites due to their office hours. Vaccination camps with the help of RWAs will help us in addressing these issues and increase coverage,” said Dr Sushila Kataria, internal medicine specialist, Medanta Hospital. She said, “The hospital will conduct the first drive on Sunday at two societies. It will be extended to at least 10 camps on March 22 as a part of a mega camp by the district health department.” According to hospitals, to retain the quality of vaccine — which requires to be stored at a temperature between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius — a proper cold chain supply will be maintained. “Vaccine vials will be kept in ice boxes and just enough stocks will be kept at the site. Since the main hospital is located within the city, vaccine doses will be transferred to the camp if the stock gets over early,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hospitals-to-start-vaccination-camps-in-condos-societies-from-today-101616263616926.html
20-03-2021||Other||Sadar Bazar trial: MCG forced to change rules after protest by shopkeepers||Gurugram: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) was forced to make changes in its plan to launch a week-long trial to make Sadar Bazar vehicle-free after shopkeepers protested against it on Saturday morning. According to the amendments, customers on two-wheelers will now be allowed to enter the market along with vehicles of a certain section of shopkeepers and those carrying goods during the rest of the trial period.Around 10am on Saturday, an hour before the trial was scheduled to start, shopkeepers surrounded all the entry and exit points of the market and started protesting against the move. Almost 90-95% of the shops also remained closed in the market. Sadar Bazar has more than 1200 shops. The cultural programmes planned to mark the beginning of the trial could also not happen and vehicles were e seen plying in the area during the day.The shopkeepers contended that the parking space provided by the MCG was nearly a kilometre away from the market which will make it difficult for the shoppers to reach the area. They also demanded that customers travelling on two-wheelers should be granted entry into the market.“The MCG’s arrangements for the trial were shambolic. Shopkeepers had to walk nearly a kilometre from the parking area to reach their shops. Our businesses have already been affected by the coronavirus pandemic. If customers cannot bring their vehicles to the market, they will simply stop coming and visit other sector markets or malls. Hence, we held protests against the trial,” said Pawan Sharma, a protester who sells utensils in the market.Following a meeting with the MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Saturday evening, the civic body and shopkeepers came to an agreement on the matter. For the remaining six days, the MCG’s trial will continue, however, with major changes.Two-wheelers of customers will now be allowed entry to the market, although the MCG will appeal to them for parking their vehicles at three designated points near Old Jail Complex, Grover ground and the ground near the session house. Further, shopkeepers with disabilities or above the age of 60 will also be allowed entry to the market on their two-wheelers. Officials also agreed to the shopkeepers’ demand to allow entry of vehicles that supply goods to all shops till 12 pm.“The trial was scheduled to commence on Saturday, however, shopkeepers raised issues. We held a meeting with them on the matter and resolved the matter after a discussion. We will take feedback from shopkeepers and customers for the remaining six days of the trial and to incorporate any changes if needed,” said Singh.Regarding the changes in the plan, Singh said that the shopkeepers, their employees will have to park their vehicles at the five specified parking spots designated by the MCG for the remainder of the trial. However, shopkeepers with disabilities and senior citizens will be allowed entry to their respective shops, provided one of their workers or acquaintance, park the vehicle at the designated spot eventually.“Since it is a trial, we will request customers of the market to park their vehicles at the designated spots chosen by the MCG. We want the experience in Gurugram to be better than the project being implemented to make Delhi’s Chandni Chowk pedestrian-only zone,” said Singh.The MCG selected a 650-metre stretch of the market, between Jama Masjid and Head Post office — the market’s main street — for the trial. Prior to Saturday evening’s decision, 18 entry and exit points to the market were barricaded while the entire lane was slotted to remain vehicle-free.The MCG had scheduled to host a list of cultural events at the market, however, following the shopkeepers’ protest it was called off. The MCG, however, was able to set up dedicated street vending zones on lanes running parallel to the 650m stretch, installing benches, streetlights, and developing green belts as part of the trial.In addition, the MCG’s micro-pedestrian-friendly trial at a government school near the market remained unaffected, and the civic body’s cultural events scheduled at this location also took place without any hindrance.Following the meeting with the MCG commissioner, shopkeepers’ association leaders said that they were content with the changes made by the civic body to the trial, as per their requests.“It was vital that the supply goods to the market were allowed till noon. Without goods, Sadar Bazar, will no longer remain a market. Further, we also appreciate that the MCG allowed entry of customers on two-wheelers to the market, as this would have affected business in a major way,” said Rajiv Sharma, a member of the Sadar Bazar wholesaler association, who attended the meeting with the MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sadar-bazar-trial-mcg-forced-to-change-rules-after-protest-by-shopkeepers-101616263615712.html
20-03-2021||Other||Staff allocation, ambulance mapping a challenge as vaccination timings increase||New Delhi: As the Delhi government gets ready to increase the number of centres and the timings of the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive from Monday onwards, hospitals and district officials are scampering to ration space and staff, creating linkages between dispensaries and nearby hospitals, and mapping ambulance presence. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday had announced that Delhi will increase the number of shots given daily from the exiting 30 to 40 thousand to 125,000. This will be done by increasing the number of sites at each hospital, starting the drive at all dispensaries in the city, and increasing the time slot to 12-hours instead of the current eight hours.On Saturday, 46,769 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine were administered in the city, which is the highest so far since the drive began in mid-January. So far, nearly 287,000 people over the age of 60 have been administered their first dose and 47,410 people over the age of 45 with comorbidities, according to data shared by the government. All the Delhi government hospitals have been asked to open at least six vaccination sites from Monday onwards. At the biggest Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital, there were already five sites running on the first floor of the out-patient block. Another site will likely be added on the same floor.The hospital is currently looking at staff requirement for the two-shifts needed to run the centres from 9am to 9pm. “We are currently looking at allotting staff for the extended number of centres and extended timings. The district officials have also assured us that they will divert some staff for the same,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.At the newly inaugurated hospital in Burari, which treats only Covid-19 patients currently, there are five centres running at present. “Another centre will be added on Monday. We have already made the roster for all the six centres to remain open for twelve hours. As the number of Covid-19 cases is low at the moment – we are seeing only ten to fifteen admissions at a time and we have staff to spare for the vaccination centres. If the number of cases goes up, we will have to ask the government for more staff,” said a doctor from the hospital.The Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, which is the biggest hospital in the trans-Yamuna region, is facing a shortage of staff. The hospital has been grappling with a staff crunch ever since other non-Covid services resumed . Officials said the hospital hardly has staff to spare for the new centres. There are three vaccination centres at the hospital at the moment.“All our staff is already engaged in non-Covid work; we have asked the district officials to provide more vaccinators but have been told that they cannot spare any either,” said a doctor from the hospital.A district official said, “We are planning to rope in more vaccinators and train them. Usually, hospitals do not have a shortage of nurses who can administer vaccines, but if they do, then we can provide them the same.”Sparing vaccinators from districts might also be difficult, with all 260 Delhi-government-run dispensaries scheduled to open up vaccination centres from Monday onwards. Currently, there are about 40 dispensaries that give the Covid-19 shot.The district officials are currently assessing the space available at the centres for carrying out the vaccination drive. “Almost all the dispensaries have cold chain arrangements because they carry out routine immunisation. However, we are assessing the space available and looking at erecting temporary structures to create the three room space if need be,” said district official.Over the weekend, the districts will also map out the closest hospitals and ambulance presence in case of an adverse event following immunisation (AEFI). “We are looking at which hospitals are the nearest to every dispensary so that a patient can be taken there if there is an adverse event. Plus, we are also looking at where the nearest ambulance is stationed; each dispensary cannot have one ambulance. There are ambulances available with the SDMs that can be utilised. We will also share an advance list with CATS (Centralised Accident and Trauma Services) to check where their nearest ambulance will be stationed,” said a second district official.A third district official said, “All hospital – whether government or private – have been told that they cannot refuse anyone who has had an adverse reaction after taking the vaccine.”can be utilised. We will also share an advance list with CATS (Centralised Accident and Trauma Services) to check where their nearest ambulance will be stationed,” said a second district official. A third district official said, “All hospital – whether government or private – have been told that they cannot refuse anyone who has had an adverse reaction after taking the vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/staff-allocation-ambulance-mapping-a-challenge-as-vaccination-timings-increase-101616263615048.html
20-03-2021||Other||DTCP identifies building plan violators in DLF Phase 5, to issue notices to 100 plot owners||Gurugram: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) will start issuing notices from Monday to over 100 properties on plots meant for EWS (economically weaker section) plots in DLF Phase 5 where officials noticed violations of the building laws in a survey, which started from Monday and is still ongoing. The action comes after the department sealed 150 commercial establishments on EWS plots in U Block of DLF Phase 3 for similar violations. Department officials said, in the notices, the property owners will be asked to restore their properties, according to the approved plan or get ready to face action.The department carried out a sealing drive in DLF Phase 3 on March 2, and the enforcement team sealed around 150 shops running in violation of rules in U Block on EWS plots. DTCP officials said the properties identified in DLF Phase 5 are mostly residential built on EWS category plots. “We will issue show cause notice to the owners and give them 15 to 20 days for making corrections from Monday. If they don’t, then a sealing and demolition drive will be carried out,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, adding that the department has received a number of complaints from residents of the area.He also said that after action was taken in DLF Phase 3, several property owners were now voluntarily removing encroachments.DTCP officials also said that all the identified plots in DLF Phase 5 are under EWS category where multiple storeys have been built against the rules. “We will seal buildings and establishments where illegal constructions have been carried out. Also, wherever commercial establishments are being run, they will be sealed as they have no permission to run there,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement.The department also said that once sealed, these properties will be de-sealed only after the owner submit an affidavit and deposit bank guarantees. “Besides issuing notices, the department will also continue the survey to identify violators in the area,” said Bhath.The developer preferred not to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dtcp-identifies-building-plan-violators-in-dlf-phase-5-to-issue-notices-to-100-plot-owners-101616263614370.html
20-03-2021||Other||Schools to conduct annual exams in online mode||GururgamGovernment schools in the city will be conducting the annual exams for students in classes 3 to 8 in online mode starting from March 26, education department officials said on Saturday. In a written directive issued to schools, the education department said that the exams would be conducted through the AVSAR app in a 12-hour window. While officials from the department said that they had updated the testing mechanism following snags that cropped up last time, school heads raised concerns about potential technical challenges. Last month, structured online assessment tests in government schools were conducted for the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic began. The tests were conducted through the app and had been clouded by various technical issues, due to which many exams had to be conducted again. Raj Kumar, the principal of Government Senior Secondary School in Islampur, said that while students had faced challenges during the app-based monthly tests last month, they were relatively more familiar with the testing mechanism now. “Last time, there were some issues with the AVSAR app. This time, the final exams will also be conducted through the mobile app. The department is of the view that since some students are yet to return to classrooms, online exams will be better for all. We are expecting some issues, but will ensure that they are addressed in time,” said Kumar. He added that teachers will be available in school to resolve queries like last time. “If at all students and parents require any assistance, they can visit us in school. Since time is limited, they can visit the school in case of snags,” said Kumar.Shyam Raghav, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that the school had directed teachers to apprise students about the pattern of examination and hold mock tests ahead of the final exams. “We have asked our teachers to brief students about the online exam. In addition to this, we have asked parents to reach out to us, in case they get stuck. We can only take precautions, since the medium of testing is the same as last time,” said Raghav. Premlata Yadav, district elementary education officer, said that since the tests will comprise of questions in the multiple choice pattern, the online mode of exam will be more convenient. She added that the department had resolved the technical issues that cropped up last time and the exams would take place seamlessly this time around. “While there were some issues with the testing mechanism last time, the department was notified about it and the issues were resolved immediately. The issues also arose because students were not familiar with it. However, now, they are familiar with the app interface and should be able to take the test within the stipulated time,” Yadav said .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/schools-to-conduct-annual-exams-in-online-mode-101616263613782.html
20-03-2021||Noida||Police bust sex racket, arrest 23 in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: The Greater Noida police busted a sex racket and arrested 12 women and 11 men from a hotel in Dankaur on Saturday. They have also sealed the premises of the hotel.The hotel’s manager — one of the suspects — was identified as Gyanendra Kumar. According to the police, the suspects — some of them residents of Noida, Greater Noida and Bulandshahr — were found in a compromising position, and objectionable items were recovered from their possession.The police have also found out the involvement of local police personnel in sheltering the racket. Five cops, and driver of a local police van in Dankaur were attached to the police line.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the police had got a tip-off about a sex racket in a hotel in Chiti village. “The area comes under the Mandi Shyam Nagar police check post. A police team conducted a raid, and arrested 23 persons, including the hotel’s manager from the spot,” Singh said.Primary investigation revealed that the local police personnel were sheltering the racket, police said. “Four constables and a head constable were sent to the police line. We have also removed the driver of a police van. We have initiated an inquiry in the matter,” Singh said, adding that Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida, will also probe the role of the Dankaur police SHO in the case.The five policemen and the driver have been suspended, Noida police later added in a statement. Pandey said that the assistant commissioner of police has formed a team and conducted a raid at the hotel. “The property owner had died a few years ago. Kumar was looking after the property, and he was running a sex racket on the pretext of a hotel,” he said.Meanwhile, the family members and relatives of some of the suspects have approached the Dankaur police station and demanded their release. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 3,4 and 5 of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956, police said.“The suspects were produced before a court, and sent to judicial custody,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-bust-sex-racket-arrest-23-in-greater-noida-101616263613094.html
20-03-2021||Other||DTCP to launch online module to help buyers of affordable housing projects||Gurugram: To make it easier for home buyers to apply for affordable homes, the department of town and country planning has decided to launch a module on its website to facilitate online availability and submission of forms. DTCP officials said the online module is being tested and it will be launched by next month. The decision to create an online portal comes after complaints by buyers that they were not able to get applications for projects offering affordable housing from private developers. The city has around 85 under-construction affordable housing projects and there are around 40,000 residential units in these projects. Affordable housing has witnessed maximum sales in the city in the last year, according to several real estate reports and the government has recently made several changes in the norms to make it an attractive proposition for buyers. “To streamline the booking process of affordable projects and ensure transparency in allotment, it has been decided to launch an online module on DTCP website. The software is under trial and would be launched soon,” said Sanjiv Mann, senior town planner. DTCP officials said a login ID and password will be issued to the developers who will have to upload details of the affordable projects and flats available for booking. A link for each project will be created and the buyers can click on these links and check the availability of flats and apply for a flat, if they are interested. The buyers, who apply online, can also pay booking amount after which a booking number will be issued to the applicant. Those who want to surrender their flats can also do so on the same portal. The draw for allotment of flats will also be held online and till the time allotment does not happen, the booking amount will remain with the department. The department will return the booking amount to unsuccessful applicants in two to three days, said officials. Department officials said they have been receiving complaints from home buyers that they were finding it difficult to procure application forms from private developers, who were allegedly selling them at a premium. The department also said that they have also asked the developers building affordable housing to share details of flats, whose allotment has been cancelled or which have been surrendered by buyers, so that these can be made available for allotment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dtcp-to-launch-online-module-to-help-buyers-of-affordable-housing-projects-101616263612427.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Surrogacy laws for overseas citizens need review||The ministry of home affairs’ March 4 notification has created a dilemma for non-resident Indians hoping to become parents through adoption or surrogacy due to disparity in Indian laws. NRIs have been equated to overseas citizens of India (OCIs) in matters of inter-country adoption. Gazetted Indian Adoption Regulations, 2017 (AR) treat NRIs at par with resident Indians when it comes to adopting an Indian citizen. Despite the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2020 proposing to allow surrogacy for OCIs, the March 4 notification makes no mention of the same. Our constitution does not allow dual citizenship. Upon voluntary acquisition of the citizenship of another country, a person ceases to be an Indian citizen. A child born to foreign citizens of Indian origin cannot become a citizen of India, as neither parent is an Indian national. A new category of citizenship, OCI, was created in 2005, which gave overseas citizens limited privileges and no rights. The March 4 notification defines an OCI as a foreign national holding the passport of a foreign country and who is not a citizen of India.Both the constitution and Citizenship Act (CA), categorically prohibit dual citizenship. CA specifically prohibits OCIs from having political and other rights. They have, however, been granted multiple entry life-long visa facility for visiting India for any purpose at any time. They are also exempted from registering with the Foreigners’ Registration Office or police authorities, for any length of stay in India and are entitled to benefits notified under CA by the Centre from time to time.The 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court in Shafin Jahan Vs Asokan recognises the right to choose one’s life partner as an important facet of the right to life holding that social approval of intimate personal decisions should not be the basis for recognising them. A nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court in KS Puttaswamy held that a promise of a right of privacy is embedded in Article 21 of the Constitution. In Navtej Johar, Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalised consensual homosexual relationships was read down and declared unconstitutional. The Supreme Court liberalised equality and equal protection of laws.The AR permit any prospective adoptive parents, irrespective of marital status to adopt a child from India, except that a single male shall not adopt a girl child. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (JJA) defines an NRI as an Indian passport holder residing abroad for more than a year. The AR equates an NRI with a resident Indian for adoption of Indian children. The March 4 notification grants parity to an OCI with an NRI in matters of inter-country adoptions. Equality prevails for achieving parenthood. However, the ministry of health and family welfare debars single persons or unmarried couples from commissioning surrogacy in India. Under the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2020, surrogacy is proposed to be confined to only Indian married couples and commercial surrogacy has been declared illegal. All unmarried or single persons and foreigners, except OCIs, have been declared ineligible for surrogacy. There is no object for this classification with the purpose to be achieved. Married and un-married persons cannot be treated as a class apart, particularly when inter-country or in-country adoptions are permitted under the AR. There is no parity provided in the March 4 Notification to OCIs with NRIs in matter of surrogacy. Why the discrimination? It may be argued that this unreasonable classification in surrogacy is violative of mandate of the constitution, discriminating against people on grounds of marital status, nationality and rights of procreation as they have no nexus with the object sought to be achieved. It directly curtails and interferes with ‘the right of reproductive autonomy, which is a facet of the ‘right of privacy’ under Article 21 of the constitution advocating the right to life. People, whether citizens, NRIs or OCIs cannot be treated differently in matters of parenthood whether to be achieved through surrogacy or adoption. No reason, justification, logic or explanation is forthcoming as to why single persons, unmarried couples or foreigners have been debarred and excluded from commissioning surrogacy in India when such people are allowed inter-country adoptions under the AR. There cannot be different parameters for the same ultimate purpose of achieving parenthood, be it through surrogacy or by adoption. None of the grounds made out justify or validate this arbitrary exclusion and unfounded ineligibility of OCIs, who do not find mention in the March 4 notification. Moreover, the AR duly notified by the government of India and made under the JJA clearly stipulates the policy of permitting single parents irrespective of nationality or marital status to adopt a child of any gender with the only exception that a single male shall not be eligible to adopt a girl child.The rational approach would be to control and coordinate by a selective screening process of checks and balances. A similar parallel exists in matters of adoptions. Central Adoption Resource Agency (CARA), a statutory body under the Juvenile Justice Act, functions smoothly to regulate all adoption matters. A regulated, defined and effective procedural mechanism rules out all possible unapproved adoptions. Law steps in to check but not to bar eligible persons from adopting children. Hence, a similar balanced approach in matters of surrogacy requires serious introspection. Surrogacy, in vogue for over a decade, cannot be stamped out of existence by law. Its practice ought to be regulated and coordinated without offending equality of law and equal protection of laws to all people and not only citizens in a democratic society.The author, a practicing lawyer, has to his credit nine books pertaining to issues of private international law. He is the author of Surrogacy in India: A Law in The Making-Revisited. Views express are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-surrogacy-laws-for-overseas-citizens-need-review-101616263536714.html
20-03-2021||Other||Three arrested for impersonation, running exam racket||New Delhi: A 26-year-old woman from Haryana’s Sonepat was arrested along with three others, including her brother, for allegedly running a racket that used illegal techniques and practices in exam centres to help their candidates clear examination for government jobs, police said on Saturday.By wearing fake uniforms, the woman posed as an IPS officer while her “boyfriend”, who is also part of the racket, and brother posed as Delhi Police’s sub-inspector (SI) and head constable, whenever they met any candidate, to make him or her believe that they had deep roots in the system. The arrested persons were running their nexus in connivance with some private exam centres, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said that on March 4, the Naraina police raided a private examination centre and arrested a candidate, identified as Rohit, after receiving information about illegal practices at the centre during the examination for the post of Forest Guard. A cellphone was recovered from Rohit, a Sonepat resident, and he was found using it to solve his online exam paper, said DCP Goel.The police said that after interrogating Rohit, they also retrieved and analysed data from the seized phone. It helped them identify and arrest the three key players of the nexus from Delhi and Haryana. They were identified as Vaishali, the kingpin of the racket, her brother Love Kumar and their associate Himanshu.During the interrogation, DCP Goel said, it was revealed that Vishali is the mastermind and she along with her partner, Anil Sharma, brother Love Kumarm and other associates ran the racket dealing in online examinations for various government jobs. They operated in Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and targeted job aspirants living in rural areas.“We recovered two fake police uniforms. Vaishali impersonated a senior IPS officer and her two associates posed as Delhi Police personnel to trick their targets believe that they were well connected. They promised them of clearing their exams through illegal means and charged between R15 and R25 lakh for each candidate,” said Goel.According to the DCP, the arrested persons usually managed employees at the private examination centres to provide mobile phone to their candidate sitting in the exam. They also used to send their dummy candidate inside the examination centre with mobile phone.“The dummy candidate used to leak the examination through mobile phone to the Vaishali through high tech applications. She operated from a different location along with solvers, who are experts in different subjects. The solvers solved the paper within few minutes and it was circulated to the managed examination centres in various north Indian states. The answer-key reached the candidates through their managed employees at the exam centre,” added DCP Goel.The police are now looking for other people involved in the racket.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-arrested-for-impersonation-running-exam-racket-101616263537315.html
20-03-2021||Other||Delhi govt launches mentoring programme for girls in its schools||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Saturday launched a mentoring programme for girls studying in its schools in order to encourage them to participate in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) and support them to clear entrance exams for higher education related to these subjects.In a statement released on Saturday, the Delhi government said under the ‘Education Mentoring Programme’ as many as 200 students from state-run Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University of Women will mentor 1,000 girls enrolled in government schools. The mentor students will be from courses like BTech, MTech, PhD and MBA. Later the programme will cover 10,000 to 15,000 school girls.Addressing the gathering at the launch of the programme, education minister Manish Sisodia said, “Our world is becoming a knowledge economy, with dedicated research and innovation quickly becoming key to progress. Although our nation is seeing some major innovations in every field of work, these innovations are mostly led by men. The participation of women is abysmal when it comes to innovation, especially in the field of STEM. According to a study I recently came across, women form only 33% of the total workforce in research and innovation in STEM in South Asia.”“With the Education Mentoring Programme, Delhi Government wants to empower students of Delhi in the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics. We want our students, especially our girls, to receive the right guidance, which will help them build sustainable innovations. It is our vision that our girls equally dominate the STEM sector,” he added.Stressing upon lower enrolment of girls in Science in higher education, Sisodia asked the mentor students to fill in the gap.“If I have to speak about the enrolment rate of pre-primary and primary schools, approximately 21 lakh children are enrolled every year. However, only 10,000 girls take up STEM studies in higher education. Our students and teachers are continuously endeavoring to work hard in this field but we need to fill in this gap. Therefore, your participation and mentoring will play a crucial role,” he said.Delhi government schools principals welcomed the initiative. AK Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini, said, “The initiative will help our female students to know about the career opportunities available for them and the mentors will guide them to prepare for different entrance exams. Many of our students are from economically weaker families and can’t afford expensive coaching. All the mentor students are girls and it will help them connect with our students well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-launches-mentoring-programme-for-girls-in-its-schools-101616263477318.html
20-03-2021||Noida||Adityanath govt marks 4 years of its tenure in UP||Noida: The Uttar Pradesh government organised a programme to celebrate the completion of four years of its tenure, at Indira Gandhi Kala Kendra in Noida Sector 6 on Saturday. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) western UP president, Mohit Beniwal, who was a chief guest at the event, said that the UP government has fared well in the development of the state in the past four years.“The government has sanctioned ₹1.25 lakh crore for sugarcane farmers, and also waved off their debts. It has also built houses for the needy, under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). It has also developed toilets at different places and provided clean drinking water and power connection to households, among others,” Beniwal said, adding that the Yogi Adityanath-led government has given four lakh government jobs to the youths in the past four years.He mentioned that the UP government had successfully organised the Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj in 2019, adding, “The development of Ram Temple in Ayodhya will make the city a tourist destination.”Gautam Budh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma and Noida MLA Pankaj Singh also attended the programme.The government had organised a similar programme in Gautam Buddha University in Greater Noida on Friday, where Jai Pratap Singh, minister of medical health, family and child welfare department was present. Singh had shared the details of development works done by various departments like social welfare, horticulture, education, women safety, among others.Singh said that the health department has issued golden cards to 38,100 beneficiaries under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana. “The government organised health camps where 47,224 patients were treated. It also made a lot of efforts to keep the coronavirus spread in check,” he added.He said that 6.63 lakh samples were collected in Gautam Budh Nagar, out of which, 25,289 people tested positive for Covid-19. Now, the district has 85 active cases.The inauguration of a new building for the district hospital in Noida sector 39, and the development of the Noida International Airport are some of the special achievements of the government, Singh said, adding that the UP government has been leading the state to a path of development.“There is an overall development in the state, by our government,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/adityanath-govt-marks-4-years-of-its-tenure-in-up-101616263476678.html
20-03-2021||Other||UP Rera to begin physical hearing option from May 1||Noida: Home buyers can once again opt for physical hearing of their complaints by the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Rera) instead of the online mode from May 1 this year, according to officials.The authority has been hearing the complaints through virtual mode under the e-courts system keeping in view the need of containment of the Covid-19 pandemic in line with the directions of the Centre and the state government.The decision for putting in place a hybrid system of hearings was taken during Rera’s 59th meeting on Friday which was chaired by Chairman Rajive Kumar to discuss issues related to home buyers and builders in the state.“The authority has henceforth decided to provide the opportunity of physical hearing to the concerned parties on their request from May 1, 2021 subject to strict compliance of Covid-19 protocol as applicable. The parties shall not be permitted to change the option of physical hearing after having opted for the same,” Rera secretary Rajesh Kumar Tyagi said.He said many home buyers and their legal counsels had been seeking physical hearing instead of the online mode. “The restrictions that were placed due to the Covid-19 pandemic have also started and institutes are also opening up again as part of the unlock process. Hence, this hybrid system in which both options -- online hearing as well as physical hearing – from May 1,” Tyagi said.However, those who will be seeking this physical hearing option should keep in mind that they won’t be allowed to change it back to the online medium again, he said.“All physical hearings will be conducted in strict compliance of all Covid-19 protocols,” Tyagi said. Formed over the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 of Parliament, the Rera’s primary job includes ensuring transparency in projects, protecting the interest of consumers and to establish an adjudicating mechanism for speedy dispute redressal besides providing proper information about the builder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-rera-to-begin-physical-hearing-option-from-may-1-101616263476082.html
20-03-2021||Noida||Gzb: Health dept collects ‘contaminated’ water samples after Mahagun Puram residents fall ill||Ghaziabad: Dozens of residents of Mahagun Puram high-rise in Ghaziabad, which is adjacent to NH-9, complained of vomiting, loose motions and abdominal pain on Saturday.According to the members of local apartment owners’ association (AOA), it could be due to water contamination. About 150-200 residents from four of the 11 residential towers were affected, they added.The district health department has formed teams for the distribution of medicines. It has also collected water samples from the high-rise. “We have about 1,800 flats in the high-rise, and some 1,700 are occupied. Most of the affected persons are from four residential towers. Teams formed by the health department have arrived for check-up on Saturday afternoon... We suspect that some of the sources of water are contaminated, and this resulted in health issues,” said Naveen Tomar, president, AOA.He said that there is no sewer connection in Mahagun Puram, and the water from the sewage treatment plant is being discharged in a nearby open area. “The water is discharged in a nearby open area, and it may have contaminated the groundwater, or may be some water source in the high-rise got contaminated,” Tomar added.Meanwhile, Sachin Garg, vice president, Mahagun Puram, told HT, “I will try to find out what happened at the high-rise. I don’t have details till now... I will check and get back.” However, he did not respond till Saturday night.Dr NK Gupta, Chief medical officer (CMO), said that official teams have given medicines to about 100 residents, who suffered from health issues. “They had symptoms of loose lotions, vomiting and abdominal pain, but all of them are stable now. Our teams are in touch with the local AOA. They have also distributed medicines to the residents... We have taken water samples from the affected towers and others. The samples will be tested, and action will be taken accordingly. We suspect that the health issues could be due to contaminated water,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gzbhealth-dept-collects-contaminated-water-samples-after-mahagun-puram-residents-fall-ill-101616263417272.html
20-03-2021||Noida||Man arrested for raping woman on pretext of marriage||Greater Noida A 25-year old man was arrested for allegedly raping a woman on the pretext of marriage in Site V area in Greater Noida. The victim alleged that the suspect — identified as Faizan Malik — had not revealed his real name to her initially and introduced himself as Sonu to be friends with her.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the 20-year-old woman approached the Site V police station with her complaint on Friday night. The woman, in her complaint, informed police that she works in a private company in Greater Noida, where the suspect also worked till 2020. “She alleged that they later became friends and later got into a relationship, during which the man raped her, on the pretext of marriage,” Pandey said.Their relationship continued for over a year. When the woman recently asked the man to marry her, after which the suspect revealed his real name to be Faizan Malik and confessed that he had faked his identity.The woman belongs to the Dalit community. She filed a complaint with the police and a case was registered against the suspect under Section 376 (rape), Section 506 (criminal intimidation) and Section 3(2) of SC/ST Act and also under Section 3/5 (1) of Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020.The suspect, a native of Bijnor, was living in a rented accommodation in Sector Mu in Greater Noida. “He was arrested from near Greater Noida Institute of Medical Sciences on Saturday. He was produced in a court and sent to judicial custody,” said Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-marriage-101616263416582.html
20-03-2021||Noida||FIR against power dept officials after girl loses arm in cable-snapping incident in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The family of an 11-year-old girl, who lost her arm after she came in contact with a snapped electricity cable in New Arya Nagar, has filed a complaint against the officials of the electricity department. We have registered an FIR against a superintending engineer, an executive engineer and a lineman of the area, late Thursday night, police said.The girl, a class 4 student at a government school in Nandgram, was going to a temple to offer prayers on February 15, when the girl came in contact with a snapped electricity cable and suffered severe burn injuries. She was admitted to a hospital in Delhi.“Doctors amputated her right arm from her shoulder, and thumb of her right foot following two major surgeries. She has also suffered burns to her abdomen and thighs. My daughter is bed ridden and may not be able to attend the school. Our entire family is shattered following the incident. We are trying hard to meet the daily medical expenses... For her treatment, we have to take her to the Delhi hospital twice in a week,” said her father Nandu.He purchases cardboard boxes and sells those in local markets.“We got delayed in filing a police complaint as we were busy regarding my daughter’s treatment, and frequently travelled between Delhi and Ghaziabad. The police have registered an FIR,” Nandu added.The victim is the third one among her six sisters and has two other brothers.Krishna Gopal Sharma, SHO, Sihani Gate police station, said that the FIR was registered under IPC Section 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others). “An investigation is underway,” Sharma said.The officials of the Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) called the incident “unfortunate”. “We have started an inquiry in the case, and a compensation process for the victim has been initiated. It will be based on an inquiry, and the chief medical officer (CMO) will submit a report on the physical condition of the girl... We are trying our best to replace the old cables. We have converted the majority of electricity cables to aerial bundled cables for safety. In Ghaziabad, the coverage of conversion in urban areas is about 98%, and about 50% in rural areas,” said Pankaj, chief engineer, PVVNL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fir-against-power-dept-officials-after-girl-loses-arm-in-cable-snapping-incident-in-ghaziabad-101616263415954.html
20-03-2021||Noida||Fire breaks out in Lucknow-bound Shatabdi Express at Ghaziabad railway station, no one injured||Ghaziabad: A major fire broke out in the generator van of the Lucknow-bound New Delhi-Lucknow Swarn Shatabdi Express on Saturday morning at Ghaziabad railway station. Four fire tenders were pressed into service to control the blaze with officials confirming no injuries to any passenger. District fire department officials said they received a call around 7.04am and rushed at least four fire tenders to the station from the nearby Kotwali fire station . “Firemen got the overhead electrification supply line cut and brought the fire under control within half an hour. The last coach of the train was affected which also houses a luggage compartment. We had to cut open one of the gates,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer of Ghaziabad. He said the fire likely started in the coach midway and thick smoke was detected when the train reached Ghaziabad railway station at around 6.45am. Senior railways officials said the train was allowed to leave at 8.20am. They maintained that the fire did not start while the train was moving. “It appears that the fire started when the train arrived at Ghaziabad. The cause of the fire is unknown and will be investigated. The train was allowed to leave for Lucknow at around 8.20am and the affected coach was detached,” said chief PRO of northern railways. Railway officials said the generator coach is meant for transporting individual consignments and powering the passenger utility services such as air conditioning. Ashutosh Gangal, general manager of Northern Railway, who also arrived at the railway station on Saturday morning, said that an inquiry has been initiated into the incident. “We offloaded the consignments from the coach to take up firefighting and the overhead electricity was also switched off. The consignment was taken into custody. The entire consignment will be inspected by inquiry committee and forensic team. They will check up if any of the items stocked inside was inflammable. The consignment was loaded into the coach under contract at New Delhi railway station,” he told reporters. “We have taken the CCTV footage at the New Delhi railway station and consignment lying there will also be inspected. We will also estimate the loss during the incident,” he added.News agency PTI quoting senior railway officials reported that the department is set to get cracking against those found smoking in trains and is mulling severe penalties, even arrest, for damaging public property after an initial probe in the recent fire in a coach of the Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Express.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fire-breaks-out-in-lucknow-bound-shatabdi-express-at-ghaziabad-railway-station-no-one-injured-101616263356011.html
20-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid-19 cases soar past 300 after five months||Covid-19 cases in the district shot past the 300 mark, for the first time in over five months since the pandemic’s peak in September, with 329 people testing positive for the virus on Saturday.With this, Ludhiana’s Covid tally rose to 30,395, while the death toll also reached 1,075 with two more casualties.As many as 1,765 patients are still recuperating from the virus, while 27,555 have been cured so far.The latest fatalities include two men, aged 50 and 45, from Bhikhi village and Hambran, respectively.The district has been recording a steady rise in cases since the advent of March. While the cases remained over 100 for 10 days since March 1, this week started with over 200 cases, a trend that continued through the first five days, before the infections jumped the 300 mark on Saturday.11 students, three teachers found infectedThe positive patients included 11 students and three teachers.The teachers are from Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Bharat Nagar; Delhi Public School; and Government High School, Kalsa.The students include five from Christian Medical College, two each from Government High School, Salem Tabri; and GSSS, Basti Jodhewal; and one each from Government Primary School, Sabzi Mandi; and Delhi Public School. Total vaccinations in district cross 1 lakh On the bright side, vaccination coverage in Ludhiana crossed 1 lakh on Saturday. The vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 this year. Since then, 25,539 healthcare workers have received the first shot and 15,884 have got the second dose. Over 15,589 frontline workers have also got the first dose, while 3,193 have been immunised with the second dose as well. As many as 27,951 senior citizens have turned up for the vaccine since March 1, while the number of inoculated residents, aged between 45 and 59 and having comorbidities, is 12,121. On Saturday, a total of 6,617 people showed up for the vaccine at various government and private health facilities in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-covid-19-cases-soar-past-300-after-five-months-101616263176602.html
20-03-2021||Other||Gorakhpur will become textile hub: UP CM||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that Gorakhpur was poised to become a textile hub as readymade garments were the second ODOP (one district one product) item of the district after terracotta. Flatted (multi-storey) factory of readymade garments would be set up in Gorakhpur soon. Yogi Adityanath said this in Gorakhpur while addressing the entrepreneurs of readymade garments at ODOP-Readymade Garments Exhibition. The exhibition started on March 16 at the Townhall ground. The business of readymade garments is such that one may employ more people with less capital, he said. CM Yogi said the state government had launched the highly successful ODOP scheme in February 2018 to realise Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of a self-reliant India. The chief minister asked entrepreneurs to pay attention to quality and training, as well as making preparations according to the requirement of the market. Gorakhpur had a textile market of about ₹2500 crore, he said. “The readymade garments business can become the basis of self-reliance of women,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gorakhpur-will-become-textile-hub-upcm-101616263055970.html
20-03-2021||Lucknow||Yogi lays foundation of ₹180-cr tourism projects||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday pitched Uttar Pradesh as the country’s spiritual and religious tourism hub. He said the state government implemented extensive reforms to develop and promote pilgrim spots, which will not only give the state a worldwide recognition, but also play a vital role in generating numerous employment opportunities for the locals. He was speaking while laying the foundation stone of tourism projects worth over ₹180 crore for 373 assembly constituencies of the state in Gorakhpur. “Tourism greatly supplements an economy and creates jobs at the local level. A number of countries are totally tourism-driven economies. Our state government is also proactively promoting the tourism sector with this objective,” Yogi Adityanath said. Rural, religious and heritage spots proposed by the legislator will be developed and beautified under the “Chief Minister Tourism Promotion Scheme” in every assembly constituency, the state government said in a statement. In consonance with a central road map to boost domestic tourism, UP has witnessed the development of maximum religious tourism hubs, which prominently comprise the Ramayan circuit, Buddhist circuit, Krishna circuit, Sufi circuit, Shaktipeeth circuit, Adhyatmik circuit and the Jain circuit. These were yielding results and attracting foreign, as well as domestic tourists, besides creating employment opportunities for the local youth and giving a boost to the business of regional hotels, markets and restaurants, the statement said. Referring to the Kumbh Mela-2019, Yogi Adityanath said that the government succeeded in giving the mega-event a global recognition with the participation of 24 crore devotees. Prayagraj attracted a large footfall as people flocked to be a part of the auspicious event, which also enhanced the economy of the local shopkeepers up to 15 times more than the usual, he added. The chief minister also mentioned Prime Minister Modi’s dream project Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi. He said Kashi would become the centre of the biggest cultural events in the world through the Vishwanath Temple Corridor under the guidance of PM Modi. Yogi said that during the inauguration of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) in 1916, Mahatma Gandhi was dismayed by the narrow streets and the lack of cleanliness in Kashi. “Bapu had made the comment 100 years ago, but today under the guidance of PM Modi, the fame of Kashi is being established internationally,” the chief minister said. He said flower petals that used to be considered a waste after being offered to the deities were now giving employment opportunities to women belonging to self-help groups in villages of Chandauli as they were making perfumes, incense and incense sticks from the petals to earn a living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-lays-foundation-of-rs-180-cr-tourism-projects-101616262875851.html
20-03-2021||Other||BKMS men oppose BJP’s kisan chaupal in Meerut||Leaders and supporters of Bhartiya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan (BKMS) staged a protest during the ‘kisan chaupal’ organised by Bharatiya Jatana Party (BJP) in Bhatipura village in Kithore area forcing the party leaders to leave the meet, on Friday evening. BJP’s district unit general secretary Bhanqar Singh Tomar, UP Rajya Nirman Sahkari Sangh president Surya Prakash Pal and ward incharge Basit Ali were attending the meet when supporters of BKMS arrived there along with their district president Rahul Choudhary and opposed the programme. Choudhary said they won’t allow BJP to organise any programme in the village until demands of farmers were accepted. The angry farmers also shouted slogans of ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’. “Over 300 farmers have died during the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi and neither Prime Minister Narendra Modi nor any of his party leaders have said a word for them. Farmers are demanding guarantee of MSP and repeal of 3 farm laws but government is paying no heed to their demands,” he said. Meanwhile, members of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Asli) and its another faction Bhartiya Kisan Union staged a protest at Mandi in Sambhal district to oppose the 3 farm bills and demanded guarantee of MSP. Divisional president of BKU (Asli) Sanjeev Gandhi and district president Rajveer Singh and BKU district general secretary Ch Virendra Singh led the protest. Both organisations also handed over their memorandums to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bkms-men-oppose-bjp-s-kisan-chaupal-in-meerut-101616262275692.html
20-03-2021||Lucknow||UP prison dept gets FICCI Smart Policing Award||Uttar Pradesh prison department bagged the prestigious FICCI Smart Policing Award 2021 at a function held in New Delhi on Saturday, said director general (DG) prison, Anand Kumar. He said an artificial intelligence based platform titled ‘JARVIS’ won the honour in ‘prison reforms’ category for helping the department bolster their law enforcement efforts as well as driving effective Covid-19 response in the state.Hosted annually, the FICCI Smart Policing Award aims at promoting the initiatives taken by the police departments in India for the safety and security of citizens. This year, the ceremony received entries from police and law enforcement wings of 36 states and union territories and three central armed police forces across various categories.“The deployment of the AI-based platform has been instrumental in helping us seamlessly scale and strengthen our security and safety operations within the prison,” said Kumar. He said “The AI-powered integrated command and control centre and easy-to-use mobile applications have made security and safety activity monitoring more efficient, helping us take actions in real-time to not only mitigate but also avert untoward incidences from taking place.”“It continues to empower us to drive effective and timely Covid-19 response and identify defaulters who are not following Covid-19 norms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-prison-dept-gets-ficci-smart-policing-award-101616262095632.html
20-03-2021||Lucknow||Religious structures on public places: UP law panel recommends 3-year jail term, fine||State Law Commission chairman Justice AN Mittal has submitted the draft of a proposed law to chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the removal of religious structures from public places, recommending a three-year prison term and fine for violators. The draft is titled “Regulation of Public Religious Structures (on public places)”. It was submitted on Friday. Justice AN Mittal is a former judge of the Allahabad high court. According to the state law department, the government will soon come up with a law on the basis of this report. Justice Mittal prepared this draft after studying similar laws of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. In his representation to the chief minister, Justice Mittal pointed out the increasing practice of grabbing public land by constructing temples, mosques and other religious structures. These structures on public land are initially small and, thereafter, they get bigger.“I have recommended three- categories in my 135-page report. The first category will cover religious structures constructed on public land before September 27, 2009,” said Justice Mittal.“The second category will cover religious structures constructed from September 27, 2009 till the framing of law (to check religious structures on public land). The third category will cover religious structures constructed after the framing of the law,” he added. “I have recommended demolition, relocation and reduction in the size of religious structures constructed on public places. A three-year jail term and fine have also been recommended on violation of the law,” he said. In 2009, the Supreme Court had ordered the state government to frame a policy for removing religious structures from public places. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL), the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on June 3, 2016 had ordered the state government to remove all religious structures from public places. As this PIL is still pending, the high court on March 10 had ordered the state government to remove all religious structures from public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/religious-structures-on-public-places-up-law-panel-recommends-3-year-jail-term-fine-101616261855593.html
20-03-2021||Other||Navroz celebrations confined to homes||PUNE The Parsi community will celebrate Navroz today (Sunday) and amid the pandemic most of them plan to celebrate it at home with family and friends.Navroz marks the first day of the month of Farvardin on the Iranian calendar and signals the start of Spring and the Persian New Year.Tehmas Barucha, said, “Amid the Covid pandemic, I do not want to take a risk and hence this time we will be all confined to our home. We will say our prayers and decorate the table.”The table and its ingredients are important during the festival. The table preparation is known as “HaftŠeen” has Serkeh (vinegar), Sekkeh (coins), Sabzeh (vegetation), Seeb (apple), Suzaan (needle), Seer (garlic), Sonbol (hyacinth), Sauat (clock), Samanu (sweet wheat germ pudding), Senjed (oleaster), Somaaq (sumac) used to decorate the Meez E Murad for Jamshedi Navroze.The Zoroastrian Youth Association usually plans a social gathering at the fire temples in the city every year, but this year due to Covid, Navroze celebrations are confined to be celebrated within their homes.“We have advised many people to avoid visiting the fire temple to offer prayers and have cancelled all the social events that are usually planned. We have food, dance and socialising for all the Parsis in the city, but this year, it will not be so,” said Kaipashin Raimalwalla, priest at Sir JJ Agiary, Dastur Meher Road, Camp.The SR Patel Agiary also wears a deserted look with only the priest in the fire temples. “This year the situation is different and this second wave of Covid has doubled the fears. Instead of going out for dinners as most of the people do for New Year’s, they are ordering from various Parsi restaurants,” said Farah Arzaan Khambata.It is a busy day for Darius Dorabjee, with almost 100 orders of the traditional Parsi meals to be sent out. “The families have ordered early, enough for one or two families to eat together for Navroze. The traditional dishes include patrani macchi, salli mughi, mutton pulav, dal, and a sweet, lagan nu custard. All these dishes are auspicious especially the fish, even the sweet is in the shape of a fish, which is looked upon as a good omen,” said Darius.Mabrin Nanavati from Food Gallery is still taking orders, “Almost 150 families have ordered complete meals as they prefer to stay indoors instead of visiting the restaurants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navroz-celebrations-confined-to-homes-101616259936632.html
20-03-2021||Jaipur||India suffered least damage due to effective management of Covid: Rajasthan guv||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday said India suffered the least damage due to coronavirus owing to the effective management of the pandemic.Addressing an online programme, 'Economy During Covid-19', the governor also lauded India for supplying coronavirus vaccines to other countries.Mishra said the Covid-19 pandemic wreaked havoc across the world and no one was left untouched by its impact.India suffered the least damage due to the effective management of the pandemic. The timely measures adopted by the country became an example for the entire world, he said.Schemes were launched across the country to make the youth self-reliant, which increased the confidence of the public and gave a boost to the economy, he added.Mishra said India is not only manufacturing vaccines against Covid-19 but has also taken the initiative to supply them to other countries.Till date, he said, India has exported more than 16 million doses of vaccine to 20 countries."India successfully vaccinated 7 million citizens within 24 days. It took the United States 26 days and Britain 46 to achieve this goal," he added.During the programme, the governor also honoured Bollywood actor Sonu Sood with the Justice Narendra Singh Memorial International Peace Award for his philanthropic services during the pandemic.Sood helped scores of migrant workers reach home to different parts of the country by arranging buses and flights for them during the nationwide lockdown imposed early last year to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/india-suffered-least-damage-due-to-effective-management-of-covid-rajasthan-guv-101616259804644.html
20-03-2021||Other||Pune district reports 5,591 new Covid cases in 24 hours||PUNE The district, on Saturday, reported 5,591 new Covid cases in last 24 hours, as per the state health department.The progressive count of the district now stands at 4.65 lakh out of which 4.18 lakh have recovered, 8,219 have been reported dead and over 38,000 are active cases who are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation.Pune city reported 3,200 new cases which took the progressive count to 2.39 lakh and one new death was reported which took the count to 4,643.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 1,468 new cases which took the count to 1.16 lakh cases and with one more death the toll stood at 1,347.Pune rural reported 923 new cases which took the count to 1.09 cases and with one more death the death toll stood at 2,180.The district also saw 28,850 beneficiaries who got the vaccine, including both Covishield and Covaxin on Saturday. Out of this 16,719 were beneficiaries under phase two, senior citizens and those with comorbidities.The administration is also vaccinating phase two beneficiaries with Covishield. Out of the total beneficiaries, only 6,115 got Covaxin and 22,735 have got Covishield.Not a single adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI) was reported on Saturday..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-5-591-new-covid-cases-in-24-hours-101616259876695.html
20-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt hands compulsory retirement to ACP who sought sexual favours||Rajasthan government has handed compulsory retirement to ACP Kailash Chand Bohra who was arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) for seeking sexual favours from a rape victim. Earlier, state minister Shanti Dhariwal, in the assembly session, asserted that the state government will terminate the accused ACP but the Gehlot government on Saturday handed over compulsory retirement by an order of Principal Secretary, Home, Abhay Kumar.RPS officer, Kailash Bohra has rendered 24 years and 7 months of service in the government. Regarding the case, DG, ACB, BL Soni said, “On March 6, a 30-year-old woman filed a complaint against Bohra in the ACB stating that she had lodged three cases, including rape and cheating, against a man and others at the Jawahar Circle police station. The ACP was investigating these cases”.Two weeks ago, the accused Rajasthan Police Service officer demanded a bribe to take action against the accused and when she refused, saying that she doesn’t have money, the officer demanded sexual favours.“The victim alleged that the investigating officer, Kailash Bohra, first demanded a bribe from her to take action in all the three cases. When she could not give the money, he started calling her to the office repeatedly in the name of the investigation. Eventually, he started harassing and demanding sexual favours as a bribe. The woman also alleged that Bohra pressured her to meet him even after office hours,” added Soni.In order to trap the ACP, the anti-graft body had applied chemical on the clothes of the victim, which is generally applied on currency notes to verify any undue favour taken by a government servant.Additional director general (ADG), ACB, Dinesh MN, said along with a corruption case, a case has been registered under section 376C (government official taking advantage of his official position to seduce any female at a workplace), 354 (outraging modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-hands-compulsory-retirement-to-acp-who-sought-sexual-favours-101616259876294.html
20-03-2021||Other||Second Covid wave could be severe, warn experts||PUNE As Pune continues to report as many new Covid cases as it did during the first wave, city experts say that the ongoing wave could be more severe than the first one. City experts have opined that with no restrictions in place, those who were protected during the first wave are now exposed to the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid infection. State officials have also said that the new variant which is possibly milder is also more infectious as there is rapid spread.Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, former head scientist of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Division at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said, “It could be harsher given that we are reporting more cases than the first wave peak. People should understand this only by adopting Covid-appropriate behaviour that the cases could be curbed.”“As of now, there is evidence that the spread could be blamed on the variant of the virus. With the vaccine in place, people have let down their guard. The vaccine does not treat the infection as of now it is only proven that the spread and also that the severity could be reduced post-vaccination. Some people who have got the first dose can be seen completely ignoring the safety norms which is not right,” he said.While during November and December when the number of cases was coming down the Pune administration hoped that the ‘second wave’ would be milder owing to the ‘herd immunity factor’ Dr Gangakhedkar said, “People have been using the herd immunity factor as per their convenience. Now we see variants so there the herd immunity is not going to protect you. People need to follow Covid appropriate behaviour for at least a year.”Dr Shashank Joshi, state Covid task force member, said, “We have found at least 400 variants in the country we do not know which is from where. They could be foreign or even developed domestically. With the rise in cases, all we could conclude is that the spread of the infection is faster, but the death rate has gone down and so this variant is leading to more cases but is not as deadly as the previous ones.Dr Ghose Aurnab, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (ISSER), who was part of the team which did the first and only serological survey in the city, said, “We took the samples for the serosurvey during the lockdown period and so there was not much intermingling of people which restricted the spread of the virus. During the survey, we did find high levels of antibodies in the samples we tested. The ongoing rise could be partly reinfections or mutations, however, there is no proof of it. But it largely appears that in the current wave those who remained safe or protected during the first wave are now being affected.”“The reason is that we see that most cases are now coming from areas which were earlier reporting the least number of cases. There is a large population of untouched people and the virus will always find a place to intrude into places that were left out. Also, now that people have completely left off their guard we are seeing an exponential rise in the number of cases,” he said.Dr Ghose also said that currently the city is already at par with the September peak and if we continue to go higher the second wave will be worse or if we report lower than we are already at par with the first wave. However, Dr Joshi said it would be too premature to claim if this wave is harsher or not and that a conclusion could be drawn only after 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/second-covid-wave-could-be-severe-warn-experts-101616258255153.html
20-03-2021||Other||560 super-spreaders test positive in rural Pune under special drive||PUNE Amid the surge in Covid cases Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) has undertaken a drive to identify the super-spreaders in rural areas and more than 1.5 lakh people have been identified in the last ten days. Also, after selective testing 560 of them have tested positive at 67 places and now have been isolated.Super-spreaders are the people who have a much higher rate of social interaction than the common people such as shopkeepers, grocery store owners, social workers, traders and politicians.“We could not test all of them because it takes time and costs money. We tested only those who required to be tested after the screening as they had some minor symptom and had proximity to hotspots. We will continue the drive,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune ZP.On March 19, Pune rural reported 902 new cases and two deaths, according to the state health department.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), meanwhile, has not started such a drive yet. PMC commissioner said that PMC is currently focusing on contact tracing and more testing.“We have not started the drive yet, but we may start it. We are currently focusing on contact tracing and testing. We have conducted more than 14,000 tests on Saturday,” said, Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/560-super-spreaders-test-positive-in-rural-pune-under-special-drive-101616255735012.html
20-03-2021||Bhopal||Jyotiraditya Scindia helps injured MP cop, video goes viral on social media||Congressman-turned-BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Saturday helped an injured policemen while on his way from Bhopal airport to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's residence, a party functionary said.Incidentally, exactly a year ago, 22 Congress MLAs loyal to Scindia had rebelled against the party, quit the Assembly and joined the BJP, leading to the fall of the Kamal Nath government."When his motorcade was on its way from the airport to the CM's residence where both are scheduled to have lunch together, Scindia saw a policeman injured after a fall and helped him. The policeman has been hospitalised," said party spokesperson Pankaj Chaturvedi.The policeman had sustained a minor injury on his forehead and a video of Scindia putting a handkerchief on the wound went viral on social media.Superintendent of Police (North) Vijay Khatri denied that the policeman was hit by one of the vehicles in Scindia's entourage."He fell after feeling dizzy. Scindia helped him," the SP said.Meanwhile, the Congress, in protest against the way their government fell last year, observed 'Loktantra Samman Diwas' and held a 'Tiranga Yatra' across the state, said party spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta.Gupta said all Covid-19 norms were adhered to during the protest.State BJP media in charge Lokendra Parasar, however, tweeted that Saturday was "khushali diwas" (happiness day).Later, Scindia and Chouhan, along with several of the latter's cabinet colleagues, had lunch, BJP functionaries said.Scindia mocked the Congress' 'Loktantra Samman Diwas' and said it was the latter that had killed democracy in the state during its 15-month rule.The day started off with Nath releasing a video message from Delhi claiming he was aware of the "opposition's (BJP at the time) dealings" but he preferred to respect democracy and save the Constitution rather than enter into any deal to form a "purchased government".He said the opposition, after his resignation on March 20 last year, formed a government through a deal and "killed the spirit of the Constitution".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/scindia-helps-injured-mp-cop-video-goes-viral-on-social-media-101616254320977.html
20-03-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad reports over 1,000 cases for four days in a row||PUNE Pimpri-Chinchwad has been reporting more than 1,000 Covid cases daily from the last four days, according to the state health department.On Saturday, 1,431 people tested positive for the virus in the twin cities while 11 deaths were reported.On March 17, as many as 1,248 cases were reported, on March 18, 1,296 cases were reported while on March 19 as many as 1,326 cases were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad.The positivity rate which was 17 per cent till March 13 has increased to 24 per cent as of March 20, said, officials.“Since the last few days, the positivity rate is fluctuating between 22 to 24 per cent. We are ready with excess bed facilities if the need arises,” said Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.Currently, Pimpri-Chinchwad is conducting over 5,000 tests every day and administration has also increased contact tracing. “We have increased contact tracing and at least 1,000 people are being tested daily,” added Salve.As most of the patients having mild symptoms, 70 per cent of Covid positive people are under home isolation.“People who asymptomatic or have mild symptoms are opting for home isolation. The number of serious patients is fewer,” he said.As of March 21, there are 10,229 positive patients in the twin cities, out of which 7,671 are home quarantined while 2,558 patients are undergoing treatment at hospitals.The administration is keeping a strict watch on the people who are under home isolation and PCMC have kept their officials in the respective area to keep track of their movement.“Before allowing patients to isolate themselves at home, we are making sure patients understand what protocols they need to follow. Even if symptoms are mild we are not allowing them to come out of their homes,” said, Dr Laxman Gophane, assistant health medical officer, PCMC.Currently, most cases in PCMC are seen between the age group of 22-39. “In this age group immunity level is higher as compared to other age groups. They are recovering fast, but at the same time youth should restrict unnecessary movements across the city which is one of the reasons for the increase in cases,” added Gophane.PCMC trackerNo of testing per day: 5000+Major containment zone: 182Micro containment zone: 845Covid cases and deathsDate; Covid positive; deathsMarch 20 ;1,431;11March 19; 1,326; 6March 18; 1,296; 9March 17; 1,248; 5March 16; 894; 5March 15; 728; 4March 14; 845; 5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwad-reports-over-1-000-cases-for-four-days-in-a-row-101616254474906.html
20-03-2021||Other||‘Devotees’ faith will overcome fear of Covid-19 in Mahakumbh’: CM Rawat||Assuring devotees of removing all “unnecessary” restrictions for Haridwar Mahakumbh, Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said on Saturday that the “faith of devotees will overcome the fear of Covid-19” in the mega event that will begin from April 1. The chief minister’s statement drew much flak from experts and the Opposition who cited the recent surge in Covid-19 infections.“I invite all devotees across the world to come to Haridwar and take a holy dip in the Ganga during Mahakumbh. Nobody will be stopped in the name of Covid-19 as we are sure the faith in God will overcome the fear of the virus,” Rawat said.During his visit to Haridwar, the chief minister inspected the ongoing works for Mahakumbh and inaugurated many completed projects worth ₹120 crore.“Prior to my taking charge (as CM), there were clouds of uncertainty hovering over Mahakumbh. But now they have been cleared. The government is fully focused on organising the Mahakumbh in a grand way,” Rawat told the media after performing rituals at the sanctum sanctorum of Brahmakund in Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghat along with BJP state president Madan Kaushik and state assembly speaker Premchand Agarwal.“We have to take a risk as Mahakumbh is not a normal annual fair but one which is held after every 12 years. Every devotee wants to take the sacred Ganga dip and take back Gangajal home. So how can we stop or restrict them from coming here? But the Covid-19 guidelines of the Centre will be adhered to,” he said.The chief minister said, “Religious sentiments need to be given priority as faith is stronger than fear as was seen during the Shahi Snaan on Mahashivaratri on March 11. About 3.4 million people arrived in Haridwar for that holy bath.”During his visit to Haridwar, Rawat met seers of Bairagi Akhada in the mela area and sought their blessings.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, who was present with Rawat, said, “In times of the pandemic, Mahakumbh would be the biggest public congregation in the world while following the Covid-19 guidelines.”After taking charge as the CM, Rawat had overturned several decisions taken by previous CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, including mandatory RT-PCR negative test report by the devotees coming to Haridwar and no plying of extra buses or running of special trains to Haridwar during Shahi Snaans to limit the crowd amid the pandemic.The new CM had lifted the restrictions, saying, “The mega event is no ordinary one and devotees will be welcomed without any unnecessary restrictions in the name of Covid-19.”Experts and the Opposition criticised the CM for his move to remove restrictions amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in many states that has raised fears of a second wave.“With the Covid-19 cases again increasing in the country, the government’s approach should be “health first” but that doesn’t seem to be the case, which is worrisome,” said PS Chauhan, a Haridwar-based senior academic who has been keeping an eye on the Mahakumbh event. “The easing of restrictions would be very dangerous for the health safety of our state,” he said.Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said, “The CM is saying that all are welcome to the Mahakumbh and nobody will stop them with restrictions. We are not against the devotees coming but is the government prepared to handle a congregation of millions of people in one city? The answer is no. And this is a huge risk for the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/devotees-faith-will-overcome-fear-of-covid-19-in-mahakumbh-cm-rawat-101616253395877.html
20-03-2021||Other||Pune district’s vaccine wastage higher than state average||PUNE The district which is on the verge of Covid-19 vaccine shortage is reporting about eight per cent of vaccine wastage which is more than the state’s average at 5.2 per cent. However, ten per cent wastage during such a large scale immunisation drive is considered acceptable, said, officials.Currently, the district has limited Covaxin doses which are used for first doses.As of Friday, the district has received 5.82 lakh doses of Covishield out of which 3.82 lakh have been administered and 1.67 lakh are in stock. Over 33,000 doses have been wasted. With regards to Covaxin, the district received 1.12 lakh vaccines, out of which 66,000 have been administered, 39,000 are pending and 6,044 have been wasted. The wastage percentage for both vaccines is almost the same. With the city reporting the highest wastage percentage in proportion to the highest consumption too.Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said, “The state average of vaccine wastage is about 5.2 per cent. Multiple factors can contribute to wastage. However, in any large scale immunisation drive about ten per cent vaccine wastage acceptable.”“Maharashtra is now vaccinating the highest number of beneficiaries that any state. Also, people need to remember that both the approved vaccines are only proven to reduce the severity and not stop the spread per se. Therefore Covid-appropriate behaviour is the right solution,” he said.While Covishield is currently being used only as a second dose for those covered under phase one, health care workers and frontline workers, Covaxin is now being prioritised as the first dose vaccine. However, with only 39,000 doses pending, the dose is enough for only two days as over 23,000 beneficiaries are taking the vaccine for the first time daily. The district aims to vaccinate about one lakh people daily however the shortage of vaccine looms large.Dr Patil said, “For us, both the vaccines are the same. We have demanded over 33 lakh vaccines from the Centre for the state. Besides, we have asked various district authorities to ensure that they have enough doses for at least five days and if Covaxin is over they have been instructed to restart using Covishield as the first dose. Meanwhile, we are expecting another allotment by Monday or Tuesday (March 22 and 23).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-s-vaccine-wastage-higher-than-state-average-101616253274775.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||'Anil Deshmukh should resign or CM should sack him': Fadnavis on claims made by Param Bir Singh||Leader of opposition in Maharashtra Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, on Saturday said that state home minister Anil Deshmukh should either resign or chief minister Uddhav Thackeray must sack him over his alleged association with Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested in connection with the Mukesh Ambani security threat case."We demand Maharashtra home minister's resignation. If he doesn't then CM must remove him," the former chief minister said.Fadnavis’ remarks came shortly after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused Deshmukh of being involved in extortion through Vaze. Singh made the allegations in a letter sent to Thackeray."Home minister Anil Deshmukh expressed to Sachin Vaze that he had a target to accumulate ₹100 crore a month," Singh’s letter tweeted by news agency ANI reads. According to the letter, Singh informed Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar about the home minister’s actions.“Sachin Vaze who was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch of Mumbai Police was called by Anil Deshmukh to his official residence in the last few months and repeatedly instructed to assist the collection of funds for the home minister,” the letter reads.“For achieving the target, home minister told Vaze that there were about 1750 bars, restaurants and other establishments in Mumbai and if a sum of ₹2-3 lakhs were collected from each of them, a monthly collection of ₹40-50 crore was achievable,” Singh told the CM in the letter.The home minister, however, has refuted the allegations and said that Singh made the claims as his involvement in Ambani bomb scare case as well as in the case of Mansukh Hiran's death was getting clearer. “There are possibilities of him getting exposed, the then police commissioner Param Bir Singh made false allegations against me to save himself from the action," Deshmukh said in a series of tweets.Fadvnavis, meanwhile, said that apart from Deshmukh’s resignation, there must be an impartial probe into the matter by central agencies or a court-monitored probe."This is more explosive than the gelatin sticks which were recovered. The charges made by Param Bir Singh are serious. Singh has also attached some chats as evidence," he said."Letter also states that CM was intimated about this earlier so why didn't he act on it?" Fadnavis asked.The Ambani security threat cases as well as Hiran’s death case are currently being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-should-resign-or-cm-should-sack-him-fadnavis-on-claims-made-by-param-bir-singh-101616252315642.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Bring CIA and KGB too’: Shiv Sena on transfer of Mansukh Hiran death probe to NIA||Taking a dig at the Centre, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said that they must also bring the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the Russian secret agency KGB to probe the Mansukh Hiran death case. The Sena leader’s remark came after the Union ministry of home affairs transferred the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS).Raut accused the Centre of finding opportunities to put the state government in trouble, but ruled out any setback because of the transfer. “Let NIA carry out their investigation. In reality, NIA should not have rushed here (in Maharashtra). The Mumbai Police and Maharashtra ATS are capable to investigate such cases or any case for that matter,” he said.“But there is a different government at the Centre and they have a different stand. They keep looking for opportunities to put Maharashtra government in trouble, but no matter which agency comes and however they investigate it does not affect the government. Let them bring CIA and KGB as well to investigate,” the Sena leader added.The death of Hiran, the man who claimed ownership of the explosives-laden SUV found outside Mukesh Ambani’s home, was being probed by the ATS after it took it over from the Mumbai Police and registered a murder case against unknown persons. Earlier in the day, the case was handed over to the NIA which is also investigating the Ambani security threat case.The investigation was transferred under section 8 of the NIA Act, which states that any connecting offence related to a scheduled offence already under investigation can also be taken over by it. The NIA will re-register the Mumbai police FIR in the alleged murder case and take over the case file as well as Hiran’s autopsy report.After the explosives-laden vehicle was found outside Ambani’s Antilia residence in Mumbai on February 25, Hiran was found dead in a creek on March 5.NIA, the central agency probing the case, has arrested Mumbai's assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. He was accused by Hiran's wife of being involved in her husband's suspicious death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bring-cia-and-kgb-too-shiv-sena-on-transfer-of-mansukh-hiran-death-probe-to-nia-101616251257201.html
20-03-2021||Pune||Homeless, poor are left behind in Covid vaccination drive due to lack of identity proof||PUNE The most vulnerable and deprived sections like inmates of mental hospitals, beggars and the homeless are finding it difficult to get the Covid vaccine as they don’t have document to proof identity.Currently, to avail of the vaccination, it is mandatory to furnish any one document as proof of identity like Aadhar card, PAN card, voter ID, driving license, service identity card, MGNREGA job card (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act), passport, smart card, pension identity card, bank or post office passbook or health insurance smart card at the vaccination points.Dr Abhijit Sonawane, president, Doctors for Beggars Organisation, said “At least 85 per cent of the beggars in the district do not possess a birth registration certificate or any other identity proof. This category of persons needs to be vaccinated without any documentary proof so that herd immunity can be developed amongst them.”According to officials at Yerawada Mental Hospital, there are many as 375 inmates who don’t have any documentary proof as they were admitted by their parents or relatives long ago. The hospital authorities have written to the state immunisation department to bring them under the vaccination drive at the earliest and have extended all the necessary assistance in the said context.Shailesh Korde, a homeless who resides on the footpath in Juna Bazar, said “ I don’t know anything about vaccination and who is giving the medicine. I am sure that we won’t be getting the vaccination.”Mukta Pardeshi, a social worker, said, “Such vulnerable people must be vaccinated as it is their fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution.”The state government has sought guidelines from the Centre regarding vaccination for the deprived section.Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said, “We have asked the Centre about guidelines for the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/homeless-poor-are-left-behind-in-covid-vaccination-drive-due-to-lack-of-identity-proof-101616249315981.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray tests positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray on Saturday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)."On having mild symptoms of COVID, I had myself tested and I am COVID positive. I request everyone who came in contact with me to get themselves tested. I urge everyone to realise that it is extremely important to not let your guard down. Please follow COVID protocols & stay safe," he said on Twitter.On having mild symptoms of COVID, I had myself tested and I am COVID positive. I request everyone who came in contact with me to get themselves tested.I urge everyone to realise that it is extremely important to not let your guard down. Please follow COVID protocols & stay safeThe the 30-year-old, son of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, holds the portfolios of tourism and environment.Maharashtra is the worst-affected state by the Covid-19 pandemic. The state reported as many as 13,601 fresh Covid-19 cases and 58 deaths on Friday, according to health department data. The number of active cases stands at 1,676,37.The top five districts in Maharashtra recording the highest number of cases are Pune (37,384), Nagpur (25,861), Mumbai (18,850), Thane (16,735) and Nashik (11,867), according to health department update.The state government on Saturday extended the restrictions in Nagpur, among the worst-affected districts in Maharashtra. It is already under a lockdown from March 15 to 21 due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. Only essential services such as vegetable and fruit shops and milk booths will stay open, according to the order issued by the district administration.Other districts like Amaravati, Yavatmal, and Latur have also been put under restrictions whereas the Aurangabad administration has imposed a complete lockdown on weekends till further orders.Meanwhile, the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai on Saturday informed that Rapid Antigen Testing will be done randomly without citizens' consent at crowded places like malls, railway stations, bus depots, markets, tourist places and government offices. One who refuses to get tested will be booked under the Epidemic Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-aaditya-thackeray-tested-positive-for-covid19-101616245169402.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Will test people for Covid-19 randomly without consent, says Mumbai's civic body||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday announced that it will conduct rapid antigen tests (RAT) randomly without citizens' consent at crowded places like malls, railway stations, bus depots, markets, tourist places and government offices."If a citizen refuses to get tested, they'd be booked under Epidemic Act," the BMC said in an order reported by news agency ANI.The BMC has earmarked a daily quota of tests to be carried out in different places. For malls, an average of 400 RAT tests have to be conducted, for railway stations, state bus depots, crowded beaches, restaurants, markets, khau gallis, tourist attractions, government offices an average of 1000 RAT tests will have to be conducted, the civic body's circular said. In malls, the cost of the test has to be borne by the visitors, a refusal to do so will entail legal consequences under the Epidemic Act. For the rest of the places, the cost of the test will be borne by the BMC.It has also released a list of the ward wise quota of RAT tests, depending on the number of malls, railway stations, bus depots, and other crowded places situated within the geographical boundaries of the concerned ward. The R Central Ward, which encompasses the Sanjay Gandhi National Park and Borivali amongst other areas, has been allocated the highest daily quota of 3800 daily tests, on the basis of 2 malls, one railway station, one state bus depot, and some crowded places. The L Ward, which covers Saki Naka, parts of Powai, Chandivali, Kurla, and Tungwa has also been asked to carry out 3800 daily RAT tests.The BMC has directed the concerned assistant commissioners of every ward to ensure that their daily test targets are achieved. Information on the same has to be furnished to the additional municipal commissioner (Western Suburbs).The decision has been taken because of the huge spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. On Friday, Mumbai reported 3,063 new cases, its highest single day spike of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-test-people-for-covid-19-randomly-without-consent-says-mumbai-s-civic-body-101616244660884.html
20-03-2021||Other||J-K administration ropes in religious leaders to speed up Covid-19 vaccination||To speed up the Covid-19 vaccination drive, Jammu and Kashmir administration has roped in religious leaders. More than 50 religious leaders and clerics received their vaccine shots on Saturday.Officials said more than 4.5 lakh people have been inoculated in the Union territory, including more than 77 per cent of frontline workers. From the past few days, Covid-19 positive cases are on the rise in J-K and after several weeks the number of active Covid-19 cases have crossed 1,100.Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 152 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest daily tally in the past 2.5 months. With this, the total cases in the Union territory have jumped to 128,249 while the death toll has reached 1,979.On Saturday, at the Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) vaccination centre, more than fifty religious and social leaders were vaccinated during a program organized by the Divisional Covid Control in coordination with the SKIMS.“After receiving the first short of vaccine, all the religious leaders urged people to come forward for vaccination. While underscoring the importance of health, they said that health has the utmost importance in our religion and we should take care of it and listen to experts who are making all efforts to save lives that have been heavily impacted due to the ongoing pandemic. They appealed to the people not to pay any attention to any rumours and shun unnecessary apprehensions about the safety of the vaccine,” said a SKIMS spokesperson.SKIMS director, AG Ahangar, said that the pandemic created havoc across the world, impacted lives and economies. “The UT of J-K, like other parts of the country, was also impacted and lost many precious lives to Corona. Experts across the world tried and tested many medicines including anti-virals, plasma therapy and other protocols to save lives and today the vaccine is available which has been prepared and launched after thorough research/scientific evidence to save people from complications due to Covid-19. The pandemic is still not over and the countries are witnessing second and third wave,” he said, urging people to follow SOPs and not pay any heed to rumours about the vaccination. He said the vaccine is safe and has been received by many people including him and other healthcare workers.“The religious leaders who received the vaccination at the SKIMS can play a critical role in educating people about the safety of the vaccine and its health benefits,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-administration-ropes-in-religious-leaders-to-speed-up-covid-19-vaccination-101616244274581.html
20-03-2021||Other||Body of Una man who was wrongly buried in Saudi to be exhumed, repatriated: HP CM||The body of the Una native, who wrongly buried as per Muslim customs in Saudi Arabia, would be exhumed and repatriated to India soon, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur informed the assembly on Saturday.The man, identified as Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, had been working as a truck driver and had died of natural causes at the Baish Hospital of Jizan, Saudi Arabia, on January 24. His body was buried in the country as per Islamic customs due to a translation error. “As soon as I received information about this, I immediately took up the matter with the Government of India and the Consulate General of India in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia,” said Jai Ram, adding, “The Consulate has informed through an e-mail that they have taken up the matter with local Saudi authorities and Sharma’s body would be exhumed and repatriated to India. The circumstances leading to the burial of the body, without any intimation even to his sponsor, will be probed.”As per the Consulate General of India, the Arabic death certificate, issued by Saudi authorities did not mention Sharma’s religion, but in the English translation of the certificate, his religion was stated to be Muslim. The translation had been done by the Saudi office only, the Consulate had informed. The Himachal CM said, “An apology letter has also been issued by the Saudi translation office. In fact, the apology letter by Saudi translation office was issued on the constant follow up by our officials.” Thakur said that officials of the Consulate are in Jizan to expedite the repatriation process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/body-of-una-man-who-was-wrongly-buried-in-saudi-to-exhumed-himachal-cm-101616243135694.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farm union leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan tests positive for Covid-19||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan has tested positive for Covid-19 .Bathinda civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon said on Saturday that 75-year-old Ugrahan is being treated at Nivaran Hospital in Bathinda. Dr Kulwinder Singh, the medical officer at the hospital, said Ugrahan is under medical observation in the isolation facility and his condition is stable. He has been isolated for 14 days. “He was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday evening with fever and severe breathlessness. He is responding to treatment. The district authorities were duly informed as per the Covid protocol,” Dr Kulwinder Singh said. A Left-leaning organisation, the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), has been at the forefront of the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. It is one of the largest farm unions in Punjab. Ugrahan was touring Punjab along with other farmer leaders to gather support for the agitation till recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farm-union-leader-joginder-singh-ugrahan-tests-positive-for-covid19-101616241274282.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Restrictions in Nagpur extended over rising Covid-19 cases||The Maharashtra government on Saturday extended the restrictions in Nagpur, one of the districts badly hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The announcement was made by Dr Nitin Raut, Guardian Minister of Nagpur, who said that the restrictions have been extended in the city till March 31 over rising Covid-19 cases. Vegetables and other essential shops will be allowed to operate until 4pm, the minister added.This comes after Nagpur district recorded 3,679 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, which took its tally to 1,89,466, according to state health department figures quoted by news agency ANI. The death toll after 29 fresh fatalities stood at 4,592.Cases in the district have been on the riseu since February, forcing the state government to initially impose a week-long lockdown from March 15 to March 21. The district administration stated that shops selling essential items such as fruits, vegetables along with milk booths will be allowed to remain open during the week. All private offices had been closed while the government ones were functioning at a capacity of 25%. Hospitals were operative and residents were allowed to take vaccines.Despite stringent lockdown rules, the district has been recording high numbers of daily cases. At the onset of the restrictions, while substantially fewer people were seen out in public, the streets were not completely deserted and a few instances of police altercations were also reported.Roads were barricaded and the police monitored the traffic. Vehicles were also stopped and questioned.The guardian minister, at the time of implementing the previous lockdown, had said that it would be extended with stricter measures if cases continued to rise. He had also said that swab samples were sent for genome sequencing to check if there were any mutations.The district administration, however, ensured that the lockdown would not impact the vaccination drive, and allowed people to accompany the ones going to get their jab. They had also appealed to social organisations, non-government organisations to come forward to help senior citizens reach vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/restrictions-in-nagpur-extended-over-rising-covid-19-cases-101616239010469.html
20-03-2021||Other||4 Dadri cops suspended, two terminated for torturing man||Four Haryana Police personnel have been placed under suspension and the services of two others have been terminated for torturing Dadri resident Rahul Kumar, whose brother Binder Kumar, alias Bijender, was killed in a fake encounter at Mahendergarh Chowk in Dadri on February 7. Dadri superintendent of police Vinod Kumar said the four policemen were suspended and two were terminated in connection with the torture of Rahul after his brother Binder Kumar was allegedly killed in a fake encounter by the Rohtak special task force (STF). The cops placed under suspension are Dadri city station house officer (SHO) Veer Singh, assistant sub-inspector Bhim Singh, head constable Ashok Kumar and a constable Sanjay Kumar. Special police officer Randhir and constable Anil were issued termination orders. Police mounted pressure for deal “The Bhiwani crime branch is investigating the death. Four cops of Rohtak were suspended earlier in connection with the murder,” the SP said. In his complaint, Rahul said he was standing outside a milk booth in Dadri around 9pm on March 13 when a PCR van suddenly stopped near him. “I was taken to a police station where they tortured me and mounted pressure to reach a compromise in connection with my brother’s death. When I refused, they beat me up,” he said. Rahul had also lodged a complaint with the chief minister’s window and the Haryana director general of police. STF on trail of murder accused Earlier, four policemen of the Rohtak STF were suspended for their alleged role in the encounter. The cops placed under suspension are assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hitender Kadian, cyber cell ASI Ranbir Singh, constables Sachin and Harinder. The Dadri police recovered an SUV and a pistol used in the crime from Harinder. “Investigation, including CCTV footage, shows the assailants used a red SUV. After tracing it, we learnt the man was killed by a Rohtak STF team that was on the trail of the murder accused of Vikas, alias Vicky, of Baliyani village in Rohtak. Vikas was shot dead in February,” he said. Constable Harinder has confessed to the fake encounter, the SP said. “He told us that they had received inputs that a group of people booked in connection with the Vikas murder case have stopped their car near Mahendragarh Chowk in Dadri. When they reached there, a group of men, including Binder, started their car and tried to flee. The cops opened fire, thinking they were the assailants of Vikas. Binder was killed in the firing,” the Dadri SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-dadri-cops-suspended-two-terminated-for-torturing-man-101616238397322.html
20-03-2021||Patna||Bihar government appoints former chief secretary as appellate authority chairman||Former Bihar chief secretary Ashok Kumar Sinha has been made the chairman of the state appellate authority in accordance with the provisions laid down in the Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2020.Sinha, who earlier served as the chief information commissioner, will have a tenure of five years from the date of joining or till he acquires the age of 70 years. He will get the same salary and allowances minus the pension amount as applicable to a Patna high court judge. A notification to this effect was issued by the education department.The government last year, ahead of the assembly elections, announced salary hike for teachers and acceded to the old demand for rules for redressal of grievances of teachers, under which, there is a provision for district and state level appellate authority to deal with the complaints.The new rules came into effect repealing the 2015 rules. The state appellate authority has the powers to hear appeals against the orders passed by the district appellate authorities. The government has also invited applications for appointment of presiding officers in the two-member district appellate authorities. While one of them will be a retired officer of the Bihar judicial service, another will be a retired officer of the Bihar education service or Bihar administrative service.The move is significant as the education department is saddled with the highest number of court cases related to appointments, promotions, transfers, service matters, pay anomalies, contribution to employee provident fund (EPF) and court-monitored vigilance case into the alleged appointment of fake teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-government-appoints-former-chief-secretary-as-appellate-authority-chairman-101616238395635.html
20-03-2021||West||Mamata Banerjee sharpens attack on BJP, calls it 'tolabaaz's feudal landlord'||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of being extortionist and termed it a party of feudal landlords. She claimed that the BJP steals funds amounting to several lakhs of crores of rupees.“If a common man steals ₹500 then he is called a ‘tolabaaz’. What do we call the BJP government who stole crores of Rupees? 'Tolabaaz's feudal landlord'?,” the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo said at a poll rally in the state’s Khejuri district, according to news agency ANI.Banerjee has been campaigning across the state even as she wheelchair borne following an alleged attack on her earlier this month in which she suffered injuries on her leg and neck.The chief minister levelled similar allegations against the BJP at a public meeting earlier in the day in Haldia. “Is BJP a political party? It is a disgusting party in India. Even BJP girls are not safe in the BJP party. See who is in what condition with the news. The evil deeds of their leaders will come out. BJP is the biggest Tolabaaz in India," she was quoted as saying by ANI.She alleged that lakhs of crores were collected in the name of PM Care Fund, the people, however, are not getting the Covid-19 shots and the virus has begun to spread again.Banerjee also took a dig at defectors who joined the BJP in recent days. “Thank God 'Mir Jafars' (traitors) have left (TMC). I am relieved. It has saved us,” she said at the rally, in an apparent jibe at her former aide Suvendhu Adhikari, who has not only joined the BJP but is also contesting against the chief minister from the Nandigram assembly seat.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also campaigned in Bengal earlier in the day as assembly elections dates near. He took potshots at the state government over the pace of development. Pointing to the outage of social media applications WhatsApp, Facebook and Instagram that last for nearly 50 minutes on Friday night, Modi claimed, “Bengal development has been down for 50 years... your dreams have been down for 50 years.”With both parties ready for a crucial battle, West Bengal is set to see assembly elections in eight phases on March 27 March 27, April 1, April 6, April 10, April 17, April 22, April 26 and April 29. The results for the polls will be declared on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/mamata-banerjee-sharpens-attack-on-bjp-calls-it-tolabaaz-s-feudal-landlord-101616236225896.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports over 800 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, highest daily spike this year||Delhi has been witnessing a steady increase in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) through the week, and on Saturday it broke all records of this year by registering 813 fresh cases of the infection, according to latest figures released in the health bulletin.Two people died of the viral disease in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin.With the massive one-day jump in cases, the city’s positivity rate stands at 1.07% while the cumulative positivity rate is at 4.71%.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The infection tally in the national capital has gone up to 647,161 and a total of 10,955 fatalities due to the disease have been recorded so far. Of the total cases, 3,409 are active. As many 632,797 people have recovered from Covid-19 so far with 567 recoveries recorded between Friday and Saturday.From March 1 till March 11, the new cases in the city were witnessing an upward trend but ranged between 150 and 370. However, the cases recorded in a single day on March 12 rose to 409 and has since remained above that except on March 14 (407) and March 16 (368). On March 17, 18 and 19 the daily new cases soared to 536, 607 and 716 respectively.A central government panel has attributed the grim figures to superspreader events like weddings. “We must understand that there is still a large section of population that is vulnerable, especially in villages. We cannot afford to lower our guard at this stage, and should avoid mass gatherings as it can become superspreading events,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.Delhi is also among the eight states contributing most to the nation’s daily Covid-19 count. Other states showing rising trajectory of daily new cases are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal led-Aam Aadmi party government said it is ready to vaccinate all adults in the city against the coronavirus disease. Kejriwal has appealed to the Centre to make vaccines open for all who are 18 years of age and above. “Walk-in centres should be opened for all. I urge the central government to take this up on a war footing. If this is allowed, we can vaccinate everyone in Delhi (18 years and above) in three months,” he said earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-over-800-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-highest-daily-spike-this-year-101616236884500.html
20-03-2021||Bhopal||MP: Woman cuts off man's genitals after he tries to rape her||A 45-year-old woman chopped off the genitals of a man, who had allegedly tried to rape her by sneaking into her house in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district, police said on Saturday.The incident occurred in Umariha village, approximately 50 kms from the district headquarters, around 11 pm on Thursday, they said.As per the complaint lodged by the woman, her husband had gone out of station for some work when the incident took place, Khaddi police outpost in-charge sub inspector (SI) Dharmendra Singh Rajput said."The woman was at home with her 13-year-old son when the accused (45) entered their house. However, thinking that a thief had sneaked in, her son ran to safety out of the house," he said.Thereafter, the accused thrashed the woman and tried to sexually assault her. However, she resisted his attempt for over 20 minutes, he added."In a bid to save herself, the woman picked up a sickle lying under her cot and cut off the man's genitals. The woman then reached the police outpost and lodged a complaint against him around 1.30 am on Friday," Rajput said.The police took the accused to a hospital for first aid, he added."After that, he was shifted to Sidhi district hospital. As per the doctors' advice, he was later admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Rewa district for further treatment," he said.The accused has been booked under IPC section 354 (criminal force on woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 456 (house-trespass or house-breaking by night), 294 (obscene acts), 506 (criminal intimidation) and others.However, the accused has also filed a complaint against the woman, Rajput said."Based on his complaint, a case has been registered against the woman under IPC section 327 (voluntarily causing hurt)," Rajput said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-woman-cuts-off-man-s-genitals-after-he-tries-to-rape-her-101616236354344.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Parents demand reopening of schools for primary students||A group of parents staged a protest near Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence here on Saturday, demanding that students of classes 1 to 8 be allowed back into schools.The protesting parents, led by the Delhi State Public Schools' Management Association, said that since anganwadis, courts, and classes from 9th till 12th standards have resumed functioning, the students of primary section should also be allowed back into schools.Chairman of the Delhi State Public Schools' Management Association R C Jain said the government should give the parents an option of sending their children to school along with continuing online teaching."The government should issue an SOP that those who can and want their children to attend offline classes should follow some guidelines, and the rest can continue through online medium," Jain told PTI.He added that after over a year away from school, the children have become frustrated and their parents are also finding it difficult to go to their work and taking care of the child's education at the same time.Educational institutions in the national capital were shut in March last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Phased reopening of educational institutions has begun in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-parents-demand-reopening-of-schools-for-primary-students-101616236094134.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Ready to accept Centre's conditions on doorstep ration scheme: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said he is ready to accept all the conditions of the Centre on doorstep delivery of ration scheme, but won't allow any obstructions."The Delhi government will not take any credit for doorstep ration delivery scheme. The Doorstep ration delivery scheme will not have any name. Ready to accept all conditions of Centre but will not allow any obstructions," Kejriwal said, according to news agency PTI.According to a notification issued by the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, the subsidised foodgrains being allocated for distribution under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) cannot be used for running any state-specific or other scheme under a different name other than NFSA. The same is not permissible under the act. The notification has been issued to the Food and Civil Supplies department of the Delhi government.Kejriwal said his government had found a solution to deliver the raion at the doorstep of every household."A revolutionary scheme was going to start in Delhi from 25th March - Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana. People used to get ration from shops for which they used to face problems and stand in queues," he added.Under the scheme, the Delhi government plans to provide packaged wheat flour, packaged rice and packaged sugar.Earlier on Friday, the Centre stopped the doorstep delivery of ration scheme--MMGGRY (Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana) of the Delhi government, scheduled to be launched on March 25.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ready-to-accept-centre-s-conditions-on-doorstep-ration-scheme-kejriwal-101616230527016.html
20-03-2021||Bhopal||It took a DNA test to end the dispute over dog’s ownership in MP||DNA test report ended a four-month old dispute over ownership of a three-year-old Labrador in Mahdya Pradesh’s Hoshangabad district, said police. “The DNA report of the dog matched with its parent in Pachmarhi and now the dog will be known as Coco,” said Santosh Singh Gaur, superintendent of police, Hoshangabad, who ordered the DNA test to ascertain the dog’s parentage in November last year following conflicting ownership claims by a journalist, Shadab Khan, and an Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) leader Kratik Shivhare.“After the DNA test report, the dog has been handed over to Shadab Khan on Friday,” said the SP. Shadab said he was happy to get his pet back after seven months.In November 2020, Shadab Khan claimed to have lost his dog Coco in August that year and accused the ABVP leader of stealing it. He told police that he had seen his dog at Shivhare’s home. A day later, Shivhare reached the police station with papers and claimed that the dog belonged to him and that his name was Tiger. Shivhare claimed that he had purchased the dog from Itarsi. As both were adamant on their claims and the dog was equally friendly to both, the then police station in-charge Hemant Shrivastava discussed the matter with the SP and decided to get the dog’s DNA test done, said the police.Till the report of the test arrived, Shivhare was allowed to keep the dog. One police team was sent to Pachmarhi and the second to Itarsi to collect the sample for the dog’s DNA test to establish its origin. Later, the samples were sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory in Hyderabad.Last week, the police received the report, confirming that the dog’s parentage was from Pachmarhi and therefore it was returned to Shadab.Hoshangabad dehat police station in-charge Anoop Singh said, “We are investigating to find out who stole the dog. We will interrogate the person from Itarsi, who gave the dog to Kratik Shivhare.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/it-took-a-dna-test-to-end-the-dispute-over-dog-s-ownership-in-mp-101616230953316.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||DU’s first online fest rocked the campus!||Who says digital campus is devoid of fun?Delhi University’s varsities haven’t allowed the pandemic to play the role of a party pooper this year, by moving their college fests and parties to the online space. The Janki Devi Memorial College became the first DU college to recently host their college fest called Symphony 2021 completely online!Sharing how the authorities decided to have an online fest, Professor Smita Mishra, Department of History says, “The staff advisors consulted the Students’ Union and got the feedback from students of the college and across DU, that though academics was progressing at a fair clip online, the cultural scene was almost dead and there was an emotional out cry for an online festival! So the authorities resolved to give the students a fun time by hosting an online fest.”A month long virtual fest is a first that’s ever happened in DU! Staff Advisor Professor Saumya Gupta shares the motivating factor behind having an online fest. “Online fest was essential keeping in mind the Covid protocol and the safety of students. We didn’t want to deprive the students of the excitement and creativity that is the hallmark of DU festival season. So we took on the challenge to visualise the events virtually, and decided to have a month long cultural festival!” she claims.It’s normal to wonder what was different in an online fest as compared to an offline one? Did the students enjoy? “I think the online fest went better than expected with some differences from conventional offline fests like instead of being spread over three days the fest was spread over a month with one event per day, so there was no question of anyone missing any events for being held simultaneously with others as is the case during offline fests,” informs Mishra adding, “Some events like dance and drama were displays of pre-recorded work. For students it was fun engaging in virtual platforms and a learning experience but they would have enjoyed the conventional off-line fest more ofcourse!”Hailing a digital fest over no fest, Jagriti Bathra, a third year student and member of the college’s student union says, “The whole month of the festival was a roller coaster ride and it was a remarkable experience for all of us. Everyone had imagined college fest to be full of singing, dancing, and gatherings but who would have thought that it could be online as well. We were able to make new connections while at home and celebrate with students across the county! Although it was not like a regular college fest, we had a lot of fun organising it and it was a great learning experience.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dus-first-online-fest-rocked-the-campus-101616230894420.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Outstation students wowed on first campus visit||Youngsters from all around the country dream of coming down to Delhi and experiencing the campus scene here. Whether it’s the glitz of bollywood movies that have portrayed Delhi University as a hip and happening place to be, or just the pull of Delhi for being a party capital for youngsters, the curiosity of outstation students to check out the city and their campus is almost palpable! A couple of Delhi University freshers recently visited the campus and had some interesting experiences and observances to share : Itna Vadda Campus?!“The first thing that took me by surprise was how huge North Campus is! I came to check out Delhi and my college – Hansraj- along with my friends. We even rode the Delhi Metro and were stunned to encounter the rickshaw bhaiyas asking us for fifty bucks to cover a distance of just a U-turn. ‘Chahe aap 1km tak jaana chaho, chahe yeh U turn lena chaho, rate toh yehi rahega,’ they told us. We ended up walking 10,000 steps in a day because rickshaw ka scene mehenga hai yaha! Coming from a small town where the village ends in a 10 km radius, Delhi seemed massive,” shares Vinit Mehta, resident of a village near Sirsa, Haryana.Campus ka street food A1 hai ji “Campus aah kar samajh aaya ki aaj tak main jis khaane ko butter chicken samjhti thi woh actually no better than kauaa biryani nikli. Momos, Bun tikkis, Bunta, cheese maggi – yaha sab milta hai! I love the food that the small canteens around the campus have and the rate is so normal. I don’t know how I’ll ever be able to enjoy daal chawal sitting in front of the laptop and attending the online classes back at home again,” shares Devina Kapoor, a resident of Kanpur who recently visited the campus with her foodie girl gang. Palika Bazar is a steal (literally)“Yaha toh har cheez ka rate 5 guna-6 guna price zyaada maangte hai. I wanted to shop for my campus look so I went to Palika Bazaar with my friends. Ek banda tha jo chashme bech raha tha. Pehle he offered us one sun glass for 250 rupees. By the end of our bargaining session we ended up with four sunglasses for 250 rupees. Bargaining ki skills sharpen ho gayi Delhi aa ke! Why do they over quote? Chori ka maal hai kya?” asks a startled Sarthak Mishra, a fresher from Kanpur. CP (Connaught Place) mein single ki aatma tadap gayi “Humare parents bolte hai ki Delhi bada sheher hai, dhyaan se jaao chori naa ho jaye. Koi yeh nahi bolta ki raat main koi bhi single banda CP na jaaye. Yeh CP main saare couples kyun aate hai? I have never been so aware of being single in my life. Couples holding hands walking on streets. Humko pehle lagta tha ki duniya ki aadhe se jyaada janta single hai, CP main aa kar laga ki duniya ki aadhe se jyaada janta committed hai!” shares Mehta. Dil waalon ki DU“I made friends so easily here. I had come down from Darjeeling which is a very cool place to be in, and Delhi’s heat was an issue for me. But the people here are very warm. College waala feel toh nahi aaya because students kam the but the ones that I met were very friendly, helpful in studies and fun to party with. Humare college and campus ka sports complex was mind blowing! Delhi University is all that I dreamed it would be – hip, happening and a place to make life long campus friendships” shares Harshom Singh, a student of SRCC from Nepal. Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/outstation-students-wowed-on-first-campus-visit-101616230234446.html
20-03-2021||Patna||With ethanol policy in place, no food grains will now be wasted in Bihar: Husain||Bihar’s industry minister, Shahnawaz Hussain, has said no food grains will now be wasted as the Ethanol Production Promotion Policy approved by the state Cabinet on Wednesday allows investors to directly make ethanol from maize, molasses, broken rice, and rotten grains. “This will bring money to farmers and make Bihar ethanol hub of the country,” said Husain as he introduced the policy to prospective investors on Friday.The new policy allows ethanol production from all feedstocks permitted under National Policy on Biofuels, 2018, and subsequently by the National Biofuel Coordination Committee.Ethanol is widely used in alcohol production and now increasingly in motor fuel. Most of this organic chemical in the state is produced by distilleries in the Vaishali district. Officials said the production in these distilleries is 65-75 kilolitre per day.Husain said by 2025, the state proposes to increase production by 50 crore litres. He added that soon Bihar will also come out with a textile policy.Additional chief secretary Brijesh Mehrotra said in last one month, 30 prospective investors have shown interest in establishing ethanol factories and submitted their proposal with the State Investment Board.Mehrotra said that last fiscal, the state produced 40 lakh MT of maize. Similarly, the sugarcane production was 160 lakh MT and that of paddy was 82 lakh MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/with-ethanol-policy-in-place-no-food-grains-will-now-be-wasted-in-bihar-husain-101616229093247.html
20-03-2021||Patna||Bihar: 1.20 lakh litre liquor seized, 1800 arrested ahead of Holi||A consignment of 1300 cartoons of liquor was seized in Bihar’s Vaishali district on Friday. It included around 12,000 litre of Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL), which is witnessing a peak in demand ahead of Holy with revellers looking to stock up.The liquor, seized from two vehicles including a container from Lalganj and Sadar police station area, is estimated to be worth ₹1 crore, said Vaishali SP Maneesh.The first consignment of 5,900 litre of IMFL was recovered near Langri-Pakad village on state highway-74 when training deputy superintendent of police (DSP)-cum-station house officer (SHO) of Lalganj police station, Viplav Kumar, seized a truck bearing registration number UP-21N/6615. The driver and smuggler managed to escape from the spot. Another container bearing registration number MH46-AR/0577, ferrying 5,800 litre IMFL was seized on Hajipur-Mahua state highway-49, leading to arrest of Rajasthan based truck driver Krishna Ram. In the last 78 days, more than 1.20 lakh litre IMFL, spirit and country made liquor have been recovered from across the state, as per Bihar prohibition and excise department. Deputy excise commissioner Krishna Paswan said at least 1,800 persons have been arrested since January this year and following the CM’s directive to crackdown on bootleggers. According to police officials, IMFL is mainly being smuggled from neighbouring states of West Bengal, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and even from Haryana and Punjab, following its high demand across the state. Officials said country-made liquor was also being smuggled to rural areas with ease. “As Holi celebrations are approaching, the rate of IMFL is set to spike. A bottle of whiskey is set to sell at ₹1200, half at ₹600, quarter at ₹300 and one carton at ₹9,000. The supply in villages is no less than in the cities, in terms of safety and easy ferrying,” said an official. “In this festive season, anyone who smuggles liquor anywhere in Bihar will earn the highest in a month as its demand is skyrocketing,” said a person associated with the liquor mafia, on condition of anonymity. Several people have died after consuming country made liquor in Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur, Kaimur and Rohtas in recent times despite the prohibition. All officials are keeping a strict watch and raiding possible illegal outlets involved in manufacturing and supply of liquor. IG (prohibition) Amrit Raj said surveillance at border check posts has been stepped up to check entry of vehicles carrying liquor. In addition intelligence is being gathered on the illegal trade. Joint teams of the excise department and the police were engaged in preventing liquor smuggling, Raj added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-1-20-lakh-litre-liquor-seized-1800-arrested-ahead-of-holi-101616228493137.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||International Day of Happiness: Finding joy in others’ smiles||“I realised that making them happy made me happier. It sounds selfish but it’s true,” says Vibha Tomar, a Delhi-based veterinary student, who feeds stray dogs in Delhi, a habit she picked up during the lockdown. On International day of Happiness today, youngsters in the Capital say the pandemic made them realise true happiness lies in helping others. “It started with 50 dogs, and I ended up feeding 350 dogs on a daily basis. During the lockdown all the people were safe at their homes but the strays had nowhere to go, and depended on leftover food given by people outside the markets, restaurants, hotels, schools, colleges and offices. I made posters which said that strays do not transmit Covid-19 virus and they needed our help. I was so happy because those posters went viral on social media and were even shared by some Bollywood actors which helped circulate my message,” Tomar says, adding, “I started an initiative of tying reflective collars to stray dogs to avoid major accidents and have collared more than 1000 strays till now. I also made tyre beds for them, and I am so happy that many people have come forward to help strays.”While Tomar cares for strays, in another part of the city, 17-year-old twins, Asheer and Asees Kandhari, run a Covid-19 helpline with an intention to assist people in distress. “In the early days of the lockdown, we realised many underprivileged people, who had been laid off, were unable to provide for themselves. So we started the initiative to provide food and medicines to those in need,” says Asheer. They also partnered with food outlets, and took help from volunteers to distribute the resources. “The police also helped us out and we had many students from Delhi University who helped us with the delivery of the necessities to villages in the city,” says Asees, adding, “The helpline is still functional but now instead of food, people call in to ask help with sourcing covid supplies such as oxygen cylinders, so we are doing that at the moment.”The pandemic year did bring with it a sense of despondence but youngsters in the city tried to help others battle negativity with love and support. “I saw so many people who lost their jobs, and even loved ones. I wanted to spread some positivity so I started dance and yoga classes for the underprivileged kids,” describes Anjali Soni, a student of Indraprastha College for Women. She adds, “I had around 14 kids who came everyday to learn how to dance, and I also conducted classes online for others. And I am still taking classes for them! For me, making them smile is the biggest reward.”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/international-day-of-happiness-finding-joy-in-others-smiles-101616228255086.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||World Sparrow Day: Bringing back our childhood sound of music||Once ubiquitous to our surroundings, the chirping of the humble house sparrow, the state bird of Delhi, has gone quieter in the last few decades. As we observe World Sparrow Day (March 20), bird lovers in the capital seek to raise awareness about the plight of our winged companion, which currently sits on the red list of the endangered species of The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).Concerned with the declining population of sparrows, environmentalist Rakesh Khatri has been making nests for the critters for over a decade now. “When I was growing up, sparrows would make their nests on balconies, near our windows, but now in this concrete jungle, they have no place to go. We have robbed them of their houses, without providing any alternatives,” he rues. To educate the younger generation about sparrow conservation, he founded Eco Roots Foundation, and conducts workshops in schools, corporates and Residential Welfare Associations, where he teaches them how to build hand-made nests. “I have built over 1,25,000 bird houses across India, and make them from bamboo sticks, threads, jute, and recycled tetra packs. It doesn’t take much time to care for these birds, who belong here as much as we do,” Khatri adds.Vivek Saxena, country representative, IUCN-India, concurs with Khatri and says, “Urbanisation, pollution, less vegetative cover and lack of food had led to a decline in the number of sparrows. We need to ensure our ecosystem can support these birds by providing for nests, breeding spaces, and they are provided with a suitable habitat to coexist with humans in the same area.” Delhi-based Nin Taneja, an artist and avian photographer, has been working to sensitise Delhiites about building a hospitable environment for the embattled bird. “Hearing birds chirp in your balcony is a therapeutic experience. I started building a habitat for sparrows by planting native plants like pomegranate on which they like to feed, apart from putting out water and fruit peels. It is important to understand that sparrows are found in patches; so I have been researching on the areas they are found in, and have been providing people in that area with nest boxes, apart from making informative videos on social media” says Taneja, who works with Nature Forever Society, a conservationist group whose efforts had led to declaration of house sparrow as the state bird of Delhi in 2012. Jasleen Chadha, founder of NGO Jeev Shakti Foundation, has been putting out cemented bowls of water for sparrows in parks and localities. “With summers upon us, it is important to make sure these birds have access to clean drinking water. Each year we rescue scores of birds that suffer from dehydration. I ask people to invest in simple, doable and affordable things like putting nesting boxes and food bowls in their balconies. Sparrows give me a sense of nostalgia about my childhood, and we must work to bring their sounds back to our city,” she says. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/world-sparrow-day-bringing-back-our-childhood-sound-of-music-101616227836603.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police gets booster shot to tackle new-age crimes||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced that all districts in Punjab will have dedicated technical, narcotics, social media, forensic and anti-sabotage checking units to strengthen law enforcement. Apart from 3,100 domain experts to combat specialised crimes such as cyber crime, 10,000 police officials will be recruited, of which 33% will be women, at the level of sub inspector and constables, to expand the ground force and ensure more effective policing, the chief minister said. “The domain experts will be in the fields of law, forensics, digital forensics, information technology, data mining, cyber security, intelligence analysis, human resource management and development and road safety planning and engineering,” said Captain Amarinder, who also holds the home portfolio. Hiring of domain experts on the anvil State police chief Dinkar Gupta said the domain experts will include 600 law graduates, 450 crime scene investigators, 1,350 information technology (IT) experts with specialist qualifications and experience in law, commerce, forensics, digital forensics, data mining, data analysis etc for deployment as cyber detectives, financial detectives, homicide detectives, sexual assault and rape detectives. The Punjab government will also recruit 460 counsellors, clinical psychologists and community and victim support officers for deployment at family counselling centres and women help desks in all districts. 33% women of the total recruitment 3,400 women will be recruited as part of the drive to enroll 10,000 more personnel in Punjab Police, mostly in the rank of sub-inspector and constables. This translates into 33% women of the total recruitment, said Gupta. Of the total recruitment of women, 300 will be recruited as SIs and more than 3,100 as constables. Once these specialised officials join the police department in the second or third quarter of 2021, each of the 382 police stations in the state will have a police station law officer and a community and victim support officer. 170 major police stations of Punjab, including those in the border districts, will have forensic officers and crime data analysts. Cyber-crime detectives will be placed in each of the 100 sub divisions in the state. In view of the increasing number of fatal accidents due to rise in traffic, 15 civil engineers and planners will soon be recruited as road safety associates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-gets-booster-shot-to-tackle-new-age-crimes-101616226753079.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Dharavi sees 62% jump in Covid-19 cases in March as compared to Feb||Dharavi, the biggest slum in Mumbai, has reported 272 coronavirus cases so far in the month of March as against the entire February's infection count of 168, a rise of 62 per cent, civic officials said on Saturday.The spike in cases in this slum sprawl, which is spread over 2.5 sq km of area, has set alarm bells ringing for the authorities, although they say that they are better prepared this year to tackle the situation as compared to last year when the outbreak had started.The officials said that the number of single-day cases in Dharavi, which had started steadily going up since February, has witnessed a significant jump starting this month.Till March 19, it has reported 272 cases.The officials said that the cases being reported now are scattered across the slum and not concentrated in any particular pocket.Dharavi currently has 72 active Covid-19 cases. Of the total number of 4,133 patients so far, 3,745 have recovered, while 316 have died due to the infection.Around 6.5 lakh people live in Dharavi, with a population density of 2,27,136 per sq km. Maintaining social distancing there is a tough task, as families of eight to 10 members live in 10x10 hutments and residents have to walk along narrow lanes lined with crowded tenements on either side.This slum is also home to several small-scale leather, pottery and textile manufacturing units.The first Covid-19 patient in Dharavi was found on April 1 last year, about 20 days after the city reported its first case. Thereafter, the daily case count in Dharavi kept rising and it was declared as Covid-19 hotspot.In the first week of May last year, it had reported 94 cases in a single day, its highest daily count. However, the number started going down gradually from the following month.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, the daily number of cases from Dharavi went down significantly from November and it even did not report any case a few days in January and February.In the last four months, the slum hardly reported any double-digit daily growth in cases. The highest single-day count during this entire period came on on February 16, when it recorded 16 new cases.A number of steps, including proactive screening with the assistance of private doctors and community support, the authorities had managed to flatten the curve of viral spread. Even the World Health Organisation (WHO) took cognisance of the efforts and praised the "Dharavi pattern".Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC's G-North ward that houses Dharavi, said that the number of Covid-19 cases in this slum are rising due to "pro-active testing and screening", but the situation is quite different from last year and fully under control."Last year, when there was an outbreak of Covid-19 in Dharavi, there were limitations on testing and reports were getting delayed. Now, there are no such constraints as ample number of testing kits are available and we could do on-the- spot testing of all the traced contracts of a positive patient," he said.He said that besides focusing on early contact-tracing and screening of people in Dharavi, they are also focusing on speedy vaccination of vulnerable people, like senior citizens and the people with co-morbidities, to keep the number of fatalities under control."Though the cases are rising fast, the fatalities are quite less. We are focusing on vulnerable people like senior citizens and those with the co-morbidities," he said, adding that they are going to start a new vaccination centre with five booths at Dharavi, where at least 1,000 people will be vaccinated per day."We are detecting the cases at early stages enabling them for early treatment. As per the data, 70 per cent cases are asymptomatic and either home quarantined or institutional quarantined," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dharavi-sees-62-jump-in-covid-19-cases-in-march-as-compared-to-feb-101616222110609.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records over 25K cases again||Mumbai: With 25,681 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra reported over 25,000 infections for a second day on Friday. Mumbai recorded its highest single-day spike with 3,063 cases. It also reported over 3,000 daily cases for the first time.The state’s Covid-19 cases tally has now reached 2,422,021. The toll went up to 53,208 with 70 more deaths on Friday. Mumbai recorded 10 deaths, taking the fatalities to 11,569.Maharashtra has 177,560 active cases, with the highest in Pune (37,384), followed by Nagpur (25,861), Mumbai (18,850), and Thane (16,735). The Mumbai circle reported the most daily cases (5,737), followed by the Pune circle with 5,472 cases.The state government issued a fresh notification asking private offices and theatres to operate at 50% of capacity while adhering to protocols. It has allowed the manufacturing sector to function at 100% attendance with all the protocols like social distancing in place. The government warned non-compliance to the order can lead to the closure of establishments until the pandemic is over.The order also said that halls, auditoriums shall not be utilised for any religious, social, political, or cultural gatherings.Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 25,833 cases, the highest single-day spike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-over-25k-cases-again-101616222012614.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor making hub busted in Punjab’s Baba Bakala village||An illicit liquor manufacturing unit was unearthed, and five people were arrested in Baba Bakala sub division of Amritsar district on Friday night in the fifth such racket to be busted this month. A team of the Amritsar rural police conducted a five-hour search at Jasso Nangal village of Baba Bakala and recovered 100 tonnes of lahan (raw material used for making illicit liquor), 370 litres of illicit liquor, 10 running stills, 16 tarpaulins, a water tank of 5,000-litre capacity, four drums (each of 200 litres capacity), 50 drums of 50 litres capacity each, eight LPG cylinders and two motorcycles. Those arrested were identified as Baljinder Singh, Gurmeet Singh, Komal Singh, Paramjit Singh and Gagandeep Singh, all residents of Jasso Nangal village. Supplies to Amritsar, Tarn Taran in early hours Police said the accused had been smuggling the illicit liquor into villages of Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts during early in the morning. Terming the racket as the main hub of illicit liquor manufacturing in Baba Bakala sub division, the police said the involvement of villagers had surfaced during the hooch tragedy investigation last year. At least 140 people had lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor in the three border districts of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur last July and August. Cordon and search by 150 police personnelSenior superintendent of police (SSP) rural Dhruv Dahiya said the police acted on a tip-off that the accused had been running stills in their homes for producing illicit liquor. “A team of nearly 150 policemen was formed for a cordon and search operation, which continued from 8pm to 1am,” he said. “We are identifying the assets the accused have accumulated from this illegal trade. It shall be attached,” he said, adding that investigation to ascertain the identity of those to whom the illicit liquor was being supplied in various villages was on. A case was registered under the Excise Act at Khalchian police station. This is the fifth illicit liquor manufacturing racket that has been busted by the Amritsar rural police this month. Earlier, such rackets were unearthed at Kotli Sakka, Chappa Ram Singh, Lakhuwal and Khiala Kalan villages with the recovery of hundreds of tonnes of lahan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-making-hub-busted-in-punjab-s-baba-bakala-village-101616221472561.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Understanding the residency requirement for jobs in Haryana||Haryana’s controversial 75% private sector quota law had set off another debate last week when Congress lawmakers and some in the ruling BJP-JJP alliance expressed concerns over the five-year residency (domicile) requirement instead of 15 years to get a bona fide resident certificate. It turned out that most of the doubts were rather unfounded. Hitender Rao explains:What is the requirement to get bona fide resident certificate in Haryana?According to the January 14 order, children or dependents of persons having a permanent home in Haryana and those residing in Haryana for a period of not less than five years or who have a permanent home in Haryana but on account of their occupation are living outside Haryana will be eligible for grant of resident certificate. The earlier requirement for getting a resident certificate was 15 years.Why did the state government bring down the residency requirement to five years?This was done to provide some flexibility to private companies in hiring when the private sector job quota law gets implemented. The law provides for 75% of new employment to Haryana domiciled candidates for private sector jobs having gross salary of not more than ₹50,000 per month.What were the concerns expressed by the ruling alliance and opposition MLAs regarding the amended residency requirement?The worry is that due to the amended domicile condition, Haryana-based Scheduled Caste aspirants will face competition in government jobs from SCs of other states settled in Haryana.Can residency be ground for getting a government job?No. Article 16 of the Constitution provides for equality of opportunity in matters of public employment. Article 16(2) says no citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth, residence or any of them, be ineligible for, or discriminated against in respect of, any employment or office under the state.What about reservation in government jobs for the SCs?Article 16 (4) of the Constitution provided for reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizens.So, won’t the amended residency requirement facilitate SCs of other states to compete in Haryana?No. Accordign to a four-judge 2018 Supreme Court judgment, a person recognised as a member of SC in his original state, will be entitled to all benefits of reservation under the Constitution in that state only and not in other states or union territories.What was the basis of the SC judgment?The top court had said that consideration for specifying a particular caste, or class for inclusion in the list of SCs or backward classes in a given state depends on the nature and extent of disadvantages and social hardships suffered by these individuals in that state and these may be absent in another state to which the person belonging to some other state may migrate.Won’t an SC person of another state whose caste is recognised in Haryana get benefit of the changed residency requirement?No. Only a person who is resident of Haryana by birth or an employee or dependent of a state government employee is entitled to get a caste certificate. The caste certificate is essential to confirm a person’s eligibility for reservation in public employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/understanding-the-residency-requirement-for-jobs-in-haryana-101616219972368.html
20-03-2021||Lucknow||Fire breaks out in Lucknow-bound Shatabdi Express at Ghaziabad railway station||A major fire was detected in the generator van of the Lucknow bound New Delhi-Lucknow Swarn Shatabdi Express early Saturday morning at Ghaziabad railway station. The fire was doused with the help of four fire tenders that were rushed to the spot. The officials said there was no injury to any of the passengers. The officials of the district fire department said they received a call around 7.04am informing them about the fire in the train and rushed at least four fire tenders to the spot from the Kotwali fire station, which is located nearby. “The fire was doused within half an hour after our fire tenders started operation. The last coach of the train, which also houses a luggage compartment, was affected. We cut open one of the gates of the coach while the other gate was opened by applying manual force. The fire was completely doused within half an hour. Before starting the operation, we ensured that the overhead electricity supply was disconnected,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer of Ghaziabad. He said the fire likely started in the coach while the train was running and thick smoke was detected when the train reached Ghaziabad railway station at around 6.50am. The senior officials of the Railways also rushed to the spot and said that the train was allowed to leave at 8.20am. They, however, maintained that the fire did not start while the train was moving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fire-breaks-out-in-lucknow-bound-shatabdi-express-at-ghaziabad-railway-station-101616217332226.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 tests to be doubled to 50k per day in Mumbai: All you need to know||Testing for coronavirus (Covid-19) will be ramped up in Mumbai as the state is in the grip of a second wave of infections. The number of tests will be increased from 25,000 to 50,000 per day, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe decision comes as Maharashtra's daily infection tally reached 25,681, while recoveries were at 14,400 and fresh deaths at 70 on Friday.Here is all you need to know about the decision:1. The decision to double the number of Covid-19 tests was taken after a virtual meeting chaired by Mumbai civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal.2. In the meeting, it was also decided that the daily inoculation target in the city would be increased to one lakh, as the number of vaccination centres in the private sector had been increased from 59 to 80, officials said, according to a release issued by the municipal body.Also Read | Maharashtra covid: 305 buildings in Mumbai sealed, over 13k new cases in 6 days3. Additionally, to avoid disputes on bills, the civic chief asked private hospitals to take the consent of patients or their kin before administering costly medicines and treatment.4. The BMC will appoint two auditors at private hospitals for verification of bills and complaints centred around them, the release added.5. On Friday, Mumbai reported the highest spike of 3,062 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection tally to 3,55,897. On Thursday too, the city had set a new record of daily cases at 2,877.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-tests-to-be-doubled-to-50k-per-day-in-mumbai-all-you-need-to-know-101616212833913.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Spotlight on Deshmukh as Vaze case strains ties||Strained relations between Maharashtra’s ruling coalition partners came to the fore again on Friday as the Shiv Sena backed former Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh in connection with explosives found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, refuting state home minister Anil Deshmukh’s charge that Singh’s transfer was not a routine affair but due to serious mistakes made made by certain policemen in the high-profile probe.An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Friday stated that just because Singh was shunted out did not imply that he was guilty. “The government had to do the reshuffle in police department under certain specific circumstances. Param Bir Singh was replaced in the post of Mumbai police commissioner, which doesn’t mean he is guilty. He took the charge of the post at a very difficult time,” the editorial said.On Wednesday, Singh was replaced by Hemant Nagrale. On Thursday, Deshmukh, who belongs to the NCP, told reporters that a few officers from Mumbai Police has committed “serious and unpardonable mistakes” that had come to light in the preliminary inquiry in the explosives case, and that Singh’s transfer was not “routine”.Sena leader Sanjay Raut had previously come out in defence of Sachin Vaze, a suspended police officer who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13, for his role in the explosives-laden SUV parked outside Antilia, Ambani’s residence, on February 25. The party has also questioned the National Investigation Agency taking over the investigation, as directed by the Centre earlier this month.The Saamana editorial added that Singh showed commitment towards the fight against Covid-19, visited Dharavi, which was a hotbed of infections last year. It also added that the TRP scam, in which Vaze had been part of the team that arrested certain accused, was brought to light under his tenure.The Shiv Sena, which is in coalition with the NCP and the Congress in the state’s Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, has been at odds with the handling of the case in the past as well.The Congress noted the contradictory tone. “Shiv Sena is praising commissioner Parambir Singh, while home minister who is from NCP said that the commissioner committed a mistake. Such contradictory statements would further damage the image of the government,” tweeted Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam.Meanwhile, Deshmukh’s own position in the government came under a cloud as the state home minister met NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday at the latter’s Delhi residence.On Thursday, Deshmukh had refuted allegations that he might be replaced over the state police’s controversial handling of the investigation of the Scorpio with explosives found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house last month.Late on Friday, Deshmukh issued a statement denying news reports that he had resigned. “Had a discussion with Pawar saheb over the developments in the last two days in the probe being carried out by NIA and ATS. The news reports going on a few channels over my resignation are baseless,” he tweeted.Earlier in the day, Deshmukh told reporters that he had briefed Pawar over the Antilia case, and sought his help in bringing an international firm which is interested in setting up a plant at Multi-modal International Hub Airport at Nagpur (MIHAN).“I have briefed Pawar saheb about fresh developments in Mumbai related to the Ambani case. Both the NIA and anti-terrorism squad (ATS) are probing the case. The state has extended full cooperation to the NIA and will also take action based on their findings,” Deshmukh said.The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made this case a political issue with leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis accusing the government of protecting Vaze.In an apparent response to former chief minister Fadnavis’ subsequent claim that “handlers” of Vaze should also be brought to the fore in the investigation, the Sena mouthpiece said that the Opposition should investigate it and added that there were no “political bosses” in such cases.“If the Opposition is loyal to Maharashtra, then it will not play politics over the reputation of Mumbai police. They have questioned that who is the political boss behind Mansukh Hiran case. They should find answer to this. But in cases like this there are no political bosses. This has been the culture of Maharashtra. If Mansukh Hiran has been killed, the culprit will not be sparred,” the editorial said.On Friday, BJP MP Narayan Rane told news agency ANI that he has written to Union home minister Amit Shah and sought resignation of state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra.“Due to poor law and order situation and corruption, I have written to Home Minister Amit Shah for Maharashtra Chief Minister’s resignation and the imposition of President’s Rule in the state,” Rane said.NCP leaders said that the party leadership was mulling names of Deshmukh’s successors but denied the possibility of any change until a full cabinet reshuffle.“It all depends upon the three parties [of the ruling coalition government: Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP]. If all are ready and could decide their names of those involved, there would be a reshuffle and only then Deshmukh may be replaced. Until then he is likely to continue as the home minister,” a senior NCP minister said.Party leaders said that deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, state party unit chief Jayant Patil, Dilip Walse Patil and health minister Rajesh Tope could be considered for the post after the re-shuffle. Tope was also called by the NCP chief on Tuesday.However, the minister quoted above clarified that the NCP leadership didn’t want to create an impression that Deshmukh was in any way responsible for the botched handling of the high-profile case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/spotlight-on-deshmukh-as-vaze-case-strains-ties-101616203634179.html
20-03-2021||Bangalore||Anti-social forces trying to thwart resolution: RSS||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Friday said “anti-national and anti-social forces” were trying to thwart efforts to resolve the standoff between the government and protesting farm unions over the three new farm laws.The RSS’s annual report was released in Bengaluru during a three-day convention of the Akhil Bharatiya Prathinidhi Sabha (ABPS), its highest decision making body of the RSS, that started on Friday.“The problem becomes more serious when anti-national and anti-social forces try to thwart the ongoing efforts towards a solution [farmers’ protest]. The leadership of the present agitation should not allow such a situation to arise,” the RSS said in the report.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri businesses.The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.In its report, the RSS said that prolonged agitations were counterproductive for all.“It is not in anyone’s interest for any kind of agitation to be prolonged for a long time. Discussions are a must, but with a view to finding a solution. It is possible that not all issues are agreed upon, but it is essential that some agreements must be reached upon,” the report said.It stated that people cannot be given the right to create instability in the country. “In a democracy, all have the freedom of expressing their views but none can be given the right to create disturbance and instability in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/antisocial-forces-trying-to-thwart-resolution-rss-101616201522223.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Old wine in a new bottle||People change but their essentials remain the same. Same with places.For decades, the second-hand Sunday Book Bazaar functioned from the pavements of Old Delhi’s Daryaganj. Then, more than a year ago, the court ordered its removal for the sake of obstruction-free traffic. The bazaar shifted to Mahila Haat, an exhibition space across the road from Delite Cinema, the very landmark from where the bazaar used to start.The market didn’t get much time to get used to its new home. A few weeks later, the coronavirus wrecked the world. Eventually the Sunday bazaar reopened after successive lockdowns, but as a pale shadow of its self. For one thing, it would start only at 4pm, and wrap up in a few hours. It’s been only a month since the market started to operate every Sunday from morning to evening, though with lesser booksellers and lesser crowds.The Mahila Haat is built above an underground parking area, and is an unsatisfactory setting for a much-loved destination. In the old bazaar, the books were laid along a mile-long pavement. The great joy was to stroll along the lane, dodging the traffic on the right and fellow booklovers (and pickpockets) on the left, while stopping by one’s favourite stalls. There were eateries for quick bites. Here in Mahila Haat, the sellers are crammed within a limited space and one seems to walk about in rounds, like a donkey in circles.But gradually the disappointment fades, as books start to catch your attention. You start bargaining with the sellers. Then there’s the happiness of a successful acquisition, in exchange of an amount of money you know in your heart is minuscule compared to the book’s true value.Like in its old location, the bazaar has priceless editions on sale this Sunday too —a collection of Churchill’s war writing, a first-edition UK hardbound of Nehru’ Discovery of India (already sold). Mushtaq Khan’s stall has a 19th century edition of poet PB Shelly’s prose work, bound in black leather.Some of the charm of olden times has survived—like booksellers lounging beside their stacks of books, using bundles as pillows.As you spend more time, you’ll spot food hawkers. Plus, a garden to sit and lounge—something that wasn’t there in the old market.Soon a day shall come when we will have forgotten what the old bazaar was like. The present version will make new memories in the new normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-old-wine-in-a-new-bottle-101616198767170.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||In test-track-treat plan, Capital to focus on areas with low exposure||Parts of Delhi that did not have a significant outbreak of Covid-19 till now are being targeted for aggressive testing and vaccination, while grassroots workers have stepped up contact tracing, officials involved in the Capital’s fight against a new surge of cases have said, outlining an approach that combines strategic allocation of resources with shoe leather epidemiology.At 716, the city on Friday recorded its highest number of cases in a single day this year. The increase in cases began sporadically early in March but have now turned into a steady trickle, rising from 368 new cases on Monday.As per the new strategy, finalised during a meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday, wards that had a sero prevalence of 50% or less are being targeted for testing and vaccination, senior officials aware of the plan said, asking not to be named.“Of the 276 wards in Delhi, including four from the New Delhi Municipal Council and the Delhi cantonment board, the government is narrowing down its focus to 129. These are where prevalence of antibodies among residents was 50% or less, which means people here are most vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. So, we are intensifying vaccination and aggressively conducting RT-PCR tests in these wards,” said a senior health official, who asked not to be named.The list includes areas such as Tagore Garden, Trilokpuri, Rajouri Garden, Narela and Vishnu Garden. The data being used by the government is that of the fifth serological survey conducted across the Capital between January 15 and January 23. The survey found as many as 56.13% of the 28,000 people sampled to have antibodies, which indicates a past infection.Delhi has a population of 20 million.In these wards, the officials are pinpointing their attention to zones that did not report a surge in cases during the three waves of the Covid-19 outbreak. At its worst, Delhi recorded 8,593 cases on November 11, which was the third wave.“Districts such as north and northwest Delhi on Friday informed the government that they have observed an uptick in cases in a few areas which did not see many cases during the third wave. So, this is where our latest containment strategy is also being rolled out,” said a second government official, asking not to be named.Micro-containment ZonesAt least 360 micro-containment zones – out of the total 682 active ones as on Friday – have been created since March 1. Data seen by HT showed that as on Friday, a record 60.56% of the 3,165 active cases were contained or inside containment zones. Till March 15, this number stood at around 54%. During the November peak, only around 34% of the active cases were located inside containment zones.Micro-containment zones are limited to one or a few neighbouring houses, single-unit buildings and floors within buildings in some cases depending on space and risks of potential transmission.Contact tracingThe government is currently tracing around 31 individuals per Covid-19 case, revenue department records show. Among the 11 revenue districts, East Delhi is tracing the highest per case (around 36), closely trailed in decimal figures by the south district. With 28 contacts per case, southwest Delhi is tracing the lowest, the data, seen by HT, showed.“We have made a strict protocol in which identified contacts of a Covid-19 patient are asked to immediately go into home isolation. The new thing that we are doing now is that even if any of them test negative despite having symptoms, we test them again after 8 days. This means such persons have to be under strict home isolation even after getting treated and testing negative for the first time,” the health official said.The Union health ministry sets the maximum ideal contact tracing standard at 30 per case.VaccinationOn Thursday, Kejriwal announced the city administration will increase Delhi’s daily capacity from around 40,000 to 125,000 by doubling the number of centres from the existing 500 session sites, and extending their timing by four hours.Documents seen by HT showed that the target to increase the daily vaccination capacity in government centres has been set at 70,000, almost double the current capacity. Private hospitals have been given a target to increase from around 23,000 to 40,000.From Monday, all vaccination centres will operate from 9am to 9pm and all Delhi government hospitals will have at least 6 centres each.District teams have fanned out across the Capital in a bid to convince people aged above 60 and those over 45 with serious illnesses to get inoculated. A senior government official said the teams have also been entrusted with helping people register and book vaccine slots through the Centre’s Co-WIN system and arrange conveyance for them if required.TestingFor the week ending Friday, Delhi tested 73,333 samples per day – which is lower than the peak of 83,151 average tests a day exhibited by the government for the week ending December 23, a month after the city brought its third Covid-19 wave under control.“On testing, strict directions have been issued not to decrease Delhi’s total daily Covid-19 tests below the 80,000 mark from now on. Also, our RT-PCR testing capacity is 48,000 and we utilising it,” a third official said.In the last one week, Delhi conducted 45,471 RT-PCR tests on an average every day. The remaining were with rapid antigen kits which are capable of showing results much quicker, but are less accurate than RT-PCR ones.Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department, Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet Covid-19 commission and vaccination task force for India, said: “Delhi should go for a strong containment policy and club that with aggressive tracing, testing and isolation. The government should not only aggressively identify contacts of Covid-19 cases, but ensure that they are all tested and isolated on being diagnosed Covid-19 positive.“Delhi has a large number of people who were not infected in the worst of the phases we have seen in 2020. Also, another large chunk of people are the ones whose antibodies have depleted. That is contributing to the present spike.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-test-track-treat-plan-capital-to-focus-on-areas-with-low-exposure-101616192838378.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Mercury dips slightly, rain relief likely soon||A day after Delhi recorded the highest maximum temperature of the season, at 35.3 degrees Celsius, the mercury levels fell slightly to settle at 34.5 degrees Celsius on Friday.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said there is a forecast of light rain in the city from March 22 to March 24, which would bring some relief from the rising temperatures.On Friday, too, Delhi’s maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 34.5 degrees Celsius, four degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature at the observatory was 19.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year. .A senior Met official said on Saturday, the maximum temperature is expected to be around 34-35 degrees Celsius. However, from March 22, there is a possibility of a brief respite from the heat.“We are expecting an intense western disturbance so there is likely to be widespread rains over northwest India. In Delhi its likely to rain from March 21 night or March 22 early morning. There may be light rain or drizzle on March 23 also. Till March 27 temperatures are likely to remain relatively low and pleasant. There is likely to be heavy rain and hailstorm in Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir during the period. There is likely to be rain and thunderstorms over Punjab and Haryana also,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.A western disturbance is an extratropical storm that originates in the Mediterranean, which brings with it rain and a drop in temperature. It is mostly associated with winter rain in India. In the week between March 24 to 31, due to absence of any active western disturbance, rainfall activity is likely to be below normal over northern parts of the country, IMD said in its two-week forecast.“The western disturbance impacting Delhi-NCR will bring down the temperature marginally. The wind speed on March 23 and March 24 is expected to rise to around 40kmph, which will also help pull down the mercury levels,” the official said.This is the fifth western disturbance to pass over the region this month. The last time the city received rain and thunderstorm was on March 12, when the city woke up to light to moderate showers, with hailstorm in parts of NCR.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved from the "very poor” to the ”poor” category on Friday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Friday was 279, which was a marginal improvement from Thursday’s 315, categorised as “very poor” on the AQI scale.IMD officials said with the wind speeds expected to improve next week, the pollution levels will also decrease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-dips-slightly-rain-relief-likely-soon-101616188836922.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Nod for corridor between Sarai Kale Khan and IGIA||The apex traffic and transportation body in Delhi, UTTIPEC (Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) Centre), on Friday approved the integrated transit plan made for handling the increased vehicular traffic around eight government group housing colonies that are being redeveloped by the Centre.The proposal, which includes the construction of a 14km long elevated corridor in South Delhi, aims at providing smooth access between Sarai Kale Khan and Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA).The Centre is redeveloping eight colonies — Sarojini Nagar, Nauroji Nagar, Srinivaspuri, Kasturba Nagar, Netaji Nagar, Mohammadpur, Thyagraj Nagar and East Kidwai agar — in an effort to provide better housing to its employees. NBCC India has already redeveloped East Kidwai Nagar and the Centre is presently constructing over 25,000 dwelling units and a commercial complex in the remaining seven colonies.The proposal was tabled in the UTTIPEC meeting, chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, on Friday. After the meeting, Baijal tweeted, “After detailed deliberations following proposals were approved: Integrated Transit Corridor Development and Street Network/ Connectivity Plan for the corridor and influence zone from Sarai Kale Khan to IGI Airport.”Baijal had asked the Delhi Development Authority to discuss the funding plan for the ₹5,000 crore (approximately) project with the Union housing urban affairs (HUA) ministry before it is cleared by the UTTIPEC.HT had reported the details of this project on March 1. The matter was duly discussed in a meeting between HUA minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Baijal on March 2.A senior official aware of the development, on condition of anonymity, said as the funding issue has been addressed, the project was tabled in the UTTIPEC meeting on Friday for approval.The transit plan includes a 14km elevated corridor from INA on Aurobindo Marg to Mahipalpur underpass on National Highway-8 and connecting all flyovers between Moolchand and Moti Bagh, just before the start of the elevated Metro corridor on the Ring Road.The feasibility study for the corridor was done by Delhi government’s public works department, while it will be executed by the central public works department.Another proposal approved in the UTTIPEC meeting was the multimodal intergration plan of Karkardooma Metro station.The DDA is planning a transit oriented development project around the station and the project was reviewed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nod-for-corridor-between-sarai-kale-khan-and-igia-101616188133103.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Centre objects to AAP’s doorstep ration scheme||The Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme has become the latest flashpoint in the ongoing tussle between the Centre and the state government, with the Union ministry of food and public distribution rasing objections at several aspects of the scheme that was due to be launched on March 25.In a letter to the Delhi administration, the Union ministry has principally raised two objections — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA); and any change in the delivery mechanism in the NFSA can only be done through a Parliament amendment.“Upon examination of the said notification, it is clarified that the subsidised food grains being allocated by this department for distribution under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) cannot be used for the operationalisation of any state specific/other scheme under a different nomenclature other than NFSA, as the same is not permissible under the Act. Further any changes/amendments in the provisions of the Act, including nomenclatures used for distribution of NFSA foodgrains can only be done through the parliamentary procedures,” said the letter by S Jagannathan, joint secretary in the ministry of food and public distribution.The ministry further said any change in the nomenclature may give rise to confusion among the people. “It is also highlighted that while states may like to enhance the distribution of subsidised foodgrains, including additional entitlements, more subsidy etc. the nomenclature from NFSA to any local state scheme name may be misinterpreted by the beneficiaries as state benefit and may give rise to confusion regarding their rights under the Act,” the letter said.The letter added that the Delhi government is "free to launch” the scheme “without mixing the elements of the NFSA food grains”.Siraj Dutta, a food rights activist, said specific provisions under the National Food Security Act give the Centre the power to stop the supply of subsidised food grains if state governments are found violating the law. But he added, “I am yet to get clarity on what exactly the central government has told the Delhi government.”The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said the move by the Union government was “anti-people”, and stressed that the Centre was aware of all modalities of the scheme. “I would like to appeal to the central government to not interfere in matters related to governance. They should withdraw such anti-people directions and let the Delhi government launch the ‘Mukhyamantri ghar ghar ration yojana’. The Delhi government has held several meeting with the central government on this matter.They were aware of all the modalities. It could have put an end to corruption and leakages. Now, they not only have a problem with just the name of the scheme but also the modalities. They decided to send this letter less than a week before launch of the scheme.”Delhi has around 7.2 million ration beneficiaries, according to government data.The distribution of ration is currently managed by a network of 2,000-odd fair price shops. The doorstep delivery scheme was one of the major poll promises by the AAP in the run up to the 2020 assembly polls. The Delhi government already offers nearly 100 services across departments which the people can avail by calling a helpline number and paying a processing fee of ₹50.Responding to the AAP’s allegations, the BJP said that the Centre has not stopped the scheme but only pointed out issues related to provisions under NFSA. “The AAP is trying to mislead the people. Under NSFA, no state government can use the foodgrains provided by the Centre for a populist state-specific scheme. The people of Delhi know how the AAP government failed to properly distribute food grains even during the lockdown. Their attempt to use food grains provided by the Centre for gaining political mileage is condemnable,” the Delhi BJP said in a statement.In the February 20 notification, the Delhi government cited Section 12 and Section 24 of NFSA in the gazette notification relating to the scheme. Both the sections refer to the role of the state governments ensuring the delivery of foodgrains to ration shops – and not exactly doorstep of beneficiaries.DJ Narain, spokesperson for the Union ministry of food and public distribution, said: “One state cannot suo motu change the basic elements of a scheme being implemented nationally. PDS consists of key features like amount and type of subsidised ration for given categories of specific households. If all the states and UTs start changing the basic rules of PDS implementation, it will become almost impossible to implement it nation wide. Measurable tools of PDS monitoring will also break down. States are free to have their own schemes over and above this.”The Delhi government has been at loggerheads with the Centre over a Bill introduced in the Lok Sabha on Monday which gives overarching powers to the lieutenant governor in the day-to-day administration and also limits powers of the assembly to constitute enquiry committees.Anjali Bhardwaj, member of the Right to Food campaign, said the modalities of the Delhi scheme may affect beneficiaries but there were gaps in the national distribution plan as well. “There are gaps, no doubt, in the modalities of the Delhi government’s proposed doorstep delivery scheme and that may affect beneficiaries. However, the NFSA mechanism is also not foolproof. It excludes a very large number of poor people across the country. And it came to the fore during the lockdown when we came across a large number of people who either did not have ration cards or could not avail ration for some reason or the other despite having cards. In Delhi’s case, the city government should ideally launch an additional food security scheme. With that, they can fill up the exclusion gap left behind by the NFSA mechanism.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-objects-to-aap-s-doorstep-ration-scheme-101616186761927.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Back your peace rhetoric with concrete action: Amarinder Singh to Pakistan army chief||Terming “Islamabad-sponsored terrorism” as the biggest hurdle in normalising relations between the two neighbouring countries, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa should back his rhetoric on peace with India with solid action. In a press statement, Amarinder said, “Bajwa should control the ISI first and then talk about stability in Indo-Pak relations. India cannot afford to go soft with Pakistan till it walks the talk. Infiltration into India from across the border is still happening and our soldiers are being killed at the borders daily. They (Pakistan) are dropping arms and heroin in Punjab via drones. All this should stop first and only then we can talk peace.” For India to trust Pakistan, he said, the latter will have to do much more than offer an olive branch, citing his own experience of the army in 1964. “We used to receive daily reports then of firing from the western border, as we continue to do now. It is important for not just Gen Bajwa but the entire Pakistan military apparatus to be on board with the idea of burying the past and paving the way for peace with India,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/back-your-peace-rhetoric-with-concrete-action-amarinder-singh-to-pakistan-army-chief-101616186068076.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Channel survey shows AAP will form govt in Punjab, says Chadha; Congress rejects claim||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Friday claimed that their party will form government in Punjab in the 2022 assembly elections as it is the first choice of the people of the state.In a statement, Chadha said a survey conducted by a private news channel proved that the electorate in Punjab was fed up with the anti-people policies of Captain Amarinder Singh-led government and see AAP as the only credible alternative that can bring a real change. In the survey, the AAP has been projected to get 51 to 57 seats, while the ruling Congress has been given 43 to 49 seats, while the Akali Dal and BJP will grab only 12-18 and 0-5 seats. In terms of vote share, the AAP has got the highest number of votes at 37%, followed by the ruling party at 32%, the Akali Dal at 21% and the BJP and others at 5-5%.Rejecting the claim, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said the AAP was given 100 seats by a similar survey in its projections before the 2017 assembly polls. “They are trying to put life into a dead horse. The elections are still about a year away, but we do not take anybody lightly, survey or no survey. We do not take even the BJP lightly because they have all these tricks up their sleeve and same for the SAD and the AAP. We will fight with our full strength and are confident that people will repose their faith in the Congress and its leadership,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channel-survey-shows-aap-will-form-govt-in-punjab-says-chadha-congress-rejects-claim-101616185407957.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab agriculture department to add 50,000 hectares under cotton cultivation in Malwa||Keeping in view a bumper production in 2020 and no major pest outbreak in the crop for the last five years, the Punjab agriculture department has decided to add 50,000 hectares under cotton cultivation in the Malwa region this year. This will be an increase of 10% over the current area of 5 lakh hectares. The sowing for the major cash crop in eight semi-arid districts of the region will start from next month. Experts say as farmers received good rates for their produce and global and domestic demand of raw cotton is increasing, more growers will be motivated to diversify towards the cash crop. If the state authorities manage to achieve the set target, it will be the highest since the 2010 season of 5.16 lakh hectares. State agriculture director Sukhdev Sidhu said, “Cotton sowing will start from April 1 and the department is planning to increase area under the traditional kharif crop. We have put all arrangements in place to meet the target and 25 lakh packets of seeds will be made available to farmers.” While cotton sowing commences in the first week of April in the mustard-growing areas, but the bulk is done after April 15 when wheat is harvested in the region. “In the wake of an incident of deadly pink bollworm in Bathinda last year that infested nearly 100-acre land, cotton ginning and pressing units, key source of such infestations, have been instructed to follow the protocol to complete processing by March-end and destroy the waste immediately,” said Sidhu. Officials said the direct payment mode adopted by Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) was successful for the last two consecutive years under which more than ₹2,000 crore, including ₹1,525 crore in 2020-21, was paid to the cotton growers. Paramjit Singh, director, Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) regional research station, Bathinda, said the first step will involve removing weeds like ‘kanghi buti’, ‘peeli buti’, ‘puth kanda’, ‘dhatura’ and ‘bhang’ that grow on field bunds, wasteland, roadsides and irrigation channels/canals through community participation. “In the last two seasons, weed removal proved immensely beneficial in keeping the whitefly pest at bay. Coordinated efforts by agriculture scientists, extension teams and farmers resulted in a disease-free season in 2020. It will encourage the farmers to go for cotton in a bigger way,” he added. Mandi board cotton state coordinator Rajnish Goel said till March 17, at least 41 lakh quintal cotton was purchased and farmers were paid up to ₹6,270 for a quintal, which is ₹545 above the minimum support price (MSP). Goel said in 2020, the average yield was close to 833kg lint per hectare whereas it was recorded 800kg in 2019. In 2015, cotton yield dropped to a low of 197kg lint per hectare due to whitefly attack. The crop yield in the Malwa belt was 756kg; 750kg and 778kg from 2016 to 2018. “Amid the coronavirus scare in 2020-21, the CCI played an important role by purchasing a record 24 lakh quintals on MSP. Timely announcement by the central government on increasing the MSP will lead to increase in the area under cotton,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-agriculture-department-to-add-50-000-hectares-under-cotton-cultivation-in-malwa-101616184990673.html
20-03-2021||Other||Ex-cop Sachin Vaze, Mansukh Hiran met on Feb 17: ATS officer||CCTV footage shows that arrested police officer Sachin Vaze and deceased businessman Mansukh Hiran had met on February 17, the day before Hiran reported a Scorpio in his possession stolen, a Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad official told news agency PTI on Friday.The same green-coloured Scorpio was found with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note on St Carmichael Road, across from Antilia, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, on February 25.Hiran, a 48-year-old auto spare parts businessman, was likely murdered and his body washed up ashore at a creek in Thane district on March 5.Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13 for reportedly being the mastermind behind the plot to park an explosives-filled Scorpio outside Ambani’s residence.The NIA told HT that Vaze, the former head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Crime Branch had staged the whole thing in a bid to regain his “lost glory”.Vaze, who joined the Mumbai police in 1990, was suspended in 2004 for his alleged involvement in a purported custodial death of a terror suspect, Khwaja Yunus. Vaze was reinstated last year.The ATS, which is probing Hiran’s suspicious death, recovered CCTV footage of a spot near Chhhatrapti Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in south Mumbai which showed Vaze and Hiran sitting in a Mercedes, the official said.The NIA, which is probing the recovery of the explosives-laden SUV and arrested Vaze on March 13 in connection with that case, seized the same black Mercedes car earlier this week.The CCTV footage showed that Hiran and Vaze were seated in the car for close to 10 minutes.Hiran had claimed that on February 17 while he was heading for south Mumbai from his house in Thane, the steering of the Scorpio jammed, so he left it on Mulund-Airoli road and proceeded in a cab. Next day he found the SUV was missing, he said.The CCTV footage showed Vaze leaving in the Mercedes from police commissioner’s office. Hiran was seen walking towards the car when it was parked outside CSMT.Ten minutes later Hiran stepped out and walked away while Vaze drove back to the commissioner’s office.The ATS suspected that Hiran handed over the keys of Scorpio to Vaze during this meeting, PTI reported.The NIA had earlier this week seized a black Mercedes car from a parking lot near CSMT and seized ₹5 lakh in cash, note-counting machine and some `incriminating’ documents.Hiran’s family alleged that Vaze had a role in his death.The NIA and ATS investigations have also been grist to the mill of politicians in the state, as opposition leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party, including Devendra Fadnavis, have blamed the Shiv Sena, which is part of the ruling coalition government, for protecting Vaze.The state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as well as the home minister Anil Deshmukh have spoken against these allegations and said that the investigations will reveal the truth, and that no one would be spared.However, on March 17, Vaze’s former boss, police commissioner Param Bir Singh was transferred as a fall-out of this investigation.Deshmukh told reporters that his transfer was not routine, but a result of mistakes committed by Singh’s colleagues.Meanwhile, a state minister on condition of anonymity said, “Hiran’s death case is part of the investigation of Antilia bomb scare which NIA has been probing. The SUV was said to be owned by the deceased. The investigation cannot be completed without investigating the death of Hiran. There is no need for the NIA to take permission from the state government to probe Hiran’s death case. They have already started probing this aspect of the case.”A NIA team late on Friday evening recreated the scene near Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, where a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned with 20 lose gelatin sticks and a threatening note in it. The NIA officials also made Sachin Vaze walk small distances and video recorded his walk - perhaps to ascertain if the man captured walking with his face covered by a cloth and a face shield on the February 24 night in CCTV footage, was Vaze or someone else.The entire exercise was conducted in presence of two forensic teams, one from Pune and the other from Kalina in Santacruz. The forensic teams recorded videos and took pictures at site and earlier in the day also visited NIA office.NIA and police officials, however, refused to comment on the development.NIA officials on Friday, including Inspector General Anil Shukla and Superintendent of Police Vikram Khalate met newly-appointed city police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, a police official said.Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Milind Bharambe and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Akbar Pathan were also present at the meeting, he said.The NIA officials spent around 30 minutes at the police commissioner’s office. It was the first visit by senior officials of the central agency to the commissioner’s office after Nagrale replaced Singh two days ago.The NIA on Friday interrogated an officer and four constables attached to the CIU. One of the constables questioned was the driver of the Innova that was seen tailing the Scorpio on the night of February 25.The Toyota Land Cruiser Prado, one of the two vehicles seized by NIA on Thursday and registered in the name of Shiv Sena functionary Vijaykumar Bhosale was sold in 2019, one of his family members confirmed.Vaze used to bring the Land Cruiser Prado only on Sundays and public holidays, said a crime branch officer. On February 26, Vaze had brought Hiran to the CIU office in that car.Vaze knew Hiran “well” Traders who knew Hiran well said that the auto spare parts dealer had known Vaze for the past seven to eight years.A relative of Hiran’s said that the family also knew Vaze well, and the suspended police officer had been to Hiran’s residence on occasion. The family believed Vaze to be a close friend.An officer bearer of the traders association in Thane said that Hiran had at one point of time thought of starting a new business in partnership with a man suggested by Vaze. But the proposal did not fructify.Another owner of a shop in the vicinity of Hiran’s shop revealed that meetings between the two had “increased”.On March 7, Hiran’s wife Vimla gave a statement to the ATS that Hiran had been in Vaze’s company for three consecutive days -- from February 26 to February 28 – after the Scorpio was found outside Antilia. On the 26th, Hiran had approached the CIU stating that the Scorpio was his, but that he had reported it stolen on February 18.The statement also revealed that Vaze had helped Hiran get a complaint drafted from a lawyer stating that several officers from various units of the Mumbai police and the Maharashtra ATS were harassing him by repeatedly calling him for questioning. The complaint was submitted to the Mumbai police commissioner and a copy was also marked to his Thane counterpart as well as the chief minister.The statement further revealed that Vaze had suggested to Hiran that he get arrested in the SUV case and assured him that he would help secure bail for him within a few days.When Hiran went missing on the night of March 4, his brother Vinod called up Vaze to seek help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/excop-sachin-vaze-mansukh-hiran-met-on-feb-17-ats-officer-101616184627799.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 38 deaths, 2,490 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Friday reported 2,490 Covid-19 cases with the state witnessing a single-day hike of over 2,000 cases for the third consecutive day with Hoshiarpur district witnessing maximum 416 cases. A total of 38 persons lost lives due the virus taking the total death toll in past three days to over 100. After Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana reported a maximum of 292 cases, Patiala 287, Mohali 258 in Mohali, Jalandhar 253 and Amritsar 181, according to a bulletin released by the state government. The active cases rose to 15,459 and 1,339 more people were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 1,86,187, according to a bulletin. In past one week, state has witnessed average growth rate of 0.9% in the fresh cases whereas state’s case fatality ratio has decreased 3% from 3.2% last week. A total of 36704 samples were tested on Friday whereas as many as 34886 samples were collected. The 2,490 new infections took the tally to 2,07,888, while the toll rose to 6,242 with 38 more deaths. Hoshiarpur reported a maximum of 416 cases, following by 292 in Ludhiana, 287 in Patiala, 258 in Mohali, 253 in Jalandhar and 181 in Amritsar, it said. There are 22 critical patients who are on ventilator support and 286 are on oxygen support. A total of 55.29 lakh samples have been collected for testing so far, the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-38-deaths-2-490-fresh-covid-cases-101616184270512.html
20-03-2021||Other||Thane trader’s death: Sachin Vaze’s bail hearing adjourned till Mar 30||The Thane district and sessions court on Friday adjourned till March 30 the hearing of an anticipatory bail application filed by suspended police officer Sachin Vaze in connection with the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran, even as the Maharashtra Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS) sought his custody. ATS got production warrant from Thane court. Now they can arrest Vaze anytime once he is bailed out from NIA case.Vaze is currently under arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), in connection with the explosives-laden SUV found outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house last month.On March 12, Vaze had filed an anticipatory bail plea in connection with the ATS investigation into Hiran’s murder, after Hiran’s wife Vimla told the investigators that she suspected Vaze had a hand in her husband’s death.The court had posted the matter to March 19 but had also said that custodial interrogation of Vaze was necessary as prima facie there was evidence against him.Vaze’s lawyer Aarti Kalekar sought time to study the reply submitted by prosecutor Sanjay Londe representing the ATS which is probing the murder of Hiran, a Thane-based auto spare parts dealer, who is linked to Scorpio found outside Antilia on February 25.Seeking Vaze’s custody from the NIA, the ATS told the court that they wished to interrogate Vaze over his whereabouts the night of March 4, when Hiran went missing.Hiran’s body was found in the Retibunder creek on March 5, without any identifying markers including his wallet, watch, gold ring and mobile phone, all of which were missing. His mouth was stuffed with handkerchiefs and covered with a scarf.“Mansukh Hiran, Thane based trader went missing from his house on the night of March 4, his body was found on March 5. We want to interrogate Vaze on his movement from the time Hiran went missing to the time his body was found. Secondly there is a larger conspiracy in his death which we want to uncover. We want to find out how many people and who all are involved,” the ATS reply read.“We wish to investigate who took these valuables and why. The fourth important point for our investigation is where was the Scorpio, found outside Antilia, parked between February 17 to February 25, who changed the number plates, the making of bogus number plate, why and how.”A Scorpio that Hiran had been driving for three years and reported stolen on February 18, was found parked outside Antilia on February 25. It had 20 sticks of gelatin (no detonator or timer) and a threatening letter addressed to Ambani. Two identical sets of three different registration number plates were kept beneath the rear seat of the vehicle, and its own engine number and body number of the vehicle were removed. Even the chassis number embossed on the car near right front wheel was wiped out.“The ATS had submitted its say in the court. It was a large document, so we will read and study it. We would also take instructions from our client on the course of argument for the next hearing for March 30,” Vaze’s defence lawyer Aarti Kalekar said adding that Vaze had been falsely implicated before. Vaze had been taken to court by the Crime Investigation Department for his role in the alleged custodial death of terror suspect Khwaja Yunus in 2003. After he was suspended in 2004, Vaze retired from the force in 2007. He was reinstated last year after his suspension was revoked.Vaze’s sister Anuradha Hatkar (50) on Friday moved court to issue directions to the media stationed outside her house ever since her brother was arrested. The court of District Judge Shailendra Tambe directed the Rabodi police station to look into her complaint.“We filed an application in the court for increasing vigilance near the residence. The sister who stays in Saket has no connection in the case,” Kalekar said, adding that Vaze’s relatives in Kolhapur too were being questioned by the media about Vaze.Meanwhile, the special NIA court refused to entertain applications filed by Vaze and NIA on the issue of presence of lawyer during interrogation of Vaze.Vaze’s lawyers had on Thursday moved applications first seeking clarity on presence of lawyer in interrogation room and second meeting Vaze in privacy after the interrogation for exchanging instruction. The court had asked NIA to respond to the said plea.The special NIA court had partly allowed this application by allowing an advocate representing Waze to be present while he is being interrogated. The advocate was to be within visible range but not in hearing range according to the court order. The court had however rejected the prayer of Vaze for meeting with lawyer in private during the time of his NIA custody.On Friday, the NIA moved the special court seeking direction to the lawyer of Vaze to remain present at the time of Vaze’s questioning. The NIA claimed that Vaze has been insisting for presence of his lawyer during questioning and his lawyers are not available. This NIA claimed has stalled their probe.Vaze’s lawyer Abad Ponda contended that it is the right of the accused to have a private meeting with the lawyer during the custody period for giving instructions. The lawyers sought that Vaze should be allowed to meet the lawyer in privacy.The court refused to entertain NIA’s claim stating the agency can continue their probe on their own and such direction is not needed. While Rejecting Vaze’s claim the court said the order passed on Tuesday about the terms of presence of lawyer were clear enough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-trader-s-death-sachin-vaze-s-bail-hearing-adjourned-till-mar-30-101616183848833.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC defers hearing on Khaira’s plea for March 24||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday deferred hearing on the petition of Punjab Ekta Party president and Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira for March 24 with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) seeking time to respond to the issues raised by the legislator. The properties of Khaira and some persons associated with him were raided by ED on March 9 in a case of probe involving the 2015 Fazilka drug smuggling case. The central agency recently filed a Prevention of Money Laundering (PMLA) case in connection with the 2015 FIR. Nine persons were convicted in October 2017 in the case by a trial court and sentenced them to imprisonment, ranging from three to 20 years, for trans-border heroin smuggling. The court had summoned Khaira as “additional accused” through same order. Two months later, Supreme Court had stayed the summons to him. Khaira has moved the high court seeking quashing of the investigation launched by the ED under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. He also sought quashing of the ED’s summons issued on March 12, asking him to join the probe. Besides, he has requested the court to direct the ED not to take any coercive action against him, if he joins the probe. His counsel Vikram Chaudhari said Khaira has told court that he has not been provided with a copy of the ECIR (enforcement case information report). Khaira has also questioned sanctity of the proceedings saying as how the probe was initiated even as there is a stay from apex court in the main case.He has also demanded that in the event of his appearance before the ED, audio/videography of the proceedings be allowed so that it is known why he is being called to join the probe. Chaudhari claimed that during the hearing the ED has told the court that Khaira was not an accused so far. That further raises questions as to why searches were carried out that too during pandemic with ED raiding his premises with 30-40 personnel, Chaudhari added. The plea filed last week demands that the outcome of the search and seizure exercise by the ED, his married daughter’s house and other persons related to him shouldn’t be taken note of. It further demands that the ED be stopped from unlocking his mobile phones and viewing the contents as it would “violate his fundamental rights”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-defers-hearing-on-khaira-s-plea-for-march-24-101616183847825.html
20-03-2021||Other||Ex-Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis appointed a cop to spy on his ministers: NCP||Mumbai Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), in an attack on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Devendra Fadnavis, alleged that during his tenure as chief minister (CM), the leader of Opposition had appointed an IPS (Indian Police Service) officer to spy on his own ministers. The allegation was tweeted from the party’s official handle — @NCPspeaks – on Thursday.“Devendra Fadnavis appointed an officer from the police department as the director general of a government department, and that too, from the cyber cell, only to spy on the ministers of his own government. He is now lecturing on misuse of police officials,” stated the tweet.BJP’s Ghatkopar legislator Ram Kadam hit back at NCP and asked if the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had appointed officers to commit terror acts and seek extortion. “If an officer appointed during our term was spying, then are the officers in your term appointed to commit acts of terrorism and seek extortion,” Kadam tweeted in response to NCP’s tweet.He was referring to the case in which former police officer Sachin Vaze was arrested over charges of planting gelatin sticks in an SUV that was parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in south Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmaharashtra-cm-devendra-fadnavis-appointed-a-cop-to-spy-on-his-ministers-ncp-101616183607751.html
20-03-2021||Other||Address concerns on bookings, refunds: Country’s largest tourism body to Air India||neha.tripathi@htlive.comMumbai India’s largest tourism body – Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) – on Friday wrote to national carrier Air India, raising concerns highlighted by their members over bookings and refunds on the global distribution system (GDS). TAAI also asked Air India to allow agents to book Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights. TAAI also sought an urgent meeting to discuss these issues with the national carrier on Thursday.According to the association, it is “inappropriate” to sell the tickets of VBM flights only on the airline’s website. “Being International Air Transport Association (IATA)-accredited agents and Air India being an IATA BSP (billing and settlement plan – a system designed to facilitate and simplify the selling) concurrent airline, it must ensure that the trade agents are protected and assisted,” stated the letter.Claiming that genuine travellers miss out on the opportunity to book their seats and that many do not have access to websites or are not in a position to make online bookings, TAAI suggested that a special circular with conditions to make the bookings for VBM flights must be issued to assist the agents.TAAI also pointed out that Air India is the one of the airlines which is not permitting refunds on GDS, and hence passengers are unable to get their money back.“You are required to open up the access to process refunds for previous refunds which were to be processed during the lockdown as well as for flights or bookings which have been cancelled for immediate process in the billing cycle as prescribed by IATA without setting any further conditions and promptly refund the amounts as per the resolutions thereto. We expect Air India to permit booking of all flights across all GDS systems,” the letter stated.TAAI also demanded a 5% agent commission from Air India on the total airfare. Addressing the issue, the letter stated, “Since last year, Air India had withdrawn the commission of 1.5% and is only giving it as an incentive on a monthly basis. We reiterate our demand for a minimum of 5% as commission on the total airfare...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/address-concerns-on-bookings-refunds-country-s-largest-tourism-body-to-air-india-101616183547774.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze row: Maharashtra home minister Deshmukh meets NCP chief Pawar, says have not resigned||Amid the row over police officer Sachin Vaze’s link to the security scare at industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house and death of the trader, Mansukh Hiran, who owned the car, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh met Nationalist Congress Party supremo Sharad Pawar on Friday. Deshmukh reached Pawar’s Delhi residence in the morning and the meeting between both the leaders lasted for over an hour. Deshmukh told reporters after the meeting that he came to meet Pawar to seek his help in bringing an international firm which is interested in setting up a plant at Multi-modal International Hub Airport at Nagpur (MIHAN) at Nagpur and also briefed him about developments in the Antilia bomb scare case. The meeting assumes significance as there are speculations that Deshmukh is likely to lose the home portfolio. According to party insiders, the NCP leadership is mulling names of his successors who are more capable to handle the home department. The deliberations started following the Antilia bomb case, which hit the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s image. The case also raised doubts over Deshmukh’s grip on the crucial home department, NCP insiders said. “I have briefed Pawar saheb about fresh developments in Mumbai related to the Ambani case. Both the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and anti-terrorism squad (ATS) are probing the case. The state has extended full cooperation to the NIA and will also take action based on their findings,” the home minister told reporters while leaving Pawar’ residence. Later in the evening, he denied news reports of him resigning from the post of home minister. “Had a discussion with Pawar saheb over the developments in the last two days in the probe being carried out by NIA and ATS. The news reports going on a few channels over my resignation are baseless,” he said in a tweet. NCP insiders also denied the possibility of any change until a reshuffle of the state cabinet. “It all depends upon the three ruling parties. If all are ready and could decide their names of those involved, there would be a reshuffle and only then Deshmukh may be replaced. Until then he is likely to continue as the home minister,” said a senior NCP minister, requesting anonymity. He clarified that NCP leadership doesn’t want to create an impression that Deshmukh was in any way responsible for the mess in the Antilia bomb scare case after NIA arrested police officer Sachin Vaze accusing him of planting the gelatin sticks in a SUV. According to party insiders, the names that are doing the rounds as possible replacement to Deshmukh are deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, state party unit chief Jayant Patil, Dilip Walse Patil and health minister Rajesh Tope. Tope was also called by the NCP chief on Tuesday and discussion between the leaders was kept under the wraps. Deshmukh said on Thursday he will remain the home minister until the NCP chief wants him to handle the responsibility. “Recently, Pawar saheb in a press conference in Delhi praised my work. I will remain in this position until he wants me to continue. His word is final in our party,” Deshmukh said in response to a question at a function organised by Lokmat Group. “In the political career spanning 30 years, there is not a single blot on my image.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaze-row-maharashtra-home-minister-deshmukh-meets-ncp-chief-pawar-says-have-not-resigned-101616183487746.html
20-03-2021||Other||Patiala MC likely to get ₹590 crore for completing development projects||With the Punjab assembly elections scheduled for next year, Patiala municipal corporation (MC) is likely to receive huge chunk of funds to the tune of ₹590 crore for completion of development projects at the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s home bastion. In its budget document for the year 2021-22, the civic body is completely banking on the government grants for development purposes as it is expected to spend ₹32 crore from its own kitty. On Friday, the corporation also passed its annual budget of ₹119 crore. Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma said the civic body has been allocated ₹500 crore for completion of works related to water supply, sanitation and canal-based water supply project. “We have received ₹40 crore in 2020-21 financial year under this head, while remaining ₹460 crore will be provided by the state government in the next financial year,” the mayor said. Likewise, the civic body will get ₹36 crore for the heritage project, construction of which is already underway and the corporation has spent ₹5 crore so far. Meanwhile, as per the budgetary proposals, the corporation will get ₹20 crore under the Punjab urban environment programme, ₹21.5 crore from the CM development funds, ₹40 crore from the finance commission and ₹9.6 crore for completion of a dairy project. “The CM city will witness record development with these funds. The projects are being carried out at good speed so that they can be completed before the end of this year,” Sharma said. House meet held onlineThe Patiala MC has passed its annual budget of ₹119 crore without holding much discussion over increasing income from its own resources.A special General House meeting was held online to pass the budget for next fiscal. The House was briefed about the failure of financial heads concerned in achieving their targets for the ongoing year.Of the total budgetary allocations of ₹119 crore, at least ₹84 crore (71%) is to be spent on committed expenses, including payment of salaries and pensions, ₹32.8 crore (27%) on development works, and ₹2.5 crore (2%) for contingency expenses.MC commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said they have set targets that can be achieved by the end of the financial year.“Moreover, multiple departments have been directed to clear the backlog of financial recoveries including property tax arrears, building charges and water supply and sewerage arrears,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patiala-mc-likely-to-get-590-crore-for-completing-development-projects-101616183367763.html
20-03-2021||Other||GATE results out, 17.82% candidates qualify||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) late on Friday announced results for the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE), held between February 6 and 14. As per the figures shared by IIT-B – the exam organising institute – 913,000 candidates had registered for the exam, of whom 711,000 appeared. “Of these, around 126,000 (17.82%) candidates have qualified. The percentage of qualified candidates in individual papers varies from 8.42% to 29.54%,” a statement released by IITB read. Of the total qualified candidates, 98,732 are male, while 28,081 are female, the statement added. GATE is an entrance exam taken by undergraduate students and graduates for admissions to masters and PhD programmes of technology institutes such as IITs and Indian Institutes of Science (IISc). The GATE score is also a qualifier for placements in public sector undertakings. Qualifying in the exam is mandatory for seeking financial assistance from the Ministry of Education (MoE) and other government scholarships / assistantships. There is no upper age limit for the exam. However, only those who have completed at least their third-year of graduation can apply. An 88-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh and a 15-year-old undergraduate student from Rajasthan had registered to take the exam this year, making them the oldest and youngest candidates, respectively, for the competitive exam. Previously, the oldest candidate was a 75-year-old. This was also the first year that IITs opened the entrance exam to candidates from the humanities background.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gate-results-out-17-82-candidates-qualify-101616183247757.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records over 25,000 Covid cases again||With 25,681 cases, Maharashtra reported more than 25,000 cases for the second day in a row on Friday, even as Mumbai recorded its highest spike with 3,063 new cases. Mumbai has never seen more than 3,000 cases reported in a day since the start of the pandemic in March 2020. The state’s Covid-19 cases tally reached 2,422,021 on Friday, while the toll went up to 53,208 with 70 more deaths. Mumbai recorded 10 deaths, taking the fatalities to 11,569. The state has 177,560 active cases, with the highest in Pune (37,384), followed by Nagpur (25,861), Mumbai (18,850) and Thane (16,735). In terms of daily cases, the Mumbai circle reported the most cases (5,737), followed by Pune circle with 5,472 cases. A day after Maharashtra recorded the sharpest one-day spike, the state issued a fresh notification asking private offices to function at 50% capacity and drama theatres and auditoriums in the state to also function at 50% capacity, while adhering to protocols. While it has allowed the manufacturing sector to function at 100% attendance, the sector has also been asked to adhere to protocols. The state on Thursday recorded 25,833 cases, its highest spike since March 2020. The state, in its order, has said that non-compliance of the order by drama theatres, auditoriums, and the manufacturing sector will result in these institutions having to be “closed for a period until Covid-19 pandemic stays notified as a disaster by the Central government”. The order also stated that drama halls, auditoriums shall not be utilised for any religious, social, political or cultural gatherings. Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, relief and rehabilitation, state government, said while the 50% rule existed, the state wanted to reiterate its stance and also emphasise on the stringent punishment in case of non-compliance. “We are not being very stringent in terms of imposing new rules, but we will be stringent in terms of implementation of these rules and punishment,” Gupta said. He also said that when the government released an order regarding theatres on March 15, there was confusion regarding compliance by drama halls.In its order, the state has directed the government and semi-government office heads to take a decision regarding attendance and ensure Covid-19 protocol are followed. In the private sector, except health, essential services, and manufacturing sector, all offices have been asked to adhere to the 50% rule. For drama halls, the state has also stated that any violation of the order would attract huge penalties.The order states: “The above measures will remain in force till March 31, 2021, for containment of Covid19 epidemic in the state and all departments of the government of Maharashtra shall strictly implement these guidelines.”On Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) made Covid-19 test report (RT-PCR) mandatory for people entering shopping malls in the city. According to reports, the new rules will come into effect from March 22, next Monday. If people are not carrying a negative report, they will be tested (rapid antigen) at the entrance. Apart from malls, the civic authorities will be conducting rapid antigen tests at other crowded places in the city too.In the past two days, the state has reported over 50,000 cases with the state government, admitting that Maharashtra is in the middle of a second Covid-19 wave. Meanwhile, on Thursday, the state vaccinated 200,718 citizens across 2,294 centres. These included 118,414 senior citizens above the age of 60 years and 30,307 citizens above the age of 45 with comorbidities. While 10,217 health workers and 16,848 frontline workers got the first dose of the vaccine, 9,044 healthcare workers and 15,888 frontline workers got the second dose of the vaccine.Till date, 3,840,707 citizens, including health and frontline workers have been vaccinated in Maharashtra, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-over-25-000-covid-cases-again-101616182947740.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||PMLA cases totally independent of base offences: Bombay HC||In an important ruling, the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday held that investigations by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, are totally independent of the scheduled base offences and ED can continue the probe even if the base offences are closed, compounded or quashed.A single-judge bench of justice AS Gadkari said for probing a money laundering case, registration of a scheduled offence - one of the offences mentioned in the Schedule to the PMLA - is necessary, but once an enforcement case information report (ECIR) is registered under the PMLA is registered, the ECIR stands on its own and it thereafter does not require the support of the scheduled offence.HC clarified that ED’s probe thereafter does not depend even on the ultimate result of the scheduled offence. “Even if the scheduled offence is compromised, compounded, quashed or the accused therein is/are acquitted, ED’s investigation is not affected.The ruling will enable ED to continue its investigation unabated in where base cases are closed, like the one filed by Akbar Travels of India Pvt Ltd (ATIPL) against Jet Airways and its directors, Naresh Goyal and his wife Anita. Similar was the situation in the alleged fraud at Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank in which several political leaders are suspected to be involved and in which a closure report is filed by the economic offences wing of the Mumbai Police.Justice Gadkari was hearing a petition filed by Babulal Verma and Kamal Kishore Gupta, both promoters of a realty firm in Mumbai, against whom ED has started investigation under PMLA. eD’s probe was based on an offence of criminal breach of trust and cheating, registered at City Chowk police station at Aurangabad on March 7, 2020.Based on the offence, ED on December 16, 2020, registered an ECIR and started an investigation. Verma and Gupta thereafter cleared all dues of the complainant and accordingly, the offence against them was compounded and closed by a judicial magistrate on February 10, 2021In this backdrop, the accused, promoters of Omkar Realtors and Developers, had sought their release on bail on the ground of closure of the scheduled offence. They moved HC after the special PMLA court in Mumbai rejected their plea on February 15, 2021.Before HC, his counsel submitted that the moment scheduled offence comes to an end, the PMLA proceedings also comes to an end. bail. The lawyer added that it was a settled legal proposition that if initial action does not align with law, all subsequent and consequential proceedings would fall through for the reason that the illegality strikes at its root and the applicants could not have been remanded to further custody and were entitled to be released on bail.Justice Gadkari rejected the argument, observing that the investigation under the PMLA is totally independent of the scheduled offence.“PMLA is a special statute enacted with a specific object i.e. to track and investigate cases of money laundering,” said HC. “Therefore, after lodgment of the scheduled offence, its ultimate result will not have any bearing on the investigation of a crime under the PMLA and the offence under the PMLA will survive and stand on its own.”HC said if the argument of the petitioners was accepted, getting the base case closed would be the easiest mode for the accused to scuttle and/or put an end to the investigation under the PMLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmla-cases-totally-independent-of-base-offences-bombay-hc-101616182828894.html
20-03-2021||Other||‘Ex-Mumbai Police cop Sachin Vaze was charge sheeted in ₹25-L extortion case’||Police assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze, who was suspended following his arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), was charge sheeted in September 2018 in a ₹25-lakh extortion case by the local crime branch, Vasai, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Vijaykant Sagar from the Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) commissionerate said. The trial in the extortion case is yet to begin, said Sagar. “His name had cropped up during investigation, after which Vaze secured anticipatory bail,” said DCP said. During his suspension period in the alleged custodial killing of Khwaja Yunus, Vaze had helped Dr Anil Yadav, a medico turned Right to Information (RTI) activist and another accused Amol Patil, destroy evidence in the extortion case, claimed Sagar. Yadav and Patil would extort huge sums of money from builders, said Sagar. “Vaze would advise Yadav on how to escape the law and was instrumental in helping him flee to Uttar Pradesh. Yadav was arrested in April 2017,” said Sagar. He added that Vaze also provided Yadav with a car and met him in Gujarat, where they destroyed the evidence. “However, LCB recovered a revolver, which was used by Yadav to extort money from a Vasai builder. Of the ₹25 lakh demanded, ₹2 lakh was taken by Patil as first instalment from the builder,” said Sagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmumbai-police-cop-sachin-vaze-was-charge-sheeted-in-25-l-extortion-case-101616182827813.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai may see brief respite from heat this weekend||After temperatures soared to a season high of 38.2 degrees Celsius on March 13, the city saw its coolest day in at least a week on Friday when the daytime maximum temperature settled at 33.2 degrees Celsius; down from 34.2 degrees Celsius the day before. As per official forecasts, daytime temperature may drop further to 32 degrees Celsius over the weekend, before starting to rise again around March 24.A spokesperson for the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Mumbai said that the dip in temperature was due to the influence of an impending weather system forming over Northern Madhya Maharashtra, with thunderstorms expected in Jalgaon, Dhule, Nashik, Nandurbar, Pune and Ahmednagar districts over the next three days. Parts of Buldhana district, as well as Jalna and Aurangabad, saw hailstorms on Friday.“We have issued a weather alert for these districts. While showers are not expected over western Maharashtra, the passage of moisture heavy clouds over some parts of the state are having a cooling effect on cities like Mumbai. But after the weather system passes, temperatures will start rising again. The maximum reading may touch 36 degrees Celsius by March 26,” the official said.The minimum temperature in Mumbai on Friday settled at 22 degrees Celsisus — also the lowest in at least a week — down from 24.4 degrees Celsius the previous day. As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, minimum temperature is expected to remain at about 23 degrees Celsius during the next week, touching a high of 24 degrees Celsius around March 23. Clear and partly cloudy skies are expected to prevail intermittently.Air quality in the city, meanwhile, entered the moderate category after at least five days, with an air quality index (AQI) of 197, down from about 230 the day prior, as per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). A spokesperson for SAFAR, which maintains a network of 10 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, said, “AQI in Mumbai will, for the most part, remain in the upper end of moderate to lower end of the poor category for all of March. Once temperatures rise in April, resulting in faster winds and quicker dispersal of pollutants, the AQI should settle around 150, with the exception of some dust storms that are to be expected during the summer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-may-see-brief-respite-from-heat-this-weekend-101616182587728.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Supreme Court collegium clears 13 names for Bombay HC judges||The Bombay high court (HC) is all set to get 13 new judges after the Supreme Court (SC) collegium, in its meeting held on March 19, decided to elevate nine advocates and four lower judiciary officers to the post of high court (HC) judges.The Bombay HC, which has a sanctioned strength of 94 judges, is currently functioning with only 62 judges who are assigned duties at the principal seat in Bombay and its benches at Nagpur, Aurangabad and Goa. The nine persons elevated have been doing duties as additional public prosecutors, additional government pleaders or represented other government and local bodies in the HC. The elevated persons include Aruna Pai, Shailesh Brahme, Kamal Khata, Sharmila Deshmukh, Amira Abdul Razaq, Sandeep Marne, Sandeep Parikh, Somasekhar Sundarsen and Mahendra Nerlikar. The implementation of the decision is, however, awaited in light of a notification which has to be issued by the governor’s office. The last batch of new judges had been added in January 2020 when four judges were sworn in. This year, a list of 22 probable candidates had been forwarded to the collegium for consideration, of which nine were approved for the post of judge while four were approved for the post of judicial officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/supreme-court-collegium-clears-13-names-for-bombay-hc-judges-101616182347675.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||81% seats reserved for ST students in PhD courses vacant in 16 IITs||Almost 81% of the total PhD seats reserved for candidates from the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category on an average in the past two years at 16 Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country, shows data released by the ministry of Education in Lok Sabha.In 2020-21, 82% seats reserved for STs were vacant in these IITs, whereas 80 seats were vacant in 2019-20. Of the seats reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) category students, 61% were vacant in 2020-21 and 62% in 2019-20. Almost half the seats reserved for Other Backward Classes (OBC) were vacant in both the years. Of the 23 IITs in India, data for Tirupati, Mandi, Indore, Bhubaneswar, Jodhpur, Ropar and Kharagpur IITs were unavailable as the campuses do not have a fixed intake capacity, minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal said in Lok Sabha.The data also shows that five candidates had applied for each seat in ST category, nine SC candidates applied to each seat and nine for each OBC seat.S Sudarshan, IIT-Bombay’s deputy director for academic and infrastructure affairs, said that not enough research scholars from all categories were applying for PhD courses. “The vacancies are also dependent on the departments — some get a good number of applications while some don’t get enough. This is across all categories, including general category,” said Sudarshan. In 2020-21, IIT Bombay saw 52 seats go vacant in general category, 28 in SC, 21 in ST and 21 in OBC category.N Sukumar, professor, department of political sciences, Delhi University, said systemic issues prevented SC, ST and OBC students from accessing IITs. “These students are forced to study in government schools, where the teaching-learning process is very haphazard. They also do not have access to quality coaching centres to help them prepare for IIT entrance exam. They lack socio-cultural capital to encroach into ‘meritorious’ institutions. Despite all these issues, if students do get qualified as the data reveals, one needs to reflect on the reasons as to why the seats are still vacant.”City-based economist Ajit Ranade, who has served in the board of governors of IIT-Bombay in the past, said, “The lack of representation of SC and ST category students cuts across various fields of education as well as professions. Subconscious biases not only affect the way selections work, but also extend to the curriculum. There is also a need to monitor how many students are graduating at the end of the programme to see if any candidates fell through the system.”Sudarshan said that each department of the institute conducts an entrance exam and cut-offs are then decided. “We follow the reservation policy in our selection process. Necessary relaxations are given to each category for both written and interview marks,” he said.However, Sukumar added that the interview process was highly subjective as the students are judged on the basis of caste, language, gender, region, etc biases. “Caste discrimination is blatant as many IIT directors have openly claimed that they will not implement reservations in faculty positions as ‘merit’ will be diluted. Such mentalities are part of the SC/ST/OBC students’ everyday experiences. When there is no enabling environment to complete their education, how will they proceed to attain faculty positions,” he said.Ranade said institutes must intensify their efforts to improve representation of SC and ST category students. “It is also the responsibility of the system to make resources, remedial classes and support, in terms of mental health, available to researchers so they can cope,” added Ranade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/81-seats-reserved-for-st-students-in-phd-courses-vacant-in-16-iits-101616182167601.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh excise dept earns ₹398 crore in liquor vend auction||A liquor vend in Dhanas has fetched the highest ever bid of ₹11.55 crore in the auction held for the 2021-22 fiscal by the Chandigarh excise and taxation department.The previous record was also set by the same vend in 2019-2020, when it fetched ₹10.78 crore.All four vends with top bids — Dhanas, Sector 61, Mauli village and Sector 47 — are located near the city’s border with neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab, where liquor prices are much higher.“Traditionally, liquor vends located in proximity to Mohali and Panchkula have fetched higher bids as vendors expect to earn more in these areas, as residents of the two satellite cities tend to come to Chandigarh to buy cheaper liquor,” said a department official, requesting anonymity. All four vends have been bought by a single firm – Kler Wines.The department had received 162 bids electronically for 80 liquor vends put on auction with a combined reserve price of ₹317.31 crore. It earned ₹398.04 crore in the form of licence fees, registering 25% earning over the reserve price. It also received ₹5.67 crore as participation fee.Originally, the department had offered 96 vends, up from 94 in 2020-2021, but it didn’t receive any bid for 16 vends.“For the 16 leftover vends, the tendering process will begin on March 22 and the bids will be opened on March 30,” said the official.To curb the menace of cartelisation and monopolistic practices, a single entity of firms/companies/individuals will be entitled to allotment of up to a maximum of 10 vends.“An analysis of the successful bidders revealed that no single entity got more than eight vends,” said the official.In the Chandigarh Excise Policy 2021-2022, the administration decided to keep the licence fee and excise duty on beer and wine unchanged. On the Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), the duty has been increased by 6%, which is expected to increase the prices of popular liquor brands by 10-12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-excise-dept-earns-398-crore-in-liquor-vend-auction-101616182048119.html
20-03-2021||Other||SGPC member Kuldeep Tohra loses ₹1.5 crore to scamsters||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member Kuldeep Kaur Tohra and her husband Harmel Singh Tohra, a former cabinet minister, lost ₹1.5 crore to cyber fraudsters, police said on Friday. Kuldeep Kaur is daughter of late Akali stalwart Gurcharan Singh Tohra. As per the complaint submitted by Kuldeep’s son Harinderpal Singh Tohra, she had got a phone call in 2017 and was told that shares of various companies in the name of her parents were lying unclaimed. “They asked details and assured that the shares worth several crores would be transferred to her account,” the complainant mentioned. The accused continued to dupe the couple for the next couple of years by taking security money and processing charges to release shares. As the couple discussed the issue with Harinderpal, he approached the police. He said the accused had asked his parents to deposit money in 13 different accounts, claiming that the process will be completed after taking approval from higher authorities as the monetary value of shares was quite high.Following the complaint, the police registered an FIR against 12 persons, four of whom have been identified as Sagar, Rahul Kumar of Bijnor, Manoj of Meerut, Chandani of New Delhi. The police have started investigation and have been taking details of the bank accounts to track the fraudsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-member-kuldeep-tohra-loses-1-5-crore-to-scamsters-101616181987443.html
20-03-2021||Bangalore||Blame game continues amid Covid-19 surge in Bengaluru||The curse of March has returned to haunt India's IT capital a year after the very first Covid-19 infection which was reported on March 8 last year in Bengaluru. The city seems to be witnessing a reverse in the decline of its Covid-19 cases and triggering the onset of a possible second wave of the deadly virus.For the first time in months, the total number of cases in Bengaluru crossed the four-figure mark as the IT hub recorded 1,037 cases and six fatalities in the last 24 hours on Thursday due to Covid-19. The spike takes the total number of active cases to 8,623 of the total 12,067 across the state.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the city's civic body, on Friday morning, was quick to point the blame on common areas like party halls, gyms and swimming pools within large apartment complexes as one of the main reasons for the spike."According to our analysis, when people mingle here, cases spread. We are sending a proposal to the government to close these facilities," N Manjunath Prasad, the BBMP commissioner told reporters on Friday.He also hinted at the possibility of halving the seating capacities in cinema halls that was met with stiff resistance and denial by chief minister BS Yediyurappa.There have been at least two big-ticket Kannada movie releases in recent weeks during which people were seen dancing outside theatres with no semblance of any social distancing or wearing masks.Though Karnataka was one of the first states to implement a lockdown when there were barely any cases, it was also among the fastest to relax restrictions when the caseload was at its highest to allow resuming of economic activities and bringing in some much-needed revenues to the cash-starved state.This economic consideration has remained the biggest priority for Karnataka despite the sharp spike in cases over the last fortnight. The state government has also put the onus of containing the spread on the people while turning a blind eye on its own shortcomings like contact tracing, surveillance and preventing large gatherings across the state and its capital, Bengaluru.The government argues that it cannot do the job alone and requires active cooperation from its citizens. But the same government has refused to rein in large political gatherings and meets where masks and social distancing are rarely followed, let alone enforced, experts and activists said.One senior government official attributed the rise to people failing to maintain isolation requirements within the households."Contact tracing and tracking have been thrown in the wind. All this remains on paper but on the ground, very few of such protocols are being followed," said a private medical professional, requesting not to be named. He added that authorities have been working for over a year and fatigue factor appears to have set in. "We cannot take the same approach we took last year again," he said.According to government data, there are 4.46 contacts (primary and secondary) per patient across the state.But the data does not support the number of people in active quarantine.Multiple people who were infected do not recall the BBMP or any other agency getting in touch to get details of travel history or trace their contacts.Medical practitioners said that the government will take all precautions and follow the protocols of any Covid-19 positive person who has got any media attention. The practitioners were referring to a Shivamogga-based individual who was tested positive for the South African variant of the virus.While the government and the BBMP continue to blame the spike on people coming from neighbouring states like Maharashtra as "spreaders", it has so far refused to change its approach and bolster efforts into rectifying faltering contact tracing, surveillance, raising awareness nor enforcing safety protocols in public spaces, according to multiple people including medical practitioners.Bengaluru accounts for 8,623 active cases out of the total 12,067 across the state.CM Yediyurappa, his cabinet colleagues and officials have attributed the spike to the rise in cases in border districts. However, the four main border districts - Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi and Bidar - (referred to by the chief minister) account for 1,266 active cases.Karnataka was among the first to go in for a lockdown last March when there were barely any cases in the state but decided to relax restrictions when the number of positives was in the thousands. While Karnataka took pride in its efforts to keep the cases down till mid-2020, it rarely looked within for the exponential rise in the second half of last year.Karnataka has tried to double its vaccination effort as a measure to contain the spread. But technical glitches like the app crashing, inaccurate data gathering and other problems, have added to the challenges of the state government. Doctors said that there used to be several instances of names being repeated, the app not registering the vaccination that impacts the second dose, among other problems.The BBMP has denied any technical glitches, stating that the hospitals are responsible for data entry."We are seeing more cases but not a rise in serious cases," Dr HM Prasanna of Pristine Hospitals and president-elect of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/blame-game-continues-amid-covid-19-surge-in-bengaluru-101616181659885.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Key challenges of conducting SSC, HSC exams during the pandemic||The HSC (Class 12) exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, 2021; SSC (Class 10) exams will be conducted between April 29 and May 20With nearly 33 lakh students appearing for the exams every year, the HSC (Class 12) and SSC (Class 10) exams are conducted across 9 divisions in Maharashtra every year. With the rising number of Covid-19 infections in the state and the resultant restrictions, parents and schools are now raising concerns about the conduct of these exams in the middle of all these challenges. The state government and the education department are working on an initiative titled #ParikshaKoTaiyar to make board exams smooth and safe for students. As part of the initiative, the state board is likely to announce certain guidelines on the conduct of exams this year. After talking to experts and various stakeholders including schools, students and parents, HT has arrived at some of the key concerns that need the attention of the government and the agencies to ensure that the exam process is smooth and stress-free for students.Provisions for students who cannot take their examsExperts have pointed out the need to have several options for students who might have to miss their exams due to various reasons such as catching the infection themselves, being put into quarantine, staying in containment zones where there are a high number of Covid-19 cases being some possible reasons. “During the IGCSE exams in the country that concluded recently, a student tested positive after having attempted the initial papers. The board thankfully had a provision in place and the child was marked based on an average drawn from the marks in the papers he attempted. The state board needs such a mechanism,” said an educationist who has been helping the government with suggestions regarding precautions to be taken. Teachers said that while isolating a child and allowing him/her to write the paper in a nearby centre away from the other kids is an option, the child’s mental health can take a toll during such a period and thus he/she should be allowed another chance at the exams.Overcrowding at the centresEvery year, a large number of parents assemble outside various schools and junior colleges across the state to drop their children off at the exam venue. Basanti Roy, former secretary of the Mumbai divisional board, said that such overcrowding has to be avoided this time. “A good solution to this can be allotted a child’s school as the exam centre and swapping supervisors from nearby schools to ensure free and fair exams. This way, parents won’t have to worry as the children can travel to their schools alone,” she added.Anticipating rescheduling/cancellationsWhile the state board has scheduled the HSC and SSC exams in April and May, the government needs to have a backup plan, in case there is a further spike in the cases and the exams have to be rescheduled or cancelled. To begin with, the state government needs to ensure that such possibilities are communicated to the Central agencies like the National Testing Agency (NTA) which conducts the JEE and NEET exams for Class 12 students. “While the state can change its schedule if need be and grant concessions to students depending on the situation, timetables of national level entrance exams like JEE and NEET have already been set. Similarly, other boards like CBSE and ICSE also have their exams planned. The state government should have excellent coordination with the Centre and the various exam bodies to ensure that state kids do not lag in their counterparts from other states and boards,” said a member of the government-appointed committee on the condition of anonymity.Travel restrictionsA large number of students aspiring for their board exams especially in a city like Mumbai travel by train and other public transport like buses to reach their exam centres. The state board should communicate with authorities like railways and the BEST to ensure that students can travel seamlessly during exams. Some experts also suggested tweaking office hours for the period of exams to reduce congestion on roads during the exams. “Especially for Class 12 students whose colleges are far from home, travelling during the pandemic can cause anxiety, as they have not taken a train or a bus for the last one year. Parents are also worried about this and we hope that the government allows parents and students to travel on the trains and buses throughout the day during the exams,” said Madhura Kale, a parent from Malad.Last-minute centre cancellationsIn case a few centres from the list of pre-decided centres by the board get cancelled, the board needs to have a backup option for more. “For instance, if an area is declared as a containment zone, there might be two-three centres in the zone. Where will 200-300 students from these centres go at the last minute? These provisions need to be made in advance by increasing the number of centres,” said an official from the department.Sanitisation and safety protocolsIn addition to the challenges involved in ensuring social distancing and hygiene at the exam venues, experts are worried about the anxieties associated with wearing a mask throughout the exam. “Students cannot write three-hour-long papers with masks on, at all times. Some concessions need to be made along with ensuring the safety of students at the same time. Similarly, they should be allowed to take a water break and toilet breaks as and when needed,” said a teacher.Education department extends support to children with special needsExtending support to children with special needs (CWSN) who are set to write their Class 10 and 12 board exams this year, the education department has urged people to volunteer as writers. Interested volunteers can register themselves at https://www.research.net/r/readerwriterbank by March 31. The state board has also announced a list of counsellors who will man helplines for CWSN in the month of April and May when SSC and HSC exams are scheduled. Each of the 9 board divisions has a dedicated helpline where students can call and get their issues resolved. “During these tough times, it is important to ensure that CWSN does not suffer if they fail to get a writer or a centre not favourable. Officials should ensure that children get the necessary help and that no child is deprived of the opportunities he/she deserves,” states the circular issued by the state board recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-key-challenges-of-conducting-ssc-hsc-exams-during-the-pandemic-101616181867569.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC bars hike in school fees during pandemic in Punjab, Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana high court has barred schools from collecting enhanced fees for the academic session 2020-2021 from the students in Punjab and Haryana in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak and pandemic-induced lockdown. The high court bench of Chief Justice RS Jha and Justice Arun Palli on Friday adopted an order passed by the Supreme Court in February in respect of Rajasthan schools. Multiple lawyers associated with the case confirmed the development. However, detailed order is awaited. The order was passed in a petition pending before the HC since last year on the issue of charging of fee during Covid-19 outbreak in both the states. The fee collection matter of Chandigarh schools is being adjudicated separately. As per the apex court’s order passed on February 8, the management/school can collect fees for the academic year 2019-2020 as well as 2020-2021 from the students, equivalent to fees amount notified for the academic year 2019- 2020, in six monthly instalments commencing from March 5, 2021 and ending on August 5, 2021. However, the apex court order does not bar collection of increased fee for the academic year 2021-2022. The schools have been asked not to debar any student from attending either online classes or physical classes on account of non-payment of fees, arrears, including the instalments and further not to withhold the results of the examinations of any student. The apex court had also said that where the parents have difficulty in remitting the fee, they can approach school authorities, who will consider such cases “sympathetically”. The SC had also directed that in respect of classes 10 and 12 exams, the school managements would not withhold the name of any student on the ground of non-payment of fees. All outstanding dues towards unit cost payable to respective unaided schools by the government should be settled within one month or by March 31, the apex court had directed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-bars-hike-in-school-fees-during-pandemic-in-punjab-haryana-101616181811044.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity sees steep surge, clocks 638 Covid cases||The Chandigarh tricity area registered more than 600 fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time since the first wave in September, with 638 people testing positive for the virus on Friday.Mohali district registered 258 cases, followed by 214 in Chandigarh and 166 in Panchkula district, the highest numbers for all the three places in the past six months.During the first wave, the tricity had recorded the peak on September 13, when 865 people had tested positive. Subsequently, the numbers had seen a gradual decline.Meanwhile, in some respite, both Mohali and Panchkula reported no virus-related casualty, while only one death was recorded in Chandigarh.For the first time since October, the number of active cases crossed the 1,500 mark in Chandigarh, which also took the number of total infections across 24,000. Of 24,017 cases reported so far, 1,597 (6.6%) remain active. While 22,060 (91.9%) patients have recovered, 360 have died, including a 75-year-old woman from Sector 41 who breathed her last at a private hospital in Mohali on Friday.Chandigarh has been reporting more than 200 cases for the past three days, while the positivity rate has jumped above 8%, which is the second highest in the country after Maharashtra. After a virtual meeting with the Prime Minister on Wednesday, UT administrator VP Singh Bandore had directed the health department to ramp up testing and also told police to ensure strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour. Meanwhile, UT adviser Manoj Parida had ruled out any “knee-jerk reaction”, such as night curfew.Compulsory testing of those without masks in MohaliMohali city continues to report bulk of the cases in the district, with 203 surfacing on Friday. The district’s total has climbed to 22,912, with number of active cases at 1,868 (8.2%). Just 19 days into March, 2,597 cases and 23 deaths have been reported, up from 840 and 20, respectively, throughout February. Meanwhile, with 62 patients being discharged on Friday, the number of those recovered climbed to 20,636, though recovery rate has slipped to 90%. Acting tough on violators, the Mohali administration on Friday decided that people found without masks in public places will have to undergo compulsory testing for Covid-19 besides paying ₹500 fine. Deputy commissioner Girish Daylan said that 62 such people were challaned at the busy Phase 3B2 market on Friday. All had to undergo RT-PCR test on the spot, and reports will be shared the following day, he said. “We will also make a database of those fined, and strict action will be taken against repeat offenders,” said the DC, adding that new teams have been constituted to keep vigil in markets. He said even shopkeepers have been warned of action if they do not direct their customers to follow the norms. The state government had on Thursday extended the night curfew in Mohali by two hours. The curfew is being imposed from 9pm to 5am, said Dayalan. Apart from movement for essential and emergency services throughout the night, home delivery of food will be allowed till 10pm. Employees of private establishments involving night duties will also be allowed to move on the production of ID cards issued by their companies. Three govt schoolkids among those positive in P’kula Three students of a government school in Pinjore are among 166 people tested positive in Panchkula district.The total has reached 11,740, with 618 (5.3%) cases active, up from 124 at the beginning of the month. The cases have been on the rise since March 1, in what local health officials are calling the “second wave” of the pandemic. While 10,973 (93.5%) patients have been cured, 149 have died.The government urban polyclinic centre in Pinjore had randomly tested 174 government school students on Thursday, whose reports came on Friday. The three found positive are students of Class 9. They were home quarantined after being picked up from the morning assembly. Random testing of other schoolchildren is also being done, said officials. Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja in an order reiterated that wearing of masks is mandatory in public places and any violation will invite ₹500 fine. The order also specified that non-payment of the fine will lead to the registration of a case under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. The DC has designated clock education officers of Pinjore, Barwala, Raipur Rani and Morni along with sub-inspectors, inspector, chief inspector and station supervisor of Haryana Roadways as the officers for implementing the order. The DC also held a meeting with representatives of various religious, social and non-governmental organisations and appealed to them for active contribution towards the vaccination drive. It has been decided to organise mega camps every Monday and Tuesday for senior citizens and comorbid people across 49 government and private vaccination centres in the district. Of 1.35 lakh senior citizens, 35,000 have been vaccinated so far, and the administration targets to cover the remaining by the end of this month. Elderly man dies soon after getting jabbed in PinjoreA senior citizen died within minutes of getting the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Pinjore on Friday. The health authorities said the preliminary postmortem reported stated heart attack as the cause of death. The deceased, 71, was a resident of Model Town in Pinjore. He had gone to get vaccinated along with his wife and four friends at the government urban polyclinic centre near the Pinjore police station around 10am. His wife said they both got the vaccine shot around 10:30am, and soon after the elderly man’s health deteriorated though she herself was fine. The man fell unconscious and was rushed to the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, where doctors declared him dead. The body was handed to the family after postmortem.Panchkula civil surgeon Jasjit Kaur confirmed that the senior citizen had died soon after being jabbed, but clarified that the death cannot be linked to vaccination. “He had history of heart ailment and cause of death after preliminary postmortem was heart attack. A committee of doctors has been constituted to investigate the cause of death,” she said, adding that the man’s wife and others who got vaccinated along with him are doing fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-sees-steep-surge-clocks-638-covid-cases-101616181809377.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Power firms get notice over Sanjay Raut’s flight trips||Registrar of Companies (ROC) has slapped notices on MSEB Holding Company Limited (MSEBHCL) and Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited (Mahagenco), asking them to clarify about the expenditure incurred for the number of air trips of energy minister Nitin Raut by chartered flights last year. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has criticised Raut for allegedly high expenditure on his official bungalow too.Raut has rubbished the allegations saying the expenditure incurred for the renovation of the bungalow — Parnakuti — was from the funds allocated to the public works department. He also said the air trips were well within the rulebook of the power companies, and the trips were for official works as a minister and chairman of these companies.ROC has, on March 5, sought clarification from the two power companies for their spending on Raut’s air trips. According to information obtained under Right To Information (RTI) Act by Ravikumar Vemulakonda, MSEBHCL paid ₹14.45 lakh for two trips and Mahagenco paid ₹29.10 lakh for three trips by Raut between Mumbai, Delhi, Aurangbad and Hyderabad during lockdown last year. Vemulakonda, based on the RTI reply, lodged a complaint with ROC for action against the companies. In view of this, ROC issued a notice signed by assistant company registrar, stating, “You (two power companies) are directed to furnish your comments/clarification on each of the allegations made in the complaint with documentary evidence within 10 days. On failing to respond, penal action will be taken as contemplated under Companies Act, 2013 against companies and its directors.” Maharashtra BJP’s media head Vishwas Pathak alleged that Raut has spent huge amount on renovation of his official bungalow at Malabar Hill as well as his office at Mantralaya. “The state government has been disconnecting the power supply of farmers and poor people for the non-payment of bills. The state government has been citing financial crisis faced by the power companies for the disconnection, but on the other hand, the minister has been spending lavishly on his bungalow and office,” he said. Pathak also alleged that the minister spent more than ₹1 crore on his air trips, though two companies gave the information about ₹43 lakh borne by them, while two others have refused to reveal the payments. Dinesh Waghmare, principal secretary, energy department, said the four power companies have received the ROC notices and they have been replying to them accordingly. “MSEBHCL has already replied while Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company will comply with it in next two days. There is nothing wrong in these companies footing the bills of air travel for the minister, who is chairman of the companies. The entities have been formed under the Companies Act like any other private company, and have every right to bear such bills of the air travel of their chairman,” he said.Raut said, “I was operated upon for heart ailment in February and had three trips from Nagpur to Mumbai by road. My doctor strictly warned me to avoid it, saying it could prove to be fatal. After it, I travelled by chartered flights for cabinet meetings and important meetings of the power companies as their chairman. As the chairman of the company, I can use flight made available by them, and for it, there is no need to have permission by the chief minister. Power supply is an essential service and it was our duty to ensure uninterrupted supply of the power during lockdown, when commercial flights were not in operations” he said.While speaking about the expenditure on bungalow, Raut said, “The expenditure done by the public works department on my bungalow is as per set rules and earmarked budget for the official accommodations of ministers. The renovation work has not been completed even 15 months after the swearing-in because of the Covid-19 lockdown. I had been living in a rented house in Worli for months. Only three rooms of the bungalow have been completed so far. The BJP should also question the expenditure done on the bungalow in possession of the Leader of Opposition (Devendra Fadnavis) and who borne the expenditure.”Box Raut says no to the post of speakerWhile the speculations are rife that energy minister Nitin Raut could be made Assembly speaker and replaced as minister by Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole by the party leadership, Raut said he was not interested in any such shuffle.“I had said no to accept the post of Assembly after formation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in November 2019. It was only after that, I was on the list of two Congress ministers who took oath on November 28 in the first phase. I am not aware of any reshuffle in state cabinet. Final decisions are taken by party leadership,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-power-firms-get-notice-over-sanjay-raut-s-flight-trips-101616181807512.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 3,063 new cases, BMC to intensify vaccination||With 3,063 new Covid-19 cases detected in Mumbai in a single day, the city on Friday breached the 3,000 cases mark for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic in the city on March 11 last year. So far, the highest number of cases reported in a single day was 2,877 on Thursday, this week, and before that on October 7 when the city reported 2,848 Covid-19 cases. Mumbai also reported 10 deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, taking the toll to 11,569, and a case fatality rate of 3.2%. So far, Mumbai has reported a total of 3,55,914 cases of which 18,850 are active as of Friday.Addressing yet another peak in the Covid-19 cases in the city, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday decided to intensify Covid-19 testing in the city from the present 25,000 to 50,000 tests and accelerate vaccination. At a meeting with heads of all hospitals in the city on Friday afternoon via teleconferencing, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal gave the administration various instructions on the management of Covid-19 patients, hospital bed management and vaccination.BMC will now carry out rapid antigen testing before entry at all crowded public places, such as malls, supermarkets, municipal markets. Citizens will be allowed to enter the premises only if they test negative. BMC will also conduct rapid antigen tests of inbound passengers of long-distance commute at railway stations, and bus depots.Mumbai on Thursday conducted 24,542 Covid-19 tests, with a positivity rate of 12.4%. On Wednesday, 23,402 tests were conducted with a single day positivity rate of 12.2%.Chahal on Friday directed the administration to accelerate immunisation by vaccinating 45 lakh citizens in 45 days, at the rate of one lakh citizens per day. Each private hospital is required to vaccinate 1,000 beneficiaries per day. BMC has also appealed to the Central government for permission to increase the number of private hospitals carrying out vaccination in the city from the present 59 to 80.In a statement issued on Friday, BMC said, “Around 59 private hospitals act as vaccination centres in the city at present. Despite this, these 59 hospitals can vaccinate around 4,000 beneficiaries per day. Each private hospital has been directed to take efforts to vaccinate up to 1,000 beneficiaries per day.”Considering the lifestyle of Mumbaiites and working hours, BMC has asked private hospitals to examine if they can operate between 9am and 9pm every day, and if possible operate the centres 24*7. Hospitals have also been directed to activate all Covid-19 beds as per the number of beds that were available at the beginning of the pandemic outbreak. Presently, there are 12,738 beds for serious moderate and complicated Covid-19 patients, 720 beds for mild or asymptomatic patients, 1,527 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, 961 ventilator beds, and 8,352 beds with oxygen points.On Friday, 42,740 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 34,313 were given their first dose, and 8,427 were given their second dose. A total of 21,422 senior citizens were vaccinated on Friday, and 5,400 citizens above age 45 years who also have comorbidities were vaccinated.So far, a total of 809,871 vaccine shots have been administered to citizens in Mumbai, of which 702,977 beneficiaries have been given the first dose, and 106,894 have been given their second dose as well. A total of 373,189 senior citizens have been vaccinated so far, 55320 citizens above age 45 years have been vaccinated so far. There are 92 active vaccination centres in Mumbai.In the BMC statement issued on Friday, Chahal said, “Although the mortality rate is lower than the previous period, vaccination is important to reduce the overall mortality rate to zero, and reduce the severity of the infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-3-063-new-cases-bmc-to-intensify-vaccination-101616181567575.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||152 new virus cases in J&K as spike continues||Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases from the last few days and 152 new cases were reported on Friday, the highest case tally in two-and-a-half months. The spike has mostly been reported from Kashmir valley. With these new cases, the number of active cases has crossed 1,100.The case count has climbed to 1, 28,249 while the death toll has reached 1,979 with one death in Jammu division.Officials said as many as 121 positive cases were reported from Kashmir division while 31 fresh cases were reported from Jammu division.Since Wednesday, Kashmir valley has been witnessing over 100 fresh daily cases.Officials said 1, 25,118 people have recovered in the UT so far taking the recovery rate to 97.61%. There are now 1,152 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 56.9 lakh. Kashmir division has 884 active cases while there are 268 active cases in Jammu division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/152-new-virus-cases-in-j-k-as-spike-continues-101616181389145.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||After TTE tests positive fro Covid-19, Railways share passenger details||Days after a train ticket examiner (TTE) onboard the Pushpak Express operating between Lucknow and Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19, the railways have given details of passengers travelling on the train to the district magistrate (DM) for contact tracing.The North-Eastern Railway on Friday stated that a list containing details of passengers travelling on the Pushpak Express has been provided to the DM in Uttar Pradesh. The data is being shared with DM of other states including Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.The TTE boarded the Pushpak Express from Lucknow railway station and alighted the train at Bhopal station on March 16. Later, he boarded the same outstation train the next day and travelled back to Lucknow from Bhopal. He fell sick soon after.The TTE was then sent to Badshahnagar railway hospital in Lucknow where he and his wife tested positive.“The TTE and his wife tested positive. We have also conducted tests of five other people who were his close contact. List of passengers travelling on board the train has been provided to the DM.” said Pankaj Kumar Singh, chief public relation officer, North Eastern Railway.Railway authorities have also started thermal screening and testing of their personnel travelling onboard outstation trains.“We are setting up booths and are testing our personnel as well.” said a senior railway official.The Brihanmumbai Corporation (BMC) conducts thermal screenings on railway terminus of passengers arriving in the city from Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Goa and Rajasthan. Passengers found with higher body temperature have to undergo antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-tte-tests-positive-fro-covid-19-railways-share-passenger-details-101616181388098.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Last year’s experience will guide us better this time in Dharavi: Mumbai civic body official||After a gap of six months, Dharavi—Asia’s largest slum, is again witnessing a surge in cases, due to the second pandemic wave. To curb the spread, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to conduct rigorous testing, contact tracing and isolation. The rise in cases has raised quite a concern among the slum dwellers, most of those are migrants from neighbouring states who returned to the city with the relaxation of the lockdown. The volunteers who have been working since March 2020, are ‘overwhelmed and exhausted.Dharavi spreads over a 2.5 sq km area which has a population density of 227,136 per sq km. The overly populated slum consists of small rooms measuring 100 sq ft that houses seven-eight people. With its history as a breeding ground for dis­eases, on April 1, 2020, when the area recorded its first Covid-19 positive case, it threatened to become a super-spreader for Mumbai’s two crore population.However, after months of fighting, Dharavi won the war against the virus. Till March 19, it had registered 4,357 cases, far fewer than its neighbouring areas, Dadar (5,383) and Mahim (5,294). Its average daily cases came down from 43 in May 2020 to six in January 2021. Dharavi had not reported new cases only four times in January, this year – January 22, 26, 27 and 31 – and on February 2. It was also believed that herd immunity contributed to decreasing of the cases.But with the start of the second wave, Dharavi has again come into the spotlight. On Thursday, Dharavi reported 30 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily rise since last September. On Friday, it recorded 29 new cases.In a meeting held at the headquarters of BMC on Friday, several guidelines and instructions have been issued. Most importantly, the focus has been paid to rigorous testing. Officials claim their experience of last year will help them to fight better this year.At present, daily, BMC is conducting around 500 tests in Dharavi, which will now be increased to 1,000 to identify the carriers at the earliest. “For one infected person, we have been instructed to test 22 of his/her close contacts. Along with this, we will conduct rampant testing in crowded places and the factories,” said Kiran Dighavkar, ward officer of G-North that covers Dharavi.Almost 70% of the patients are asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic, as per BMC.BMC is also in the process to start a vaccination centre in Dharavi to inoculate the elderly above 60 years and the public with comorbidities above 45 years. “We are trying to bring the facility close to the public’s door for faster vaccination,” he added. Private doctors will be responsible for the vaccination.At present, Dharavi has 300 institutional quarantine centres where hotels, lodges, schools, stadiums among others are converted into isolation centres. BMC has plans to add 100 more centres in the initial phase. “Earlier, we were sending a few patients to BKC jumbo but now, we have decided to increase the institutional quarantine centres as a precautionary measure if the cases increase further,” said Dighavkar.In October 2020, BMC along with the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) released a data of serosurvey conducted in R-North, M-West and F-North wards of Mumbai. The report revealed seroprevalence in 45% of the slum of the wards. But Dharavi wasn’t added to it.When asked about it, “There was a belief that Dharavi had attained herd immunity considering the infection rate slowed down. But now, it has been proved wrong, otherwise, cases wouldn’t have increased. There is a need to do a serosurvey in Dharavi as well to gauge the spread of the virus,” said a senior officer. Last year when the national lockdown was declared hundreds of migrants who reside in Dharavi lost their livelihood and went to their natives. With the relaxation of the lockdown in September, they came back to Mumbai with a new hope. But with the rise in cases, the slum dwellers are getting concerned about losing their jobs again. To them, it seems like a ‘Deja Vu.Priya Sudha, 31 lives in a small 10*10 sq feet chawl in Dharavi with her three children, in-laws and husband. She works as a domestic maid in Shivajinagar. Last year, when the lockdown was declared, she lost her job along with her husband who worked at a tea stall. With no option in hand, she had to go back with her children to her native in Tamil Nadu in June.“It was impossible for us to feed so many people without a job. So, I went to my native with my children while my husband remained in Dharavi with his parents. I came back in December and started working again,” said Subha.As cases are increasing in Dharavi, she fears that her employer may fire her. “My employer who is diabetic knows that I stay in Dharavi, so they are quite concerned. Already many employers who have additional rooms are keeping their maids in-house to avoid any possible chance of infection from outside travel,” she said.Volunteers who are responsible for close contact tracing of infected patients are overwhelmed. They have been working since March 2020, when the first Covid-19 case was reported in Mumbai.“After a lot of hard work, we were able to control the spread in the city. We thought it was over and I would be able to hug my children without worrying. But now again, I am sleeping in a separate room as I don’t want them to contract the infection from me,” said Sunita Gaikwad, who has been working as a volunteer in association with BMC. “It all seems like the last year when the pandemic started,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/last-year-s-experience-will-guide-us-better-this-time-in-dharavi-mumbai-civic-body-official-101616181148628.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Governance reforms: PU extends deadline for suggestions||Panjab University (PU) has extended the date for inviting inputs from all stakeholders for governance reforms of the varsity till March 26 through its designated portal.This was said by Vikram Nayyar, officiating registrar and member secretary of the committee constituted for the governance reforms. The portal can be accessed at https://pugovernancereforms.puchd.ac.in.Earlier the deadline for inputs was Friday (March 19).The high-level committee of experts has been constituted by vice-president of India M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU, after the University Grants Commission (UGC) in November informed PU to initiate governance reforms as per provisions of the PU Act.The university had then written to UGC seeking a plan regarding the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020. PU is governed by a 91-member senate, whose term ended on October 31 without fresh elections.During the first meeting on March 10, the committee decided to seek inputs from all stakeholders before making any recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/governance-reforms-pu-extends-deadline-for-suggestions-101616181147554.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||In March, only 732 fined for not wearing masks in Chandigarh||Despite a spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city, the drive against people not wearing masks seems to have slowed down as only 732 people have been challaned in March so far.With markets, malls and educational institutes opening, residents continue to move about in public places without the mandatory protective gear. But despite this, the police drive to challan those not wearing masks has lost its pace: in January, 2,578 challans were issued, which dipped to 1,368 in February and 732 in March.As per data available with the Chandigarh Police, the maximum number of challans were issued in July (5,929), followed by December (4,597).“Awareness campaigns and challaning drives made people comply with the rules. We have been continuing with the drive all through, but now we will intensify challaning. Our focus would be on crowded places like markets and tourist spots,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, UT.Fine fails to act as deterrentSince June last year, to date, the police have collected ₹1.28 crore as fine for not wearing masks. Police had collected ₹66.67 lakh till November 2020 from 14,357 violators. The challan for not wearing a mask was ₹500 till November, after which it was raised to ₹1,000 in December.From December till March, the police had collected ₹61.36 lakh as fine from 9,276 violators.Administrator directs police to intensify challaningActing on complaints pouring in of people moving around without masks and violating social distancing, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the director general of police, Sanjay Baniwal, to intensify challaning in public places, eating houses and markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-march-only-732-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-in-chandigarh-101616181030672.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panel pushes for shorter route from Chandigarh to airport||Reviving hopes for a shorter alternative route from the city to the Chandigarh International Airport, the parliamentary standing committee has asked the ministry of home affairs to take up the issue with the civil aviation and defence ministries on priority basis.Currently, residents have to take a 14.5-km detour through Mohali to reach the airport. The committee in its latest meeting with the UT administration had inquired about the progress made in the approach road to the airport.The administration informed the committee that earlier road distance from Tribune Chowk to the airport was 2.71 km. Now, the existing route from Tribune Chowk to the airport was 14.52 km through Punjab (Mohali), which was causing difficulty to the residents of Chandigarh as they have to cover more distance and spend more time to reach the Airport.Administration further informed, to cut short this road distance, certain options were proposed / deliberated, from time to time. One of the options was to connect the old and new terminal through an underpass below the existing runway.In the Chandigarh Master Plan (CMP) 2031, another proposal of road connectivity to the airport was given from Sector 48 (Purv Marg) through Jagatpura village, which will be approximately 4.7 km from Tribune chowk, thereby reducing the distance by about 10km from Tribune Chowk.For this proposal, land acquisition may be required in Punjab, so this needs to be done by the Punjab Government, the administration informed the committee.The Committee noted that the existing route from Tribune Chowk to the Chandigarh International Airport was causing unnecessary inconvenience to the residents of Chandigarh as they had to cover more distance and spend more time to reach the airport.Punjab had earlier junked underpassThe UT administration’s proposal to construct a tunnel for an alternative shorter route to the airport in Mohali was junked in the Northern Zonal Council meeting held in September 2019.The administration was pitching for the Centre’s help and contributions from Haryana and Punjab to construct the ₹1,200-crore underground tunnel connecting Chandigarh directly to the new airport terminal in Mohali.The proposed route was to cut down the distance for people commuting to the airport from Chandigarh and Panchkula by 10km. But both Haryana and Punjab hadn’t supported the proposal. This was also not agreed upon by the Air Force authorities.Committee recommendationsThe committee has recommended that the MHA may take up the matter with the ministries of civil aviation and defence on priority basis to connect the old and new terminals through an underpass below the existing runway to make it convenient for the people travelling through the airport.Alternatively, the committee has recommended that the MHA may coordinate with the government of Punjab for making provision of approximately 4.7-km road through Jagatpura village, which will reduce the distance to the airport by about 10 km, and will save the people coming from the city a lot of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panel-pushes-for-shorter-route-from-chandigarh-to-airport-101616180847483.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||CBI books Indian Technometal Company for alleged ₹555-cr fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Indian Technometal Company Ltd and its directors for allegedly defrauding a consortium of banks led by the erstwhile Corporation Bank of ₹555 crore, officials said Friday.The CBI has booked the private company’s directors Vinay Kumar Sharma and Rakesh Kumar Sharma, and unknown public servants and other persons.The action followed a complaint from Union Bank of India (erstwhile Corporation Bank) alleging that the private company through its directors in conspiracy with others has defrauded the consortium by misrepresentations, concealment of facts and submitting false documents and information to avail credit facilities, said CBI’s chief information officer RC Joshi. The consortium included Corporation Bank (now Union Bank), State Bank of Hyderabad (now State Bank of India), Punjab National Bank, Punjab & Sindh Bank, UCO Bank, Syndicate Bank, Central Bank of India, Karur Vyasya Bank and JM Financial ARC.Searches at the premises of the accused and firm were conducted in Kangra, which led to recovery of incriminating documents, said Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-books-indian-technometal-company-for-alleged-555-cr-fraud-101616180787607.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Cong demands CBI probe into Mandi MP’s death; govt awaits Delhi Police’s report||After leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri raised a point of order during the budget session to demand a CBI probe into Mandi member of parliament Ram Swaroop Sharma’s death, the chief minister on Thursday said the government will take steps to have the death probed once the Delhi Police completes its investigation.CM Jai Ram Thakur said the Delhi Police had registered a case and collected evidence from the spot. “In such a situation, we should not be hasty,” he said, condemning speculations on Sharma’s death, particularly on social media. He said the social media posts on Sharma’s death were ‘unfortunate’. “Such comments have perturbed the family, people close to him and party members have raised concern,” he said. Calling Sharma’s death a huge loss to the state, Thakur said, “The family is in shock. I have met them, and they said Sharma was not keeping well and had been undergoing treatment for certain ailments.”The CM said ill-health seems to be the reason behind Sharma’s death. He said Sharma had gone for treatment to Kayakalp Institute of Naturopathy at Palampur but had lost a lot of weight.He said Sharma’s death should not be politicised. “We should not jump to conclusions and patiently wait for the investigation and postmortem report.” Earlier, Agnihotri, who had raised a point of order soon after the question hour, had said, “No suicide note has been recovered and people are surprised as to how a person who took the Covid-19 vaccine jab four days ago can take such an extreme step.” He said when the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput can be investigated, then why an MP’s suicide cannot be probed. “Sharma represented 17 lakh people of Himachal in the Lok Sabha. People have the right to know what led him to take such an extreme step . Sharma was a very popular leader,” Agnihotri said.“When his son and the people of the state are seeking an investigation, one should be initiated,” he said.Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj said, “The CM and Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh have met the family. If the need arises and the family wishes, the government will demand a CBI inquiry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-demands-cbi-probe-into-mandi-mp-s-death-govt-awaits-delhi-police-s-report-101616180427627.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai housing societies reluctant on imposing restrictions||Despite the surge in Covid-19 cases, the cooperative housing societies in Mumbai are not imposing restrictions as they did a year ago when the pandemic had just started.The office-bearers of the housing society say that since there is no lockdown, imposing restrictions is not possible, in such circumstances.This, even though, Mumbai on Friday recorded 3,063 cases, which is the highest one-day spike, since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.Last year societies across Mumbai had barred maids from entering the buildings, disallowed residents from moving out of their houses freely, arranged essential items for them within the society premises and had also curtailed the delivery persons from entering. “The situation, a year back was different as people were scared of the virus. Today there is no such fear and residents will resist any restrictions,” said Dhawal Shah, chairman, Lokhandwala-Oshiwara Citizens’ Association. Also, he said, since the elections of the housing societies would probably be held later in this year, many office bearers would not like to agonise the society members, who are the voters.Ashok Gardens society at Sewri which has 542 apartments is adopting a wait and watch policy. “We have a backup plan ready. We are asking the residents to be cautious of this situation and they are cooperating very well,” said Captain Prakash Correa, secretary of the society. “We agree that complacency has set in all across, but one needs to realise that the managing committees are imposing curbs for the benefit of their members,” he added. While many residents initially adhered to the rules last year, there was resistance after some months, resulting in friction in many societies. The problem was the entry of maids, which grabbed headlines and managing committees were reluctant to allow them, forcing the state government to intervene.State minister for cooperation Balasaheb Patil said managing committees of housing societies should not impose arbitrary curbs on their residents. “People are moving out of their homes and there is movement all around. The societies should not impose their restrictions on them,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-mumbai-housing-societies-reluctant-on-imposing-restrictions-101616180367416.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown an option, says Maharashtra CM||A day after Maharashtra clocked its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said lockdown was an option before the government, but he expected more cooperation and Covid-appropriate behaviour from people. Thackeray, who was on a tour of Nandurbar district on Friday, appealed to people to get vaccinated without any apprehension or fear. He also said the Centre has assured enough vaccine stock to the state. With the Covid cases increasing daily, the state is not looking at a lockdown at this stage and will set up micro-containment zones in areas where the number of cases is higher. “The threat of coronavirus has increased again. It surpassed the peak that we touched in September. One option is lockdown, but I am expecting cooperation from people, like they did during the previous lockdown… At many places, people have started to wear masks,” the CM said while speaking to reporters in Dhadgaon, Nandurbar district. Even as the Covid-19 cases have shot up rapidly over the past few weeks, Thackeray said they have not been informed by the Centre about a mutation in the virus strain. “We had [Covid-19] cases with foreign strain, but the number was limited. However, we have asked the Centre if currently there is any different genome spreading [in Maharashtra]. But so far, we have not got any information. They have not confirmed to us if it is a different strain,” Thackeray said. Health secretary Pradeep Vyas was accompanying Thackeray as he took review of the Covid and vaccination situation in the interior areas of the predominantly tribal district. In an apparent response to Union minister Prakash Javadekar, who claimed that the state government has mismanaged its vaccination drive, Thackeray, without naming the minister, said, “There is some misleading information that [vaccine] stock is lying around, but it is not so. It is kept based on the timetable for the next few days.” While speaking in the north Maharashtra district, Thackeray appealed to people to get inoculated. He added that now the people have some “shield” to defend themselves against the coronavirus unlike last year. “I appeal to people, who are eligible, to get vaccinated on their own… if there is any fear in taking the vaccine, it should be removed. Even after taking the shot, we need to follow Covid-appropriate behavior of masking, sanitising and social distancing. The Centre has assured us that there will not be any shortfall in availability of vaccine doses. We have stock enough for the next five to seven days, and then we expect to get another batch of vaccines,” he said. He added that there have been some Covid-19 cases where people have been infected after vaccination. However, the vaccine reduces the intensity of the virus and doesn’t become fatal, he said, stressing on the importance of getting vaccinated. Thackeray also directed district officials to give all facilities to people in the interior parts of Nandurbar. “Urban areas have the medical facilities, but it is important that people in the rural and interior areas get proper facilities,” Thackeray said after a review of the situation in the district. Nandurbar added 424 new cases on Friday and had 2,442 active cases in the district. The chief minister also directed authorities to prepare a tourism development plan for Tornamal, a hill station located in the Satpura range in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-an-option-says-maharashtra-cm-101616179707349.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Year after virus outbreak, HP’s patient zero struggles to get life back on track||A year after contracting the novel coronavirus infection, Himachal’s patient zero is still struggling to get life back on track. Early in 2020, the man had been working as a chef in Singapore when the virus swept across the world consuming lives and jobs in its wake. The man, who lost his job, returned home on March 18 and became one the two first positive cases in Himachal Pradesh on March 20, 2020. A native of Lunj village in Shahpur sub-division, the 33-year-old was discharged from the hospital on March 29, 2020 after recovery. However, life seemed to turn on its head once he returned home — he and his family were ostracised by the village people, nobody would talk to them and shopkeepers refused to sell them their wares. The situation became so grave that the administration had to intervene. “Today, I am jobless. Efforts to find a new job have not yielded any results. Now, I am trying to build my life bit-by-bit by starting a new catering business,” said the former Covid patient, who recently welcomed his son. Upset by the harsh treatment meted out to him by the community, he has chosen to work away from home. Ask him if people still discriminate against his family, he says things have normalised. “People do jeer at me, but I have stopped taking this seriously,” he says, adding that the reason he faced ostracisation was that people had panicked in those early days of the outbreak as not much was known about the virus and misinformation abound. “Hopefully, things will get back to normal. This pandemic will be over, and I will get a new job,” he says. Resurgence of Covid cases Virus cases that had begun to reduce at the beginning of the year have witnessed resurgence in the hill-state. The surge began in the last week of February. Himachal has recorded 1,743 new infections till March 18, a rise of over 57% as compared to February when 1,109 cases were reported in the state. Twenty-one people have died due to the virus while active cases have climbed to 1,124 from about 200 in February-end. The state has recorded 60,389 infections so far while 58,248 people have recovered, and 1,003 people have died. Meanwhile, the state government on Friday imposed new curbs banning the fairs from March 23 onwards and people found without mask would be penalized. 181 new cases Meanwhile, the state today recorded 181 fresh infections on Friday. Of the new cases, 65 were reported in Una, 52 in Kangra, 24 in Solan, 10 in Shimla, nine in Bilaspur, eight in Mandi, five each in Hamirpur and Kullu and four in Sirmaur. Shimla is the worst-hit district with 10,649 cases, followed by Mandi with 10,352 cases, and Kangra with 8,894 cases. Solan has 7,003 cases, Kullu 4,490, Sirmaur 3,723, Una 3,429, Hamirpur 3,153, Bilaspur 3,061, Chamba 2,987, Kinnaur 1,390, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,258.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/year-after-virus-outbreak-hp-s-patient-zero-struggles-to-get-life-back-on-track-101616179648037.html
20-03-2021||Lucknow||UP has over 20% of India’s old vehicles||More than 20% of India’s total old vehicles that may qualify for the Centre’s newly unveiled scrappage policy are in Uttar Pradesh alone, people dealing with the issue in the transport department here revealed.The policy seeks to offer incentives to people who opt to get their personal/private vehicles older than 20 years or commercial vehicles older than 15 years scrapped. “In UP alone, there are more than 21 lakh such vehicles which is around 20% of the total 1 crore such vehicles identified in the entire country even as more than 50 lakh more such vehicles in UP will become eligible for the policy after five years,” a senior transport department official said.The Central government on Thursday rolled out the vehicle scrappage policy that was first announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech in a bid to give a push to the automobile industry as well as reduce pollution on roads.As per the new policy, commercial vehicles will be de-registered after 15 years and private or personal vehicles will be de-registered after 20 years, if found unfit or they fail to get a fresh registration certificate or in case of a failure to renew the registration certificate. The policy, at the same time, also offers several incentives and discounts for replacing old vehicles with new ones.Under the current rules, all personal and commercial vehicles are registered for 15 and 10 years, respectively, and have to seek registration after every five years thereafter.The transport department’s latest report, accessed by HT, shows that there are more than 21.23 lakh non-transport (personal/private) and transport (commercial vehicles) that are older than 20 years and 15 years respectively.Of them, around 19.20 lakh are personal/private vehicles alone. Commercial vehicles in this category constitute only a little more than 2.35 lakh.The report further shows that the largest number of personal vehicles that are older than 20 years are registered in Lucknow (about 3.23 lakh) only. The other UP cities with a sizeable number of such vehicles are Kanpur (1.87 lakh), Varanasi (1.32 lakh), Aligarh (95,600), Ghaziabad (80,000) and Prayagraj (75,500). The number of commercial vehicles older than 15 years is also the highest in Lucknow at 14,200 followed by Kanpur (11,200), Prayagraj (10,300) and Varanasi (10,100). Another data available with the department reveals the total number of personal/private vehicles (as on December 31, 2020) that had completed 15 years of age from the date of their first registration and needed fresh registration for next five years stood at around 50 lakh.“This only means that all these 50 lakh vehicles also will become eligible for the voluntary or compulsory scrappage policy five years from now,” the official said.The state government, he said, may soon issue a notification as a follow-up to the Centre’s announcement of the vehicle scrappage policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-has-over-20-of-india-s-old-vehicles-101616179586651.html
20-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dharavi reports 29 new cases on Friday||In tow with the trend of a spurt in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, Dharavi on Friday recorded 29 new cases. On Thursday, it had recorded 30 new Covid-19 cases in a single day, for the first time since September. The total number of cases in Dharavi now stands at 4,357. However, there are 72 active cases in the slum-pocket in south Mumbai, and a total of 316 deaths have been reported so far.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now decided to start a vaccination centre in Dharavi from Monday, aiming to vaccinate 1,000 beneficiaries per day. It will be started at the Urban Health Centre inside the slum, with five booths, each with a capacity to vaccinate 200 people per day. It will cater to senior citizens and citizens above the age of 45 years who have co-morbidities.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward with jurisdiction over Dharavi said, “Around 1.75 lakh residents of Dharavi qualify as beneficiaries as per data collected by BMC during its My Family My Responsibility Drive. Booths will be equipped with walk-in registration facilities. Many residents of Dharavi are not aware of how to register for a vaccine shot, or if they qualify. So, the BMC will help them in all these aspects.”Also, non-governmental organisations are being roped in to set up booths at various places in Dharavi to help with the registration process. BMC has asked private medical practitioners from the Mahim Dadar Medical Practitioners Association to help with medical certificates to those with comorbidities, above age 45 years.Dighavkar said, “After the My Family My Responsibility survey, BMC has data of whom all have comorbidities, so we will be making their medical certificates.”Commenting on the spurt in cases in the G/North ward, Dighavkar said, “Though the number of cases is rising in Dadar, Mahim and Dharavi due to proactive testing and screening, we are detecting cases at an early stage for treatment. As per data, 70% of the cases are asymptomatic. Casualties are very low.”In January G/North ward recorded a total of eight deaths, while Dharavi reported zero deaths in January. In February G/North ward reported six deaths and Dharavi reported two. In March so far, the G/North ward has reported two deaths, of which, one is from Dharavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-dharavi-reports-29-new-cases-on-friday-101616179527285.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Parking contractor managing vehicle-lifting gang arrested in Ludhiana||The crime investigating agency (CIA) staff-1 of Ludhiana police claim to have busted an inter-state gang of vehicle lifters with the arrest of a local parking lot contractor, Mickey Sahani.According to police, Mickey hid stolen vehicles at the parking lots managed by his staff and later sold them off using fake documents.His accomplice, Amanpreet Singh, alias Aman, 36, of Karnail Singh Nagar, Pakhowal Road, has also been arrested. An engineering graduate, Amanpreet claims to be working as a teacher.Their two accomplices, Rohin of Delhi and Laddi of Jalandhar, are at large. Sharing details of the arrest, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said following the two men’s arrest on Thursday, 16 four-wheelers were recovered from their possession. These include three Toyota Fortuner SUVs, two Hyundai Verna sedans, and once each Innova Crysta, Toyota Etios, Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire, Maruti Suzuki Alto, Volkswagen Vento, Maruti Suzuki Swift, Maruti Suzuki Baleno, Renault Duster, Hyundai Creta, Hyundai i10 and Chevrolet Optra.Stole vehicles from Delhi, J&KThe police chief said the accused used to steal vehicles from Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir with the help of their gang members and brought them to Ludhiana. They did not target vehicles in Ludhiana to avoid being caught.“They would approach scrap dealers for registration certificates (RCs) and number plates of damaged vehicles. Laddi of Jalandhar used to forge the engine and chassis numbers of stolen vehicles, and replace their number plates. These would then be sold to unwary customers,” said the commissioner, adding that through this modus operandi, they had been making quick money for over a year.“Police had recently initiated a drive against vehicles parked for over a week at parking lots. Such vehicles were noticed by the police during special checking. But, Mickey tried to mislead the police that the vehicles were parked only recently,” the police official added.Amanpreet is already facing a burglary case lodged at Sarabha Nagar police station, while Mickey was in January booked by the Division Number 2 police for overcharging patients and their relatives at the Civil Hospital parking lot. While his two employees were caught, he had managed to escape. More important information is expected from the accused during questioning. A hunt is on for their absconding accomplices, including some scrap dealers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parking-contractor-managing-vehicle-lifting-gang-arrested-in-ludhiana-101616179407373.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||HP devising schemes to tackle drought-like situation: Govt||The Himachal Pradesh government is devising a strategy to tackle the drought-like situation arising in the state, which is likely to adversely impact water supply and irrigation schemes, this was said during the budget session of the state Assembly on Friday. Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur said more tubes wells and bore wells will be dug in the state to offset the water scarcity. The government had banned boring of wells and tube wells last year due to decline in the water table. Thakur was replying to a private member’s resolution brought by BJP legislator Ramesh Dhawala. He said a meeting had been convened on March 23 to take of stock of the situation and around 400 schemes were in the pipeline. He said water harvesting tanks were being constructed in 155 sub-divisions. He urged all 68 MLAs to build small rain harvesting tanks in their respective areas and said the department will foot the bill. Expressing concern over the rise in average temperature in the state, Thakur said Himachal’s temperature had increased by 1.62°C in five years. “There has been a 19% decrease in glaciers due to the increasing temperatures and if glaciers continue to melt at the same speed, Himachal may also face a tragedy like Uttarakhand in future,” he said while advocating snow harvesting and construction of rain-water harvesting structures in the plains and medium elevation areas to replenish the groundwater levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-devising-schemes-to-tackle-drought-like-situation-govt-101616179047084.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Psychotropic drugs nexus operating from Ludhiana, Meerut busted; 15 held||In a major haul of psychotropic drugs, the Ludhiana police have seized 67 lakh intoxicating tablets, capsules, injections and syrups with 15 arrests from Ludhiana and Meerut, spanning over 18 days. Having an MRP of ₹18 crore, these medicines were meant to be sold in the illegal drug market for three times their price, said commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal.The inter-state opioid racket was unravelled following the arrest of Anoop Kumar Sharma, of Chandar Nagar, Ludhiana, and Hemant of Bampur, Uttar Pradesh, who were held with intoxicating tablets in Ludhiana on March 1. Anoop, along with five others, was found to be operating the racket from a rented accommodation in Chhawni Mohalla, owned by former BJP councillor Satish Nagar. While Nagar has been named in the March 1 FIR, he has not been arrested yet.“Anoop’s interrogation unveiled a chain of supply of psychotropic drugs from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. Police teams, led by joint commissioner of police (JCP, City) Deepak Pareek, traced the chain to Jaan Saifi, who used to procure drugs from Farjaan Sethi, Mohammad Sadiq and Surya Prakash, alias Chuttan, in huge quantities,” said commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal.While Saifi, Suraj and Mohammad are from Meerut, Farjaan is from Kotwali, Uttar Pradesh (UP).“Acting on disclosures made by these four men, an illegal godown of psychotropic drugs was raided at Partapur in Meerut district in the presence of drug control officials. This led to huge seizure of 66,99,719 intoxicating tablets, capsules, injections and syrups worth ₹18 crore,” he added.This further helped the police uncover the role of money transfer agents and courier suppliers, who actively facilitated the psychotropic drug trade. Bank accounts, created especially for money transactions for the drug consignments, have been frozen, the top cop said.Those arrested for operating the racket in Ludhiana with Anoop have been identified as Babul of Kundanpuri, Karamjeet Singh, alias Prince, of Haibowal, Kulwinder Kumar, alias Babbu, of Civil City, Kuldeep Kumar, alias Bijli, and Kamaljeet, alias Kamal, of New Vishnupuri Ludhiana.“Others involved in the nexus are Loveleen Sharma of Chandar Nagar, Harjeet Singh of Kundanpuri, Sumit Kumar of Guru Nanakpura, and Gagandeep of Jagatpuri, who have also been arrested,” Agarwal said.The accused will be produced in court on Saturday. Following the unearthing of the network, the commissioner of police has recommended the DGP disc for the police personnel involved in the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/psychotropic-drugs-nexus-operating-from-ludhiana-meerut-busted-15-held-101616178927281.html
20-03-2021||Other||Extended night curfew: Ludhiana police remain on toes to empty streets by 9pm||The first day of the 9pm-to-5am curfew on Thursday night saw the Ludhiana police toiling hard to keep residents from venturing out.Amid the rising cases, the state government had extended the night curfew by two hours with immediate effect on Thursday.While police managed to get all the shops closed by 9pm, several residents, in complete disregard to the curfew, were spotted on the streets till even past 11pm.Police vehicles had started making announcements in the evening, informing shopkeepers and restaurant owners about the curfew starting at 9pm. Thereafter, patrolling parties took rounds of the city to ensure no shop or eatery was open. Some shopkeepers found operating beyond the permissible hours at Haibowal, Dandi Swami Road and Humbran Road were asked to down shutters and issued a warning.Commuters moving about the roads claimed they were not aware about the curfew getting extended, while others said they were out for essentials or medicines.As it was the first day of the extended night curfew, police let the violators go after a warning. People commuting to the railway station or bus stand to pick/drop their relatives and three-wheelers ferrying passengers were also allowed to proceed.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 3) Sameer Verma said special checkpoints were installed at major points and crossroads of the city to warn people loitering aimlessly. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the curfew was aimed at preventing crowding at social gatherings amid the second wave of the virus and those violating the curfew will face FIRs.He said the police had also issued 1,500 challans to people found without face masks in the past two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/extended-night-curfew-ludhiana-police-remain-on-toes-to-empty-streets-by-9pm-101616178747362.html
20-03-2021||Pune||Govt school in Pune receives cattle fodder instead of mid-day meal||In a shocking incident, a government school in Pune received cattle fodder instead of mid-day meal for students.Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Friday called the incident “unfortunate” and said that an inquiry has been demanded. Although the school is run by the Maharashtra government, the municipal corporation is responsible for only distribution among students, he clarified.Several loaded bags of cattle fodder were checked by the concerned authorities, with one of the bags having ‘Nutri Rich Pashu Aahar’ (nutritious animal fodder) written on it.The mid-day meal scheme is a school meal program designed to improve the nutritional standing of school-age children across the country. As per the scheme, free lunches are supplied on working days for children in primary and upper primary classes in government, government-aided, local body, education guarantee scheme, and alternate innovative education centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/govt-school-in-pune-receives-cattle-fodder-instead-of-mid-day-meal-101616178209495.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh govt school teachers want exams to go online||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, the UT education department has asked government schools in the city to continue with the ongoing exams and classes even as teachers are against it. The teachers are demanding that the exams should be shifted online, especially since the neighbour Punjab has already closed its schools till March 31.Currently, exams are being held for students of Classes 9 and 11 while students of Classes 10 and 12 are being called to school for offline classes. As per the datesheet released by the UT education department, the exams for Classes 9 and 11 will go on till March 31. This has left teachers in UT schools worried. A teacher, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “Some teachers have tested positive at the government schools in Khudda Jassu, Sector 20 and Sector 12, and yet theses schools have not been closed. Testing should be carried out in these schools and the remaining exams and classes must be shifted online for the safety of students as well as teachers.” President of the UT Cadre of Educational Employees Union, Swarn Singh Kamboj said he has written to UT director school education (DSE) to look into the matter. “We are not demanding that schools should be closed, however, the remaining exams can be switched to the online mode thus reducing the interaction between students and teachers.”DSE Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We will close the schools if we receive instructions from higher officials. Right now, we are following all protocols that have been put in place to ensure that social distancing is maintained. In case, any student is unfit to come to school, then their exams are taken online.”Covid testing starts in schoolsTeams of the UT health department are visiting government schools and conducting Covid tests as per directions by the UT administration. Government schools in Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Sector 46, Burail and Palsora were tested on Saturday. As per health officials, a total of 254 tests were conducted and one teacher from the government school in Makhanajra tested positive in the Rapid Antigen Test while the rest were negative. Officials said that exams aren’t being conducted here. When asked what was done after this case was identified, UT education secretary SS Gill remained unavailable for comments. Three schools a day will be tested in the coming days including the government schools in Sector 20, 44, 21, 52, Dhanas, Maloya, Khuda Alisher and Khuda Jassu. For students to get tested, parental consent is mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-rising-covid-cases-chandigarh-govt-school-teachers-want-exams-to-go-online-101616178208914.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Man lynched for snatching, police arrest 2||A 20-year-old man was tied up by some factory workers and beaten to death after he was caught while snatching a mobile phone in outer Delhi’s Narela, police said after arresting two of the alleged killers on Thursday.The victim’s body was then thrown in a canal, investigators added.“There were four-five men involved in the killing. We have arrested two suspects and are on the lookout for the others,” said Rajeev Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north district).The alleged lynching comes close on the heels of a similar incident in north Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi, in which two men were beaten to death by a group of people on suspicion of being thieves. In the Azadpur case, police have arrested some of the killers, but have also registered cases of theft against the dead men.In the Narela lynching case, however, the police are seeking legal opinion on whether they should file a case against the victim, Mohammad Sajjad. It is learnt that the police have not moved to register a case against Sajjad since the man from who the mobile phone was allegedly stolen has not demanded any police action in the case.Sajjad lived with his mother in the JJ Colony in Bawana and worked odd jobs to earn his living. The police said so far they have not found any previous criminal records against him.According to investigators, the alleged lynching took place on March 8, when Sajjad and his three friends were allegedly walking along the Bawana Canal and spotted some factory workers taking a bath in the canal. The four men allegedly snatched the mobile phone of one of those workers, identified as Bablu Khiladi, who was waiting outside the canal.Khiladi’s cries for help alerted the other workers who immediately rushed to the spot. And though his friends managed to escape with the stolen mobile phone, Sajjad was caught by the workers and initially thrashed at the spot.The men kept beating Sajjad and asking him to return the stolen phone.Unable to recover the phone from him, the men then took Sajjad to a factory in Narela Industrial Area where they were employed. Here, the police said, they tied up Sajjad and thrashed him again till he died. The alleged killers then dumped his body in Haiderpur Canal, with his limbs still bound.“Sajjad’s friends, meanwhile, visited his mother and handed over the stolen mobile phone to her and informed her that her son had been caught by some people while snatching the phone,” the DCP said.Sajjad’s mother subsequently approached the Narela police to register a missing complaint, but neither did she tell the police the circumstances in which he disappeared, nor did she hand over the phone to the investigators.Meanwhile, on March 11, Sajjad’s body was recovered from the Haiderpur Canal, under the jurisdiction of KN Katju Marg police station. The police checked the records of missing persons and identified the body as that of Sajjad“When Sajjad’s mother got to know that her son was dead, she produced the phone before the police, told them about the circumstances of her son’s disappearance and mentioned the role of his three friends who had managed to escape,” the DCP said. By this time, Sajjad’s three friends allegedly involved in the snatching crime with him, had fled.But the police began looking out for the factory workers suspected to have lynched Sajjad. The five workers, however, too had by then fled Delhi.On Thursday, the police arrested two of the alleged killers, Bablu Khiladi and Rajkumar Prasad. Khiladi, allegedly the prime suspect, was the man whose phone was snatched, the police said. The two men have been booked for murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-lynched-for-trying-to-snatch-mobile-in-narela-police-arrest-two-101616177127440.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Caution in short supply at crowded Sarojini Nagar||Pramod Sharma (58) had demarcated the waiting area outside his shop in Sarojini Nagar in June last year, when the Delhi government allowed markets to reopen after months of lockdown that had been necessitated to contain the rapid spread of Covid-19 in the city.“We allowed only five customers at a time inside the shop, after checking their temperature using a thermal scanner. We had to take strict measures then as everyone was scared and cases were on the rise,” said Sharma.Though, Covid-19 cases are witnessing an uptick in the city again, Sharma believes things are different now. “Things are different now. We no longer have those restrictions in place, but we don’t allow customers inside without masks,” he said.This is the situation throughout Sarojini Nagar market, one of Delhi’s popular shopping destinations, as footfall is inching close to pre-Covid times with each passing day. The rise in Covid-19 cases has forced market associations to seek help from district to manage the crowd and ensure social distancing. On Wednesday, one of the traders’ associations in the market wrote to the district administration requesting deployment of additional civil defence volunteers to ensure social distancing.Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar mini market traders’ association, said, “The rush in the market is increasing despite a rise in Covid-19 cases. We can only request customers to follow norms, but government authorities can take measures to ensure preventive measures are followed by everyone.”On Thursday, civil defence volunteers were spotted randomly screening some shoppers at the entry point.“It is impossible to screen everyone entering the market, as the footfall is very high. But our teams are advising people to wear masks and maintain social distancing, which itself is a challenge here,” said a civil defence volunteer. Market associations complain that shoppers had started throwing caution to the wind, with some sometimes not wearing masks or wearing them incorrectly.He said that last, year civil defence volunteers and Delhi Police officials used to screen people using thermal scanners at the four entry points.“But post-Diwali, these measures were discontinued. We have requested the administration to restart the screening immediately,” he said.A senior New Delhi district administration official said, “It is not possible to stop people from entering the market or screen everyone. Our teams are taking action against those who refuse to follow the rules.”On Thursday afternoon, the lanes in the market were packed with people. One of them, Aruna Kumar (40), a shopper, said that she takes all necessary precautions while venturing out. “I wasn’t expecting such a rush in the market during the afternoon hours. I had some important work, else I would not have come here.”Surjeet Singh Arora, president of Sarojini Nagar Traders Association, said the main problem is street vendors, “The main problem is of street vendors. Their number is increasing and there is no check on them. There are hawkers who move around the entire market.”Officials from the district administration claimed that only authorised vendors are allowed in the market. Street vendors, on the other hand, said that they have no other place to go. “Last few months have been difficult for us. We have always worked here. Where will we go?” said Kamlesh, a street vendor.Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said that the police booth at Sarojini Nagar market is being used to make regular announcements asking people to follow social distancing and wear masks at all times when they are in public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-year-after-lockdown-social-distancing-a-myth-at-sarojini-nagar-101616177128127.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||WhatsApp photo helps cops rescue trafficked 12-yr-old||The WhatsApp display picture put up by a kidnapper, trying to convince the mother of a 12-year-old abducted and girl to not inform the police, was what eventually led to the cracking of the case and rescue of the child. The child had been kidnapped to be pushed into prostitution, investigators said.The girl, who was kidnapped from south-west Delhi’s Kapashera on January 21, was beaten, burnt with cigarettes, and raped by men — some of who knew she was a minor — before she was rescued on Tuesday.The police till Thursday had arrested two men and two women who kidnapped and sold the minor and are probing if the gang trafficked more children, said Urvija Goel, deputy commissioner of police (west).On Friday, the police arrested Robin, a 21-year-old man from Sonepat, who allegedly offered the girl a piece of birthday cake laced with sedatives, said DCP Goel.The rescue and arrests were made by officers of Rajouri Garden police station while they were working to recover children gone missing. The local police in Kapashera registered a kidnapping case soon after her disappearance but failed to make any headway in the case.On Friday, the Delhi Police top brass acted against the station house officer (SHO) of Kapashera, transferring him to the police lines. “There was negligence in the probe...there was lapse in supervision. The police did search for the girl, but there were certain shortcomings,” said Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west).An investigator, involved in the rescue of the child, said that when Rajouri Garden police contacted the girl’s mother in a bid to trace her about a month ago, it was learnt that the kidnappers were in touch with her. They were trying to bribe her so that she stopped pursuing the case of her daughter’s disappearance. However, the mother did not want money. She just wanted her daughter back. “The kidnappers would call from different numbers and then switch them off,” the officer said .But one of the callers slipped up. She put up her image as the display picture on WhatsApp. “The girl’s mother recollected that the woman in the picture was someone who lived in her area. She brought it to our notice,” said the officer.The police were able to identify the woman as a local, Ayesha. That clue was enough for the police to identify and arrest her contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/whatsapp-display-picture-helped-rescue-12-year-old-abducted-girl-101616177068324.html
20-03-2021||Delhi||Number of house sparrows rising in Delhi, say birders||Nearly a decade after the humble house sparrow was adopted as the state bird of Delhi, to replenish the dwindling population of a bird that once was as ubiquitous as the rock pigeons are these days in the national capital, there has been a slight improvement in numbers, bird experts said.However, in the absence of a count to ascertain how healthy their population is, experts caution that Delhi still has a long way to go before sparrows become the often seen neighbourhood visitor of yore.Surya Prakash, a zoologist at the School of Life Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said compared to the sparrow’s fast depleting count around the year 2012, when numbers had fell by about 60-70% (only an estimate), its numbers are now “improving”, if one goes by sightings, and that’s good news as Delhi gets ready to mark yet another World Sparrow Day on Saturday (March 20).“The count of sparrows is looking good. Over the past few years, there has not been a drastic drop in their numbers. Around 2012, we had met then chief minister Sheila Dikshit to raise the issue as their numbers had gone down by 60-70%. Since then, people started becoming more aware of the sparrow’s disappearance and that awareness has helped,” Prakash said.In 2012, while dubbing the sparrow the state bird, the Delhi government had also launched a campaign called “Rise of Sparrows” to conserve the house sparrow, among other birds.Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said efforts made to restore the population of house sparrow has yielded results.“In the Aravalli Biodiversity Park, we have made a conservatory for sparrows, providing nesting facilities; and last year, we spotted nearly 80 sparrows in the Yamuna Biodiversity Park in a single day, so the situation currently is promising. DDA biodiversity parks have not only provided nesting spaces for sparrows, but have also created natural ecological niches, which enable a large population of Delhi’s state bird,” Khudsar said.Experts said fossil evidence suggest that house sparrows have been human dependent for a long time and are usually found around human habitations. However, large-scale urbanisation led to their numbers reducing gradually. Multistoried buildings with glass panels for windows, concreted parking spaces and lack of ventilation spots for nesting have led to sparrows disappearing.Asad Rahmani, former director of the Bombay Natural History Society, said rampant urbanisation resulted in fewer nesting spaces. The reduction in green spaces over the years also hampered their population.“Sparrow chicks need soft-bodied insects, because they require a diet rich in protein. So, when we eat into green spaces, we are also reducing the population of insects, which essentially breaks the food chain. But Delhi is headed in the right direction -- people are creating nesting boxes outside their houses, which is bringing these birds back,” Rahmani said.But birders believe that the city has a long way to go.Birder and author Nikhil Devasar said, “There has been no improvement at the count of sparrows within city limits. Trees are being cut to make way for builder flats and old houses are making way for buildings; this is no habitat for sparrows.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/house-sparrow-numbers-picking-up-in-delhi-say-experts-on-eve-of-world-sparrow-day-101616177066330.html
20-03-2021||Lucknow||Zero tolerance for crime gave positive results in four years: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday hit back at the Opposition, especially the previous Samajwadi Party regime, over its charge of a “deteriorating” law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh.He asserted that his government’s zero-tolerance policy towards crime and criminals gave positive results in the past four years.“The result of the zero-tolerance policy has been that when compared to the figures of 2016-2017, there has been a fall of 65.72 % in cases of dacoity; 66.15 % in loot; 19.80 % in murder and 45.43 % in rape in UP,” he said at a press conference on the completion of four years of his government.Claiming that the perception of the state had changed during the past four years and it had emerged as the best destination for investments, Adityanath said it had been possible because of his government’s “performance on all fronts”, especially law and order.“While earlier no one wanted to come to the state because of a sense of insecurity, there is no fear now. Our government has also taken strict action against professional criminals, mafia elements and others harming peace, and this has also set a norm in the country,” he said.“To the government, a criminal is a criminal and it is also said that he does not belong to any caste or community,” he said.Talking about his government’s performance on implementation of the central government schemes, Yogi said: “UP figured nowhere earlier in performance of implementation of central schemes. The state used to take the 25th to 26th rung. Now, in most of the central schemes, UP is number one, be it PM housing scheme (urban and rural), Swachh Bharat Mission, Ujjawala (cooking gas scheme), Jan Dhan, Swanidhi, Kisan Samman Nidhi, or Saubhagya (power) scheme. The previous government did not take interest and derive benefits for the state from the central schemes. Had they done so, the story of the state would have had been different already.”About the health sector, Yogi Adityanath said: “UP was the worst performer in the health sector. But we scripted a turnaround story in the sector, so much so that while the Uttar Pradesh government’s Covid-19 management was praised at the national level, the World Health Organisation (WHO) also appreciated it. We controlled Covid, we also controlled encephalitis, a scourge for decades in eastern UP. We brought down encephalitis cases by 75% and reduced encephalitis deaths by 95%”.Talking about infrastructure, Yogi said: “Before our government came in, there were only two expressways in the state, now there will be five more functional soon. Before we came in, there was not a single operational metro train in the state. We began metro in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Noida, and Greater Noida. Kanpur and Agra have metro construction work while soon work will begin for metro-lite in Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, and Jhansi. Country’s first waterway began between Varanasi and Haldia in the river Ganga. Till 2017, there were only two airports in the state, now Kushinagar international airport is almost ready, and Asia’s biggest airport is coming up at Jewar. Work on 13 new airports is in progress.”The chief minister talked about infrastructure, law and order, agriculture and farmers’ welfare, rural development, urban development, cow protection, tourism, religious tourism (saying that UP had once again become number one on this count), industrial development, MSMEs, labour issues, education, medical health, road connectivity, air connectivity, women welfare, pensions, etc.Senior members of his cabinet, including deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, and BJP state chief Swantantra Dev Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/zero-tolerance-for-crime-gave-positive-results-in-four-years-yogi-101616176766214.html
20-03-2021||Pune||30,686 beneficiaries vaccinated in Pune district on Friday||At least 30,686 doses were administered to beneficiaries in Pune district on Friday out of which over 25,841 got their first dose.Among 25,841 beneficiaries of various categories, 21,708 were senior citizens who received their first dose. These include both Covishield and Covaxin doses.With an aim to cover a maximum number of people by giving them jabs, the administration has increased the number of centres in the city up to 105 from 98 on Wednesday while the total number of centres in the districts on Friday stood at 230.Speaking about the ongoing vaccination drive in Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while on a visit to one of the inoculation centres in Nandurbar said, “The priority now is to ensure that everyone is vaccinated. People should come forward to take the vaccine.”There have been a few instances where a person caught an infection after vaccination. While reacting to this Thackeray said, such cases are not “life-threatening.”Earlier this week, Dr Subhash Salunke (73), an advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid has been infected with the virus after vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/30686-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-pune-dist-on-friday-101616174185711.html
20-03-2021||Pune||MPSC issues guidelines for students ahead of exams on March 21||The Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) Friday issued safety guidelines for student aspirants appearing for the forthcoming preliminary examination to be held on March 21 (Sunday). The standard operating procedure (SOPs) are referred for appearing for the exams at the examination centres across the state. A circular issued by the MPSC states, “Each student should wear a three-layered mask while entering the centre, while every student will be provided with a pouch which will include sanitiser, hand gloves and face mask. If any student has a fever, cold or cough and any symptoms related to Covid then that student will be provided with a PPE kit and he/she will have to write the examination in a separate room. After the examination is over students should maintain social distancing even outside the centre and avoid crowding.”After the huge protest and the state chief minister interfering in the matter, MPSC decided to conduct the preliminary exams on March 21. The other two examinations conducted by MPSC are scheduled for March 27 and April 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpsc-issues-guidelines-for-students-ahead-of-exams-on-march-21-101616173105471.html
20-03-2021||Pune||Pune district’s Covid deaths rise by 145 after reporting double-digit numbers for a week||Even as the central team has stated that Maharashtra is at the beginning of a second Covid-19 wave as of mid-March, the district is already reporting double-digit deaths due to the infection for the past one week.From March 11 to March 18, Pune reported 2,830 new Covid cases and 145 deaths due to the infection which takes the case fatality rate to 0.6 per cent, as per the district health office.On March 18, as many as 31 deaths were reported, while on March 17 it was 15, 12 deaths were reported on March 16, 15 deaths on March 15, 25 on March 14, 16 deaths on March 13 and March 12 and 15 Covid-related deaths on March 11, according to the district health office.The case fatality was about 2.4 per cent September 2020, which is being considered the peak of the first wave in the district. However, even though the current case fatality rate may seem low the absolute numbers are rising steadily.Although the administration has been claiming that most new cases are mild or asymptomatic and so out of the 30,129 active cases, 21,345 are isolated at home.Divisional commissioner Sourabh Rao had said in an earlier press conference, “Most new cases coming up are with milder symptoms or are family contacts of the index patient.” However, the surge seen in mid-February is now leading to more cases and in proportion more deaths.Meanwhile, the data discrepancy in the reports of the state health department and the district health office continues. As of March 18, as per the district health office, Pune district had reported 9,486 deaths due to Covid while on the same date the state health department showed 8,210 deaths. There is a difference of 1,276 deaths in the Pune district as per both reports.The issue has been repeatedly raised by the local authorities and the state officials too. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said, “We have raised this issue with the local authorities as it is their responsibility to ensure that the national Covid portal is updated with every discharged case and death with details including names for authenticity. However, due to the paucity in staff, the local authorities in Pune have not been able to update the Covid portal.”“The state health report is prepared on the basis of the information put up on the portal. However, the data is regularly reconciled every 15 days or 30 days and so the updated numbers should come out soon in the state reports as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-s-covid-deaths-rise-by-145-after-reporting-double-digit-numbers-for-a-week-101616169324891.html
20-03-2021||Pune||Action against PMPML driver, conductor if bus found carrying passengers more than 50% of seating capacity||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will now fine drivers and conductors of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), who are operating buses with more than 50 per cent seating capacity.As per the state government restrictions, public transport buses have to run with 50% of seating capacity.On Friday HT took a review of some of the major PMPML bus stands across the city and it was found even after strict warnings, several buses were running with full capacity and passengers standing inside the buses. During the morning and evening rush hours, there was a heavy rush of commuters who were seen flouting Covid safety norms.“We have imposed strict restrictions while travelling in PMPML buses. All the buses have to run with half of their seating capacity. If the norms are flouted, the driver and conductor of the said bus will be penalised,” said Dattatray Zhende, PMPML traffic manager.Vinay Pirhane a passenger, Swargate stand, said, “It is not right to restrict the number of passengers travelling in PMPML buses. We have already suffered during the lockdown. The common public does not have a choice, but to use public transport buses, as it is affordable and we can reach office on time.”Another commuter Shashi Joshi said, “I regularly travel by PMPML to office and in the last few days the crowd has reduced, due to fear of infection. Also, PMPML is trying to reduce the number of passengers inside the bus which is good for the safety of commuters.”While travelling in PMPML bus it is compulsory to wear a face mask, controller and checker are told to monitor the crowd at bus stands, among other rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/action-against-pmpml-driver-conductor-if-bus-found-carrying-passengers-more-than-50-of-seating-capacity-101616167944708.html
20-03-2021||Pune||MSEDCL disconnects Jumbo facility’s power supply; PMC cuts water connection to power utility’s office||The Pune Municipal corporation (PMC) and Maharashtra state electricity distribution company limited (MSEDCL) were at loggerheads, after the power utility disconnected supply to the COEP Jumbo Covid facility and the Baner Covid hospital on Friday. PMC officials then stopped water supply to MSEDCL’s offices and its residential colony. After actions from both sides, the MSEDCL and PMC cited a misunderstanding as a reason for the extreme steps and tried to downplay the issue. MSEDCL released a press note which stated that MSEDCL disconnected a high tension connection of an entity identified as “Deepali Designer”, due to an outstanding bill amount of ₹6 lakh. “However, PMC officials said that the responsibility of the Jumbo facility was with Deepali Designer. After this, we restored power supply immediately,” said the note. Deepali Designer, a private firm, is responsible for coordinating with patients. Sachin Talewar, chief engineer of MSEDCL of Pune circle said, It was misunderstanding between PMC and MSEDCL. How can MSEDCL disconnect the power supply of a hospital? After clearing doubts, PMC too fixed its connection.” A senior PMC official said, “We received orders from senior officials to disconnect the water connection of MSEDCL offices near Pune university, and the residential colony in Warje. The water supply was later restored.” Shriniwas Kandul , additional city engineer of PMC’s electrical department said, “MSEDCL disconnected power supply of a facility run by a contractor. After confusion was solved, the supply was restored”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-disconnects-jumbo-facility-s-power-supply-pmc-cuts-water-connection-to-power-utility-s-office-101616167824747.html
20-03-2021||Pune||Traces of rain in Pune; cloudy weather forecast till March 24||Traces of rain was reported in Pune on Friday morning. The city recorded 35.7 degrees Celsius during the daytime and 19.7 degrees Celsius at night. The day temperature was normal, however, the night temperature was 3.2 degrees warmer than normal.India Meteorological Department (IMD), has forecast that weather in the city till March 24 will be cloudy followed by thunderstorm and lightning.As per forecast by IMD, the day temperature in the city will remain around 35 degrees Celsius in the next few days. And the night temperature will be around 21 degrees Celsius till March 24.“Pune city will witness thunderstorms and lightning during the afternoon time in the coming few days along with light to very light rainfall. This is because of the interaction of winds and various weather systems over Maharashtra,” said IMD officials.Along with the city, other parts of the state will also experience light to very light rainfall till March 23.“Thunderstorms and lightning are expected at Marathwada, Madhya Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa till March 23. Vidarbha will experience similar weather only till March 22. Weather in the state post that is likely to remain clear and dry,” said IMD officials.On Friday, the highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was recorded at Beed at 38.2 degrees Celsius and the lowest minimum temperature was at 18 degree Celsius at Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/traces-of-rain-in-pune-cloudy-weather-forecast-till-march-24-101616162903908.html
20-03-2021||Pune||FYJC admission: First come, first served round to continue till March 26 in Pune division||After completing three regulars and two special rounds of the first-year junior college (FYJC) admission process, the deputy director of education, Pune, on Thursday released a timetable for a first come, first served round which started from March 19 and will continue till March 26.At least 30,000 seats are vacant under the Pune division and all the students who have not taken admissions yet will be considered in the round.“All students whose application form part-1 has been verified for specific criteria are eligible for the first come, first served round,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of the secondary and higher secondary education department.“Also, students who have not taken admission in any college, in any round conducted so far or students who have cancelled their admission or rejected admission till now and have passed SSC supplementary exam – December 2020, also students who have got ATKT (allowed to keep terms) in March/December 2020 examination will be eligible for the round,” he said.All quota admissions, the surrender of seats and bifocal admissions will also continue during the first come, first served round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fyjc-admission-first-come-first-served-round-to-continue-till-march-26-in-pune-division-101616160083184.html
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Moga sarpanch’s son arrested for shooting two sisters dead||Gurvir Singh, the 30-year-old son of the Congress-backed sarpanch of Shekha Khurd in Moga district, was arrested along with the weapon and vehicle used in the crime on Friday for shooting dead two young daughters of a dhaba worker from the village. The police arrested him from the Nihal Singh Wala area.The accused told police that the elder victim and her mother used to blackmail him for money and he was already in depression as he lost money in the fishery business.Jagatpreet Singh, SP (D), said, “The accused has made claims of illicit relationship with the Amandeep and blackmailing during investigation. We are investigating, but initially there is no proof of these claims.”Amandeep Kaur, 24, and Kamalpreet Kaur, 18, were shot in the head and neck at point-blank range with a .32-bore revolver at Manuke Gill village in the district on Thursday evening. Gurvir abandoned them and fled in his Maruti Alto car. Passers-by rushed the girls to the Government Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot, where they died during treatment.Accused used to harass victims: FatherGurmail Singh, 50, the father of the two women, alleged that Gurvir used to harass his daughters. He said he had taken up the matter with the panchayat and Gurvir was asked to mend his ways.“Amandeep was studying in a private college at Dagro village, while Kamalpreet stayed at home. On Thursday, Amandeep went to college and took her younger sister with her. The accused forced them to accompany him in his car and killed them when they resisted,” Gurmail Singh said in his complaint.In a release police said: “Amandeep Kaur had gone to her college to appear for the examination and also took her younger sister with her. Meanwhile, Jasvir abducted them in his car while their way back to home and took the car to the Baghapurana area. After an argument on the way, the accused fired five shots at the women, which hit them on the neck and head.”Both women also ran a beauty parlour in the village. They have a 20-year-old sister and a 14-year-old brother.According to police sources, though Gurvir is an engineering graduate, he helped his family in agriculture.He was booked for murder and under the Arms Act at Nihal Singh Wala police station.Villagers shocked; accused from influential familyJagsir Singh, a 32-year-old resident of the village, said: “I’m shocked. I knew Gurvir and can’t believe he did this. My prayers are with the family.”Gurvir’s father Jagdev Singh is a former sarpanch of the village, while his mother, Sukhwinder Kaur, is the present sarpanch. They owe allegiance to the Congress.Murder a glaring example collapsing law and order: SAD Chandigarh: The SAD on Friday said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had failed to control the law and order situation in the state and the glaring example of cold-blooded murder of two sisters in Moga was a result of the patronage being given to Congress goons by the state government. In a statement, the SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said this was not the first time such an incident had occurred in the state and police department’s inability to take action against goons had emboldened them and was resulting in the frequent occurrence of such gruesome incidents. He said the VIP treatment being given to gangsters had resulted in a spike in robberies, kidnappings, extortion and targeted killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-sarpanch-s-son-arrested-for-shooting-two-sisters-dead-101616145021498.html
