22-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses woman’s petition to withdraw workplace harassment case||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently dismissed a petition filed by a woman teacher who sought to quash a case filed by her in 2019 against physical harassment by a male teacher from the same school. Observing that the petition seemed to be filed by her under pressure and an attempt was being made to sweep the dirt under the carpet, the court rejected the petition. It further held that the school management should have resolved the issue by adopting the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in the Vishaka judgment to curb sexual harassment of women at workplace.A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar, while hearing the petition, was informed by advocate Ashok Raut that the woman consented to quash the case and said that she had filed the complaint due to some misunderstanding which was now cleared. In view of this, Raut said, the petitioner did not wish to pursue the case anymore.Based on her complaint, the first information report (FIR) was registered on January 16, 2019 at Chawani police station. The woman had alleged that the male teacher had allegedly asked the woman to accompany him for a movie in the presence of other teachers. She said that when she declined the offer, the male teacher allegedly caught her hand to indicate that if she was not willing to go to the movies, he could take her by force. She also alleged that the male colleague had been following her for some time and used to wink at her too.While noting the discomfiture of advocate SP Koli, who represented the woman and submitted her affidavit which consented to quashing of the FIR, the court observed that the informant may have been compelled to file an affidavit and tender a compromise undertaking. The bench referred to the part of the affidavit which stated “she assures that in future she will not file a criminal complaint against the applicant”.The court then observed, “This speaks volumes about the pressure possibly exerted on her, either by the applicant or the educational institution. In fact, we would have appreciated if the educational institution would have taken recourse to Vishaka Committee recommendations and Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 so as to initiate action against him.”In light of this, the bench said as the FIR and charge sheet clearly spelt out the offending acts of the male teacher, it was not willing to accept the compromise. “We find it unconscionable to accept such compromise as it would surely not be in the interest of justice and would be counter-productive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-woman-s-petition-to-withdraw-workplace-harassment-case-101616437791712.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Law aspirants concerned over delay in admissions||Law aspirants who are yet to be allocated a seat have expressed dissatisfaction with the admissions schedule recently released by the state common entrance test (CET) cell. According to the schedule, admissions to first-year law colleges will end on April 9. Maharashtra Students Welfare Association (MSWA) has approached state minister of higher and technical education Uday Samant with its concerns about the academic calendar. “Most colleges, including law institutes, conduct their end-of-semester exams in April and May. However, first-year law students will have to follow a different academic schedule now because colleges will start lectures only in mid-April. When do they plan to hold exams then?” said Vaibhav Ekde, president of MSWA. Admissions to most professional courses were delayed this year due to the lockdown and the ongoing case challenging the constitutionality of the quota for Marathas in jobs and academia. The first list of the three-year and five-year law courses had to be postponed after the CET cell received complaints that students had submitted false information at the time of registration. A senior official from the state CET cell said, “We want to make sure that after all this time, no student is left without a seat so we will conduct admissions until all seats are filed up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-law-aspirants-concerned-over-delay-in-admissions-101616437611569.html
22-03-2021||Noida||Delhi-Meerut e-way: Phase 4 will be greenest with plantation of 40,000 trees by monsoon||Ghaziabad: The phase 4 of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) project will be the greenest among the four stretches of the expressway as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has decided to plant about 40,000 trees on the 32km stretch (Dasna to Meerut) before the monsoon this year, officials said. The DME comprises four phases, of which phase 1 (Akshardham to UP Gate) and phase 3 (Dasna to Hapur) are operational. Phase 2 (UP Gate to Dasna) and phase 4 are scheduled to get complete by March 31, the officials said. The NHAI officials said that they have targeted plantation of about 40,000 trees of different species like neem, amla, amaltas, among others, on the sides of the expressway under phase 4. They further said that the median of the six-lane stretch will have dense plantation of bougainvillea. “The phase 4 has a lot of vacant areas which will help us plant about 40,000 trees as against about 500 under phase 1, about 1,000 under phase 2 and about 1,200 under phase 3). We have very less space available under phases 1, 2 and 3 and also there is no central verge having soil for plantation,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. He said that the watering at the central verge of the stretch under phase 4 will be taken up through the drip irrigation system while tankers will be deployed for watering plants on sideways. The plantation will be maintained for 15 years under phases 1, 2 and 3 while it will be maintained initially for four years under phase 4 and thereafter an agency will be hired for taking up further maintenance, the officials said. DME to link NH-235The completion of the DME project will help commuters get fast connectivity between Delhi and Meerut and will also be highly beneficial for long distance commuters travelling to western UP and Uttarakhand. The NHAI officials said that they have also planned to give additional connectivity from the phase 4 to National Highway 235 (60km stretch linking Meerut, Hapur and Bulandshahr districts), which will be a part of the proposed 594km Ganga Expressway project proposed to connect Meerut to Prayagraj with the help of six access-controlled lanes. “It has been planned that we will connect a 14km four-lane link from DME’s phase 4 in Ghaziabad to NH-235 in Meerut. This will largely help long distance commuters who wish to go to eastern UP areas. The linking project is scheduled to get complete within two and half years,” Garg said. “The 14km link road will start at Jainuddinpur in Ghaziabad where we have also planned an interchange which will help commuters reach NH-235 in Meerut,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/delhimeerut-e-way-phase-4-will-be-greenest-with-plantation-of-40-000-trees-by-monsoon-101616437251041.html
22-03-2021||Noida||Noida authority to allot 400 flats under affordable housing scheme||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Monday decided to allot about 400 flats, built under the affordable housing scheme, in the next one month.Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer (CEO), Noida authority, said that a total of 4,000 flats were built in the city in 2013 under the affordable housing scheme launched by the then state government.Around 90% flats were allotted to people belonging to the economically weaker section, and the remaining ones are yet to be allotted, officials said.The project comprised two-room flats and one-room flats. The reserved price for a 32 square metre one-room flat is ₹14.07 lakh, and ₹30 lakh for a 71 square metre two-room flat. Around 2,000 flats are located in Noida sectors 117 and 118, while another 2,000 are built in sector 122 for the people who had been living in slum clusters in sectors 7, 8 and 9, among others, according to the officials.The authority, now, wants to vacate the slum built on the government land.“Water, sewer and road, among other civic issues, should be addressed in the next 10 days. And the authority will start allotting the remaining flats in the next one month,” said Maheshwari.The authority will also set up camps to execute the registry of these flats in favour of the allottees, she added. Maheshwari has also directed the staff to identify flats that can be allotted via a lucky draw, according to the officials. “There are 178 allottees who are yet to clear their dues. The authority will issue notices to give them an opportunity to clear the dues. If they can’t, the authority will cancel the allotment right away,” said an official of the authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-to-allot-400-flats-under-affordable-housing-scheme-101616437011030.html
22-03-2021||Lucknow||UP’s water regulatory commission has chairman but no members since inception in 2014||The Uttar Pradesh Water Management and Regulatory Commission (UPWMRC), has been lying almost defunct since its inception in 2014 even as the state celebrated the World Water Day on Monday, people in the know of things said. The commission is entrusted with important functions, including regulating water usage for various purposes.It took four years for the commission to get its first chairman in 2018. He will demit office after completing his extended term on March 31, having ploughed a lonely furrow for around two-years-and-a-half with no other member or regular staff to assist him.The otherwise independent commission operates from the irrigation department’s three-room “borrowed” building in the Telibagh area here and has no member, no secretary and no staff of its own.“It is true the UPWMRC has no member and secretary to assist the chairman,” commission chairman and retired IAS officer Susheel Kumar said.“Though I took the help of the State Water Resources Agency’s (SWRA) technical staff from time to time, it would have certainly been better if the commission had its members and other staff too,” he added.Kumar, a 1982-batch IAS officer, was appointed the commission chairman in July 2018 after he retired as secretary, coal the same year. His appointment as the first chairman came around four years after the state government issued a gazette notification providing for setting up of a water commission under the amended “The Uttar Pradesh Water Management and Regulatory Commission Act, 2014”.The Act mandated the government to set up a full-fledged commission, comprising a chairman and members, not exceeding five, within three months from the commencement of the Act that came into being in March 2014 with issuance of the gazette notification.According to the Act, one member shall be expert in the field of water resources, one in the field of water resources economy, one in drinking water and wastewater management, one in agriculture/land management and one in the field of water tubewells/pump canals/ground water exploration and studies/minor irrigation works.“But the commission does not even have clerical staff of its own and has to depend on the SWRA for the same, leave alone appointment of members, and this has badly defeated the purpose for which the commission was set up. The commission could not discharge important functions assigned to it due to the lack of expert members,” said an irrigation department staffer working in the commission.The same Act also provides that the government would appoint chairman and members on the selection committee’s recommendations and the selection committee will be headed by the chief secretary and consist of eight other members, including the agriculture production commissioner and industrial infrastructure development commissioner.“Under the law, the commission has nothing to do with the appointment of members. I, as a chairman, could only request the government to fill the vacancies and this I did,” Kumar said.He said the government had initiated the process of filling all the vacant posts of members.“They have invited fresh applications for the vacant posts of members as well as the chairman’s post that is going to be vacant,” he said, hoping that a full-fledged commission might be in place soon.Additional chief secretary (irrigation) T Venkatesh, who is responsible for facilitating the process between the government and the selection committee for appointment of members and the chairman, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.MAIN FUNCTIONS ASSIGNED TO THE COMMISSION UNDER THE LAWTo fix and regulate water tariff system and charges for surface and sub-surface water used for agricultural, domestic, industrial and other purposes.To determine and regulate the distribution of entitlement for various categories, periodically review and monitor the water sector costs and revenue.To determine the rate of cess charged from owners of land benefitted by flood protection and drainage work, help government form policies for sustainable management of water resources.To determine the allocation and distribution of entitlements for various sectoral water requirement, as per the state water policy.To promote competition, efficiency and economy in the activities of the water wastewater sector to minimise wastage of water, and enforce decisions and orders issued under the Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-water-regulatory-commission-has-chairman-but-no-members-since-inception-in-2014-101616436772136.html
22-03-2021||Other||UP poll panel issues guidelines for panchayat elections amid pandemic||The state election commission (SEC) on Monday issued detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) guidelines for the forthcoming three-tier panchayat elections in view of the surging cases of Covid-19.The commission has directed all the district magistrates/district election officers to ensure strict enforcement and compliance of its as well as the Centre’s Covid guidelines at every step right from the filing of nomination papers by candidates to canvassing, voting and counting.The guidelines issued with regard to wearing of mask, social distancing, thermal scanning and sanitisation will be applicable to all—polling staff, polling agents, candidates and voters. As per the guidelines issued by additional commissioner Ved Prakash Verma, any voter who is infected with Covid-19 and wants to exercise his franchise will be allowed to do so in the end with the presiding officer wearing the PPE kit to facilitate voting by such a person.MAIN GUIDELINES *Wearing mask will be compulsory by all polling staff, agents, voters etc at polling booths and counting centres. Mask can be removed only in the event of an identity issue.*All poll personnel to download and use the Aarogya Setu app. * Sanitisation of each polling centre and booth before use.* Thermal scanning of all employees before their poll training and before their dispatch for poll duty.* Spitting in public places to be penalised as per government rules.*Arrangement of soap, water sanitiser etc with dedicated staff in the returning officers’ rooms.* Thermal scanning, sanitisers etc to be arranged at the entry points of all the polling centres and gloves, mask to be available for polling staff. * Social distancing circles to be drawn at every 6 ft distance for voters to stand in while in queue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-poll-panel-issues-guidelines-for-panchayat-elections-amid-pandemic-101616436710986.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Case against Chandrakant Patil, Mulik for protest against Deshmukh||A case of flouting Covid-19 regulations was registered by Pune police against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Chandrakant Patil, Jagdish Mulik and around 40-50 of their supporters for protesting in demand of ouster of Anil Deshmukh, home minister of Maharashtra in light of a letter written by the transferred commissioner of Mumbai police, Parambir Singh. The IPS officer has approached the Supreme Court to take action against Deshmukh saying he made policemen collect funds from restaurants in Mumbai illegally. Among those officers, according to Singh, was Sachin Vaze who is currently in the custody of the National investigation agency (NIA) in the Ambani household security threat case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by havaldar Ganesh Turfe of Vishrambag police station. The complainant allegedly tried to tell the protestors that the gathering of this sought was not allowed in light of the regulations in place to curb the spread of Covid-19 causing virus. When contacted, senior inspector Vijay Tikole, in-charge of Vishrambaug police station said, “The case is against Chandrakant Patil and 40-50 people who were with him for a protest they held at Alka Talkies Chowk on Sunday. They did not have the required permits for the protest. Additionally, the case has been registered for flouting Covid-19 regulations.” The protest was held between 10:30am and 12:30pm at Alka Talkies Chowk. The protestors did not have the permit to hold such a gathering. A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), rioting, 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 37(1) (3) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Vishrambaug police station against the protestors. Police sub-inspector Jadhav of Vishrambaug police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-against-chandrakant-patil-mulik-for-protest-against-deshmukh-101616436594418.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Two arrested for killing man after robbing him||Two men were arrested by the Pune police on Sunday for the murder of a 45-year-old man after kidnapping him for robbery from the Vadgaon area of Pune on March 14. The now-deceased man was identified as Rahul Shrikrishna Nene (45), a resident of Sadashiv peth area of Pune. A complaint in the case of murder was lodged by the victim’s brother Siddharth Nene (39) also a resident of Sadashiv peth. The two arrested men were identified as Satish Sanjay Sutar (26), a resident of Narhe road in Dhayari, and Milind Sonba Pavale (29), a resident of Dhayari Phata area of Pune, according to the police. They were remanded to police custody of Sinhagad road police station by a local court on Monday. “Sutar has a history of nine cases against him in the past. They were both riding on one motorcycle when they picked up the now-deceased man. They picked him up from Vadgaon Dhayari, beat him up, forced him to reveal his ATM pin, and robbed him. They then made him sit on the bike they were riding on, and once they reached near the canal, they hit him in the head with a stone and killed him. They then threw the body in the canal. We have evidence that points towards the sequence of events,” said assistant police inspector Hanumant Gaikwad of Hadapsar police station who made the arrest. The two men picked up Nene from Vadgaon and robbed ₹300 cash from him near an overbridge close to Dhayari Phata, according to the police. They made him withdraw ₹1,100 from a nearby ATM before making him transfer ₹10,000 through an online transfer. The two then forced him onto a motorbike and took him near the canal flowing through Janata Vasahat, hit him on the head and threw him in the flowing water of the canal, according to the police. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention), 394 (space), 364 (kidnapping for murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) of Indian penal code was first registered at Hadapsar police station and later transferred to see a guard Road police station. The two are now in the custody of officials of Sinhagad road police station who will now investigate the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-killing-man-after-robbing-him-101616436593715.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Cantonment hospital: E-Chhavani project to book OPD appointments online||The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) through its citizen-centric, the e-Chhavani project will soon issue OPD appointments online for a check-up at the cantonment hospital. The online application can be used for generating online OPD registration card for availing outpatient services at the cantonment hospital where up to 100 registrations per facility per hospital per day can be done. The patient will have to print the OPD registration slip generated to the hospital on the day mentioned on the card between 9 am and 12 noon and proceed directly to the selected speciality OPD and wait for the turn in front of any room for the speciality. For every revisit, patients will have to login as a registered user and generate a new OPD ticket. During Phase-I, the e-Chhawani brings diverse services for the citizens of cantonment area through the online portal like lodging, public grievance pertaining to cantonment board, submitting applications for a trade license, making online payments through the “m-collect” module, submitting an online application for renewal cum extension of the lease. The general public can access these services at pune.cantt.gov.inThe Director-General of Defence Estate (DGDE) has started the project of e-Chhawani under the directions of the defence secretary. The technology-driven initiative has been undertaken by the Director-General Defence Estates (DGDE), Ministry of Defence (MoD) in partnership with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and eGov foundation. The project has been started as a major step towards smart-governance and to ensure online grievance management in all the 62 cantonment boards across the country. Initially, a total of five cantonment boards comprising Delhi, Secunderabad, Pune, Agra and Lucknow have been identified for the pilot project where the implementation has begun since January 1. “The main aim of the portal is to provide citizen-centric services to the cantonment residents online where they don’t have to physically visit the cantonment board. Moreover, there is a detailed log of complaint where the entire responsibility is fixed,” Kumar said. The PCB is planning to include services like building plans, mutation entries, water connections and other public services in the platform in the near future. The project is directly being monitored by the defence secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cantonment-hospital-e-chhavani-project-to-book-opd-appointments-online-101616436593060.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Family grievously attacked after asking group not to play cricket||Nine men were booked for the attempted murder of a 40-year-old woman, her husband, and her son, on Sunday morning for telling them to not play cricket in front of her house. The police are on the lookout for the nine men. The attack happened on Sunday morning in Ramtekdi area of Hadapsar. The woman’s husband had previously gone to the house of one of the accused men to complain to his parents about playing cricket in the crammed locality. The accused men had held a grudge about it. The group accosted the family of three near Sunil Cycle Mart in Ramtekdi and hit them with blows, kicks, bats, stump, wooden rods, and bricks and caused grievous injuries. The complainant also lost her gold ring in the attack. The family was rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), rioting, 336, 427, 506 (criminal intimidation), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking a breach of peace) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7(1) of the Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Wanowrie police station. Police sub-inspector Bholenath Ahivale of Wanowrie police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/family-grievously-attacked-after-asking-group-not-to-play-cricket-101616436592404.html
22-03-2021||Lucknow||UP’s steps to contain Covid: No public function sans prior nod; school vacations from Mar 24-31||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday announced a number of steps amid reports of a rise in cases of Covid-19. Among these measures, the government decided that no procession or public function should be allowed without prior permission of the local administration. Besides, all the basic education board and private schools holding classes from 1 to 8 would observe Holi vacations from March 24 to 31. Other educational institutes not having any scheduled examination will also observe holidays from March 25 to 31. According to an official spokesman, chief minister Yogi Adityanath convened a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situation and said although there was no ban on festivities, people should be educated about the high- risk groups in view of the coronavirus infection. He said children below the age of 10 years and people over 60 years, along with those having co-morbidities, should be protected from taking part in such festivities. The Covid-19 protocol, use of masks and social distancing should also be ensured there, he added. A nodal officer should be appointed at every village panchayat and ward level, besides a dedicated Covid hospital should be ensured in every district in the state, the chief minister said at the meeting.. He said the nodal officers will ensure that all those coming to their respective areas from other states were tested for Covid-19. He said action for quarantine and carrying out RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction) tests should be taken in all the doubtful cases. Work on Covid-19 vaccination should be carried out with all sincerity, he said, adding that the officers should hold review meetings about Covid-19 at integrated command and control centres every day. He said there was a need to maintain a strict vigil on the Covid-19 situation keeping in view upcoming Holi and other festivals, panchayat elections and rising cases in different states. He also said wastage of vaccine should be checked under all circumstances. Training institutes should avoid calling outsiders for training. Appropriate measures for security and protection from Covid-19 should be taken in the jails and accused should be produced in courts via video conferencing, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-steps-to-contain-covid-no-public-function-sans-prior-nod-school-vacations-from-mar-2431-101616436591780.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Man arrested for causing death of minor he impregnated||A man was arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Sunday night for causing the death of a 22-year-old woman whom he had impregnated and later given pills to cause abortion. The man was identified as Vikas Vasant Mohite (25), a resident of Senapati Kapshi gaon in Kangal taluka of Kolhapur. He works as an electrician and the girl also held a job. “They were living together in Pune. He took her to Kolhapur when her condition worsened. She died under treatment there. Now whether he bought the medicine without a prescription or not is a part of the investigation. Her mother has alleged that he gave her the medicine without her knowing,” said senior police inspector Vivek Mugalikar of Wakad police station. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased minor’s father who claimed that the girl was given the pills without her knowledge in order to bring about the abortion. The girl was given the pills on March 12 and a case in the matter was registered on Sunday evening. As the deceased girl was a minor, the man was also booked for sexual assault of the girl. He was produced in court on Monday. “We are awaiting opinions from the doctors as well. The doctors from Kolhapur will have to be also consulted for this,” said Sr PI Mugalikar. A case under Sections 313, 314, and 376 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Wakad police station against Mohite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-causing-death-of-minor-he-impregnated-101616436591100.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Health department employees allege they are being overworked||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department employees are upset due to overworking in the allotted Covid duties and conducting Swaccha Bharat surveys. Employees are tasked with handling critical duties like looking after Covid testing and centres, contact tracing, handling containment zones, taking action against those not wearing masks, and with the additional duty to conduct surveys for the Swaccha Bharat programme. Most of the staffers are tight-lipped and expressed their resentment in private to their superiors and public representatives. Currently, Covid-19 related work consumes between 10-12 hours of each of the staffers from top to bottom. The decision to entrust the health department staffers with the survey work will consume an additional three to four hours. Besides, they have another mandatory responsibility for cleaning and lifting garbage from different points the next day. The staffers play an important role in treating the newly infected patients including that of assisting family members in cremation. At this critical juncture, a vigilante squad of Swaccha Bharat Abhiyan competition already exists in the city. The squad carries surprise visits to any corner of the city where it checks the scale of cleanliness and performance of the health department. There are nearly 300 compliance points and currently, the health department staffers are facing the heat in fulfilling and completing the compliances. A ground staffer said “We are mostly occupied with Covid-19 duty for the entire day and it is tiring. We should not be overburdened as we need relief from our heavy duties. It will be around 14 hours that we are working at a stretch and it will impact our health.” A health department official said that staffers working around the clock for Covid-19 duty are being forced to work for the Swaccha Bharat Abhiyan which according to him has become taxing, cumbersome and tiring job. “We are already working for 12 hours and additional hours for the survey are being required from us. We are in a difficult situation as we already are on the frontline in our Covid-19 work. We request the authorities to relieve us of our suffering and ensure that our rights are protected,” he said. PMC health department chief Dr Ashish Bharti could not be reached for a comment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/health-department-employees-allege-they-are-being-overworked-101616436532407.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Tope: Vaccination could lead to herd immunity||The state government is now trying aggressively to vaccinate and use multiple modes to reach every corner. During his visit to Pune, health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government hopes to vaccinate about three lakh people daily in Maharashtra and increase the antibodies in most people and thereby bring in the ‘herd immunity in maximum people. Tope also said that the state hopes to permit smaller hospitals even those with 20 beds to carry out the Covid vaccination if they have enough Adverse Effects Following Immunization (AEFI) management in place. Tope said, “We will start the sub-centres in addition to the primary health care centres for vaccination in rural areas. We would ensure that if we get proposals from smaller private hospitals even if they are 20 bedded hospitals but have proper AEFI management infrastructure then we would send their proposal to the centre for approval.” Tope further said that the state has about 1.77 crore phase one, health care workers and frontline workers, and phase two beneficiaries, those between 45-59 years of age with comorbidities and senior citizens. For these, we would need about 2.20 crore vials and we aim to cover all beneficiaries under phase one and phase two within the next three months. Tope further said, “To control the spread of the infection those in home isolation must take special precautions to ensure that their family members do not come in contact with them. Also, society representatives must make sure that the person in home isolation and their family members follow all necessary protocols. We will also increase institutional quarantine facilities as needed.” The state administration has been pushing to begin universal vaccination for all above 18 as declared earlier by the district administration; however, they are yet to receive a response regarding the same. He said, “We understand that we first, need to vaccinate the most vulnerable population however we are following up with the administration to begin universal vaccination. First, we have asked the centre to permit vaccination for those below 45 with comorbidities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tope-vaccination-could-lead-to-herd-immunity-101616436532961.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Tope: Lockdown possible in cities with most cases||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope during a press meet in Pune on Monday hinted that a possible lockdown would be imposed in cities that continue to report maximum cases, including Pune. He said that discussions are underway with the chief minister, who is worried about the situation and will take a decision in the next two-three days. This comes at a time when Pune’s progressive Covid count has gone up beyond 0.471 million cases, of which 42,015 are active cases, the highest in the country. Tope said, “The chief minister said that if the daily Covid-19 case count continues to go beyond 25K-30K, then we will have to take strict action. The CM also opined that if needed restrictions could be further intensified, or a lockdown could be imposed in certain cities, and if need be, in the entire state,” Tope said. “On multiple occasions, the CM in his earlier conferences and addresses to the people has appealed, that unless restrictions and Covid- appropriate behaviour is followed, lockdown would be imposed. I appeal to citizens to respond to the restrictions and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour if we want to avoid a lockdown,” Tope added. Tope also said that it is likely that the number of cases will continue to grow at the current rate for the next two-three days, and then recede. He said, “We hope that this is the peak of the second wave and that the number of cases go down from here onwards. I would also like to point out that although it may seem that Maharashtra has the highest active cases in terms of absolute numbers, if we see the number of cases per million, then the state is at seventh position, with Delhi, Pondichery and Goa leading.” “We are completely transparent when it comes to testing and reporting and also, we are now emphasising tracing and tracking as per the guidelines set by the central team. Also the PM in his own conference with state heads said that states like UP and Kerala have more rapid antigen tests, which could lead to false negatives. Maharashtra is conducting at least 73% of its tests through RTPCR.” Earlier, due to the rapid surge in the number of cases in Amravati and Yavatmal, the government imposed a strict lockdown there. Following genome sequencing it was found that the mutations of the virus had led to a fast spread of the infection. The number of cases started to drop after a lockdown period of two weeks. In Nagpur, which saw a drastic surge, a complete lockdown was imposed on March 15 which has now been extended to March 31. Although lockdown effectively controls the spread of the infection it would leave a long lasting impact on the already reeling economy of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/topelockdown-possible-in-cities-with-most-cases-101616436531596.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Tope: Second dose of vaccine to be given 45 days after first||Following directives from the centre, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday, in Pune, that the second dose of the Covishield vaccine is to be given 45 days after the first. “Whereas the Covaxin second dose will be given 28 days of the first dose,” the minister said. The central government, on Monday, wrote a letter to chief secretaries of states and administrators of union territories, asking them to increase the interval between the two doses of Covishield, one of the two Covid-19 vaccines being given across the country as part of nationwide inoculation drive. Earlier this week, state Covid expert Subhash Salunke had written to centre to increase the interval after he tested positive after taking the second dose of the vaccine. Tope said that till Monday, everything was the same for Covishield and Covaxin, including the interval between the two doses. “However, the Centre has issued fresh orders after a comprehensive study. Under this, the second dose of Covishield will be given after 45-60 days, instead of 28-45 days. For Covaxin, a second dose will be given after the 28th day,” said Tope, adding, “In the state, the second dose of Covishield will be given after 45 days.” Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, former head scientist of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Division at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and head of the CG Pandit National Chair of ICMR, said that this step will help inoculate more people as the second wave is hitting the State. “We are at the beginning of the second wave. And delaying the second dose will help the authorities inoculate more citizens. This will be helpful against the rising cases and will decrease the severity of the disease,” said Dr Gangakhedkar. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has recommended two doses with an interval of eight to 12 weeks. Another report published in the medical journal Lancet, on March 6, 2021, also found strong evidence supporting “a longer-interval immunisation strategy”. Dr Subhash Salunke (73), advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 also tested positive on March 15, after taking the second dose of Covishield on February 23. He tested positive three weeks after taking the second dose of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, manufactured in India by Serum Institute of India (SII). In a letter to the centre earlier, Salunke said, for better efficacy, the second dose needs to be delayed. “This is as if the virus is avoiding antibodies among those vaccinated,” said Salunke. Earlier in March, two hospital staffers from the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital tested positive after taking both doses of the vaccine. Both the staffers tested positive 14 days after taking the second jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/topesecond-dose-of-vaccine-to-be-given-45-days-after-first-101616436531004.html
22-03-2021||Noida||Man found stabbed to death in Greater Noida, probe underway||Greater Noida: An unidentified man was found murdered with at least 10 stab wounds on his body on Monday morning in an area under the Kasna police jurisdiction. The victim appeared to be in his mid-40s, police said. The incident came to fore around 7am when a call was made to the police helpline by a passerby who had found the body on the outskirts of Site 5, police said. A police team rushed to the spot and sent the body for an autopsy.According to police officials, it appeared that the man was first attacked from behind. “It seems that the attack happened at the spot where the body was found. From the evidence found at the crime scene, it is clear that there was a struggle. The victim’s valuables were not found on him, and we are keeping all avenues of investigation open,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3.A case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Kasna police station against unidentified persons while a forensics team also visited the crime scene.The officials said that the primary focus is to identify the victim for which information has been shared with nearby police stations. Police believe that the murder must have occurred around 11pm on Sunday night.“The attack was brutal and blood stains were found in nearly 10-metre radius around the body. The autopsy will confirm the time of death, though it appears to have occurred late last night. A probe in the matter is underway,” said a police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-found-stabbed-to-death-in-greater-noida-probe-underway-101616436410988.html
22-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: PHCs asked to vaccinate 200 people per day||Ghaziabad: Facing poor Covid-19 vaccination coverage in rural areas, the Ghaziabad administration on Monday took a slew of measures to bring more people to the vaccination centres. Besides, officials said that primary health centres (PHCs) have been directed to vaccinate 200 beneficiaries per day as against 100 at present.According to health department officials, the vaccination coverage in March so far is about 8-10% in rural areas with several primary health centres (PHCs) performing poorly. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey held a review meeting on Monday and directed for more vaccination coverage. “I have issued strict warning to medical officers in charge of four blocks in the district, and have asked the revenue department officials to mobilise people for vaccination. The PHCs have also been asked to take up vaccination of 200 beneficiaries per day. We will shortly take up another review about the performance,” Pandey said. “We have also asked our lekhpals (local revenue officials) and administrative officers to help out in creating awareness and taking up checks to ensure better coverage,” he added. The records of Co-Win portal suggested that some PHCs such as Tyodi PHC in Bhojpur (overall 13 vaccinations till Monday evening), Fareednagar (97), Ator (140), Bhowapur (127), Ghyaspur (115), Kakra (153), Farrukhnagar (141) and Mandola (111) were among the lowest performing centres.The health department at present is engaged in vaccination of senior citizens and people above 45 years having comorbid conditions. The vaccination is taken up majorly by 48 government health-care facilities across the district and another 31 private hospitals which are in urban areas. Officials of the health department said that they only have services of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers to mobilise local population for vaccination. “More awareness is needed to bring people to the vaccination centres. We have asked the administration to help us out with active participation from administrative and police officers, besides the ration shop owners, to spread awareness among people and encourage them to come to the vaccination centres,” said an officer from the health department.In neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar, the vaccination coverage is much better as the district is among the top districts in Uttar Pradesh in terms of achieving their target for the month of March.According to Co-Win portal figures, GB Nagar has emerged as leader in vaccination coverage across the 75 districts in the state. GB Nagar has achieved 73.56% of its vaccination target (of 65,048) for March, while Ghaziabad has 49.7% coverage (of March’s target of 93480) till March 20. Officials of the GB Nagar health department said that they plan to open more centres to achieve the target by March 31. “At present, we are operating with 41 government health-care centres and 39 private hospitals. We have decided to add 12 more government centres soon. In GB Nagar, we have no clear demarcation of rural and urban areas, and many beneficiaries from rural areas come to get vaccinated at the nearest urban centres,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-phcs-asked-to-vaccinate-200-people-per-day-101616436351041.html
22-03-2021||Other||Tiger found dead in Dudhwa tiger reserve||Lakhimpur Kheri An adult tiger was found dead in the Kishanpur wildlife sanctuary in Dudhwa tiger reserve in Lakhimpur Kheri district late on Sunday evening. The carcass of the tiger, aged around eight years, was found lying near a canal, said Sanjay Kumar Pathak, chief conservator of forest (CCF), Dudhwa tiger reserve.Ruling out any foul play, he said, “No external injury marks were detected but a swelling around its neck was noticed. However, all vital organs were intact.” “The autopsy will be done by a panel of doctors at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly to ascertain the exact cause of death,” he added.This was second tiger death in Kheri this month. An adult tiger was electrocuted in a field near Dokarpur village under south Kheri forest division on March 1, when it came in contact with electric fencing laid by poachers to hunt wild animals. ---Deokant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tiger-found-dead-in-dudhwa-tiger-reserve-101616436290958.html
22-03-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati attacks UP govt over Hathras case||: BSP chief Mayawati on Monday targeted the Yogi Adityanath government over Hathras gangrape case, saying new facts emerging in the matter have raised serious questions on the working of the state government.Her remarks come in the backdrop of the Allahabad High Court directing the Hathras district judge and CRPF Inspector General, central sector, to inquire whether the prosecution witness and the lawyers of the Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and died due to injuries were threatened before a special judge during the trial on March 5.In a tweet, Mayawati said, the difficulties faced by the family of the Hathras gangrape victim in getting justice are well known, but the new facts in this regard revealed in the court have once again raised serious questions on working of the state government in ensuring justice to the victim.“The high court taking cognisance of new facts in the Hathras case and ordering an inquiry into threats to witnesses and other issues has put the UP government in the dock and the people have been forced to think as to how victims will get justice,”’ she said.“There is common perception that criminals rule in UP and it is very difficult to get justice,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-attacks-up-govt-over-hathras-case-101616436170981.html
22-03-2021||Gurugram||Armed men rob logistics firm of ₹1.65 lakh||Two armed men robbed ₹1.65 lakh from an e-commerce logistics company office on Sohna Road after holding two of its employees at gunpoint on Sunday night.The company offers cash collection delivery, pick up from vendors and reverse logistics services. The employees deposit cash in the office every evening, said police.Dharamraj Singh (28), the supervisor of the company who manages the office, said that besides him, an office boy was present when the incident took place, around 7.40pm. “One of them took Shivanand, the office boy, at gunpoint and threatened to kill him. The second man took me at gunpoint and asked me where is the cash kept,” he said.According to Singh, he told the suspects that there was no cash in the office. “They thrashed me and took us to the other room and one of them started searching all cupboards and drawers in the office. We used to keep the money collected inside an envelope in a specific drawer. They found it and took it,” he said.Singh said that the suspects were captured in more than four CCTV cameras installed in the office.The robbers had used a car to reach the spot and had an accomplice waiting in the vehicle. “Both of them were aggressive and it seemed that they were familiar with the office and the premises. All the while, they kept threatening to kill us,” he said.A team of Sadar police reached the spot and recorded their statement.Aman Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that they have registered a case under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act. “We are scanning the CCTV footage to trace the suspects. We have recovered several footages from the nearby area but we are yet to identify the car registration number,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/armed-men-rob-logistics-firm-of-rs-1-65-lakh-101616436112759.html
22-03-2021||Gurugram||Vaccine camps set up at condos, 250 receive jabs||To help senior citizens facing difficulties in travelling to vaccination centres and hospitals, the district health department on Monday held a day-long vaccination camp at two condominiums and administered vaccines to around 250 residents, officials said.“The response for Covid-19 vaccination camps in condominiums is yet to be analysed. It is a one-of-its-kind initiative to increase vaccination coverage. Therefore, our medical officers are coordinating with residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) that are approaching them. The expansion of the drive in condominiums will depend on the coverage over the next few days,” Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.On Monday, camps were set up at The Villas in DLF Phase-2 and Ridgewood Estate in DLF Phase-4, with private hospitals expected to set up camps at six more condominiums on Tuesday, officials said.Ritu Bajaj, a resident of The Villas, said she was informed about the camp on the society premises on Sunday. “The message was circulated on the society’s official group. It, therefore, became easy to take the shot. The entire process has been hassle-free as I got myself registered on the spot and got the vaccine shot within 10 minutes,” said Bajaj.At the site, a small registration counter was set up to register the residents on the Co-Win application, after which residents were given the jabs and made to wait for 30 minutes at a site designated for observation. However, the rooms were not separate, as specified in the guidelines.At Ridgewood Estate, the vaccination took place at a clinic within the premises of the society, while people registered themselves at counters outside. “There are 3000 people living in the society, of whom 45% are senior citizens. In the past, we have coordinated with the health department in getting our people vaccinated at the nearby health centre. We especially asked them to set up a camp in our society,” said Gurpreet Singh, president, Ridgewood Estate, RWA.According to him, at least 75 people took the shot on Monday. “Since a large percentage of the elderly population have already been vaccinated in the last 20 days, it is likely the second camp will now be held in mid-April. As the interval between two doses of Covishield has been extended by four to eight weeks, we have asked the health department to place the camp in mid-April for people who have already taken the shot in the first week of March,” said Singh.On Tuesday, camps are likely to be set up at Silver Oaks Society, Palm Springs, Mapple Heights, Pinnacle Club, Vatika Indianext and Ardee City in Sector 52.“Vaccination camps will be set up in at least one to two condos every day during this week. It includes Ardee City, Ireo Uptown in Sector 66, Park View City-1 in Sector 48, Uppal Southend in Sector 49), Ireo Skyon in Sector 60 and M3M Golf Estate. In most of them, our clinics are already functional, which makes it easy to set up the camps. A few RWAs have also approached for setting up camps,” said Dr Sushila Kataria, director and head of internal medicine at Medanta Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccine-camps-set-up-at-condos-250-receive-jabs-101616436111527.html
22-03-2021||Gurugram||Cloud cover gives respite from heat as fast winds clean up air||The city witnessed a cloudy day as gusty winds cleaned the air and provided some relief from the afternoon heat on Monday, even as rains give the city a miss.Officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), who predicted light rain for Monday and Tuesday, said that while clouds had prevailed on Monday, rain-heavy clouds were missing. “We can see a cloud cover, but it didn’t rain in most parts of the NCR. In Delhi and Gurugram, there was hardly any rain. The prediction of light rain for Tuesday continues,” said an IMD official, adding the impact of the western disturbance is likely to subside by Wednesday.The minimum temperature on Monday was 21.2 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 34. 7 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 32 degrees and 21 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Tuesday. A cloudy sky with one or two spells of rains and thundershower has been predicted on both Tuesday and Wednesday.The city’s air quality entered the moderate zone of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) with a reading of 170 on the daily bulletin, a significant improvement from Sunday’s AQI of 245 that was in the poor category.Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist, said that the strong winds with speeds of 30-40kmph on Monday aided the dispersal of pollutants. “Besides the wind speed, there is a rise in average temperature due to which hot air is rising. Most of the vicinities are clear, so pollutants are getting dispersed faster,” said Panwar.The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 136.72 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Monday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 242.41µg/m3.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality in the region is likely to remain in the moderate to the satisfactory category on Wednesday and Thursday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to improve and remain in the moderate to poor category over the next five days. It also stated that the transported dust concentration had subsided significantly and no significant long-range transport of dust is likely for the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cloud-cover-gives-respite-from-heat-as-fast-winds-clean-up-air-101616436110986.html
22-03-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Over 25K vaccinated as Gurugram picks up pace||The district on Monday reported its highest single-day turnout for vaccination, at 25,005, under the second phase of vaccine roll-out that prioritises people aged above 60 years and those between 45 and 59 having comorbidities, according to the health department data.“The vaccination drive will continue at the same pace on Tuesday. The attempt is to curb the uptick in Covid-19 cases by vaccinating maximum people among the prioritised groups. The turnout remained low at private hospitals. Therefore, we have asked them to work on mobilising people and increasing their coverage,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Due to an uptick in coronavirus cases since the first week of March, the union ministry of health and family welfare called for an increase in the vaccination pace, along with testing and tracking new cases.On Monday, the district reported at least 121 new Covid-19 cases, taking the active case count of 973. The total tally reached 60,828, with a death count of 361.Given the rising cases, the state health department has designated a mega vaccination drive every Monday. As per the statewide data, over 248,312 people across the state received the shot, of which Gurugram administered the highest number of doses. The district has now administered 160, 253 doses since January 16.On Monday, over 80% turnout was recorded in more than 100 government facilities, as the district health department, under the mega vaccination drive, focussed on increasing coverage in rural and semi-rural centres.According to the district health department data, at least 17,794 people above the age of 60 years and 4,132 aged 45 to 59 years with existing illness took the vaccine jab. As many as 1,068 healthcare workers and 2,011 front-line workers also took the vaccine shot at 171 vaccination centres. Among them, at least 20,022 took their shots at government facilities while 4,983 did so at private hospitals.The health department had set a target of covering 20,000 people in a day but it exceeded the target by 25% due to more vaccination centres in rural areas, said officials. On the first day of the weekly mega vaccination drive last Monday, roughly 10,000 people were inoculated with the Covid-19 vaccine in Gurugram.“Under each primary health centre, at least three subcentres were activated to reach out to people in rural areas who were finding it difficult to reach health centres due to distance. In all likelihood, people from semi-rural and rural blocks turned up in large numbers,” said Yadav, stating that details will be compiled in a day or two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-over-25k-vaccinated-as-gurugram-picks-up-pace-101616436053449.html
22-03-2021||Gurugram||Man booked for allegedly blackmailing, molesting woman in Gurugram||A man was booked for allegedly molesting, stalking and blackmailing a 30-year-old woman on Sunday.In her police complaint, the woman alleged that the man had been following her for the past few days. He was blackmailing me for the past few days, threatening that he would upload my photos and videos on social media platforms if I did not meet him, said the woman.The incident took place when the woman was on her way to office in Sohna Road, opposite Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 38, around 10am on Sunday.The woman alleged that the suspect, who was driving a car, followed her on Sunday. When she ignored him, the suspect passed inappropriate comments and intercepted her. He asked her to accompany her to a room and caught hold of her hand, trying to force her to come along. The woman raised the alarm and ran away. Later, she informed her family members, following which they filed a complaint against the man, police said.A case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 354 (molestation), 354D (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) was registered against him at the Sadar police station on Sunday night.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that the woman and the suspect, who works at an automobile company, have known each other for the past two years. They had met during a training session.“The woman alleged that she had been supporting this man financially. Last week, too, she gave him ₹50,000 for the treatment of his ailing mother, but when she asked him to return the money, he started abusing her,” Yadav said.“The suspect then called the woman’s brother and sent him a few obscene photos and videos of the woman, to humiliate her before her family members. The suspect also threatened to upload the woman’s photos on social media platforms after she pressurised him to marry her. Police teams have launched a hunt to arrest the suspect,” Yadav said.During questioning, it was also revealed that both of them lived together in a rented house. The suspect is allegedly married and has two children. His family lives in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-booked-for-allegedly-blackmailing-molesting-woman-in-gurugram-101616436052353.html
22-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG, police to ensure closure of meat shops||Police personnel and members of the municipal corporation constituted teams and issued instructions to ground officers to ensure all meat shops are shut on Tuesday, after a decision in this regard was taken at the civic body's House meeting last Thursday.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), who oversees the issuance of licences to meat shops, besides fining and sealing illegal ones, said that the civic body teams will issue a warning to those who do not comply and get them to close the shop. “As we are starting enforcement starting Tuesday, we will only conduct a survey and check the response. Any meat shop found open this Tuesday will be issued a warning but if the same shop is found open next Tuesday as well, then we will impose a fine,” he said. The MCG on Monday constituted 70 teams, each comprising four officials, to ensure closure of shops and identify violators, officials familiar with the developments said. The decision to close meat shops was taken in MCG’s budget meeting last Thursday. Two councillors raised the issue citing religious sentiments and after long deliberation, the proposal was approved. There are nearly 129 licensed meat shops in the city, with as many as 150 more operating illegally, according to MCG officials. “After a first warning, they will be penalised ₹5,000 for a subsequent offence, and if they continue to remain open for at least four consecutive weeks, there is a possibility of sealing their shops,” Singla said. Pritam Bhagat, the president of Jacobpura meat shops association, said that the association will abide by the order and close the meat shops. “We are not left with any other option. We have to face the brunt of the new rule and will have to suffer losses. We have already requested the officials but no one is paying any heed to it. We are helpless,” he said. Senior police officials also directed all station house officers to ensure law and order situation in their area on Tuesday. “We will take action against those who try to take the law and order situation in hand and is found violating peace in the city. We have received the order for the same and would ensure better coordination with the MCG teams,” said Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police, headquarters. The police said that most of the meat shops are located in Badshahpur, Khandsa, Chakkarpur and Jacobpura, near Sadar market. Around 300 police personnel will be deployed in these areas from 8am on Tuesday. MCG officials also said that they will be examining the provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation by-laws, 2008, to see if online meat delivery stores also come under the purview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-police-to-ensure-closure-of-meat-shops-101616436052945.html
22-03-2021||Lucknow||NGT notice to factories causing pollution||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has taken note of air pollution caused by around 36 small and big factories operating within city limits in Bahraich district.The Bahraich Nagar Palika too had carried out an air pollution test in the city that pointed out increasing pollution level in the city due to smoke bellowing from factories. This pollution is causing respiratory problem among locals. Taking note of the issue after locals lodged a complaint; the NGT has sought a reply from the Pollution Control Board, Ayodhya, which covers Bahraich district. After the NGT’s tough stand, the Board has sent notices to factory owners warning them to cancel ‘no objection certificate’ issued to them if they do not comply with pollution norms. “These factories are in Dargah area which is within the city limit. In Chittaura block, just at city outskirts, Bhinga Road and Malhipur Road one can spot Dal and Rice mill units among other factories,” said lawyer Raman Kumar Singh, Bahraich district court. “None of these units have necessary equipment to check rising smoke carrying dust particles which cause respiratory problems. The Pollution Control Board has issued notices only after locals here lodged complaint with the NGT,” added Singh. Pramod Pandey of Irrigation Colony, Deepak Pal of Salarpur, Harish Yadav and Mukesh Yadav of Kalpipara among others have lodged a complaint with the NGT raising the issue. “Despite the Pollution Control Board issuing notices to factory owners, nothing has happened. Now, we are planning to file a writ at the Lucknow high court on the issue,” said lawyers Raman Kumar Singh and Nandan Srivastava. “One can easily spot dust particle in air in areas adjoining these factories. On days when strong wind is blowing, smoke carrying dust particles from factories covers several kilometres,” said Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ngt-notice-to-factories-causing-pollution-101616435990951.html
22-03-2021||Kolkata||After dinner with father, Kolkata woman sets him on fire||A 22-year-old woman allegedly killed her father in Kolkata by setting him on fire after taking him out for dinner and getting him drunk, police said on Monday.The woman went out with her father for dinner to a restaurant on Sunday night and got him drunk, then they went to the Chadpal Ghat on Strand Road for a stroll, a senior police officer said.The father, 56, fell asleep as they were sitting on a bench on the banks of the Hooghly river and talking, the woman then poured kerosene on him and allegedly set him on fire, he said.The entire incident was caught on CCTV and the woman confessed to the crime as well, police claimed.The woman, a resident of Christopher Road near Park Circus, was arrested on a complaint lodged by her uncle, they said."During interrogation, she claimed that after her mother died when she was a child, her father started physically assaulting her and also used to torture her emotionally. However, it stopped after she got married. But, as her marriage broke off and she returned home, the torture started again," the officer said."We are verifying her claims," he added.When produced at a court, the woman was sent to police custody till March 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/after-dinner-with-father-kolkata-woman-sets-him-on-fire-101616435518213.html
22-03-2021||Lucknow||Citing losses, UP liquor sellers seek return of licence fee, threaten stir||The liquor sellers association in Uttar Pradesh (UP) have threatened to hold demonstration if the excise department didn’t waive off the licence fee that were charged from them despite the fact that the shops remained closed for more than 45 days due to covid-induced lockdown. The excise department is among the highest revenue earners for the state government raking in ₹780 million ( ₹78 crore) per day for the state round the year, say officials. In UP, more than 4 lakh people are directly associated with liquor business.The government is yet to react to their demand. “No decision has been taken as yet,” an official said when asked if the government was aware of the liquor sellers’ demand. “Apart from lockdown losses, even when the shops opened, they were opened in a phased manner. At the moment the government coffers have crores of rupees that were realised as licence fees. We want to have it returned but nothing has happened so far,” said Kanhaiyalal Maurya, the general secretary of Liquor Seller Welfare Association of UP. Maurya said that more than ₹900 crore, realised as licence fee, have neither been returned nor accommodated as fees in the new session. Shiv Kumar Jaiswal and Devesh Jaiswal, both functionaries of the liquor sellers’ association said they would give representation to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and excise minister Ram Naresh Agnihotri in this regard. “They will also wear black bands as a mark of protest against the government indecision,” they added. This would be followed by a foot march of liquor sellers, they said. “The growing number of thefts that took place at liquor shops during lockdown dealt a double blow to liquor trade,” the liquor sellers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/citing-losses-up-liquor-sellers-seek-return-of-licence-fee-threaten-stir-101616435810934.html
22-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan governement supplies 10,000 doses of Remdesivir injection to Punjab||The Rajasthan government Monday dispatched a consignment of 10,000 doses of "life-saving" injection Remdesivir to the neighbouring state of Punjab which has witnessed a sudden spike of coronavirus cases.After flagging off a vehicle carrying the doses from his residence this afternoon, Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma said the injections have been provided to Punjab free of cost."More than 52,000 doses of Remdesivir injection were available in Rajasthan. Out of these, 10,000 doses are being supplied to Punjab today," he said.The injections sent to Punjab are worth more than Rs. 2.12 crore, he said.The minister said that hundreds of lives have been saved due to a timely availability of this costly injection.He said the number of positive cases has started increasing rapidly again in Punjab like other states of the country, therefore, the injection has been supplied to Punjab free of cost.The health minister said Rajasthan has all the resources required for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. PTI SDA TIR TIR TIR TIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-governement-supplies-10-000-doses-of-remdesivir-injection-to-punjab-101616434251824.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||3 Covid-19 fatalities, 865 new cases in Haryana||Haryana reported three more Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, taking the state's death toll to 3,101, while its infection tally rose to 2,80,693 with 865 new cases, a health department bulletin said.A fatality each was reported from Fatehabad, Karnal and Gurgaon, it showed.The districts that reported fresh infections include Gurgaon (121), Karnal (116), Yamunanagar (89), Kurukshetra (73) and Panchkula (78).The number of active cases in the state stands at 5,698, and the recovery rate is 96.87 per cent, as per the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-covid-19-fatalities-865-new-cases-in-haryana-101616432589649.html
22-03-2021||Ranchi||All Jharkhand Students Union party leader joins BJP||All Jharkhand Students Union (AJSU) party leader Ganga Narayan Singh on Monday joined the BJP which, in all likelihood, will field him from Madhupur assembly constituency to take on JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance candidate in the by-poll scheduled on April 17.Speaking to media soon after joining BJP, Singh said, “I joined BJP to serve poor and downtrodden. Since my childhood, I admired Atal Bihari Vajpayee and now I am deeply impressed by prime minister Narendra Modi.”The election for this assembly seat is necessitated after the death of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha’s (JMM) sitting legislator and minister Haji Hussain Ansari in October last year.Singh, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 assembly election on AJSU party ticket from Madhupur, embraced the saffron fold along with his supporters in presence of BJP’s leader of opposition Babulal Marandi and other state leaders at the party headquarters.Also read: Village heads in J’khand’s Kolhan set to get judicial powers under a British rule still aliveThe development is closely linked to the ensuing Madhupur by-election, nomination for which is to begin from March 23.In order to select its candidate, BJP’s state election committee, on March 20, had discussed on poll prospects of four probable candidates, including former minister Raj Paliwal and Singh who has also applied for the party ticket. According to sources, the BJP would announce its candidate name this week.Former minister Raj Paliwal had twice represented Madhupur assembly constituency in 2005 and 2014. He lost the election in 2019 at the hands of JMM’s Haji Hussain Ansari. However, AJSU party’s candidate Singh stood third in the 2019 election.With Singh’s joining the party, BJP insiders said that it has now become almost clear that the party would drop Raj Paliwal and choose Singh as its candidate for the by-poll.They said that the BJP wanted to keep NDA votes intact. “AJSU party, which is part of the NDA, may not field its candidate this time. If this happens, BJP candidate would get the party’s traditional votes and others as well,” the insiders said. On the other hand, JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance is all set to field late Ansari’s son Hafizul Ansari, now a minister in the state, as its candidate.The grand alliance has taken a strategic move by elevating Hafizul Ansari as minister to give a message to the people of Madhupur assembly constituency that they would be voting to a person who is already a minister.Commenting on the grand alliance move, Marandi said, “Out of fear of losing the election, the JMM had made Ansari’s son as minister even before the poll. It, however, has forgotten what happened in Tamar when the then chief minister Shibu Soren lost the election. The same will happen in Madhupur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/all-jharkhand-students-union-party-leader-joins-bjp-101616432511788.html
22-03-2021||Lucknow||Doctor tests positive 5 days after second Covid vaccine dose||A doctor of the Civil Hospital here tested positive for the coronavirus infection five days after getting his second Covid vaccine dose and was now in home quarantine, an official said. The case is stated to be the first such one in Lucknow.“The doctor got his second dose on March 15, but he was suffering with cough and weakness. So, he was on leave after that. As he developed further sickness, he got his samples tested and the report came positive on March 20. So, he is in home quarantine,” said Dr SK Nanda, chief medical superintendent of the hospital.He also said, “The antibodies develop properly after 15 days of the second dose. Hence, a person may test positive shortly after vaccination. This is why following the Covid protocol is important even after the vaccine is administered.”“The doctor may have got infected by the day he got the second dose and the infection manifested a day or two after the second dose. But this can happen. Hopefully, the severity of the infection will be low in his case,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Lucknow.“It’s not a surprise and nothing to panic about. There have been several other such cases where a person got infected after a vaccine dose. This means the person has the virus, but with immunity he shall recover,” said Prof Kauser Usman, head of the department of geriatric medicine at King George’s Medical University (KGMU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/doctor-tests-positive-5-days-after-second-covid-vaccine-dose-101616432450770.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 888 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths; active cases close to 4,000||Delhi on Monday recorded 888 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the third consecutive day when the infection tally stayed above the 800-mark. This took the tally of the national capital to 648,872, according to the state health department bulletin.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 22nd March 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/jqppvFBzpqThe national capital also recorded seven related fatalities which took the death toll to 10,963, according to the bulletin.The national capital recorded 823 Covid-19 cases on Sunday and 813 on Saturday.The count of active cases currently stands at 3,934, the bulletin showed. This has increased by 318 cases from Sunday's count of 3,618. Delhi had reported 1,041 active cases on February 22 and the number of active cases has more than doubled since then.Also read | With 24,645 fresh cases, Maharashtra sees slight dip in daily Covid-19 tallyAs much as 67,418 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours comprising 48,981 RTPCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests and 18,437 Rapid antigen tests. With this, the government has tested 13,889,895 tests and the tests per million count stands at 731,047, data the bulletin showed. Daily positivity rate,which has been above 1 per cent since Saturday, was reported as 1.32 per cent for the day and cumulative positivity rate is currently at 4.67 per cent. Also, the case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 1.69 per cent, the bulletin showed.Meanwhile, 565 patients recovered on the day taking the overall recoveries to 633,975 and the cumulative recovery rate so far to 97.7 per cent.Also read | Explained: Why govt recommended revision in second dose interval for CovishieldAs far as vaccination drive in the capital city is concerned, 984,655 doses have been administered so far. Of this, 797,941 people have received their first dose and 186,714 have received the second, according to data from the Union health ministry. The ministry, earlier in the day, also observed that the daily new cases reported is increasing in eight states and Union territories, including Delhi.India’s cumulative Covid-19 tally climbed to 11,646,081 cases and the death toll stands at 159,967 after the country reported 46,951 new cases and 212 fatalities on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-888-new-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-active-cases-close-to-4000-101616431444679.html
22-03-2021||Pune||67th National Film Awards: “Anandi Gopal” wins best film on social issues||Pune: Marathi film “Anandi Gopal”, directed by Sameer Vidhwans, has won the best film on social issues and also the best production design at the 67th National Film Awards.The National Film Awards, which were initially going to be held last year and delayed due to the Covid pandemic, were announced on Monday by the Directorate of Film Festivals, under the ministry of information and broadcasting.“I am overwhelmed when I heard the news of the film winning not one but two national awards. It is every director’s dream to win a national award or get national recognition for his film, but I am double happy for the national awards not just recognised the film as a best regional film instead has given it as the best film for social issues means that the story of Dr Anandibai Joshi’s life has created an impact on a number of lives has gone beyond being an entertainment and reached out to everyone. This is the impact that any director would like his film to make. I am happy for the entire team who worked on the film,” said Vidhwans, ticking it off his wish list to win a national award.Vidhwans said the film also made an impact in Pune, when SB Mujumdar, who is the founder and chancellor of Symbiosis University, has established “Symbiosis Medical College for Women” within a time span of one year, making it Maharashtra’s first and India’s third girls-only medical college.While singer Savani Ravindra is still trying to gauge the win at national awards for the best female playback singer. “I simply cannot believe it. This is a song that I recorded at the behest of composer producer Rohan–Rohan, for the film Bardo, which is still not released in India, but has won awards in various film festivals. It was a very different song for me, for I am know for urban kind of singing, while this song is rustic, intense and serious, emotional and comes at a crucial stage in the film. I thank the composer to persuade me to sing this song.”Savitribai Phule Pune University student of department of media and communication studies, debut director Vinod Kamble has won his first national award for the best children’s film “Kastoori’, story of a 14-year-old boy who helps his poor family in manual scavenging, although he wants to study further, and finds himself constantly worried about body odour emitting off his skin and feeling bad. “I always dreamt that one day I will win an award. This is special and feeling really good for winning an award,” said Kamble from Barshi, Solapur. Another debut director Abhijeet Warang also received special mention for his film “Picasso”, whereupon actor Prasad Oak who is part of the film said, “Winning a national award for a debut director is always special and this film is also very interesting portraying Dashavatara through his direction. I am very happy for him.”The award goes to…Best production design: Anandi Gopal (Marathi)Best film on social issues: Anandi Gopal (Marathi)Best film on national integration: Tajmahal (Marathi)Best female playback singer: Savani Ravindra for Bardo (Marathi)Best children’s film: Kastoori (Hindi)Special mention in the non-feature film category: “Picasso”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/67th-national-film-awards-anandi-gopal-wins-best-film-on-social-issues-101616430470645.html
22-03-2021||Lucknow||Yogi calls for effective contact tracing, optimum testing for Covid-19||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said strict vigil should be maintained on the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh, calling for effective contact tracing and doing work on testing to the optimum. He also laid emphasis on social distancing and mandatory use of masks.All the arrangements made for protection against Covid-19, as well as its treatment, should remain active and up to the mark, he added.The chief minister was reviewing the Covid situation at a high-level meeting at his official residence here. People should be educated about measures for protection from the coronavirus and public address system should be used actively to inform people about checking the spread of the infection, he said.He said arrangements should be made for infrared thermometers, pulse oximeters and rapid antigen tests at all the airports, railway stations and bus stations.Yogi said Covid vaccination work should be carried out in accordance with the union government’s guidelines. He said all the district magistrates and chief medical officers should regularly monitor the Covid vaccination work and a separate wing should be set up in the integrated command and control centres to provide information about the vaccination.Gear up for wheat procurement at MSP from April 1: CMChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said all necessary arrangements should be made to begin procurement of wheat under minimum support price (MSP) scheme with effect from April 1, 2021.He said teams should be constituted to make an assessment of the on-the-spot functioning of mandis and conduct surprise inspection there.Yogi gave these directives while reviewing performance of different departments at a high-level meeting at his official residence here. He said there should be qualitative disposal of public grievances in the state. District magistrates should regularly monitor the disposal of grievances to ensure quality, the chief minister said. He also said Sampurn Samadhan Divas (tehsil divas) and Thana Divas (police station day) should be made effective. The problems relating to the revenue and police departments should be resolved in a qualitative manner, he added. The relief commissioner’s office and revenue administration should remain active in view of the incidents of fire in summer, he said. The food and drug administration department should check quality of food items being sold in markets in view of forthcoming festival season, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-calls-for-effective-contact-tracing-optimum-testing-for-covid19-101616430050693.html
22-03-2021||Ranchi||Police still clueless about stolen Gautam Buddha sculptures||Strap: Police conducted series of raids, search operations in hotels, suspected labourers’ houses, water bodies and hilly areas; Security beefed up at excavation site, borders  The Hazaribagh police was unable to find any clue in the ancient Gautam Buddha sculptures’ theft case despite a series of raids and search operations at hotels and suspect labourers’ houses, police said on Monday. “We are conducting raids and search operation at every possible place. We have not found any trace of the stolen sculptures so far. But, we will find it very soon,” Sadar SDPO Mahesh Prajapati, in-charge of the special investigation team (SIT) set up in the case, said. Recently on Saturday night, two of the ancient sculptures of Gautam Buddha out of nearly a dozen articles unearthed during an ongoing excavation by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on the foothills of Juljul hill at Sadar block were stolen in presence of security personnel and labourers working at the site. The SIT on Monday conducted a search operation in water bodies and the nearby hills. Meanwhile, security was beefed up around the excavation site in a bid to protect the remaining sculptures and artifacts. Checking was also tightened on borders to prevent transportation of the stolen articles from Hazaribag, police said. Besides, police were interrogating the five police personnel, who were on duty at the site on the night when the theft allegedly took place, to establish negligence that caused the theft. Responsible personnel might face suspension, police said. Suspecting international link to the crime, police also conducted search operations at hotels in the district on Sunday night. “Involvement of international gangs in the crime cannot be ruled out,” the SDPO said. Around 80 labourers were working at the excavation site. The houses of suspect labourers were also searched. However, nothing was recovered, police said. Meanwhile, excavation work at the site was temporarily suspended. ASI officials said they stopped work for two to three days to ensure basic security of the place such as barricading and entry gate. In its excavation so far, the ASI unearthed a complete shrine with a central and two subsidiary shrines, and a small Buddha Vihar-like structure. The team also discovered around a dozen sculptures, which expectedly belong to the 10th century, from the Buddha Vihar-like site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/police-still-clueless-about-stolen-gautam-buddha-sculptures-101616429870685.html
22-03-2021||Other||Village heads in J’khand’s Kolhan set to get judicial powers under a British rule still alive||Traditional tribal panchayat heads (Mankis) and village heads (Mundas) in Kolhan division of Jharkhand will soon get judicial powers back under the British-era Wilkinson Rule of 1837, which no legislation in Parliament has scrapped or amended to date. On a trial basis, West Singhbhum district administration has decided to transfer two civil dispute cases to Nyay Manch (judicial forum), officials said on Monday, adding that the two villages for the pilot project were yet to be chosen.Chief minister Hemant Soren, during his trip to Chaibasa in West Singhbhum in February this year, had announced to make Nyay Manch functional again under the Wilkinson Rule and directed the deputy commissioner to draft a Bill and rules for the same. “A meeting with Manki-Munda Samiti, superintendent of police, lawyers and other stakeholders on Saturday resolved to refer two old civil cases to a Nyay Manch on a trial basis. This will help us identify practical problems and formulate a Bill, rules and regulations for implementing the centuries-old system again on the ground in accordance with the present times and realities, as per the direction of the chief minister (CM),” Arava Rajkamal, West Singhbhum’s deputy commissioner (DC), said.The DC said the two cases would be dealt as per the draft bill prepared by them, under which civil disputes up to ₹5,000, title suits, division of assets and marital disputes can be referred to Nyay Manch by the DC and the divisional commissioner. Quasi-police forum of Mankis at the panchayat level and quasi-judicial forum and revenue collection by Mundas at the village level were in practice before India got independence from British rule on August 15, 1947. Mankis look after a group of villages, both in terms of civil, petty criminal cases and land settlement matters.Since no legislation in Parliament scrapped, amended or modified to define constitutional status of the Wilkinson Rule to date, the Manki-Munda system was still functional in Kolhan region, comprising West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts, mostly for revenue collection. In fact, the DC said Manki-Mundas collect and deposit land revenue of ₹25-30 lakhs annually to the district administration. Earlier, Mundas used to get a 6% commission on the revenue collected. Now, they were being paid a monthly honorarium of ₹2,000, he said. According to him, the trial will also help solve issues such as the limit of ₹5,000 that was impractical in current times, as even one decimal land was currently valued at ₹1-2 lakh. “The commissioner has proposed to hike the limit to ₹50,000. This trial will help remove such lacunae and we will send a modified draft bill to the government for formulating an Act in consultation with the law, and land and revenue department. Mankis used to help in resolving petty criminal cases such as theft and help police in grave crimes. Currently, the focus is on civil and marital disputes. A few divorce cases have come to my court in the past as tribal marriages are not registered under any existing Act,” said Rajkamal.Under the Wilkinson Rule, an agent to the Governor, who is the commissioner of Kolhan and his subordinate deputy commissioner in the current case, is vested with powers to form three-member and five-member Nyay Manch in every village and panchayat. “The three-member Nyay Manch operates on jury system, under which village Munda is the chairperson and both the parties in dispute elect one member each. In case of five-member Nyay Manch, either the commissioner or the DC appoints two Mundas and a ‘neutral’ person, while both the disputing parties will bring one member each. DCs are not supposed to overrule the judgment of Nyay Manch unless one of the parties files an appeal on charges of corruption,” the DC said.He said they were working on appointment and training process of Muharar (Peshkars) knowing tribal languages, besides preparing stamp of Nyay Manch and Manki-Mundas, as there will be no lawyers representing the disputing parties. The Wilkinson RuleChotanagpur came under British control after Robert Clive defeated joint forces of Nawab of Oudh and Bengal supported by Mughal emperor Shah Alam-II in the battle of Buxar in 1765. The British entered into agreement with local kings for revenue collection. Later, King of Porahat, a subdivision in West Singhbhum, gained control by offering a higher revenue. Kol rebellion took place in 1832 against high rent and usurpation of land by outsiders. The then British agent, Thomas Wilkinson, decided to declare Kolhan region as “Kolhan Separate Estate” with headquarters in Chaibasa and implemented the Wilkinson Rule in 1837.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/village-heads-in-j-khand-s-kolhan-set-to-get-judicial-powers-under-a-british-rule-still-alive-101616429810688.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Man held for cheating people of ₹8 lakh on pretext of providing them ration||A 45-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly cheating people of ₹8 lakh on the pretext of providing them ration for 15 months, police said on Monday.The accused has been identified as Rajesh Kumar Bhartiya, a resident of Nangloi, they said.The complainant named Harish Kumar, along with 534 others, alleged that an NGO -- Target Welfare Association -- which was being run by Bhartiya and others introduced a scheme wherein they charged a membership fee of ₹1,500 per person for distributing of ration -- flour, rice, sugar and oil -- for a period of 15 months, police said.The NGO operated the scheme at different places through regular branches, they said.The complainant alleged that the NGO neither supplied the ration nor answered phone calls when people tried to contact them. They disappeared with all the money collected via membership fee, police said."During investigation, it was revealed that Bhartiya was the main person who ran this scheme. Police arrested him from Nangloi area on Friday," Deputy Commissioner of Police (EOW) Mohammad Ali said.Police said the accused issued membership to the people and charged ₹1,500 from them, and also provided them a "ration card".According to the scheme, on each card, one could obtain any one item -- either flour, rice, sugar or refined oil -- for a period of 15 months. Initially, some of the members were provided ration, but later the accused fled with ₹8,02,500 collected via membership fees, Ali said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-held-for-cheating-people-of-rs-8l-on-pretext-of-providing-them-ration-101616429652899.html
22-03-2021||Ranchi||AJSU Party’s Ganga Narayan joins BJP, likely to get ticket for Madhupur bypoll||All Jharkhand Students’ Union (AJSU) Party leader Ganga Narayan Singh on Monday joined the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), that was likely to field him from Madhupur assembly constituency to take on the JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance’s candidate in the by-election scheduled on April 17.Election for this Assembly seat was necessitated after the demise of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha’s (JMM) sitting legislator and minister Haji Hussain Ansari in October last year.Singh, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 assembly elections on AJSU Party ticket from Madhupur, embraced the saffron fold along with his supporters in presence of BJP’s leader of opposition Babulal Marandi and other state leaders here at party’s headquarters.The development was closely linked to the ensuing Madhupur by-election, nomination for which will begin from March 23.In order to select its candidate, BJP’s state election committee on March 20 discussed on poll prospects of four probable candidates, including former minister Raj Paliwal and Singh, who has also applied for the party’s ticket. According to sources, the BJP will announce its candidate this week.Former minister Raj Paliwal twice represented the Madhupur assembly constituency in 2005 and 2014. He lost in 2019 to JMM’s Haji Hussain Ansari. However, AJSU Party’s candidate Singh stood third in the 2019 election.With Singh’s joining the BJP, party insiders said that it was almost clear that the party will drop Raj Paliwal and choose Singh as its candidate for the upcoming by-election.They said the BJP wanted to keep NDA votes intact. “AJSU Party, which is part of the NDA, may not field its candidate this time. If this happens, BJP candidate will get party’s traditional votes and others as well,” the insiders said. On the other hand, JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance was all set to field late Ansari’s son Hafizul Ansari, now a minister in the state, as its candidate.The grand alliance has taken a strategic move by elevating Hafizul Ansari as minister to give a message to the people of Madhupur that they will be voting a person who was already a minister.Commenting on the grand alliance’s move, Marandi said, “Out of fear of losing election, the JMM made Ansari’s son as minister even before the polls. But, it forgot what happened in Tamar, where the then chief minister Shibu Soren lost the election. The same will happen in Madhupur.”Speaking to media persons soon after joining BJP, Singh said, “I joined BJP to serve poor and downtrodden. Since my childhood, I admired Atal Bihari Vajpayee and now I am deeply impressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ajsu-party-s-ganga-narayan-joins-bjp-likely-to-get-ticket-for-madhupur-bypoll-101616429750683.html
22-03-2021||Ranchi||Individual used office meant for police special branch, govt says probe on||The state government was conducting a probe into a private individual allegedly using office meant for Jharkhand police special branch for around two years in 2018 to 2019, and will fix responsibility after completing the investigation in two months, parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam said in the Assembly onMonday.The issue was raised in the House by independent legislator Saryu Roy, who demanded an independent probe either by the anti-corruption branch or an Assembly committee into the matter. “The matter has substance and probe is on. We are hopeful of completing the probe soon. If it is not completed in two months, we will take a call on roping in another agency,” said Alam. Roy, the Jamshedpur (East) legislator, through a short notice question sought to know if an “illegal” special branch office was functional between 2015 and 2019, wherein a private individual was “handling illegal operations” of the police’s special branch from a building that was provided by the buildings department on request of the home department. In its written reply, while the home department denied of any such operation, it accepted that two buildings were sought for office they were sanctioned in February 2018. While one of them was used as a special branch office, the other one was used as residence by a private individual. “Till now there is no evidence of any private individual handling illegal operations of the special branch. However, there is some evidence of the individual availing government facilities, that is being probed by the police department,” the department said in its written reply. Dissatisfied with the reply, Roy pointed out that the minister was not provided with the relevant details. He said he possessed information that the person who used the said premise was named Baidynath Prasad and investigators have already recorded statements of three police officers in the matter.The minister then assured the house that probe by the concerned authorities was likely to be over in two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/individual-used-office-meant-for-police-special-branch-govt-says-probe-on-101616429691376.html
22-03-2021||Patna||Work begins on Mithapur-Mahuli multilevel road project||The long-awaited construction of nine-km long Mithapur-Mahuli stretch of road in the state capital began Monday.The multi-level road project, once completed in the next three years, promises to decongest traffic on Patna Bypass, which serves as entry and exit points for vehicular movement.Additional chief secretary of road construction department, Amrit Lal Meena, said nearly 70 trees had been uprooted and translocated to other places so that loss to environment owing to the greenfield project could be curtailed significantly.“Nearly 85% of the land identified for the project has been acquired and possession of the same has been transferred to the construction company, Afcons Infrastructure Limited, on the day of appointment for work, which was March 16,” Meena said, adding that the March 15, 2024, is the deadline to complete the project.Officials said Mithapur-Mahuli road will also serve as an exit route from Patna and connect traffic with the under-construction Patna-Gaya four-lane road along Patna-Gaya railway line. “It will originate from Mithapur flyover on Budh Marg and terminate at Parsa via Sipara in both at grade and elevated mode,” said an engineer familiar with the project.A sum of ₹668.79 crore is likely to be spent on civil work of the project, even as the state cabinet had approved spending of ₹1030.58 crore, which included likely expenditure on acquisition of raiyati land for the project.Officials said the Mithapur-Mahuli road would provide a viable alternative for vehicular owners to bypass likely congestion on Patna Gaya road near Ramchak Bairiya after the interstate bus terminal (ISBT) becomes fully operational later this year. The ISBT, being developed on a 50-acre plot with a parking facility for more than 300 buses at a time, has been opened with a limited number of buses originating from there. Project at a glanceEstimated project cost: ₹1030.58 croreProposed cost of civil work: ₹668.79 croreLength of road: 9.1 kmNature of road: 7.10 km at grade & 5.53 km elevatedDeadline to finish project: March 2024||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/work-begins-on-mithapur-mahuli-multilevel-road-project-101616429570604.html
22-03-2021||Patna||Murder eyewitness killed; mob attacks police, 36 booked||An irate mob on Monday attacked and injured police personnel and vandalised vehicles after an eyewitness in a murder case was shot dead in the Lakhisarai’s Kiul area hours before he was supposed to depose before the court in the case. The deceased, identified as Vikash Kumar (35), was on a stroll in Hakimganj locality with his child when two assailants riding a motorcycle shot him on his head. After the murder, the assailants fled the spot, leaving behind the motorcycle, which is said to be owned by cousin of undertrial prisoner Ranjit Bind, a named accused in the murder of Vikash’s maternal uncle Ramakant Yadav, who was a former director of Munger-Jamui Central Co-operative Bank. Two passerby, including one Ravi Verma, also received gunshot injuries and were being treated at a private hospital.Irate over the incident, locals blocked national highway-80 for over five hours and damaged a police vehicle. They also pelted stones on police, causing minor injuries to some of them.Lakhisarai’s superintendent of police Sushil Kumar said three separate FIRs have been registered, wherein 36 people have been named. Besides, over 200 unidentified persons have been booked on various charges, including attempt to murder, rioting, assault on public servants and mischief by fire or explosive substance. He said the number of suspects was likely to increase as police were still scanning videos to identify them.According to police, Ramakant Yadav, said to be a close associate of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, was shot dead near Vidyapith Chowk on October 11, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/murder-eyewitness-killed-mob-attacks-police-36-booked-101616429390648.html
22-03-2021||Patna||Bihar Diwas: Girls’ education, environment protection key focus areas, says CM||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that Bihar was passionately and diligently engaged in reviving its past glory, drawing inspiration from its illustrious past to work on its road map for a developed and prosperous state. He was speaking at the Bihar Diwas function through video conferencing. Bihar was notified as a separate province on March 22, 1922, and soon after Nitish Kumar assumed power, he decided to celebrate it as “Bihar Day” to make people aware of the state’s rich legacy in different fields. This year’s theme of “Bihar Diwas” is the government’s ambitious programme for environmental conservation “Jal Jeevan Hariyali”. “Today is also the World Water Day and I thank the nodal department for the function, the education department, for making ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali’ the theme this year. Climate change remains the biggest challenge across the globe. In Bihar, we have been working on it, resulting in increase in the green cover from mere 9% to over 15% since 2012. Now, under the ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali’ programme, the objective is work on various aspects of environment and bring about required changes in our lifestyle, agriculture and approach before it is too late,” he said.“Bihar has been a land of knowledge and salvation. We must apprise our new generations of its glorious heritage. Education and environment are the keys and therefore, the government is working on both. While gender disparity in education has almost ended at the secondary level, with more and more girls now coming forward to contribute to societal progress in different ways, Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali is at the nucleus of government planning with a slew of initiatives,” he said, adding that girls’ education also remained key to checking population explosion, as many studies had also pointed out. The CM said that every Tuesday of the month had been earmarked for stocktaking of the progress made under the environmental programme, which focuses on reviving water bodies, encouraging climate-smart agriculture, harnessing solar energy, ensuring rooftop water harvesting and creating environmental awareness. “So far, 15,229 water bodies like ponds, wells, ahar-paens and check dams have been revived and restored. Besides, around 12,000 water sources have been developed. The plan to take surplus Ganga water during flood season through pipeline to Nawada, Gaya and Rajgir is on in full swing and water harvesting facility developed in over 14,000 government buildings. Last year, against the target of planting 2.51 crore saplings despite the raging Covid-19 pandemic, 3.90 crore saplings were planted. Around 941 government building have been equipped with solar energy set-up,” he said. The CM, however, lamented that while Bihar’s progressive work, especially in the field of environment conservation, had drawn the attention across the country and abroad, which led to invitation at the UN roundtable last year, the awareness within the state had left a lot to be desired. “Maybe because I don’t believe in advertising my work, as many states do. It is for the departments and officers to take the message to the people, who need to change their approach as per environmental needs. In Bihar, agriculture remains the mainstay and climate-smart agriculture is the demand of time. The infrastructure development in Bihar is for anyone to see and match with what existed prior to 2005 in terms of roads, bridges and electricity,” he said. Warning against Covid-19 spurt Kumar said Covid-19 situation is Bihar was well under control, but had started showing signs of increase in the state too. “The number of active Covid cases was less than 300 till a few days ago, but now it has crossed 500 here also. Holi is approaching and we need to be extra cautious, as many people will return to their native places ignorant about whether they are infected or not. It can be known only through testing. I have done detailed meeting with officials in this regard and constant vigil needs to be maintained,” he said. Kumar said that without getting complacent, people need to draw lessons from the eight states, where the situation has worsened. “In Maharashtra, it seems to have crossed even the last year’s stage. Many other states are also witnessing increase. Awareness should be created to ensure that Holi celebration is restricted and not in mass gatherings,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-diwas-girls-education-environment-protection-key-focus-areas-says-cm-101616429210620.html
22-03-2021||Other||HC asks law colleges to stop admissions for now, scraps B.Ed college appointments||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Monday stopped all the government and private law colleges in Bihar from taking admission for the time being due infrastructure deficiencies and lack of teachers, which, it said, were hampering proper education. In another case, the HC also quashed the appointment of assistant professors in the state’s B.Ed colleges, terming them illegal. Hearing a petition by Kunal Kaushal, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol has also sought replies from the Chancellor’s office, state government, universities concerned and others on the basis of the report of the Bar Council of India (BCI), which underlined that the law colleges did not have proper system for imparting education. Petitioner’s counsel Dinu Kumar later said that most of the 28 law colleges, affiliated to different universities in the state, were not following laid down provisions and there was no facility of proper education, which led to fall in quality. “The next hearing is scheduled on April 23,” he said. As per the Advocates Act, 1961, BCI is the regulatory authority for law education. Besides, there are legal professional rules, 2005. Though Kaushal had filed the petition with regard to TNB Law College (Bhagalpur) and sought direction to fill up the vacancy of principal, 10 regular teachers and eight part-time teachers against the sanctioned posts and remove infrastructure deficiencies, the HC had last month decided to take up the issue with regard to all law colleges, considering their pathetic state. The court also took cognizance of the attempt by the Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur university and the state to blame each other for large-scale vacancies in the TNB Law College and pathetic condition of the university. It also cited BCI rules for regular inspection of colleges. In its affidavit, the BCI attached the inspection reports of 26 of the 28 law colleges, which highlighted shortage of teachers and infrastructure. It also provided the status report of existing and required faculty members and class rooms of existing law colleges. “BCI has not approved the existing courses with existing sections for next or subsequent academic sessions. It can be done only after thorough examination of facts,” the affidavit said. B.Ed College appointments The single-judge bench of the Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay quashed the appointment of assistant professors in teachers’ training colleges of the state. The order came on Monday on a bunch of petitions by Ravi Kumar and others, which alleged that against the 478 advertised vacancies, appointments were made on 451 only and there was tampering in reservation roster. Earlier, the court had directed the state government to ensure appointments were made as per the advertisement, but there was no concrete action from the state government. Finally, the bench quashed the appointments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-law-colleges-to-stop-admissions-for-now-scraps-b-ed-college-appointments-101616429090650.html
22-03-2021||Other||‘Voters will give befitting reply to corrupt regime in Kerala’: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday hit out at the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala saying it was steeped in corruption and the intervention of the opposition only prevented it from gifting deep-sea fishing rights to a foreign firm. Addressing a series of election rallies in coastal areas of Kochi, Gandhi said people will give a befitting reply to the Left’s politics of vendetta, nepotism and corruption. In the midst of a stiff three-cornered contest in the April 6 assembly election, the party is relying heavily on the leader to retrieve its prospects. On a two-day visit, he will be addressing around 40 meetings and in the weekend Priyanka will also visit the state, said party leaders. “The government was on the verge of giving fishing rights to an American giant and it was stopped after the opposition leader raised it. Later, the government was forced to scrap the agreement,” he said. Gandhi said for youngsters in Kerala jobs were not a reality, but a dream. “The government’s primary responsibility is to give jobs to youngsters, not to their organization and cadres. The LDF government here and the BJP in Delhi have failed miserably on this. If you are a young person in Kerala, a job isn’t a reality but a dream,” he said. Earlier in the day, while interacting with students of St Theresa’s College, he said women are much more powerful than men. Later he showed some tips of Japanese martial art form Aikido to students as requested by them. “I will tell you a secret that men will never tell you, women are much more powerful than men,” he said. He asked girl students not to be under the illusion that they are less powerful. “Society wants to convince you that you are less powerful, but don’t buy it,” he said. But he asked women not to misuse this power. “Once you realized that you are powerful, then the tendency to misuse it also comes, it is not right,” he said. Last month, during his trip to Kollam, he swam with fishermen in deep seas. His frequent trips to the state worried the Left which is eying continuation of power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/voters-will-give-befitting-reply-to-corrupt-regime-in-kerala-rahul-gandhi-101616428131297.html
22-03-2021||Jaipur||Light rainfall in several places of Rajasthan||Several places in Rajasthan received light rainfall on Monday due to a western disturbance while some areas witnessed thunderstorms, the meteorological department office here said.Dabok recorded 4.2 mm downpour, while Alwar, Ajmer, Pilani and Jaipur received 3.5 mm, 3 mm, 2.1 mm and 0.2 mm rainfall respectively, the department said.The weather office said light rainfall is expected at a few places in the state on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/light-rainfall-in-several-places-of-rajasthan-101616427870612.html
22-03-2021||Other||After 65 days, UP’s daily case count breaches 500-mark||LUCKNOW After 65 days, Uttar Pradesh saw a single-day spike of over 500 Covid cases (542) on Monday, taking the state’s caseload to 6,08,076 while one death in Kanpur pushed the fatality count to 8,760. On January 16, that state had reported 533 cases, after which the fresh case count remained below 500 and gradually touched 58-mark in February, as per the health department. “Recovery rate in the state is 98% and this has come down from 98.25% after Covid cases went up in the past few days. It is time for us to remain on high alert as daily cases are rising,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference. “Passengers are coming from other states, hence it is now our responsibility that we ask all travellers to get themselves tested, if they haven’t in the past 2-3 days,” said Prasad. He said screening and testing of travellers was crucial to control new cases. According to health department data, Lucknow reported 147 Covid cases, Jhansi 35, Kanpur 23, Prayagraj 32, Ghaziabad 9, Gautam Buddh Nagar 29, Meerut 25 and Varanasi 34. Till now, 5,95,920 patients had recovered in the state, including 177 in the past 24 hours and the number of active cases was 3,396. UP tested 3.37 crore Covid samples till now, including 1,35,257 in the past 24 hours. Of these, over 50% were via RT-PCR, said Prasad. He said the gram nigrani samitis and mohalla nigrani samitis in rural and urban areas needed to work. “Lucknow has till now reported 82,832 cases, of which 80,879 have recovered and the recovery rate is 97.64%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In Lucknow, fresh cases were reported from different areas including Indira Nagar 20, Gomti Nagar 14, Hazratganj 10, Aliganj 10, Manak Nagar 10, Vikas Nagar 10 and Ashiana 12. GraphicRising trend in Uttar Pradesh Day CasesMarch 22 – 542 March 21 – 496 March 20 – 442 March 19 – 393 March 18 -- 321 March 17 -- 261 March 16 – 228 March 15 – 151 March 14 – 178 March 13 – 156 March 12 – 167 March 11 – 146 March 10 – 128 Cases in Lucknow March 22 – 147 March 21 -- 141 March 20 -- 115 March 19-- 90 March 18 -- 77 March 17 – 54 March 16 – 44 March 15 – 35||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-65-days-up-s-daily-case-count-breaches-500mark-101616427770560.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||With 24,645 fresh cases, Maharashtra sees slight dip in daily Covid-19 tally; Mumbai records 3,262 new infections||Maharashtra on Monday witnessed a slight dip in its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally in comparison to Sunday’s numbers as 24,645 fresh cases were recorded, according to state health department’s bulletin. With this, the caseload breached the 2.5 million mark.The state also recorded and 58 more related fatalities, which took the death toll to 53,457, according to health department. On Sunday, the state had recorded 30,535 cases. So far, 2,234,330 people have recovered from the disease.The capital city of Mumbai also saw a fall in its daily cases on Monday with 3,262 people testing positive for the disease, taking the tally to nearly 366,000. Ten more people died in Mumbai and the death toll has now climbed to 11,596.As the infections in Maharashtra have been increasing at a rapid rate for more than a month, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday that all residents must adhere to Covid-19 related guidelines. Pointing out that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is worried about the overall situation in the state, Tope told news agency ANI, “He (Thackeray) has requested people to behave responsibly to avoid Covid-19, otherwise, the government will have to resort to imposing a lockdown.”Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in the country and accounts for more than 60% of its total Covid-19 cases, according to Union health ministry. The ministry said on Monday that Maharashtra along with five other states - Punjab, Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh - contributed nearly 84.5 per cent of the Covid disease cases across the country.More than 4.2 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the disease so far. On March 11, the state government allowed all vaccination centres to be functional round the clock in an attempt to ramp up the vaccination drive.Tope also said that the state government needed more vaccine doses to inoculate all vulnerable groups within three months. “We have requested for 20 lakh vaccines per day. We were informed that we’ll receive 9 lakh Covishield vaccines tomorrow,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-24-645-fresh-cases-maharashtra-sees-slight-dip-in-daily-covid-19-tally-101616426270554.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal says passage of GNCTD Bill 'insult' to people of Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday termed the passage of a Bill in Lok Sabha seeking to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor" an "insult" to the people of the national capital.The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was passed by Lok Sabha on Monday amidst strong opposition from the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party which said that the legislation is "unconstitutional".The Bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Bill effectively takes away power from those who were voted by people and gives powers to run Delhi to those who were defeated."The passage of the GNCTD (Amendment) Bill in Lok Sabha today is an insult to the people of Delhi. The Bill effectively takes away powers from those who were voted by people and gives powers to run Delhi to those who were defeated. BJP has cheated the people," Kejriwal tweeted.Earlier, Kejriwal had even urged the Centre to take back the bill and said the AAP dispensation was "ready to fall at the (Narendra) Modi government's feet" for its withdrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-says-passage-of-gnctd-bill-insult-to-people-of-delhi-101616425653121.html
22-03-2021||Pune||MSRTC Pune division to deploy officials at bus stands to check touts||Pune: Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) Pune division has decided to deploy vigilance staff to clear extra passenger rush and act against touts at the ST stands and pickup spots. Although there are special squads and guards at all the three ST stands in the city – Swargate, Shivajinagar which is now shifted to Wakdewadi and Pune station, the officials will be helping them during the vacation season.“We ply extra buses on various routes from Pune during summer vacation. As the holiday season is approaching, students, working people and other passengers travel to their hometown or tourist places across the state. All our ST stands are crowded with passengers and so to give better service, help and guidance to passengers, we have decided to deploy office staff at these stands. Accordingly, our officers will be working throughout the day at the stands and also at various pick-up points, including Katraj, Wakad, Bhosari phata, Hadapsar and Yerawada. We are following all Covid safety precautions at ST stands and no passenger without mask is allowed entry in a bus,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune division controller. “Also, we want to keep a close watch on private bus agents who take away our passengers from ST stands. Earlier, we had checkers at ST stand premises, but they can be recognised because of the uniform. Now these officials are in civil dress to check this illegal agent business at stands.” Gaikwad said. According to an ST official, touts and their travelling agencies park their buses and other small vehicles outside the ST stand and offer cheaper ticket rates to passengers visiting the ST stands. The MSRTC officials can only catch these agents and hand them over to local police stations.Shankar Jadhav, a passenger who often travels to his village near Nashik by ST buses, said, “Though there are additional buses plying from the stands, there is no coordination and proper management for reservations. A passenger new to the stand gets confused as to where to go for ticket reservation, parcel office and catch a bus for a certain destination. The stands should improve these facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-pune-division-to-deploy-officials-at-bus-stands-to-check-touts-101616426030399.html
22-03-2021||Other||Pvt hospitals in Kanpur run out of Covid vaccine||KANPUR Private hospitals in Kanpur have stopped inoculating elderly and co-morbid citizens as they have run out of Covid vaccine stocks. Fifteen private hospitals in the city have been giving the jabs to beneficiaries at ₹250 per shot (mostly Covishield vaccine). These facilities had booked 25,000 doses, but haven’t received the vials so far. “Many hospitals are left with no stock of Covid vaccines, despite booking, payments and regular reminders to the health department. The vials haven’t come yet,” said Dr MK Sarawgi, president of Kanpur Nursing Homes Association. “We called on the health department and the state government for early availability of vials. This is essential, if we are to meet the vaccination target for March,” he added. The target is to vaccinate 98,000 people in the age group 60 years or above this month. According to hospitals, the health department stopped supply to them four days ago. Health department officials said the decision is taken to ensure that government vaccination centres do not run out of supply. Dr GK Mishra, additional director (health), Kanpur division, said the fresh stock has been distributed in all six districts of the division. Kanpur has given a fresh demand and stock arrival is awaited. “Private hospitals are also requisitioning vaccines, which will be supplied to them as we get them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pvt-hospitals-in-kanpur-run-out-of-covid-vaccine-101616425610508.html
22-03-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Active caseload in Noida more than doubled in past 1 month||Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 29 new Covid-19 cases on Monday that pushed the district's tally to 25,784, official data showed.The active cases in the district continued its upward trend to reach 130 from 102 the previous day, according to data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department for a 24-hour period.A week ago, there were 73 active cases in the district while a month ago (February 22) the tally had reached 55, data from corresponding dates showed.Meanwhile, one patient got discharged during the last 24 hours in Gautam Buddh Nagar with the overall recoveries reaching 25,563 in the district, the fifth highest in the state, it showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar has a death toll of 91 with a mortality rate of 0.35 per cent. The recovery rate of patients dipped to 99.14 per cent from 99.25 per cent on Sunday, the statistics showed.There are 39 containment zones across Noida and Greater Noida, according to a list issued by the district administration on Monday. The last such list was issued on February 2 when the number of containment zones was 21.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state also continued an upward trend to reach 3,396 from 3,036 on Sunday while the overall recoveries reached 5,95,920 and the death toll reached 8,760 on Monday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-active-caseload-in-noida-more-than-doubled-in-past-1-month-101616422328326.html
22-03-2021||Other||PMC asks 40 pvt hospital to block 50% of bed capacity for Covid patients||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) held a meeting with 40 private hospitals in the city on Monday, to ensure the availability of beds for Covid patients, given that the city is in the grip of a second wave of the coronavirus infection.During the meeting, PMC officials asked the private hospitals to reserve at least 50 per cent of its bed capacity for Covid patients.This will add another 1,600 beds to the Covid count, in terms of bed availability. “The order from state to reserve 80 per cent beds for Covid patients and 20 per cent for non-Covid patients is still in place. As the number of Covid patients had declined in last few months we had relaxed this ratio. However, we held meeting with at least 40 private hospitals, in batches, and have asked them to reserve at least 50 per cent of their bed space for Covid patients. Otherwise, we will have to issue an order,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, PMC. Some hospitals have expressed a difficulty in increasing the number of beds for Covid patients, citing an increasing number of non-Covid patients. Abrarali Dalal, chief operating officer , Sahyadri Hospitals, said, “Considering the increasing number of Covid patients we are trying to increase beds across our units. However, on the other hand number of non-Covid patients is also intact and we have to give them required timely treatment and facilities. Therefore, it is going to be a challenge to keep a balance between both.”There are 23,000 active Covid patients in Pune, of which, 2,300 are in hospitals. Only 10 per cent of the patients are hospitalised. We have compared it to last year’s peak, when the hospitalisation rate was 18-20%,” said Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner. “We are starting the Jumbo centres with the intention of keeping a backup ready. If required, the Jumbo facility can operate 800 beds. Last year, there were 3,500 beds available in private hospitals for Covid patients. We can still increase the bed capacity. We are monitoring the situation every day,” Kumar added. The COEP Jumbo centre has been operational from Monday, with 55 beds. Rubal Agarwal claimed that the bed capacity will be increased to 500 by Friday. Rajendra Muthe, head, PMC estate department, said the number of Covid care centres for isolation has been increased in the city. “We have started Covid care centres in Rakshaknagar, Shivajinagar, Balewadi, and Gangadham. Soon we will start a centre at the Agriculture College (400 beds); Babasaheb Ambedkar Hostel, Yerwada (300 beds); and the Marathwada Mitra Mandal College (250 beds). Currently, we are giving preferences to PMC and government infrastructure when starting Covid care centres,” Muthe said. MoU to ensure free treatment for the poorThe PMC has also signed a memorandum of understandings (MoU) with two more private hospitals on Monday, for the treatment of Covid patients from the lower economic strata. As per the MoU, this treatment will be free under various health schemes. PMC has signed the MoU with Symbiosis (Lavale) and the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital in Cantonment. PMC already has an MoU with the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital and the Poona hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-asks-40-pvt-hospital-to-block-50-of-bed-capacity-for-covid-patients-101616425310563.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Pune receives rainfall for second day||Pune: Pune city received rainfall, along with thunderstorms, for the second consecutive day on Monday afternoon. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded 5 millimetre rainfall.Incidents of tree felling and damage to vehicles due to strong winds were reported from certain areas across the city though Pune police noted no damage to life. On Monday, Pune reported 35.4 degrees Celsius during day and 17.5 degrees Celsius during night.As per IMD forecast, the weather is likely to continue till March 23. Officials have attributed the rainfall to the weather systems active over the state and Pune city. IMD has forecasted day temperature likely to be 35 degrees Celsius during day and night temperature around 20 degrees Celsius till March 24 along with cloudy weather during the afternoon.On Monday, the highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was 38.6 degrees Celsius at Chandrapur. The lowest minimum temperature reported to be at 17.5 degrees Celsius at Pune city in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-receives-rainfall-for-second-day-101616424230317.html
22-03-2021||Other||Many challenges for Uttarakhand govt in checking Covid-19 spread during Mahakumbh||A day after the Union health secretary wrote to the state chief secretary raising concerns over “inadequate” preparations to handle Covid-19 spread in Haridwar Mahakumbh amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country, the Haridwar district administration and mela authorities have stepped up the preparations for the same. The administration continues to face challenges given the pilgrim numbers that will turn up during the world’s largest religious congregation. The health department has decided to increase the number of tests during Mahakumbh mela which is scheduled to start from April 1 and go on till April 30. A government order on the same is yet to come. It has also decided to especially focus on the devotees coming from states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, where the cases have significantly increased in the past few days. Many experts are terming it the “second wave” of Covid-19 spread. Chief medical officer, Haridwar, Dr SK Jha said that following the Centre’s instructions to ramp up Covid-19 precautions, the district health department has decided to increase the number of tests in the mela area by roping in private pathology companies also. “To ensure maximum random testing of pilgrims during the peak of Mahakumbh, especially during the Shahi Snans, we would increase the tests by about four times. We have also tied up with seven private pathology companies to conduct the Covid-19 tests,” said Dr Jha. He said that the administration has built a 1,500-bed Covid-19 facility for the purpose of isolating those devotees who test positive for the virus. “Apart from this, six temporary hospitals are also being built in the entire Mahakumbh area. Also, ashrams and medical colleges in Haridwar would also be utilised to ensure adequate beds for Covid-19 isolation during the fair which is expected to witness millions of devotees, especially during the Shahi Snans,” said Dr Jha. Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat had earlier eased out the Covid-19 restrictions in the Mahakumbh, including ending the mandatory Covid-19 RT-PCR negative test report, saying that, “the mega-event is held after every 12 years, hence devotees cannot be stopped from coming.” He had also promised to run extra buses to ferry devotees from neighbouring states to Haridwar apart from requesting railways to run extra trains during Shahi Snans during the Mahakumbh. His move was questioned by many experts apart from previous CM Trivendra Singh Rawat who had said that “lifting of restrictions would be highly risky for the state considering the rising number of cases in the country.” Later, on Saturday, during his visit to Haridwar, the chief minister had said that “the faith of devotees will overcome the fear of Covid-19” after which he tested positive for the virus on Monday. As part of precaution, the authorities would also conduct random sampling of people coming from public transport and private vehicles. “If any person is tested positive for the virus in public transport then he would be isolated in the Covid care centres as per the norms. However, if any person coming by his private vehicle tests positive, he would be turned back,” said Mahakumbh nodal health officer Dr AS Sengar. The official said that apart from trained doctors and nurses, medical students would also be deployed in the health facilities during Mahakumbh. He also stressed the strict adherence to Covid-19 precautions by those attending the mega-event. “To ensure compliance with the Centre’s guidelines, mela administration has started making relevant arrangements. Masks will be mandatory for all pilgrims which will be provided to them free of cost. Installing sanitiser dispensers, regular sanitization of Ganga ghats and water tap-soap facility for washing of hands is also being ensured by the mela administration,” he said. He also informed that during the first Shahi Snaan of Mahakumbh on March 11, around twenty teams of health department were formed for random checking of RT-PCR negative reports of pilgrims and tourists staying in hotels, lodges, ashrams, dharamshalas and guest houses. Amid the recent spike in Covid-19 positive cases, the administration on Monday held a meeting with dharamshala, hotels, tour-travel association, and traders to take adequate preventive measures regarding Covid-19. “From now onwards, the authorities would be checking hotels, lodges and dharamshalasas daily to ensure that they are adhering to the Covid guidelines,” said additional mela officer Ramji Sharan Sharma. Apart from the health administration, the police have also geared up to implement the Covid-19 precautions during Mahakumbh. Circle officer Kumbh traffic, Prakash Deoli, said, “Owing to a large number of pilgrims coming from buses and private vehicles, we have already enhanced the infrastructure at border check posts along with a ready to implement route diversion plan in case of pilgrim influx increasing during Mahakumbh.” He added, “The entry points to Haridwar from Narsain, Mandavar, Kali Nadi, Chidiyapur, Chila canal and Raiwala will be manned by state police and paramilitary forces personnel to ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines are followed by all.” The experts are, however, sceptical with the administration’s claims regarding the Covid-19 precautions, especially on the number of tests being done by it on a daily basis in Haridwar. Social activist Anoop Nautiyal, who had been keeping an eye on the pandemic situation in the state since the lockdown, said, “As far as the letter by the Union health secretary to state chief secretary is concerned, it suggests that the state has informed him that the government is conducting about 55,000 Covid-19 tests daily, something that is hard to believe.” “As per the daily health bulletin issued by the state health department, from March 1-21, a total of about 1 lakh tests have been conducted with about 5,000 tests every day, which is much less than what is claimed by the state before the Centre. With the number of cases rising again, the state should ensure foolproof facilities to handle the spread else it could prove very deadly for us considering the limited resources we have,” said Nautiyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/many-challenges-for-uttarakhand-govt-in-checking-covid-19-spread-during-mahakumbh-101616423990935.html
22-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Nomination for bypolls to 3 assembly seats starts from Tuesday||The nomination process for the bypolls to three Assembly constituencies in Rajasthan is set to begin from Tuesday.The last date for filing nominations is March 30 while the scrutiny of papers will be held on March 31.Nominations can be withdrawn by April 3. Polling will be held on April 17 and the counting will take place on May 2.Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta said only two persons, including the candidate, with two vehicles will be allowed to enter the office for filing nominations in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.The bypolls are being held for Sahara, Sujangarh (SC) and Rajsamand seats, which were earlier represented by Kailsh Trivedi, Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal (both from Congress) and Kiran Maheshari (BJP), respectively.The bypolls have been necessitated due the demise of the sitting legislators.While Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal, who was the social justice and empower minister in the Ashok Gehlot cabinet, died due to a brain stroke, Kailash Trivedi and Kiran Maheshwari died from coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-nomination-for-bypolls-to-3-assembly-seats-starts-from-tuesday-101616422343492.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Pune RTO collects ₹2.07 cr in a month from violators under special drive||Pune: The Pune regional transport office (RTO), in a special drive launched last month, took action against 1,000 vehicles and collected record fine of ₹2.07 crore. The amount collected is the highest by the Pune RTO division in a given month. The fines were slapped for not having vehicle permit, vehicle insurance, payment of road transport tax, overloaded vehicles, not wearing helmet, reflector on vehicles and other violations. Three squads of RTO inspectors were appointed for the drive that was undertaken from February. “Three squads under the supervision of senior officials were appointed. These teams carried out the drive across the Pune district and 2,450 vehicles were checked and fine of ₹2,07,70,000 was collected. While 993 vehicle owners were found in violation of the rules under the Motor Vehicle Act, 218 vehicles were seized for flouting other rules and regulations,” said Ajit Shinde, Pune regional transport officer. The officer said that the drive was an effort to ensure safe and secure transportation and sensitise vehicle users about traffic rules. Under the Pune RTO division, there are sub-divisions of Pimpri-Chinchwad and Baramati RTO and the drive was taken throughout the divisions. RTO inspectors were given duties in rotation on highways and spots in and around the city. Vehicles, including cars, heavy vehicles, autos, trucks and tempos were checked in random.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rto-collects-rs-2-07-cr-in-a-month-from-violators-under-special-drive-101616423090285.html
22-03-2021||Other||COEP Jumbo centre opens with 55 beds; to increase to 500 by Friday||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Monday, restarted its Jumbo Covid facility at the College of Engineering Pune (COEP) in Shivajinagar, with 55 beds. “We have issued the work order for 250 beds as of now. If everything runs smoothly, then a work order for 250 beds will be given. So, by Friday, 500 beds will be available at this Jumbo facility. This time, we do not want to take any chances,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner. After being made operational on August 23, 2020, there were several complaints regarding the Jumbo hospital. Major goof ups were reported, including critical Covid-19 patients facing a shortage of ventilators and inferior food, resulting in patients seeking an early discharge. The agency which had been initially appointed to operate the Jumbo hospital had to withdraw within 15 days, following the series of complaints. Officials said even as they have restarted the facility, walk- in admissions will not be allowed. Those who want to get admitted to the Jumbo facility will have to contact the PMC’s war room first. “Admission of patients to the Jumbo hospital will be done from the PMC war room. We will keep walk-in admissions at a minimum, putting them in casualty to complete the process. We emphasise admissions through our central procedure,” said Rubal Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/coep-jumbo-centre-opens-with-55-beds-to-increase-to-500-by-friday-101616422670288.html
22-03-2021||Noida||Air quality 'poor' in Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurgaon||The average air quality was recorded in the "poor" category in Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurgaon, according to data issued by a government agency on Monday.Statistics for Greater Noida were not available, while pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the air of the other four immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Monday was 238 in Ghaziabad, 207 in Noida, 251 in Faridabad and 170 in Gurgaon, the CPCB's Sameer app stated.On Sunday, the AQI was 300 in Ghaziabad, 301 in Greater Noida, 260 in Noida, 287 in Faridabad and 245 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that an AQI in the "very poor" category may lead to respiratory illness on prolonged exposure, while "poor" may cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all monitoring stations there.Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Noida have four such stations, while Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-poor-in-noida-ghaziabad-faridabad-gurgaon-101616420832171.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Pune schools offer loans to parents unable to pay fees: Assn||Pune: Parents Association, Pune has alleged that private schools in the city have now arranged financiers for parents to seek loan and pay the academic fees. The school management is also harassing students who have not paid fees during the online classes. Addressing a press meet on Monday, Jayshree Deshpande, president, Parents Association, Pune, said that Pune district does not have a district fee regulation committee (DFRC). “State education minister Varsha Gaikwad had assured us that DFRC will be formed for Pune district to address the issue of overcharging of fees, but no step has been taken yet despite one month.” The association reported that the education department does not have a list of affiliated schools in the district.“By law, it is mandatory for the education department to publish the list of affiliated schools in the district after March every month,” said Deshpande, adding that students of parents who are unable to pay full academic fees because of the pandemic face harassment during online classes. “Stress and depression are reported by many students. Now, the 15- 20 per cent parents who are unable to pay fees are given the option of financers by the school. Parents are asked to take the school fee as a loan from these financers at 3 to 4 per cent interest. And if a parent refuses, the child is harassed during online classes,” said Deshpande.The association said that the education department is yet to release the audit of 17 schools that are overcharging fees from parents. Audumbar Ukirde, deputy director of education, said that despite several show cause notices to education officers there has been a delay in giving the list of affiliated schools.“The department officials cite March-end as the reason for not submitting the report. Hence, we expect the list of schools that are affiliated after March,” said Ukirde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-schools-offer-loans-to-parents-unable-to-pay-fees-assn-101616419730109.html
22-03-2021||Other||Cutting cake with tricoloured map, Ashoka Chakra ‘not an insult’: Madras HC||The Madras high court on Monday said that “hyper and surfeit” nationalism “goes against the prosperity of our nation” while ruling that cutting a cake in the form of the Indian map in tricolour and eating it doesn’t amount to an offence under the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act. Justice N Anand Venkatesh quashed a magistrate’s direction to the Coimbatore Police to register a case against those who cut a cake like that and said that “symbolisation of national pride is not synonymous with patriotism, just like how cutting a cake is not unpatriotic.”On December 25, 2013, a large cake iced with a tricoloured outline of India’s map with the Ashoka Chakra in the centre was cut, distributed and consumed by more than 2,500 people, including 1,000 children, in Coimbatore district. According to the complainant D Senthilkumar, the celebrations were also attended by the Coimbatore district collector, deputy police commissioner, various religious leaders and members of several Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs). The complainant’s grievance was that the representation of the Indian flag on the cake and the cutting of the same amounted to an offence under Section 2 of The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971. Also Read | DMK leader humiliated lower caste people, judges: Madras HC“Patriotism is not determined by a gross physical act. The intention behind the act will be the true test,” the court observed. The justice said how the participants felt as they left the function must be considered. “Will they be feeling great pride in belonging to this great nation, or would the pride of India have come down on the mere cutting of a cake during the celebration? Without any hesitation, this court can hold that the participants would have felt only the former,” the court said. The judge compared the cake-cutting to people wearing the flag and discarding it after Independence Day or Republic Day celebration. “If persons are allowed to give such broad meaning to the word ‘insult’, many will become very uncomfortable and hesitant to handle the national flag,” the court observed. The court drew from the Rig Veda on the Indian ethos of tolerance and recalled Rabindranath Tagore’s remarks that, “Patriotism cannot be our final spiritual shelter; my refuge is humanity. I will not buy glass for the price of diamonds, and I will never allow patriotism to triumph over humanity as long as I live.” To underscore its judgement,, the court cited late jurist NA Palkhivala and American philosopher Ralph Waldo Emerson and said that “a patriot is not one who only raises the flag, symbolises his national pride and wears it on his sleeve, but also, a person who bats for good governance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cutting-cake-with-tricoloured-map-ashoka-chakra-not-an-insult-madras-hc-101616418410719.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Lok Sabha clears bill which gives Delhi L-G more power||The Lok Sabha on Monday cleared the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to give more powers to the Lieutenant Governor in matters related to national capital’s governance. The bill was introduced by the central government in the Lower House of Parliament on March 15.Under the bill, the Delhi government will have to compulsorily seek the Lieutenant Governor’s approval before taking any executive action. The bill also says that the government in the national capital would refer to the Lieutenant Governor in context of any law to be made by the legislative assembly.Chief minister and AAP’s national convenor Arvind Kejriwal reacted sharply to the passing of this legislation and labelled it as an insult to Delhi’s people. Taking it to Twitter, he wrote, “The Bill effectively takes away powers from those who were voted by people & gives powers to run Delhi to those who were defeated. BJP has cheated the people.”Kejriwal had earlier too accused the BJP-led central government of seeking to drastically reduce the powers of the Delhi government by this bill. Echoing his concern, the opposition party Congress also criticised the bill. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar said on March 16 that the Delhi government’s role will come down to a “mere puppet” at the hands of the L-G.Passage of GNCTD amendment Bill in Lok Sabha today is an insult to the people of Delhi. The Bill effectively takes away powers from those who were voted by people and gives powers to run Delhi to those who were defeated. BJP has cheated the peopleTrinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had also joined the pack of leaders opposing the NCT bill. In a letter addressed to her Delhi counterpart on March 18, Banerjee expressed her full support to Kejriwal over the opposition of the bill and stated that the Centre’s move “devious, anti-democratic and anti-constitution “The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has supported the bill by saying that it would ensure better coordination between the Centre and Delhi. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said last week the bill eliminates existing ambiguities and will ensure speedy development in the Capital. “The bill is aimed at promoting harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive. It clearly defines the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lt governor,” Gupta told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lok-sabha-clear-bill-which-gives-delhi-l-g-more-power-101616418091686.html
22-03-2021||Other||Kerala HC refuses to interfere in EC decision to reject nomination papers||The Kerala High Court on Monday rejected the plea of three candidates of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), questioning rejection of their nomination papers by election officials two days ago. The HC agreed to the contention of the Election Commission that it cannot intervene after the poll notification was issued.Papers of three NDA candidates from Thalasserry, Guruvayur and Devikulam were rejected by poll officers on the last day of the scrutiny on Friday after they failed to carry their respective national president’s signature and other details. In Thalasserry and Guruvayur the form A, in which the party national president authorizes the party state leaders to allocate the symbol, lacked the signature of the president, EC officials said while rejecting their papers.In Devikulam in Idukki district, papers of an AIADMK (an ally of the NDA) candidate was rejected for alleged defects in Form 26, an affidavit submitted by the candidate. But the BJP alleged extraneous considerations and moved the court. The latest move has invited enough embarrassment to the NDA which will go to the poll without candidates in three constituencies. The Election Commission has questioned the maintainability of the petitions citing Article 359B of the constitution and argued that matter can be moved through an election petition and that too after the elections. The single bench of the court, headed by Justice N Nagaresh, later upheld its contention.Counsel for Thalasserry candidate, N Haridas, later said different yardsticks were applied by returning officers at different places. He pointed out that at many places, such lapses occurred and returning officers asked respective candidates to correct them but here no such opportunity was given.The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) said these lapses were deliberate and it was a drama enacted by the BJP and the Congress. “Even a school student won’t commit such errors. Now BJP votes will be transferred to Congress candidates and in return, the party will do some favours to the saffron party,” said CPI(M) Kannur district secretary MV Jayarajan. The BJP said it will seek legal opinion to redress its complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-hc-refuses-to-interfere-in-ec-decision-to-reject-nomination-papers-101616416130670.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Nagpur again records over 3,000 new cases of Covid-19; tally close to 2 lakh||Nagpur, one of the districts devastated by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in worst-hit Maharashtra, recorded a other spike of 3,596 new cases on Monday, according to district authority's data reported by news agency ANI. With this, the total number of cases in the district reached 1,96,676.It also recorded 40 fresh fatalities, which took the death toll to 4,664 in the last 24 hours, the government data showed.In Nagpur, 1,837 people were discharged from hospitals on Monday, after which the total recoveries reached 1,60,945.On Sunday, the district recorded 3,614 cases of Covid-19.In wake of increasing Covid-19 cases, Nagpur district authorities on Saturday decided to extend the lockdown till March 31.Only essential services such as vegetable and fruit shops and milk booths will stay open, according to the order issued by the district administration.Earlier, the state government decided to impose a lockdown in Nagpur district from March 15 to 21.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Sunday reported 30,535 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest rise in a single day, according to state health department.With this, the state's overall tally of the infections mounted to 24,79,682 while 99 fatalities pushed the toll to 53,399.The fresh spike in the cases came just three days after Maharashtra recorded its highest rise in a single day at 25,833. The previous highest spike was 24,896 in September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nagpur-again-records-over-3-000-new-cases-of-covid-19-40-related-fatalities-101616415475633.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Legal age to drink lowered to 21 from 25 in Delhi, announces Manish Sisodia||Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday announced lowering of legal age to drink liquor in the national capital to 21 from 25. He also said that no new liquor shops will be opened in Delhi."The legal age to drink in Delhi will now be 21. There will be no government liquor stores in Delhi. No new liquor shops will be opened in the national capital," Sisodia said at a press conference announcing changes to the national capital's excise policy."The new excise policy was approved by the Cabinet today on basis of the recommendations of the Group of Ministers. At present, 60 per cent liquor shops in Delhi are run by the government," Sisodia said."Government will ensure equitable distribution of liquor shops so that liquor mafia are thrown out of the trade. A revenue growth of 20 per cent is estimated after the reforms in excise department," he added.Delhi was one of only six states or union territories that pegged the benchmark at 25. An expert committee set up by the government recommended in December that the legal drinking age be changed to 21.In other cities such as Mumbai, only hard liquor is barred for those under 25, while wine and beer is allowed at 21. In major global cities such as New York and London, the drinking age is 21 and 18 respectively.This comes after the recent government data, which showed that the per capita income for a resident of Delhi in 2019-20 was ₹3,89,143. This is almost three times the national figure of ₹1,34,432.This indicates that the city has the required buying power inc ase the legal age is reduced. As for the demand side, 58% of Delhi’s population is below 30 and 68% of this fall under the working age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/legal-age-to-drink-lowered-to-21-from-25-in-delhi-announces-manish-sisodia-101616412974581.html
22-03-2021||Other||Andhra CM likely to shift his camp office to Visakhapatnam in May||The much-awaited shifting of executive capital of Andhra Pradesh from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam, at least partially, is most likely to happen in the first week of May, officials familiar with the development in the state government said.Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed officials to complete the arrangements for operating his camp office in Visakhapatnam in May.“Though there is no official confirmation of any specific date as of now, but in all probability, the chief minister wants to shift the CMO to Visakhapatnam before May 6,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Relief for Naidu as HC stays CID probe in Amaravati land caseIn January 2020, the Jagan Reddy government announced the creation of three capital cities for Andhra Pradesh – executive capital at Viskahapatnam, legislative capital at Amaravati and judicial capital at Kurnool.On July 31, Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan gave his assent to the two bills passed by the state legislature – one for the creation of three capitals and another abolishing the AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) formed in 2014 to develop Amaravati as the capital city.However, the implementation of the legislation hit a legal hurdle, as the farmers of Amaravati, who have been agitating against the formation of three capitals, challenged the government’s decision in the high court. More than 90 petitions are pending before the high court in various stages of hearing.“The hearing on these petitions, which could not be held for a long time due to the coronavirus disease pandemic, will resume on March 25. The principal bench of the high court will take up continuous hearings and we are hopeful of a favourable verdict soon,” a CMO official familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.According to him, the disposal of the case in the high court notwithstanding, nothing will prevent the chief minister from operating his office from Visakhapatnam. “A chief minister can work from anywhere in the state according to his convenience. Naturally, the administrative machinery should be available at his disposal. But legally, Amaravati continues to be the state capital till a final judgement is delivered by the court of law,” he said.“Several arrangements are being made in for the shifting of chief minister’s residence at Rishikonda and the camp office at Kapuluppada. There is talk of the CMO moving here in May, but nobody is confirming,” VV Ramana Murthy, a senior journalist in Visakhapatnam, said.AP Secretariat Employees’ Association president K Venkatrami Reddy, however, said they received no instructions from the government about shifting to Visakhapatnam.“The employees are ready to move to Visakhapatnam, but there have been no discussions with the government in this regard till now,” Venkatrami Reddy said. He, however, added the employees would prefer that the shifting take place before the commencement of the next academic year.The ruling YSRCP now has a strong argument to defend Jagan Reddy’s decision to shift the executive capital to Visakhapatnam from Amaravati, after last week’s stupendous victory in the municipal elections.The YSRCP recorded a massive victory in the municipal corporations in Guntur and Vijayawada and Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation, the proposed executive capital with comfortable majority.“It clearly shows that the people have endorsed the chief minister’s concept of forming three capitals for holistic development of the state with the executive capital at Visakhapatnam,” YSRCP general secretary and parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy said.On the other hand, it was a big setback for the main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) which hoped to win Guntur municipal corporation by cashing in on the disgruntlement among the farmers of Amaravati over the capital shift. Following the defeat, the party has been silent on the demand to retain the capital at Amaravati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-cm-likely-to-shift-his-camp-office-to-visakhapatnam-in-may-101616413130517.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal to legalise cannabis cultivation to boost economy||Himachal Pradesh hopes to earn ₹18,000 crore annually by undertaking the controlled cultivation of cannabis to ease its debt burden that has grown to ₹60,500 crore in the Covid-19 pandemic year besides generating job opportunities. Announcing the decision during the recent budget session of the assembly, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said, “The cannabis produced in the state is of high quality and there is potential to undertake its controlled cultivation. Under the NDPS Act, 1985, there are provisions for the cultivation, production, maintenance and transportation of cannabis.” Himachal Pradesh is not the first state to legalise cannabis cultivation for medicinal purposes and industrial use to boost its economy. Neighbouring Uttarakhand did so in 2017 followed by Madhya Pradesh, another BJP-ruled state. After two decades of debate, the hill state will draw up a policy for the cultivation of cannabis, which is otherwise exploited for making narcotics. Charas worth ₹960 cr smuggled out each year An estimated 2,400 acres in Himachal Pradesh is under organised illicit cultivation of cannabis. Charas worth ₹960 crore is smuggled out of the state each year and finds its way to western European and Scandinavian countries, while in Israel there is demand for Malana cream. The lower quality illicit charas cultivated in Shimla, Chamba and Sirmour districts has a market in Rajasthan. Hemp, the plant from which charas is extracted as resin, grows in the wild in all districts of the state barring Lahaul and Spiti. In the remote regions of Kullu district, hybrid hemp is sown clandestinely by foreigners to extract high-quality charas, which is sold at exorbitant prices abroad and at key destinations in India. Kullu legislator Sunder Singh Thakur, who had been advocating that cannabis cultivation be legalised, says “Cannabis extract is used in manufacturing medicines for the treatment of cancer and Alzheimer’s. It will generate employment opportunities.” Will generate 50,000 jobs, benefit 2.8 lakh families The decision to allow controlled cultivation of cannabis comes amid pandemic-induced unemployment and limited resources of income. Covid-19 hit primary sector mining, slowed down manufacturing and transportation and impacted tourism in the tertiary sector. Tourism, which contributes 7% to the state gross domestic product (GDP), is the mainstay of livelihood but it took a massive hit with tourist inflow down 76% last year as compared to a decade ago. “The state is facing a financial crisis. The controlled cultivation of cannabis will boost the economy as the government aims to earn ₹18,000 crore,” says Pradeep Chauhan, a retired economic adviser to the state government. The initiative will provide employment nearly 50,000 youngsters and directly benefit 2.8 lakh families in the low-income group, he says. Hemp, from tradition to mafia Traditionally, hemp was grown in parts of old Himachal, comprising Shimla, Mandi, Kullu, Chamba and Sirmaur. Its fibre was used to make baskets, ropes and slippers and its seeds were used in traditional cooking. In the 1980s, foreign visitors or hippies taught villagers in Kullu district to extract the intoxicant resin or charas from the hemp plant. Foreign drug mafia operated behind them and soon scores of villages in Kullu started making a livelihood from charas extracted from the hemp or cannabis sativa plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-to-legalise-cannabis-cultivation-to-boost-economy-101616413074575.html
22-03-2021||Jaipur||Farmers’ protest: Rakesh Tikait to hold mahapanchayat in Jaipur tomorrow||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait will address a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Jaipur on Tuesday. Raja Ram Meel, president of the Jat Mahasabha, said the mahapanchayat will be held at Vidhyadhar Nagar stadium. It will also be the first such event in Jaipur to be addressed by Tikait, he said. “Earlier, he has held a few meetings in other districts, such as Hanumangarh and Ganganagar,” Meel said. “Farmers have understood that the Modi government has cheated them. The government is planning to hand over the agriculture sector to industrialists and farmers understand that. Therefore, there are countrywide protests against the farm laws,” he said. Meel said the BJP will suffer huge losses in elections, including the bypolls on three assembly seats in Rajasthan next month, over farmers’ issue. Earlier, Tikait held mahapanchayats in the districts of Alwar, Bharatpur, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Nagaur, Jodhpur, Karauli. More than 250 organisations in the state have pledged support to the mahapanchayat so far. These include CPI, CPM, Bhim Army, Rajasthan Jat Mahasabha, Jamiat-Ulema-Ae-Hind, and Akhil Bhartiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad. BJP leaders say that through Tikait’s mahapanchayats, the Congress is only trying to make up lost ground. “The farmers’ protest and Kisan Mahapanchayat have completely become political. They [the Congress] want to keep the farmers’ issue alive so they are sponsoring and supporting Rakesh Tikait’s mahapanchayat but they should understand that the farmers of the state are not connected with them,” said Mukesh Pareek, BJP state spokesperson. However, state Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said, “BJP is frustrated because of the farmers’ protest. The mahapanchayat is being organised by the farmers, for the farmers. We are supporting it morally as our party also wants the black farm laws to be rolled back.” Tikait, who has been travelling to neighbouring states to garner support for the farmers’ protest, most of which is concentrated on Delhi borders since November 2020, has warned that the stir may continue till December this year.Speaking to mediapersons in Prayagraj earlier this month, the BKU national spokesperson said, “Had this government belonged to a political party, it would have talked to farmers and resolved the matter...But this government is being run by big business houses. It is bent upon selling the entire country.” Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national Capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/farmers-protest-rakesh-tikait-to-hold-mahapanchayat-in-jaipur-tomorrow-101616412890562.html
22-03-2021||Bangalore||I followed a boy to Bengaluru: Mayanti Langer||She is synonymous with sports anchoring in India, and her poise and grace has endeared her to millions who tune in to watch sports with love. Currently, she is being missed on TV as Mayanti Langer is on a break in Bengaluru after the birth of her baby boy last year.“My network was very supportive when I had told them of my plans to start a family. They moved a lot of things around for me; I continued to host till I was five months along, and I wasn’t really showing. I would have loved to continue anchoring till the end of my pregnancy, but the lockdown happened. I do believe that it would have been liberating to show on television that I was pregnant; it is a great message to all women out there who want to continue to work,” says Langer. The anchor, who started out as a guest sports anchor for a Football event before becoming one of India’s most prolific sports anchors, has had her share of detractors. Talking about dealing with trolls online, Langer says, “When I wasn’t pregnant, people used to fat shame me; surprisingly I lost a lot of weight post the pregnancy, and now people comment that I look malnourished. I’ve always believed you can’t make everyone happy, so it’s best to ignore the negativity.”Originally from Delhi, Langer’s work takes her to Mumbai, and she flies back to Bengaluru to be with her family. The sports anchor describes how she moved to the garden city, around a decade ago. “I followed a boy to Bengaluru (laughs). When I had met Stuart (cricketer Stuart Binny) and we started getting serious, we decided to stay together after we got engaged. That is how Bengaluru happened. I knew it was a long term commitment; my husband got an apartment for us and that is how I came to be here. I love the city, it has a charm about it,” says Langer. “From Cubbon Park to Chinnaswamy Stadium, there are so many places that I’ve come to like and we have a great group of friends here, so it feels like home,” she adds.But did she feel out of place when she first moved here? “Absolutely! I was a proper Delhiite. We would dress to the nines for an evening out with friends. But here, there is a calmer pub culture as opposed to Delhi’s clubbing scene. I remember being stared at when I once wore heels for an outing while everyone else was dressed down,” she reminisces. What’s next? “I’ve had what we call a pandemic pregnancy and my baby is a pandemic baby. I had to be completely isolated since I was in the high-risk category during my pregnancy, so as of now I am not thinking about a career or going back to work.”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/i-followed-a-boy-to-bengaluru-mayanti-langer-101616412291667.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Deshmukh was in Nagpur hospital, couldn’t have met Vaze in Feb, says Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar said on Monday that the allegations against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh are incorrect and there is no reason to call for his resignation. He pointed out that contrary to former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s letter where he mentioned that Deshmukh met Sachin Vaze, a police officer who has been suspended in connection with the Ambani bomb scare case in February, the home minister was at a Nagpur hospital for Covid-19 treatment. He said a probe into the allegations was chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s prerogative.In his letter, Param Bir Singh accused Deshmukh of asking Vaze to “accumulate ₹100 crore per month from bars, restaurants and other establishments in the city”. Deshmukh has denied all the allegations. Pawar also said that the allegations were made to divert attention from the Antilia bomb scare case in which gelatin sticks were planted in a car parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani residence in South Mumbai.Even as Pawar claimed that Deshmukh was in a Nagpur hospital from February 5-15 and then in home quarantine till February 27, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis raised questions over the minister’s public appearance on February 15. Another BJP leader, Amit Malviya, said the home minister met a delegation of state Congress leaders on February 8, claiming that Indian celebrities reacted to international pop icon Rihanna’s tweet on farmers’ protest under pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also Read | Ex-Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh moves SC for CBI probe against DeshmukhParam Bir Singh, who was transferred from his post to Commandant General of Home Guards, Maharashtra, on March 17, made the charges in a letter a few days after Deshmukh told reporters that the transfer was not routine but due to “serious and unpardonable mistakes” committed by police officers in the Antilia security scare investigation.Defending the minister, Pawar showed a certificate issued by Alexis multi-specialty Hospital, Nagpur, where Deshmukh was admitted for Covid-19 treatment between February 5 and 15. After being discharged, Deshmukh was home quarantined till February 27, following doctors’ advice, he said.“Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, in his letter, stated that Sachin Vaze, the controversial police officer arrested in Antilia bomb scare case, met the home minister (in Mumbai) in mid-February whereas the hospital certificate shows that Deshmukh was hospitalised for Covid-19 treatment between February 5 and 15 in Nagpur. Later, he was home quarantined till February 27,” Pawar said.“In view of fresh evidence...it would not be fair to take Anil Deshmukh’s resignation… The BJP’s demand for home minister’s resignation has no substance… I am absolutely clear that allegations made against Deshmukh are incorrect as he was in Nagpur,” the NCP chief said.Meanwhile, in connection with Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran’s death, ATS Mumbai have arrested two persons. The car parked near the Ambani residence with gelatin sticks was linked to Hiran. “There are some names which need to be investigated, which certain people may not like and thus, allegations were made against the home minister,” he said, adding, “I don’t want the probe to be diverted.” Also Read | Param Bir Singh takes charge as Director General of Maharashtra Home GuardThe BJP alleged that Pawar was misleading the public. “Shri Sharad Pawar ji said, from 15th to 27th February HM Anil Deshmukh was in home quarantine. But actually along with security guards & media, he was seen taking press conference!,” Fadnavis tweeted.Responding to Fadnavis, home minister Deshmukh said in a video statement that he met mediapersons before leaving the hospital. “I was infected with coronavirus and was admitted to Alexis hospital, Nagpur, between February 5 and 15. After being discharged on February 15, I answered a few media queries sitting on a chair because I was fit by then. Later, I left for my residence and was home quarantined till February 27. I stepped out of my home on February 28,” Deshmukh said.BJP leader Malviya also tweeted, “On 8th February, a delegation of the Congress party met Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, claiming that influential voices tweeted against anti-India voices, under pressure from the BJP. Where did the delegation meet Anil Deshmukh? In the hospital?” Racting to the claims, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the meeting was held online. “What @PawarSpeaks ji is saying is right. I had two online meetings with @AnilDeshmukhNCP one on 8th Feb with a demand to inquire into the tweets of celebrities and another on 24th February to demand investigation into the Delkar suicide case because HM was infected with covid and was hospitalized and then quarantined,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deshmukh-was-in-nagpur-hospital-couldn-t-have-met-vaze-in-feb-says-pawar-101616406650048.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Remain alert, follow Covid-19 guidelines during Holi: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on Monday underlined the need to remain alert amid a resurgence in coronavirus cases, and appealed to people to take precautions during Holi festival.He also said government hospitals in Delhi are considering staggered timings for OPD patients in view of the increase in Covid-19 cases.“There is a need to remain alert and wear masks all the time. Strict action is being taken against those found without a mask and violating social distancing norms,” Jain told reporters.He also urged the people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour during Holi on March 28-29.The health minister had on Sunday said the Delhi government has been conducting aggressive testing and contact tracing, and the recent spike in fresh coronavirus cases will also be contained soon.Delhi reported over 800 cases for the second day on the trot on Sunday.The active cases stand at 3,618. The positivity rate remains at over 1 per cent for the second consecutive day, according to a bulletin.The 823 new infections have pushed the Covid tally in the national capital to 6,47,984, whereas 6.32 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. There were 813 new cases on Saturday, 716 on Friday, 607 on Thursday, 536 on Wednesday and 425 on Tuesday, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/remain-alert-follow-covid-19-guidelines-during-holi-satyendar-jain-101616405930694.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Random testing for Covid-19 to begin at Delhi airport, railway stations||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday decided to start random testing passengers at the airport and all railway stations in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi. A senior official who attended the meeting said on condition of anonymity that contrary to a few reports, there will be no blanket ban on holi celebrations in the Capital. However, a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) is likely to be issued soon by the Delhi government to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in any such celebration happening in the city is followed. Enforcement will be intensified and there will be a crackdown against those who do not wear masks or do not maintain social distancing. Also Read | Monday musings: Fatal flirt with Covid-19 will bring back lockdown“Since there are festivals coming, experts and the lieutenant governor stressed on the need for more caution and regulation. It was decided that the government will start random testing at the Delhi airport and all railway stations. Passengers coming from states with high incidences of Covid-19 cases will be the main focus of such random testing. But, others will also be checked,” the official said.Vaccination will also be increased, with special focus on the economically weaker section as they do not have access to digital platforms to register for the inoculation drive, a second official said, requesting anonymity.The existing strategy of cluster-based surveillance, testing and genome sequencing will continue. Delhi, on Sunday, reported 823 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a span of 24 hours, according to data from the health department. This was the second time in two days that Delhi’s Covid-19 daily tally crossed 800.The increase has been particularly sharp since last Monday, March 15, when the city saw 368 cases. The trend is in tandem with similar rise in infections in several other states, particularly Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana. Overall, the weekly average of new cases a day across India has risen from around 23,500 on March 15 to over 31,600 on March 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/random-testing-for-covid-19-to-begin-at-delhi-airport-railway-stations-101616404310137.html
22-03-2021||Lucknow||BSP supremo Mayawati attacks Uttar Pradesh govt over Hathras case||BSP chief Mayawati on Monday targeted the Yogi Adityanath government over the Hathras gangrape case, saying new facts emerging in the matter have raised serious questions on the working of the state governmentHer remarks come in the backdrop of the Allahabad High Court directing the Hathras district judge and CRPF Inspector General, central sector, to inquire whether the prosecution witness and the lawyers of the girl who was allegedly raped and died due to injuries were threatened before a special judge during the trial on March 5.In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said the difficulties faced by the family of the Hathras gangrape victim in getting justice are well known, but the new facts in this regard revealed in the court have once again raised serious questions on working of the state government in ensuring justice to the victim.“The high court taking cognisance of new facts in the Hathras case and ordering an inquiry into threats to witnesses and other issues has put the UP government in the dock and the people have been forced to think as to how victims will get justice,"' she said."Is the common perception that criminals rule in UP and it is very difficult to get justice wrong," she asked.The 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment.The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family".Directing the special judge (SC/ST Act) Hathras to conduct in-camera proceedings of the trial henceforth, the bench had warned that if any person tried to disturb the trial or attempted to threaten the life, liberty and property of the victim's family and the witnesses in any manner, it would take very serious action, including initiating contempt proceedings.The bench was hearing an application moved by the victim's brother who alleged that on March 5 that a mob, which included some lawyers, created a ruckus in the trial court and threatened the lawyer and two witnesses who had come to depose in the court on that date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-supremo-mayawati-attacks-uttar-pradesh-govt-over-hathras-case-101616403888630.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Pawar again backs Anil Deshmukh, cites Covid-19 diagnosis to question Param Bir||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said on Monday it was Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s prerogative to decide if there should be a probe into the allegations levelled by Param Bir Singh, the former commissioner of Mumbai Police, against home minister Anil Deshmukh. Deshmukh has been accused by Singh of asking arrested assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze to “accumulate ₹100 crore per month from bars, restaurants and other establishments in the city.”“I won’t be making any such demand… I am absolutely clear that the allegations made against Deshmukh are incorrect as he was in Nagpur,” Pawar said addressing reporters at his residence in Delhi.In his letter to Shiv Sena chief Thackeray, Singh had mentioned meeting Deshmukh at his residence “in and around mid-February.” It was at this meeting, the senior police officer alleged that the home minister gave Vaze the target to accumulate ₹100 crore a month.Also Read | Param Bir Singh confirms he sent letter to Maharashtra CM Uddhav ThackerayThe senior NCP leader once again backed Deshmukh citing coronavirus disease. “Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in his letter stated that Sachin Vaze met the home minister in mid-February whereas the hospital certificate clearly states that he was hospitalised for Covid-19 treatment between February 5 and 15 in Nagpur. Later, he was home quarantined in Nagpur,” Pawar said.Speaking about the ongoing probe by the Maharashtra Anti-terrorism Squad (ATS) into businessman Mansukh Hiran’s death, Pawar remarked that it was going in the right direction and that two people have been arrested in connection with the case. The Thane-based Hiran was the owner of the explosive-laden SUV that was found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai on February 25. He was found dead on March 5.Also Read | 2 suspects in Mansukh Hiran’s suspicious death sent to 10 days of police custodyAfter a meeting at Pawar’s residence in Delhi last night, NCP leader Jayant Patil had said that Deshmukh would not be asked to resign. Deshmukh has already dismissed allegations made by Singh and threatened the police officer with a defamation case. Singh was transferred as the commandant general of Home Guards last Wednesday over his ‘mishandling’ of the probe into the Ambani bomb scare case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pawar-again-backs-anil-deshmukh-cites-covid-19-diagnosis-to-question-param-bir-101616403695069.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh takes charge as Director General of Maharashtra Home Guard||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Monday took charge as the Director General (DG) of Maharashtra Home Guard, a police official said.Singh reached the Home Guard office in south Mumbai around noon but avoided speaking to media persons.Under flak for handling of the bomb scare outside Mukesh Ambani's residence here, the Maharashtra government on March 17 transferred Singh from the post and appointed senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, who was holding additional charge of Maharashtra DGP, as the new commissioner of Mumbai Police.Days after he was shunted out, Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had asked Sachin Waze, currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and other police officers to collect ₹100 crore monthly, including ₹50 crore to ₹60 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai.Deshmukh had denied these allegations.The NIA is probing Waze's alleged role in placing an explosives-laden SUV outside Ambani's residence on February 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-takes-charge-as-director-general-of-maharashtra-home-guard-101616403896659.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||11 nursing students test Covid positive in Punjab’s Jalalabad||Eleven women students at the University Institute of Nursing, Jalalabad, have tested positive for Covid-19. Fazilka civil surgeon Dr Kundan Pal said on Monday that the campus has been declared a micro containment zone. The nursing institute is a constituent of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot. Till Sunday, Fazilka reported 142 active Covid cases. Jalalabad senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Ankur Uppal said the patients are being taken care of at the hostel and the institute has been closed down for 14 days. No student has any serious condition, and they are responding to treatment, he said. “Our team has started Covid sampling of the entire staff of the institute. Contact tracing in these cases is also underway. Sampling of students began last week after one of the nursing students had symptoms and later other hostellers were tested,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11-nursing-students-test-covid-positive-in-punjab-s-jalalabad-101616403111552.html
22-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Rawat tests positive for Covid-19||Two days after Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said faith will overcome fear of virus, he tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Rawat tweeted, “My Corona test report has come positive. I am fine and not facing any difficulty. I have isolated myself under the monitoring of doctors. Those of you who have come into contact with me in last few days, should be cautious and get their tests done. I wish good health to all”. Rawat visited Haridwar thrice after becoming the chief minister and mingled with huge crowds of pilgrims and ascetics, with hardly anyone following Covid-19 norms. Rawat himself was not wearing any mask, as is evident in the images taken of him in Haridwar during the shahi snan on March 11. Also Read | Now, Uttarakhand CM says US enslaved India for 200 yearsHaridwar recorded the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases out of all 13 districts in the state. After Rawat took charge as chief minister, he stressed that there should be no unnecessary restriction on pilgrims wishing to attend the Mahakumbh. Two days ago, during his visit to Haridwar, Rawat said, “Nobody will be stopped in the name of Covid-19, as we are sure the faith in God will overcome the fear of the virus”. Worried over the situation in Haridwar in the context of Mahakumbh and Rawat’s recent statements,the Centre on Sunday directed Uttarakhand to take stringent measures to check the spread of Covid-19 during Mahakumbh. Rajesh Bhushan, Union secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, wrote to chief secretary, Uttarakhand, Om Prakash, that currently over 12 states in India have shown a surge in Covid-19 cases during the past few weeks, and cases could rise in the local population after the shahi snan days during the Kumbh Mela. The secretary also noted that as per the report of the Central team that visited Haridwar a few days ago, 10 to 20 pilgrims and 10 to 20 locals are testing positive for Covid-19 every day in Haridwar. This positivity rate has the potential to rapidly turn into an upsurge in cases, given the expected large footfall during Kumbh, the secretary stressed. In January, the Central government had issued an SOP for Mahakumbh, with strict guidelines like mandatory negative Covid-19 test report, following which the state government also issues guidelines for Mahakumbh. But Rawat, who visited Haridwar thrice after taking charge,has been repeatedly saying there won’t be unnecessary restrictions on pilgrims. Uttarakhand has so far reported 98,448 Covid-19 cases, of which 14,566 cases are from the Haridwar district. Millions of pilgrims flock to Mahakumbh, especially on shahi snan (royal holy bath days) days. The first was on March 11 and the remaining three are on April 12, April 14 and April 27. Images of the first shahi snan showed visitors gathered in large groups as 3.3 million attended the event without following Covid-19 norms. In December last year, then chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had also tested positive for Covid-19 and isolated himself at his residence. Rawat had also shared the development on his Twitter handle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-rawat-tests-positive-for-covid19-101616402570121.html
22-03-2021||Other||Monday musings: Fatal flirt with Covid-19 will bring back lockdown||That the tally of Covid positive patients crossed the previous peak in Pune within 45 days of a surge was noticed, is indication enough a second wave of Covid-19 infections is here and likely to stay for some time. The blaring of ambulance sirens, similar to August-September last year, is just the reminder of the same.During the first wave, it took 202 days – starting from March 9, 2020, to September 16, 2020, - for the number of cases to reach its peak. During the second wave, the graph of Covid-positive cases began moving upward from early February, crossing the previous peak of 5,048 infections in 24 hours, on September 16 last year, with 5,098 cases on March 21. The district has been reporting close to 5,000 cases for the past few days with thee positivity rate hovering above 20 per cent. The district has once again earned a distinction of reporting the highest number of cases across India, with Pune alone accounting for 10 per cent of the country’s daily case load. Within the district, most cases are from Pune city with a population of around 50 lakh, followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural parts. Between March 1 and March 20, the number of cases in these parts has risen by over 400%. The question many are asking is, why has Pune not been able to stop the spread of the virus despite measures in place? It’s been more than a month Pune is put under restrictions such as night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, capping of crowds inside restaurants and bars, and prohibiting social and political gatherings. Yet, Pune’s positivity rate is refusing to come down, let alone return to the mid-January level of 4.5 per cent. Positivity rate is the total number of cases that test positive for Covid-19 against the total tests done. The state’s positivity rate crossed 24% in September and October 2020, when the epidemic was at its peak in Maharashtra. With people still crowding, and super spreaders not being tested or being stopped from coming in contact with the public, the second wave is likely to be worse than the first. The Pune rural administration is testing super spreaders, though this is inadequate as the area is large and there’s a shortage of manpower. Pune city’s administration, therefore, immediately needs to follow the Brihan Mumbai municipal corporation’s initiative of random testing without citizens’ consent at crowded places like malls, railway stations, bus depots, khau gallis, markets, tourist places, and government offices.If a citizen refuses to get tested, they’d be booked under the Epidemic Act. However, testing people on a mass scale may not be enough as the infection has already spread and people are unwilling to shun stepping outside, that too without adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour.There’s visible complacency among most, over how Pune beat the first wave as they forget the peak had wreaked havoc with critical patients dying without beds and ambulances. The last option then is to curb people from gathering in public places. A lockdown, as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has repeatedly said, comes as a last resort to flatten the curve, which at this time is refusing to be tamed. However, there is collateral damage as a lockdown will halt economic activity, the result of which will be harsher for everyone. Earlier this month, the government had imposed a lockdown in places like Amravati and Yavatmal, where the tally had substantially risen, though the administration managed to contain the march of Covid after a strict lockdown of two weeks. Nagpur, Maharashtra’s other big city, has been through a week of complete lockdown. For Pune, it’s an option worth exploring. At the same time, vaccinations must be open for all without delay.Currently, there are 230 centres vaccinating 5,000-plus people every day. However, this is not enough for a district with population of over one crore. The administration has already mooted a proposal to the centre for inoculation of everyone in the district. For the city, where Covid vaccines are being produced on a mass level, and being consumed by the rest of India, the cry for increased doses is an irony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-fatal-flirt-with-covid-19-will-bring-back-lockdown-101616401609302.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Saradha scam: CBI searches offices, residences of three SEBI officers||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is searching six places, including office premises and residences of three senior SEBI officials in Mumbai, in connection with West Bengal’s Saradha ponzi scheme case. The CBI team visited the SEBI office in Bandra- Kurla- Complex at Bandra in the morning.“The CBI’s searches are going on at six locations in Mumbai including the residences of the three SEBI officials found allegedly involved in the scam,” a CBI source confirmed, adding that the agency will share more details once the search is over. The Saradha Group of companies allegedly duped people to the tune of ₹2,500 crore, promising higher returns on their investments. A CBI official said on the condition of anonymity that the senior officials’ role came under the scanner in connection with the operators of the scheme. These officials were posted at SEBI’s Kolkata office between 2009 and 2013.Also Read | Saradha scam: TMC’s Madan Mitra, Vivek Gupta depose before ED officialsThe Saradha Group scam began to unravel in 2013 when investors demonstrated in front of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) office, demanding government action against the group’s officials for defaulting on payments. There are multiple FIRs against the Saradha Group in West Bengal.The case finally blew up in April 2013 when the chairman of the Group, Sudipta Sen, and the company’s executive director, Debjani Mukherjee, were arrested by CBI from Jammu and Kashmir after a chase across north India during which they kept moving in an SUV.A multi-agency probe is on, including the Income Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) as well. Last week, the ED quizzed at least two TMC leaders, Madan Mitra, and Vivek Gupta, who have been fielded as candidates for the coming assembly elections. The ED has also summoned another former TMC MP, Ahmed Hassan Imran, and two former IPS officers, Rajat Majumdar and Surajit Kar Purkayastha, in connection with the case on March 24 and 25. Earlier last week, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh was summoned by the central agency. Both Madan Mitra and Ghosh had earlier been arrested in the case but later released on bail. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/saradha-scam-cbi-searches-offices-residences-of-three-sebi-officers-101616401429937.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||22-year-old kills friend in Trilokpuri; another shot dead in outer Delhi||A 22-year-old man smashed his 32-year-old friend’s head with a stone and killed him in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri in the early hours of Monday for seeking sexual favours from him, the police said. The suspect was walking towards the police station when personnel in a patrolling van noticed blood on his clothes and caught him, the police said.The man told the personnel that he murdered his friend because he used to ask him for sexual favours. A case of murder was registered at the Mayur Vihar police station and the man was arrested, deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav said.During the interrogation, the DCP said, the arrested man said that around 4.30am, he smashed his friend’s head with a heavy stone on the roadside near Block 17, Trilokpuri, Vasundhara Road. Thereafter, the man headed towards the local police station to report the incident and confess to the crime.Also Read | Delhi HC to hear Future group’s appeal against single judge order today“On the way, a police team in an emergency response vehicle (ERV) spotted blood stains on the man’s clothes and stopped him for questioning. He told the police personnel about killing his friend. Subsequently, the team took him to the crime scene where his friend’s body was found,” said DCP Yadav.The body was shifted to the mortuary of a nearby government hospital and the man was arrested, the police said.In another incident, a 30-year-old man was shot dead by unidentified assailants near Anaj Mandi Gate in outer Delhi’s Narela around 9.30pm on Sunday. He was shot in the head. The man had a history of involvement in cases of snatching and theft from 2014 to 2016, the police said.A case of murder was registered and the police are probing if the man, identified as Shamim Khan, was murdered over personal enmity or over his criminal past. The initial investigation has revealed that there were two attackers and they were on a motorcycle, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-murders-within-seven-hours-in-delhi-one-for-seeking-sexual-favours-101616401070302.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Guv should submit report to President about ‘corruption’ in Maharashtra: BJP||Drawing a parallel between the current situation in the state with the one in 1980 when President’s rule was imposed, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded that Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari send a report to the President of India apprising him of the existing scenario in the state. The BJP, while clarifying that they do not want to demand President’s rule, has announced that its leaders will meet the governor to press this demand on March 24.Senior BJP leader and former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar in a press conference held at the party’s Nariman Point office, also said on Monday that several government officials have been complaining about corruption in the administration and the pressure they have been going through to be part of the malpractices. Mungantiwar said that the officers should come forward and submit their complaints to the governor with proof. Also Read | ‘You’ll burn in that fire’: Raut warns against ‘President’s rule’ in Maharashtra“The allegations levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh are very serious in nature, despite which the state government has been dismissing them. Singh, in his letter, said that he had apprised chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about the home minister’s illegal demand of police officers collecting money from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours. Neither the officers, who have been quoted in Singh’s letter have denied it, nor have the associations of bars and restaurants come forward to do so. The state government has been taking it very lightly, which could lead to serious repercussions on the morale of the police force,” Mungantiwar said.He said that in such a situation, the governor should ask for a report from the chief minister and chief secretary of the state and send it to the President of India.“A similar report was sent in September, 1980, when the Sharad Pawar-led Progressive Democratic Front government was in power in the state, to the president. Based on that, President’s rule was imposed in the state. I think similar turmoil exists today in the state and it should be reported to the President by the governor. We are not demanding President’s rule, but want a factual report to be sent to the President,” he said.Mungantiwar also demanded a judicial probe in the allegations levelled by Singh against the home minister. “These are not political allegations, but are the facts brought to the light by an IPS officer of the rank of director general. They need to be taken seriously and an impartial probe by a high court judge is necessary,” he said.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday issued a warning over possible attempts to impose President’s rule in Maharashtra. “If someone is attempting to impose President’s rule in Maharashtra by misusing central agencies, then I am warning them-you yourself will get burnt in that fire,” Raut, the Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP, said according to news agency ANI.The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition, comprising the Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, has come under pressure from the opposition BJP to sack home minister Anil Deshmukh from his post. Deshmukh, a leader of the Sharad Pawar-led NCP, has denied Singh’s allegations and threatened to file a defamation case against the senior police official. Singh wrote an unsigned letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray accusing Deshmukh of setting extortion targets of ₹100 crore for some police officials.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/guv-should-submit-report-to-president-about-corruption-in-maharashtra-bjp-101616399570412.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||‘You'll burn in that fire’: Raut warns against ‘President’s rule’ in Maharashtra||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday issued a warning over possible attempts to impose President’s rule in Maharashtra amid controversy after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Republican Party of India (RPI) chief and Union minister Ramdas Athawale is among those who have demanded the imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra after Singh wrote an unsigned letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray accusing Deshmukh of setting extortion targets of ₹100 crore for some police officials.“If someone is attempting to impose President’s rule in Maharashtra by misusing central agencies, then I am warning them-you yourself will get burnt in that fire,” Raut, the Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP, said according to news agency ANI.If someone is attempting to get President's Rule imposed in Maharashtra by misusing central agencies, then I am warning them - you yourself will get burnt in that fire: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut pic.twitter.com/96Yc1dNFk4The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition, comprising the Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, has come under pressure from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to sack Deshmukh from his post. Deshmukh, a leader of the Sharad Pawar-led NCP, has denied Singh’s allegations and threatened to file a defamation case against the senior police official.Also Read | Anil Deshmukh to file defamation against Param Bir Singh, says ‘it is a conspiracy’On Sunday, Pawar, who is credited as the architect of the alliance, called allegations against Deshmukh ‘serious’, saying that Thackeray has the prerogative to take appropriate action into the allegations. After a meeting late on Sunday night at Pawar’s residence in Delhi, NCP leader Jayant Patil stressed that there was no reason for Deshmukh to step down.Also Read | No need for Anil Deshmukh to resign, decides NCP“If NCP chief has decided that allegations should be probed, then what is wrong? Anyone can level any allegation. If people take ministers’ resignation just like that, then it will be difficult to run the government,” Raut said, according to news agency ANI.“HM said that the contents of the letter bomb should be probed, CM should probe it. NCP chief said that it should be investigated. If the government is ready to accept the challenge of probing this, then why is the issue of resignation being raised repeatedly?” he asked.HM (Anil Deshmukh) said that the contents of 'letter bomb' should be probed, CM should probe it. NCP chief said that it should be investigated. If the govt is ready to accept the challenge of probing this, then why is the issue of resignation being raised repeatedly?: Sanjay RautLast Wednesday, the Maharashtra government transferred Singh as the commandant general of Home Guards, holding him responsible for the mishandling of the probe into the explosive-laden SUV that was found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25.Also Read | 'How many sacrifices to save king?': Who said what on Param Bir Singh's letter implicating Anil DeshmukhBefore that, assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze, who was heading the probe into the case before it was transferred to the National Investigation Agency by the Union home ministry, was arrested by NIA. Vaze’s arrest put further pressure on the alliance to take some action in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/youll-burn-in-that-fire-raut-warns-against-president-s-rule-in-maharashtra-101616393905340.html
22-03-2021||Patna||Muted celebrations in Bihar as state marks its 109th foundation day||Bihar will observe its 109th foundation day on Monday amid concerns of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Every year on March 22, the state observes 'Bihar Diwas' or Bihar Day and a public holiday. The state government has been celebrating Bihar Diwas every year since 2010. It was on this day that the British carved out the state from Bengal Presidency in 1912.The state government has decided 'Jal Jeevan Hariyali' as the theme of this year's celebrations to raise awareness about declining annual rainfall threatening water security in the state. For this, schools and other educational institutions will organise various events and exhibitions inline with the theme.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will address the state virtually at around 11am. Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad will also deliver his address before Kumar. "The history of Bihar is glorious and we are currently preparing the glorious future of Bihar with our determination. I welcome all of you to participate in the dream of a developed Bihar,” Kumar tweeted.Earlier in the day, President Ram Nath Kovind also extended his wishes to the state on its foundation day. "Congratulations to all on the occasion of Bihar Day, especially the people of Bihar on this day! Apart from its rich historical heritage, Bihar also leads the way in the present. I had the privilege of serving as the Governor of this land which has been a witness to the earliest republic to Mahatma Gandhi's Champaran Satyagraha. My best wishes on this occasion," the President tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/muted-celebrations-in-bihar-as-state-marks-its-109th-foundation-day-101616389101386.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Traffic diverted for redevelopment work in Delhi’s Chandni Chowk||Delhi traffic police closed half the carriageway between Daryaganj and Kashmere Gate on Saturday, as the Public Works Department (PWD) started redevelopment work in Chandni Chowk, and diverted traffic to minimise inconvenience to the commuters.Police said PWD planned to scramble a crossing at the Red Fort, between Digambar Lal Jain Mandir to Old Lajpat Rai Market, as part of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project from Lal Jain Mandir to Fatehpuri Mosque. For this, half the carriageway width, in the direction of Darya Ganj to Kashmere Gate, was closed for all vehicular traffic starting Saturday till April 20, in the first phase, they said.Also Read | North MCD gives ‘legal status’ to new temple in Chandni ChowkBrijender Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner of police, traffic, said to minimise inconvenience to the public, the road from Darya Ganj to Old Delhi Railway Station is open. “All buses are being diverted from Delhi Gate to Rajghat to Ring Road to Shantivan, Hanuman Setu via ISBT to Tis Hazari towards Morigate till Old Delhi railway station. Other vehicles are being diverted from Subhash Park T-Point to Nishad Raj Marg towards the Ring Road Shantivan,” Yadav said.He said traffic coming from Jama Masjid side heading towards Kashmere Gate or Old Delhi railway station has to either ply via the service road from parade ground parking towards Kabootar Market and then go to NS Marg towards Nishad Raj Marg and proceed accordingly or may go from Jama Masjid to Brijmohan Chowk in Daryaganj to Subhash Park T Point and Nishad Raj Marg to proceed accordingly.Police said they have also put adequate traffic signage at appropriate locations to guide motorists and deployed adequate traffic staff to ensure smooth and uninterrupted flow of traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-diverted-for-redevelopment-work-in-delhi-s-chandni-chowk-101616389009358.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rain brings down mercury in Punjab, Haryana||A fresh western disturbance brought light rain across Punjab and Haryana early on Monday, leading to a dip in the temperature. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Chandigarh, the rain will continue in spells till Tuesday and dry weather can be expected from Wednesday. Gusty winds of over 40km an hour along with rainfall up to 20mm are forecast, the IMD said, adding that there are chances of hail at isolated parts in the region. In Chandigarh, 1.8mm of rainfall was recorded since Sunday night till 8.30am on Monday. The maximum temperature, which was above average for most places in the two states for the past few days, fell after the rain in the region. The minimum temperature went up from 16.6 degrees on Sunday to 17.6 degrees Celsius on Monday due to the cloudy weather, but the maximum temperature fell to 25 degrees Celsius on Monday from 30.6 degrees Celsius in Chandigarh on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-brings-down-mercury-in-punjab-haryana-101616385829061.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to hear Future group’s appeal against single judge order today||The Delhi high court on Monday will hear Future Retail Limited (FRL)’s appeal against the single judge order which upheld the Singapore Emergency Arbitrator ( EA) award to stall its 3.4 million USD deal with Reliance retail group. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh is likely to hear the plea. The single judge’s order had come after a plea by US retail giant Amazon sought action against the Kishore Biyani-led Future group for their violation of the EA’s order. The plea had also sought the detention of Future group founders, including CEO Kishore Biyani, and seizure of their assets as it sought to block Future group from selling retail assets to Reliance Industries.Also Read | HC restrains Future, upholds Singapore tribunal’s rulingOn March 18, justice JR Midha upheld the Singapore’s EA order stalling the deal. The court also sought to know as to why the owners and directors should not be kept in civil detention for three months for their “deliberate” and “willful” violation of the EA’s order.Justice JR Midha also directed FRL not to take any further steps regarding the violation of the order. Midha also asked FRL to file an affidavit declaring all its assets within 30 days.On October 25, 2020, the Singapore International Arbitration Centre had passed an interim order in favour of Amazon barring FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. However, the FRL had contended that the EA’s award is not enforceable. On February 2, justice Midha had asked FRL to maintain “status quo” on its ₹24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. The judge had also directed all the authorities like SEBI, NCLT to also maintain status quo regarding the deal while also asking them to list out all the steps and actions taken after the order of the Emergency Arbitrator of Singapore.The challenge to this order is pending adjudication in the Supreme Court. On February 8, a division bench of the Delhi high court had stayed the single judge’s findings and given a go-ahead for the deal. This order was later challenged in the Supreme Court by Amazon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-future-group-s-appeal-against-single-judge-order-today-101616384329096.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||No entry in Mumbai shopping malls without Covid-19 negative report from today||Amid the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced it will be mandatory for people entering any shopping mall in the city to have a negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test report from Monday. According to the announcement made on Friday, the rule will be applicable to all malls and if visitors are not carrying a negative Covid-19 test report or don't have one, they will be able to get a Rapid Antigen Test done at the entrance of the shopping mall."A team will be designated at the entrance for this very purpose. The details are being worked out," the Mumbai civic body said.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Friday that all the residents of the city need to work together in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. "I think imposing a night curfew is necessary right now. We are also considering shifting the crowded markets to new sites. All Mumbaikars need to work together to prevent the imposition of a lockdown," Pednekar said.Read more: 3 states face risk of being next Covid-19 hot spotsMumbai reported 3,779 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday and 10 patients succumbed to the viral infection, taking the overall tally to 362,675 and the death toll to 11,586. This was the highest single-day spike in the city. Maharashtra has also been consistently reporting high Covid-19 cases since February and remains the worst affected state due to the pandemic. The state reported 30,535 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, which was the highest rise in a single day since the beginning of the pandemic. With this, the tally of infections in the state mounted to 24,79,682 and 99 fatalities pushed its death toll to 53,399.In order to curb the spread of Covid-19, the state government has imposed lockdown-like restrictions in several districts including Nagpur, Thane, Wardha, Panvel, Aurangabad, Parbhani and Nashik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-entry-in-mumbai-shopping-malls-without-covid-19-negative-report-from-today-101616382209468.html
22-03-2021||Ranchi||107-yr-old lady takes the jab in Koderma district||A 107-year-old lady having no comorbidities walked 500 meters without any support to a Panchayat-level vaccination centre to get her first shot of Covid-19 vaccine in Jharkhand’s Koderma district on Saturday, officials said.A resident of Bhojpur village under Markocho block of the district, Makina Khatun took the jab at Adarsh Madhya Vidyalaya in Dakshini Panchyat. “I faced no problem after the shot. I walked back to my home that is around 500m from the centre,” she said. She also appealed to people to avail the shot in order to beat the virus.However, health officials initially faced some problems in getting her vaccinated, as Co-WIN, the Union government’s vaccine portal, was not accepting her entry due to her age. District data manager (DDM) of National Health Mission (NHM), Koderma, Pawan Kumar said, “As per the Aadhaar card, her date of birth is 1914. So, we faced some technical problem in the system, as the portal was not accepting her date of birth. The portal doesn’t have the feature to accept date of birth of people born before 1920. We, however, have alternative options that we applied in this case.”Khatun’s eldest son Md Jamiruddin said her mother doesn’t suffer from any comorbid conditions. “She is fit and fine so far. She gets up at 4.30am in the morning daily and offer prayer five times in a day,” he said.Khatun was the beneficiary of state’s special Covid-19 vaccination drive launched by the state health department on the Panchayat level. The drive took off on Saturday and will conclude on March 27. The campaign will take place in three phases. The first phase that started on Saturday concluded on Sunday. The second phase was scheduled for March 23 and 24, while the third phase will begin for March 26 to March 27.State nodal officer (vaccination) Dr Ajit Prasad, “The special drive is receiving good response. On Saturday, a total of 1.20 lakh people were given the shot. We are hoping to cross the figure on Sunday.” He said they have set a target to administer Covid-19 vaccine to 1.5 lakh people per day. “In six days of the drive, nine to 10 lakh people will be given the shot,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/107yrold-lady-takes-the-jab-in-koderma-district-101616381688266.html
22-03-2021||Ranchi||Two 10th century sculptures of Gautam Buddha unearthed during excavation in Hazaribag stolen||Two ancient sculptures of Gautam Buddha, reportedly from 10th century, that were unearthed during an excavation by Archeological Survey of India on foothills of Juljul hill at Sadar block of Hazaribagh district were stolen on Saturday night, officials said on Sunday. Hazaribagh deputy commissioner (DC) Aditya Kumar Anand, who visited the site on Sunday along with superintendent of police (SP) Karthik S and other officials said, “We have started investigation into the matter. I will not comment on the issue at the moment.” Last year, the ASI identified three mounds on the foothills having links to Buddhism. The excavation of the first mound led to the discovery of a complete shrine with a central and two subsidiary shrines, merely two metres below the surface. In the second round of excavation, beginning last week of January this year, the second mound, around 40m away from the first mound, was excavated and a small Buddha Vihar-like structure was discovered. Around a dozen sculptures of Gautam Buddha and Tara were also discovered during the excavation. However, two sculptures of Gautam Buddha in seated position were stolen despite deployment of security personnel at the site. The sculptures made of sand stone were less damaged, ASI officials said. Superintending archaeologist, excavation branch-III of ASI, Rajendra Dehuri, said, “The sculptures and artifacts unearthed during the excavation were kept in-situ (on site). There were security personnel and labourers at the site. The administration team is investigating into the matter.” Former deputy director at state archaeology department, HP Sinha, said, “The price of the sculpture is dependent on the period it belongs to. The two stolen sculptures belonged to somewhere between ninth and eleventh century, as per my knowledge. Their prices in the international market will go in crores, as they are antique and linked to Buddhism.” He said, “This is an organised crime having involvement of some locals. The ASI and district administration should have understood its value and enforced proper security.” Last week on Friday, some legislators during the ongoing Assembly session raised concerns that the sculptures and artifacts unearthed during the excavation will be taken to Bihar, as the excavation was done by the Bihar chapter of ASI. However, representing the government, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh told the legislators that the chief minister directed the ASI chief secretary to not send the sculptures unearthed in Hazaribag to Bihar. “They will be preserved at the same location and it will be developed as tourist spot,” he said. Meanwhile, Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha demanded a CBI probe into the matter. Sinha, while posting his comment on social media platform Facebook, alleged, “The Jharkhand government has failed to provide security to the ancient sculptures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/two-10th-century-sculptures-of-gautam-buddha-unearthed-during-excavation-in-hazaribag-stolen-101616381569455.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain shut, traffic diverted||Tikri and Singhu borders, connecting Delhi and Haryana, remained completely closed on Monday as farmers continued their agitation against the three farm laws. One carriageway at Ghazipur border, however, remained open for those heading to Ghaziabad from Delhi, as the farmers continued blocking the other road of the elevated highway.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu against the three farm laws since November 2020.The Delhi Traffic Police in its advisory asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Chilla border are also open for commute.Also Read | Karnataka farmers should lay siege on Bengaluru just like Delhi: Rakesh TikaitThe entry and exit points between the national Capital and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh borders, continued to remain closed on Friday.The traffic police also advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-shut-traffic-diverted-101616381568922.html
22-03-2021||Patna||Nature Safari, Cabin car ropeway at Rajgir to be inaugurated on Mar 26||Nature Safari, first of its kind in the country, will be opened for the visitors on March 26 at Rajgir. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will inaugurate the Safari. Besides, the much-awaited cabin car ropeway at Ratnagiri hills too will be launched on the occasion. The Nature Safari -- developed by the department of forests, environment and climate change over 500 hectares of land near the wrestling site of mythological character Jarasandh at the heritage city with a budget of ₹19. 20 crore -- will be offering the visitors unique experiences of glass sky walk, suspension bridge, adventure park and butterfly zone. Not just that, the Safari may also interest all those who love adventure sports as the site offers zones like archery range, rock climbing, wrestling zone, rope cycling, spiral sliding, etc. The ropeway which will also be inaugurated by the chief minister on March 26, is an eight-seater cabin car ropeway which has been developed recently by the state tourism department to offer the tourists a more convenient and safer air journey to the Vishwa Shanti Stupa located atop the Ratnagiri hills at Rajgir.Neeraj Kumar Singh, forest minister, said very soon people will be able to visit the Nature Safari. “The facility will be launched on March 26,” he said. Gopal Singh, a senior forest official, said both the Nature Safari and the new ropeway will be launched before the festival of Holi. “The Safari is expected to evoke wide interest because of the unique experiences. The glass sky walk is the first such facility in the country. Even the suspension bridge is expected to woo those who love adventure,” he said. An official at the Safari, who did not want to be quoted, said, preparations for the launch are going in full swing. “Ticket counter has been planned near the entry point of the Safari. However, rate of the entry ticket is yet to be decided,” he said. Santosh Kumar Mall, principal secretary, state tourism, said the new cabin car ropeway is quite spacious and convenient. “Ramp has been created to enable the tourists to enjoy car ride. Besides, arrangement has also been made for safe landing of the cabin car in case there’s an emergency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nature-safari-cabin-car-ropeway-at-rajgir-to-be-inaugurated-on-mar-26-101616381148809.html
22-03-2021||Other||CM’s name missing in Katihar hospital project, row erupts||PURNIAIn a shot in the arm for Seemanchal region, Bihar’s deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad and health minister Mangal Pandey on Sunday inaugurated DNB (Diplomate of National Board) courses in the newly established government medical college in Purnia and laid foundation stone for the 200-bed hospital in the Katihar district hospital campus.In Katihar, however, a controversy erupted when local JD(U) leaders registered their protest over the omission of chief minister Nitish Kumar on the foundation stone, which mentioned only deputy CM and the health minister.Prasad was quick to clarify. “It was just an inadvertent mistake. Everybody knows Bihar is marching ahead on the path of progress and prosperity under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar.” He said the mistake would be rectified at the earliest.Meanwhile, while the DNB courses have been started at the government medical college at Purnia in obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics and general medicine. Twelve seats have been allotted to each course.DNB course is a three-year postgraduate residency programme and is among the simplest post graduate or post-doctoral equivalent programmes.The launch of DNB courses is believed to be the beginning of the 500-bed with 100 students admission in MBBS courses every year. The government medical college in Purnia has not been yet inaugurated. Once ready, it will have 500-bed hospital and initial sanctioned intake of 100 students for MBBS course every year. The medical college, which is almost ready, has five ICUs, modern diagnostic centres with an ultra modern operation theatre. The foundation stone of the college in Purnia was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually in 2019.The construction work has been carried out by Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited (BMSICL) at a cost of ₹365.58 crore. Purnia civil surgeon S K Verma said, “This is a beginning of a new era in health services and poor people in the region will no longer remain untreated due to shortage of money.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cms-name-missing-in-katihar-hospital-project-row-erupts-101616381148233.html
22-03-2021||Other||World Water Day: Parched patches growing in rain-fed Bihar||PATNADeclining annual rainfall and its erratic pattern are threatening water security in water surplus Bihar, a state crisscrossed by rivers.Kicking off the awareness campaign for “Jal Jeevan Hariyali” environment conservation programme on Earth Day in August 2019, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had underlined the vagaries of nature Bihar was grappling with due to constantly falling annual rainfall statistics, which dropped from 1200-1500 mm to 800-900 mm in 40 years. In some years in the last one decade, it fell even below 800 mm, though the state still witnessed floods in some areas and drought in others. What is distressing, according to a study by the Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) under Bihar’s water resources department, is that the state does not have enough storage capacity by way of dams and reservoirs to store water and prevent them from going waste. The study says Bihar has just 950 million cubic metres of storage capacity in its 22 dams, which is not even 5% of its requirement, so far mostly met by rain, and in the situation of scanty rainfall, seasonal fluctuations or erratic rain pattern, the largely rain-fed agriculture could suffer. According to the study, the per capita availability of water in Bihar is reducing progressively owing to increasing population. In 1991, the average per capita availability in Bihar was around 5,342 cubic metres/year, but it dropped alarmingly in the last 30 years to 1,594 cubic metres in 2001 and could reach 1006 cubic metres in 2025 and further to less than half at 635 cubic metres in 2050. The statistics were also shared in the Bihar Legislative Assembly. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said anticipating the problem well in time, the CM has embarked on an ambitious programme to rejuvenate lost water bodies and ensuring optimal use of surplus water in rivers during floods by diverting them to parched areas, viz. project to take Ganga water to Gaya, Nawada and Rajgir and ensure water to every farm in the next five years. “Lakhandei river, which was the lifeline of Sitamarhi, had been lost to encroachment and garbage dumps, but now it has been revived up to 18 kms, while the work is on for the last leg of four kms. The CM has also consistently raised the issue of heavy siltation in the Ganga and called for the need of a national silt policy,” the minister said. He said with areas like Darbhanga in north Bihar feeling water stress, the alarm bell was truly ringing. “This is precisely what drew the attention of the CM and led to the big environmental programme that has even drawn praise from the UN. The CM was invited to UN’s high-level climate change roundtable on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly last year,” he said. Prof Dilip Kumar at WALMI said irrigation sector consumes as much as 83% of available water resources. “With demand form other sectors rising at faster pace, the availability of water for irrigation is likely to reduce. It is, therefore, necessary to improve the performance of existing system. Highest degree of efficiencies in water use in irrigation sector may have to be achieved to meet the requirement of water in irrigation sector. It is high time all water using sectors treat water as a scarce resource and try to manage within the availability,” he said. On the occasion of World Water Day, celebrated on March 22 every year to raises awareness about 2.2 billion people living without access to safe water and to create a more comprehensive understanding of how water is valued by different people in different contexts so that we can safeguard this precious resource for everyone, Kumar said it was important for Bihar to learn its lessons fast. “This year’s theme is ‘valuing water’. It is all about how we manage and share it. Today, we have started feeling the pinch. Tomorrow, we the situation may get worse. We must remember water is fundamental to food security. Bihar was once known for its water bodies. Now time has come to work on the concept of river lakes, utilizing the vast river beds, to prevent flood water from going waste. The Bihar government has already started focusing on water management through a slew of schemes,” he said. A cause for alarmFalling annual rainfallAnnual rainfall in Bihar dropped from 1200-1500 mm to 800-900 mm in the last 40 years. Also, it’s become more erratic. Storage capacityBihar has just 950 million cubic metres of storage capacity in its 22 dams, which is not even 5% of its requirement. Drier years aheadIn 1991, average per capita availability of water in Bihar was around 5,342 cubic metres/year, which dropped to 1,594 cubic metres in 2001 and could reach 1006 cubic metres in 2025 and further to less than half at 635 cubic metres in 2050.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/world-water-day-parched-patches-growing-in-rain-fed-bihar-101616381088315.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Rainfall, thunderstorms predicted in parts of Delhi today||Delhi is likely to receive light to moderate rainfall on Monday coupled with thunder and dust storms, India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Sunday.Met officials also said that the rainfall, forecast for Monday and Tuesday, may also bring down the temperature in the city.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that under the influence of a western disturbance, strong winds and rains have already begun in parts of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh.“Its impact will lead to rain and dust storms in Delhi and NCR, also leading to hailstorm in some parts of Haryana. There is also a possibility of a thunderstorm in some parts of Delhi,” Srivastava said.Also Read | HP braces for another spell of snow, rain till March 24Delhi’s air quality remained in the "poor" category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 209. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 244.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Sunday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “AQI is likely to marginally improve to the moderate category for tomorrow [Monday]. Moderate to poor AQI is forecasted for March 23 and 24. Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds can lead to local dust lifting on the two days.”The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 18 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to be 34 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Sunday was 16.2 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature was 35.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rainfall-thunderstorms-predicted-in-parts-of-delhi-today-101616380968782.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Manipur, 0 km, a one-of-its kind grocery in south Delhi||It’s called Northeast Grocery Shop but it is not in north-east Delhi. It is, in fact, in the southern part of the city, in Chirag Delhi village.And yet the name has a logic, for the daily-life stuff sold here is usually found in the groceries of the northeastern parts of the country. So, obviously you will find here the fiery hot raja mirchi chilli, the one you might have experienced at the Nagaland food stall in Dilli Haat. The fermented bamboo shoot is available too, and what’s this long green veggie?“It’s stinky beans.... yongchak,” says Phungreingam Hungyo. He explains that “we call it stinky because of its strong smell.”Mr Hungyo founded the shop in 2013. The establishment is very small, and looks too simple against the razzmatazz of neighbouring Bengali Sweet House and Chaman General Store. Yet, Northeast is a more important landmark. Because you hardly see such a specialised store elsewhere in the city. Because its very presence highlights Chirag Delhi’s barely-acknowledged cosmopolitanism — there are enough people here from the northeastern parts of the country for this store to stay in business.In his 30s, Mr Hungyo arrived from his native Kasom Khullen in Manipur in 2005, to pursue his graduation in Delhi University. Like most of us migrants to Delhi, he stayed on, and at one time worked in a Gurugram call center. While living in Khirki Village in south Delhi, he made a survey of various neighbourhoods and concluded that Chirag and the adjacent areas were home to enough people from the northeast to make his new venture viable.At the moment there is no customer, but then it’s a sleepy afternoon. Mr Hungyo has enough leisure to help identify various items on the counter. “This is yam, which is like arbi. This is yam ka stem. This is smoked fish. This is a kind of rajma. This is fermented fish called Ngari...”Dressed in shorts and T-shirt, Mr Hungyo confirms that “80 percent of the stuff here comes from Manipur.” The fact that his home state is geographically much closer to India’s bordering countries than to India’s capital reflects in the presence of a coffee powder sachet from Myanmar and a rusk packet from Bangladesh—both of which he says are popular in Manipur.The shop itself has a very homey feel, and looks like the porch of a house where a family might sit in the evening to watch the street life. The door is scrawled with indecipherable drawings. “That’s the doings of Era, my daughter,” he explains. Mr Hungyo lives 200 meters away from the shop, with his family that also includes his son, Adrian, and wife, Christian.The shop’s hoarding has “Taste of home” painted on it.A quick Googling reveals that Manipur is 2,500 kilometres away from Delhi. But from this vantage point, it is Delhi that feels far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-manipur-0-km-a-one-of-its-kind-grocery-in-south-delhi-101616362133652.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Truck mows down four-year-old boy riding scooter with parents in Panchkula||A four-year-old boy was killed and his mother critically injured after a truck hit their scooter at Majri Chowk in Sector 3, Panchkula, on Sunday.The victim, Mankirat Singh, was riding the scooter with his parents, Gurpreet Singh, 30, and Rupinder Kaur, 30, when a truck rammed into the two-wheeler and ran over the boy after he fell on the road.The child and his mother were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, where the boy was declared dead and his mother was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, in a critical state.The truck driver fled the spot on foot after abandoning his vehicle.He was booked under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code.Gurpreet escaped unscathed as he fell on the left side of the vehicle, while his wife and son fell on the right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/truck-mows-down-four-year-old-boy-riding-scooter-with-parents-in-panchkula-101616359126556.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh soar to year’s highest at 239||The city hit a new high in number of Covid-19 cases this year, with 239 people testing positive for the virus on Sunday, which pushed the active cases to 1,872.With this, Chandigarh reported 200+ cases for the fifth consecutive day, taking the total to 22,359. The death toll remained 362 with no casualties.In just 21 days this month, the city has clocked around 2,700 cases, touching a worrisome weekly positivity rate of 10%, second only to Maharashtra’s 17.9%.A total of 22,225 patients have recovered so far. 300+ cases in Mohali for second consecutive dayAfter record 385 Covid cases on Saturday, Mohali saw a dip in the infections on Sunday, though they remained over 300 for the second day in a row.As many as 327 fresh cases were reported, with the bulk (78%) surfacing in Mohali city. Apart from the 255 cases in various phases and sectors, 22 were reported in Kharar, 21 in Dhakoli, 13 in Dera Bassi, six in Kurali, four in Banur and one in Lalru. The district’s case tally stands at 23,624, of which 2,301 patients are still infected. Mohali, too, did not report any casualties, which stand at 409. Amid the current surge, the district has recorded 3,282 cases and 24 deaths in March so far, up from 840 and 20, respectively, in February. A total of 20,914 patients have recuperated. 93 test positive in PanchkulaAs many as 93 people were found infected in Panchkula on Sunday, higher than 85 on Saturday, but lower than Friday, when 166 cases had surfaced.The district has 690 active cases out of the total 11,918. Besides, 11,078 have been discharged and 150 have succumbed to the virus.While no vaccinations were done on Sunday, the Panchkula administration will hold a mega vaccination drive at 48 sites on Monday and Tuesday to target 8,000 beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-cases-in-chandigarh-soar-to-year-s-highest-at-239-101616358527277.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan goes on inauguration spree in UT, Mohali||Union minister of health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday inaugurated the Centre of Excellence for Intelligent Sensors and Systems at CSIR-CSIO, Sector 30. This facility will facilitate the development of multi-sensor systems based on seismic, acoustic, IR and UWB in the area of perimeter monitoring for societal and strategic applications using artificial intelligence and machine learning.He said that such initiatives will kick start a lot of synergies to proven strengths in many areas, which are at the heart of the Prime Minister’s ‘Make in India’ dream.The minister said that CSIR-CSIO has a head start by already having delivered in the complex, multidisciplinary areas of earthquake monitoring systems which have helped in real-time disaster management for metro rail systems and avionic display systems for Indian defence needs. He saw the air sampling devices for detection of Covid-19 in aerosols which is an economical solution having better suction capacity and less noise levels, making it suitable for deployment in hospitals and other critical areas in place of expensive imported equipment. Covid norms violated Social distancing norms went for a toss at an event at Dadumajra dispensary where Dr Harsh Vardhan was present as a chief guest. Workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), senior officials of Chandigarh health department and health workers of the civil dispensary gathered at site ahead of the health minister’s visit. The minister’s arrival at the site was followed by ruckus and huge violation of social distancing. “Everyone was wearing a mask. But the issue related to social distancing erupted due to enthusiastic residents outside our site. Congress workers were also at the site, “ Arun Sood, president of local BJP unit, said. The party has also launched a help desk to accelerate the Covid-19 vaccination by the helping the residents. The Union minister also inspected the vaccination centre set up by the health department and interacted with the doctors and staff. He was accompanied by Dr Amandeep, director, department of health, Dr Virendra Nagpal, deputy medical superintendent and Dr Paramjit Singh, SMO, among others. Dr Harsh Vardhan also inaugurated IMTECH bio-innovation centre which is an extension of the Atal Incubation Centre (AIC)-CCMB in CSIR Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh.14 Congress workers held for protesting in DadumajraWhile Harsh Vardhan came to inaugurate a helpdesk for Covid vaccination in front of the dispensary in Dadumajra, Congress workers raised black flags and shouted slogans regarding the Dadumajra dumping ground issue which they claim is being ignored by the authorities. Local police had to step in and total 14 people, including 10 women and four men, all Congress workers were arrested. Officials privy to the matter said, “They were arrested under preventive action and even produced in a court. The SDM has let them off with a warning but they have been given a one-month warning. If they engage in such activities again, then they will be arrested.” They were later bailed out.Advanced high resolution microscopy facility launched at NABIUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday also inaugurated a new advanced high resolution microscopy facility at National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI) and unveiled the four-star GRIHA Certification of Centre of Innovative and Applied Bioprocessing (CIAB) lab and administration building in Sector 81, Mohali. He encouraged scientists and students to explore the biotechnological tools to address the problems related to quality of food and malnutrition. The minister urged both the institutes to address the problems of hunger and malnutrition and bring nutritional revolution in the country. He emphasised that with government impetus on doubling the farmers income by 2022-23, NABI and CIAB’s roles are crucial to achieve this ambitious goal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-goes-on-inauguration-spree-in-ut-mohali-101616357327126.html
22-03-2021||Other||Covid killed more people than road mishaps in Mohali in 2020||Even as there was an 11% fall in the number of deaths recorded in Mohali district in road mishap last year (from 283 deaths in 2019 to 254 in 2020), Covid-19 proved to be a bigger killer. In just nine months since March, the district saw 344 fatalities related to the virus. As per the data of Mohali police, in 2020, of 254 deaths in road accidents, 32 took place in January followed by 29 in November and the lowest (11) were reported in May last year during the lockdown. As many as 136 died in Mohali city, while 118 lost lives in rural areas of the district. Also, 123 deaths were reported due to fog and misty weather, while 79 deaths were linked to the rainy season. Two-wheeler riders were the most vulnerable, accounting for 90 (35%) of the 254 people killed. Among them 32 were not wearing helmets. Fifty-six people died while travelling in cars, 35 of whom were not wearing seat-belts. The number of victims riding trucks was 33, cycles 24, autos 13 and buses five, while 33 victims were on foot. Fifty-nine persons died while driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, 41 while speeding, 69 while driving on the wrong side and 49 while jumping of traffic signals. Sixty-three of those killed didn’t have driving licence while 45 had learners’ licence. According to the data, Airport Road witnessed around 129 deaths out of total 254, while 84 people died on national highways. In April 2019, Punjab traffic adviser Navdeep Asija, after conducting a three-dimensional safety audit using drones, had revealed major flaws in the design of Airport Road, and stated in his report that it is not pedestrian and cyclist-friendly. “Maximum accidents took place on Airport Road but now, we are installing sign boards at 92 black spots. We have already installed reflectors and constructed speed breakers at deadly S-curve on Airport Road near Sohana gurdwara. People have to change their mindset and follow the traffic rules for their own safety,” said Mohali superintendent of police, traffic, Gurjot Singh Kaler. “Most of the crashes occurred on junctions. The wider carpeted and empty roads instigated people to drive at high speed and the vehicles couldn’t be controlled at intersecting points. We must ensure that people don’t drive at high speed and follow latest speed management procedures. This will ensure autonomous process for traffic to observe slow speed. It is almost two years now, when the black spots were identified in various parts of the district, but action is still awaited,” said Harpreet Singh, president of an NGO named Avoid Accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-killed-more-people-than-road-mishaps-in-mohali-in-2020-101616356908218.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Boycott call forces Khattar to inaugurate projects via video conference||Chandigarh: Facing protests and boycott in the wake of ongoing farmers’ stir, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday inaugurated and laid through videoconference foundation stones of numerous developmental projects of different departments, including education, health, sports, roads, water, and power. During the state-level programme, the chief minister inaugurated and laid foundation stones of as many as 163 projects in 22 districts that includes inauguration of 80 projects worth ₹475 crore and laying foundation stones of 83 projects worth ₹935 crore. An official spokesperson said Khattar inaugurated nine projects and laid foundation stones of 24 other projects in Jind district, while Rohtak district got 18 projects worth ₹132 crore. The inability of the BJP-JJP leaders to move freely across Haryana and hold public functions due to the ongoing boycott call given by the agitating farmers had surfaced repeatedly in the budget session concluded last week. During the assembly session, the state government reached out to the Congress to intervene and persuade the farmers to withdraw their boycott calls. The chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had also moved resolution in the assembly to condemn those giving a call to boycott “leaders of any political party”. The resolution was adopted with a voice vote and the Congress had walked out of the House as a mark of protest against the resolution.Farmers stage protest against MP Dharambir in RohtakFarmers and representatives of various khaps on Sunday protested against Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh outside the district secretariat when he came to take part in Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s video conference.After seeing the farmers protesting, the MP left the conference mid-way and took the back gate to leave the secretariat. The farmers continued raising slogans against Dharambir amid heavy security.Phogat Khap head Balwant Nambardar said had already announced a boycott of the BJP-JJP leaders and will continue to do so until the three farm laws are repealed. “We will continue our protests against the rulling party leaders,” he added.JP Dalal attended conference in BhiwaniHaryana agriculture minister JP Dalal attended the chief minister’s conference in Bhiwani amid heavy police security. “ Some people are misleading the farmers that mandis will be scrapped which is not true. Our government is committed to purchase farmers’ produce at the minimum support price in the mandis. This time, the rate of mustard and other crops is much higher than the MSP and this has given a chance to people to sell their crop outside the mandi too,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/boycott-call-forces-khattar-to-inaugurate-projects-via-video-conference-101616356847116.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||HP reintroduces curbs to contain Covid spike||In the wake of a spike in coronavirus infections in Himachal, the state executive committee (SEC) on Sunday reintroduced fresh restrictions to curb the spread of the contagion. An order issued by SEC chairperson chief secretary Anil Khachi states that Himachal will strictly observe a ‘no mask, no service’ policy. Only people with masks will be allowed to board public and private transport (train, buses and taxis), enter hospitals, temples, langar halls, schools, colleges, government offices and private establishments and shops. All ongoing fairs in the state must be wound up by March 23, the order says, adding that all social, religious, political, cultural and other gatherings will be organised with prior permission of the district administration after March 25.The local administration will keep a close watch on pre-scheduled gatherings and ensure implementation of standard operating procedures (SoPs). Gatherings should be 50% of the venues’ capacity or not more than 200, whichever is less in closed spaces. In open areas, the strength of gatherings should not exceed 50% and all instructions must be complied with. The information technology department and district administration concerned will activate the module for granting permissions for organising gatherings as per SoPs.In gatherings, where a community kitchen, dhaam, langars, or professional catering is to be arranged, the managers and catering staff, as far as possible, will be required to undergo tests through the rapid antigen RT-PCR test kits not earlier than 96 hours before the event.The cooking staff will ensure no cooking takes place without masks, gloves or head cover. Organising langars in closed spaces prohibited and cooking by non-tested staff prohibited. The organisers will also ensure adherence to highest-level of personal and environmental hygiene all the times, especially at the time of preparing, serving, eating meals and disposal of the waste, the order says.Details of permissions granted for gatherings will also be shared with Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) apart from officers in-charge of police stations.All office-bearers of PRIs/ULBs will ensure strict compliance of SOPs. The officers will visit and coordinate with the event organisers prior to the event to ensure only permitted number of the people attend the event with strict compliance of COVID-19 directives.“After a careful review of the emerging situation regarding spread of the pandemic in the state it is apparent that it still remains a public health risk and caution is necessary for the containment of spread,” the fresh orders reads, while observing that the emerging situation had resulted from non-adherence to Covid safety protocols by public.Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 141 fresh infections, taking the state’s tally to 50,678 while the death toll mounted to 1,005 after one more patient succumbed.Of the new cases, 29 were reported in Una, 23 in Kangra, 22 in Solan, 16 in Shimla in Bilaspur, 12 in Sirmaur, 11 in Hamirpur, 10 in Mandi, four in Kullu and one in Chamba.Recoveries have reached 58,398 and active caseload climbed to 1,256||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-reintroduces-curbs-to-contain-covid-spike-101616356786932.html
22-03-2021||Other||Mansukh Hiran murder mystery solved, Sachin Vaze the prime accused, says Maharashtra ATS||The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) in a press statement on Sunday named former Mumbai Police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze as the prime accused in Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder case, while deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Maharashtra ATS Shivdeep Lande in a Facebook post claimed the “case was solved”, even as two persons were arrested in connection with the case. The agency, however, has not shared any details pertaining to the motive or how the trader was murdered. The developments came after the state received the Union home ministry’s order for the transfer of the murder probe on Sunday. The case is likely to be handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday. Hiran was initially alleged to be the owner of the car found with loose explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home, Antilia. He went missing on March 4, and the next day, his body washed ashore a creek in Thane. Three days later, his wife Vimla, 43, in her statement to the ATS team, suspected Vaze to be behind Hiran’s murder. She also revealed that Hiran knew Vaze well, and had lent him the car found near Antilia in November. Vaze had reportedly returned the car on February 5. ATS on Sunday arrested two persons – cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Ghor, 31, and cop Vinayak Balasaheb Shinde, 51 – in connection with Hiran’s murder, a day after they were called for interrogation. It is suspected that Shinde had called Hiran on the day he went missing, posing as a policeman from the Kandivli crime branch unit. Shinde allegedly asked Hiran to meet him at Ghodbunder Road, said police sources. However, ATS officers did not respond to the queries raised on this information from sources within the police.While Ghor supplied SIM cards to Vaze, Shinde helped him with other illegal tasks, ATS said. SIM cards procured from Gujarat by Ghor were allegedly used in the crime, said police sources. Ghor, who hails from Kutch, Gujarat, was introduced to Vaze by a former police officer, the sources said. Shinde was a constable in the same crime branch unit where Vaze was posted. He was serving life sentence after being convicted in the fake encounter case of Lakhan Bhaiyya, said to be an aide of gangster Chhota Rajan, and was out on furlough. The Thane court has remanded them to ATS’s custody till March 30. Vaze is already in NIA custody in Antilia case. Once the court sends Vaze in judicial custody in the Antilia case, NIA may arrest him for Hiran murder case too, a police source said. ATS’s official admission on Vaze being the prime accused in the murder case is a clear indication that the agency has managed to secure evidence which strongly indicates the suspended cop’s involvement in Hiran’s murder, said a police officer. Lande’s post, with a picture of him saluting (the tricolour), (in pic) stated, “The mystery of the highly sensitive Mansukh Hiran murder case has been solved. I heartily salute all my colleagues (in ATS), who had put efforts through day and night and completed the investigation in a lawful manner to achieve the result. This was one of the most complex cases of my police career till date.” ATS conducts searches at Shinde’s home On Sunday evening, an ATS team reached Shinde’s home. The team questioned his family for three hours and also conducted a search at Shinde’s home. They left with some documents, but refused to comment on it. Another ATS team questioned some others in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mansukh-hiran-murder-mystery-solved-sachin-vaze-the-prime-accused-says-maharashtra-ats-101616356727335.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amid farmers’ stir, mustard harvesting goes unhindered in Haryana||The mustard harvesting is going on unhindered in Haryana amid farmers’ stir against the Centre’s three farm laws. There is no major labour shortage unlike last year and families of those who are camping at Delhi’s border are being helped byfellow-villagers in the fields.Haryana’s Bhiwani, Dadri, Mahendragarh, Fatehabad and some parts of Hisar and Jind have mustard as the main rabi crop. Raman Sheoran of Kakroli in Dadri said the mustard harvesting will be at its peak in the next 10 days. “Over 30 people from our village have been camping at Delhi’s border and we are helping their families in harvesting the crop,” he said.Sakuntla Devi from Barwala region in Hisar said she, her 16-year-old son and 18-year-old daughter were harvesting the mustard crop on their 4-acre land as her husband was camping at Tikri border for the last two months.“This time, we had to do all chores on our own. We have harvested the crop on 1.5 acres of land and for the rest our neighbours will pitch in the next 3-4 days. Villages will also help us in arranging transportation. After the procurement process, we will also join the stir,” she added.Ravin Dhaka, a student of MSc (physics) from Garanpura village in Bhiwani, said villagers helped his family in harvesting the mustard crop in the absence of his father, who is quite active and camping at Tikri border. “The villagers helped my mother and my brother in the fields. This stir has brought people closer,” he said.Dayanand Punia, Haryana secretary of Kisan Sabha, said most farmers are at the protest sites and those who are back home are helping their families so that crops are harvested and marketed on time. “There is no labour shortage. Getting mustard crop harvested on an acre of land costs ₹2,500-3,200. This time, majority of the women and children are engaged in harvesting activities and they have taken it as a challenge,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-farmers-stir-mustard-harvesting-goes-unhindered-in-haryana-101616356611051.html
22-03-2021||Other||Corruption in Mumbai Police highlighted earlier too, says Fadnavis||Reiterating the demand made by him a day earlier, former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday called for the ouster of Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in view of the serious allegations levelled against him by ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. “Deshmukh should resign from the post immediately or the CM should remove him so that an impartial probe is conducted into the matter,” said Fadnavis. He also said that it was not the first time when a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer has raised allegations against the home minister. According to Fadnavis, former director-general of police (DGP) Subodh Jaiswal, too, had earlier submitted a report to the government pointing out large-scale corruption in transfers and posting of police officers, before he shifted to central deputation. IPS officer Rashmi Shukla, who was in charge of state intelligence, had sent the report to the government. The chief minister’s office forwarded it to the home minister. However, no action was taken on the report by the home minister, alleged Fadnavis. “Thackeray didn’t act on Jaiswal’s report and the latter chose to take up a Union government deputation,” the former CM said.Fadnavis has been alleging that an extortion racket is being run by some people in the government and former cop Sachin Vaze, who is in the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) custody for his alleged role in placing the SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home, was being protected because of the same. He has also demanded that “Vaze’s political bosses must face the music”. The Opposition leader also questioned Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar’s “silence” on the issue. Dismissing the suggestion by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar that an “impartial” probe can be conducted through former Mumbai Police chief Julio Ribeiro, Fadnavis said a “court-monitored inquiry” be instated to probe the allegations against Deshmukh. “We have a great regard for Ribeiro but how can a former IPS officer and a retired DGP conduct an inquiry?,” said Fadnavis.He said as Pawar was the architect of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, he has to justify all the developments, including the alleged “misdeeds” by Deshmukh. “[Former Mumbai cop] Sachin Vaze was brought back in service on CM and home minister’s orders. Pawar sahab is fleeting away from the truth,” said Fadnavis. Earlier in the day, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists had staged a protest against Deshmukh before his Civil Lines residence at Nagpur, demanding Deshmukh’s resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corruption-in-mumbai-police-highlighted-earlier-too-says-fadnavis-101616356366965.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Charuni urges Dalits, upper castes to unite at Bahujan Mahapanchayat||Bhartiya Kisan Union Haryana chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has urged members of all sections of society to get united in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three agriculture reform laws.“The time has come that Dalits, backward class and upper caste communities get united. Upper caste families should install photo of Bhim Rao Ambedkar at their houses and Dalits that of farmer leader Chhotu Ram,” Charuni said while addressing a Bahujan Mahapanchayat organised by SC and BC Syunkt Morcha in Kaithal on Sunday.Charuni, who is also member of the 40-member committee formed to hold talks with the government, said the laws enacted by the Centre will not only affect the farmers but also people from all sections of the society as they will have to purchase grains from corporate houses at higher prices. “We are not fighting only for three anti-farmer laws but this is fight for every backward, poor and Dalit,” said Charuni.“The fight against these laws may last longer but the agitation to continue until these three laws are repealed and a law to guarantee MSP is enacted, later we will also fight for the rights of Dalits and government employees,” he added.He alleged the BJP was working on the behalf of the corporate houses and they have forgotten sacrifices of the freedom fighters. “But we will go in all poll-bound states to ensure the BJP’s defeat in all five states, including West Bengal,” he added. Charuni also targeted leaders of ruling parties of Haryana, saying deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and former union minister Birender Singh have dented the image of their great grandfathers late Devil Lal and Sir Chhotu Ram, respectively, by not coming in support of farmers. ‘Corona is a big scam’ Replying to a question on organising a rally amid Covid-19 spread, Charuni said the ruling party was misleading people in the name Covid-19 and all political parties are organising rallies in the poll-bound states. “Corona naam ki koi cheej nahi hai, aur corona ke naam par bohat bada ghotala ho raha hai. Muje lagta hai corona ki vaccine ke naam par BJP kisano ko kahin aisi vaccine na lagwa de ki wo unke yesman ban jaye (There is nothing called corona. It’s a big scam. I think, in the name of vaccine, the BJP may inject something into farmers’ bodies to make them their stooge),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charuni-urges-dalits-upper-castes-to-unite-at-bahujan-mahapanchayat-101616356306913.html
22-03-2021||Other||Covid-19 norms flouted at AAP rally in Moga||Bagha Purana Though the district is among the 11 worst-hit districts of Punjab hit by covid-19, none of mandated rules were followed at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP’s) ‘Kisan Maha Sammelan’ on Sunday. The entire gathering was without masks, even as the AAP claimed to have installed three stalls to distribute these and physical distancing was non-existent. The AAP leadership on the stage also failed to make a single appeal to the crowd to follow covid-19 regulations. Even the majority of those on stage were without masks. The press gallery and other areas reserved for special dignitaries were also taken over by AAP supporters. Heavy police force was deployed, but they did not intervene or take action against violators.Gagandeep Singh, 29, a party worker from Bagha Purana, said, “We had printed around 1 lakh masks with party logos. Our workers were deployed at every entry point of the venue, where we are distributing masks to people to follow Covid-19 related safety guidelines.”Pushpinder Singh, 20, of Sangrur, said, “No one is asking us to wear masks. Therefore, nobody is following any safety norm.” The district health department had deployed a van and three teams at the venue to conduct RT- PCR and rapid antigen test. No one came forward for the test. Dr Manish Arora, district epidemiologist, said, “Three teams were there at the venue but nobody got tested.”Moga civil surgeon Amarpreet Kaur said, “We have sent our teams to conduct tests of the party’s supporters. It was the responsibility of the organisers to ensure the implementation of norms. We cannot force people to get tested, as they may target our staffers.”Jagatpreet Singh, SP (investigation), said, “We invested a lot of effort and appealed to people to wear masks and follow social distancing. They, however, did not follow norms.” Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-norms-flouted-at-aap-rally-in-moga-101616356068016.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: Choosing the right kind of loan||Seeking a loan is not difficult. Taking the right loan, however, is what matters. Here’s a look at some of the different kinds of loans, and what you may need depending on your situation. Personal loans Don’t fall for the myths surrounding personal loans. The truth is that these loans are unsecured, i.e., they do not necessitate any type of collateral. This means that banks do not rely on borrowers’ assets but approve loans based on their creditworthiness. These loans can be procured for a multitude of reasons including house renovation, wedding expenses, medical emergencies, paying to fix car damages, business expansion, refinancing home loans, education, and debt consolidation among a host of things. Easy EMI facilities coupled with less paperwork is a bonus. Less paperwork means that the bank does not seek any papers from you other than making you fill a form containing your details, the amount of loan asked and the purpose of the loan. However, these loans are costlier than home loans or car loans and are available in the range of 10.50-24% every year. Home loans are available in the range of 6.5-10% while car loans can be had at interest rates falling between 7% and 9%. Loan approval is quick and easy in these cases, so opt for it in case of financial immediacy. Education loans Education loans are equally unsecured but beget low-interest rates and may be a better idea if you indeed want to finance your education. The education loan can be taken for a full-time, part-time or vocational course only. Gaurav Aggarwal–Director & Head of Unsecured Loans, Paisabazaar.com, online virtual debt syndication services said, “Education loans charge lower interest rates in the range of 6-15.20% and offer longer repayment tenure than personal loans. Banks also offer a moratorium period on education loans for up to one year after course completion during which the loan accrues interest on a simple interest basis. Interest paid on education loans availed from banks and other institutions qualify for tax deduction under Section 80E.” Financing homes Seeking home loans against your property are common. But, what if you have bought property on power of attorney (POA)? Are you still eligible for home loans from banks or NBFCs? Most banks avoid giving home loans to secure properties bought on POA as the law does not grant ownership title to the buyer. Many NBFCs are also wary of giving home loans in such cases. Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar, an online market place for financial products said, “If the property involves a POA, then you may need to opt for a vanilla personal loan or use some other collateral acceptable to the bank, as most banks may not be willing to accept property involving POA as a security for the loan.” Did you know that there is also something called a home improvement loan? If you need finances to refurbish or upgrade your home, opt for that. A home loan is restricted to the purchase of a constructed or under-construction property or the extension of the property. Compared to this, a home improvement loan is secured to renovate the structure without altering its basic structure. You can seek this kind of loan to fund renovation activities including tiling, flooring, internal/external plaster and painting, etc. Different types of loans also have varying loan terms, interest rates, EMI facilities, and time limits. Let’s also acquaint ourselves with these various aspects of a loan. Loan tenure Short-term loans availed to support a temporary purpose can be availed for a period between six and 18 months. Loans taken for tenure not less than three years and secured to meet prolonged expenses are called long-term loans. Short-term loans beget higher interest rates compared to long-term loans. This prompts people to repay loans over a long tenure not realizing the added financial outgo despite the limited interest rates involved. However, you must choose a short tenure loan provided it does not stretch you financially every month. Annual Percentage Rates Many people compare loan interest rates to determine which loan is cheaper. However, more than just the basic interest rate charged on loans, a borrower must find out the annual percentage rate (APR) of the loan sought. APR is the real cost of the loan, which includes the interest rate, processing fee, origination cost (also called loan application fees), etc. You can calculate the APR using the formula [{(Fees + Interest)/ Principal}/ n] × 365 × 100. Thus, APR is almost always higher than the interest rate. If you are unable to find out, ask the lender to share the APR to compare loans applied in other banks. Banks provide the APR on the loan when asked, thus, saving you the time to evaluate the same. However, some bank loans are available on floating interest rates. Before choosing to pay at floating interest rates instead of the fixed interest method, you must be mentally prepared for the sudden variations in interest amount over the loan tenure due to fluctuating interest rates. Floating interest rates are subject to revision every quarter. You must opt for a floating interest rate when there is a likelihood of falling interest rates in near future. Besides, lenders do not charge a penalty on prepayment of loans taken at floating interest rates. Total amount owed Checking the total amount owed is another way to find if you have chosen the right kind of loan. This is equal to the total loan amount plus interest and fee charges. Irrespective of loans taken at fixed or floating interest rates, the total amount you owe is the amount that you are likely to pay altogether. If the monthly loan instalments do not stretch you financially, try and go for the loan with the least amount owed over the tenure subject. Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-choosing-the-right-kind-of-loan-101616356006754.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab plans to double area under direct rice seeding this kharif season||The Punjab agriculture department is planning to bring under cultivation at least 20 lakh acres of a total of 62 lakh-acre paddy area through the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique in the upcoming kharif season. This will be twice the last year’s 10 lakh acres sowed through the water-conservation technique. This will be besides the targeted cultivated area of 12 lakh acres under the basmati. To achieve the target, the department has started organising camps in villages promoting the sowing. The sowing of paddy starts in Punjab in mid-June. State agriculture director Sukhdev Singh Sidhu said, ““We will put all arrangements in place and identify the areas where cultivation through DSR will take place so that the crop is monitored closely. During the last season farmers experienced some problems when the DSR method was introduced for the first time. We want to help farmers rectify those hiccups this time.” He added, “We appeal to the farmers to sow the PR-126 variety of paddy as it is best suited for the DSR technique. The PUSA-44 variety should be avoided. Our objective is to bring at least one-third of the total paddy area barring basmati under DSR.” Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor BS Dhillon said it will be a step towards water conservation and sustainable agriculture. “Our goal should be to save water through the method. We are helping farmers earn handsomely as well as save the environment,” said Dhillon.The DSR technique saves 15-20% of water consumed by the traditional method of puddling at time of transplanting paddy samplings. As per estimates of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, 1kg rice consumes 3,367 litre water.Makhan Singh Bhullar, head of the department of agronomy, PAU, said all 12,000 villages have been covered under DSR and 87% coarse paddy area in Punjab can be cultivated through the technique.“At the camps, we are also holding field demonstrations for farmers who have adopted the method,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-plans-to-double-area-under-direct-rice-seeding-this-kharif-season-101616355886681.html
22-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid toll climbs to 1,083 with 8 more deaths||The district recorded 330 fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours, toppling Saturday’s record of 329 cases, which was the highest single-day count of the year so far. Besides, eight more persons succumbed to the virus in 24 hours, making it the highest single day casualty count of the year.In the last one week alone, the district has recorded a total of 33 Covid deaths and 1,600 fresh infections with over 200 new cases being added to the tally every single day. However, it is only for the second time in over five months that the single-day count has breached the 300-mark. Ludhiana’s death toll currently stands at 1,083 while the cumulative case count is 30,725. With 27,696 recoveries so far, the district is left with 1,946 active cases.The latest fatalities in the district include a 69-year-old man from BRS Nagar, a 67-year-old woman from Bhamaddi in Khanna, a 65-year-old woman from Sehajo Majra village, a 65- year- old woman from Bhutta village, a 65-year-old man from Jawaddi, a 58-year-old man from Samrala and a 55-year-old woman from Shahpur village of Payal and another 55-year-old woman from Samrala.Those who tested positive in the last 24 hours include four healthcare workers, three teachers and 10 students. The teachers are from GGN Khalsa College, Civil Lines, Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Daudhar, and GSSS, Libra. The infected students are from Government Multipurpose School, GSSS Chak Kalan, GNE College and Sacred Heart School, BRS Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-covid-toll-climbs-to-1-083-with-8-more-deaths-101616355827138.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Global investment: J&K govt in talks with delegates of 6 countries||The Jammu and Kashmir government is in talks with delegates and investors of six foreign countries to explore global investments in the Union Territory. At south Asia’s largest integrated trade show, Indusfood 2021, which is being held at India Exposition Mart, the Jammu and Kashmir delegation was led by Jammu & Kashmir Trade Promotion Organisation (JKTPO) managing director Ankita Kar. “J&K’s strengths were showcased at the fair and different international traders and buyers were invited to visit the region and explore investment opportunities provided by the recent policy initiatives by the department,” said Kar, while inaugurating the Jammu and Kashmir Pavilion. She also signed a memorandum of understanding with Mohit Singla, chairperson, Trade Promotion Corporation of India (TPCI) for the agro and food processing sector and film tourism sector. “TPCI will impart and deliver sectoral knowledge and research-based information, policy advocacy, marketing and developmental activities in the focus sectors,” tTPO officials said.Officials of JKTPO said they were in talks with foreign delegates of six countries - Russia, Uzbekistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Turkey and Belarus — for exploring different avenues to attract global investments. MD Kar said,“ The government is working towards policies and schemes to ensure ‘ease of doing business’ to investors. JKTPO is always open to facilitate queries and collaborate with the trade fraternity.”Singla said that with the new industrial Policy, there will be a major industrial surge in the region.“ Agro & Food Processing is an important sector for Jammu & Kashmir. With the combined synergies of JKTPO and TPCI, we can explore new investment avenues for the region. We are sure the traders from across the world will be looking forward to visit the Union Territory,” he said.A spokesperson said the event saw queries and interest from several traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/global-investment-j-k-govt-in-talks-with-delegates-of-6-countries-101616355766846.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Climate change likely to affect Maharashtra’s agricultural productivity: Study||Rising temperatures and extreme weather events may adversely affect Maharashtra’s agricultural output after the year 2033, resulting in reduced yields of certain rain-fed food crops as well as irrigated cash crops, suggests a recent study published in peer-reviewed scientific journal Springer Nature.The study — Future Climate Change Scenario over Maharashtra, Western India: Implications of the Regional Climate Model (REMO-2009) for the Understanding of Agricultural Vulnerability — states that about 80% (or 29 out of 36) of Maharashtra’s districts are expected to witness a rise in annual mean temperature (AMT) between 2033 and 2050. This will, in turn, affect water security and agro-climatic conditions, leading to diminished yields of sugarcane, pearl millet, wheat, rice and jowar among other crops. “The present study indicates that the majority of districts may undergo a rise in temperature between 0.8 and 1.2 degrees Celsius by 2050... The mountain regions (of Western Ghats) in Pune, Satara and Raigad districts exhibit the highest increase (of 1–2.5 degrees Celsius) in AMT followed by Solapur (by 1.2–1.75 degrees Celsius),” said Rahul Todmal, assistant professor of geography at Vidya Pratishthan’s ASC College in Baramati, Pune district, who authored the study.Todmal’s analysis is based on projected climate data for the period between 2015 and 2100 obtained from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) in Pune, as well as projections provided by the International Panel on Climate Change in its Fifth Assessment Report published in 2014.Using applied statistical techniques, as well as results from past agronomic studies, Todmal arrived at future projections for temperature and rainfall patterns in Maharashtra and correlated them with changing crop patterns in the state.The study however, is limited by a lack of experimentation to corroborate these projections. Instead, it uses results from past experimental studies undertaken by government and non-government institutes, in Maharashtra as well as other parts of the country. Their applicability for Maharashtra is only in a broad sense, the study clarifies.Todmal’s findings suggest that along with an increase in AMT, Maharashtra is also likely to witness an increase in annual rainfall by 18% to 22% in the foreseeable future. Vidarbha and Konkan regions, in particular, should expect an assured increase in rainfall by 2050, Todmal pointed out. “This rainfall increase can be destructive and will pave way for extreme events. It may result in repetition of the catastrophic flood events as experienced in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara in August 2019,” he said.“Agronomic studies have confirmed that warmer climatic conditions never favour agricultural productivity. The future rise in temperature is very likely to reduce the productivity of traditional rain-fed crops like jowar, bajra and pulses, as well as irrigated cash crops like sugarcane, onion and maize. The rise in annual minimum temperature, particularly during the winter season, may adversely affect wheat productivity,” Todmal added. Simultaneously, a significant increase in the monsoon rainfall, particularly over Vidarbha and Western Ghats, may also increase the rate of leaching (nitrates) in soil and adversely impact the decomposition of organic matter due to water saturation. A combination of higher temperatures and increase in rainfall may also threaten agricultural productivity by catalysing an increase in fungal diseases and bacterial leaf-blight, the study notes.Future warming (up to at least 2.5 degrees Celsius) and increased rainfall (leading to more atmospheric and surface moisture) over Maharashtra is “inevitable” and has the potential to “negatively affect the productivity of agricultural food grains as well as cash crops”, the study concluded. The findings of this study found resonance among independent experts. “Under the circumstances presented in the study, temperature variations may marginally affect the productivity of principle crops like sugarcane, rice, sorghum and millet. However, it may have some major effect on wheat productivity,” said AN Ganeshamurthy, agriculture expert and emeritus scientist with the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) in Bengaluru.Ganeshmurthy clarified that these losses may also be offset through appropriate interventions, such as furrow bed irrigation systems for crops like cotton and sorghum, which would help them escape the kind of surface flooding that is projected to occur.Naman Gupta, a former climate change advisor to Maharashtra government who has reviewed the study, said these findings reaffirm the risks of climate change to valuable resources, such as food and water. “It is high time to integrate climate information in existing policies and programmes to ensure than impending risks can be minimised.” Such integration, Gupta said, is imperative not just in the sectors of agriculture and water, but also forestry, public health, infrastructure and disaster management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/climate-change-likely-to-affect-maharashtra-s-agricultural-productivity-study-101616355709368.html
22-03-2021||Other||Kejri sounds poll bugle at Moga kisan mahapanchayat, says take revenge on Congress for failing to keep promises||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday sounded bugle for the forthcoming Punjab assembly elections and urged the voters to take electoral revenge on the ruling Congress in the state for “not fulfilling its pre-poll promises”. In a show of strength at the kisan mahapanchayat at Moga district’s Baghapurana, the AAP chief said only his party was capable of providing a political alternative in the state. “In the run-up to the 2017 polls, Capt Amarinder Singh had made several promises. But after assuming power, the chief minister was unable to deliver on announcements such as debt waiver for farmers, jobs, providing smartphones and unemployment allowance. Now, it is time for the Punjabis to remember that they were cheated and get ready for ‘badla’ (revenge),” he said.He promised that if voted to power, jobs will be given to all those who have the employment card. “Until the job is given, unemployment allowance will be granted,” he added. He urged people to start working at the village and mohalla level for the victory of AAP in the assembly polls. “The AAP has set an example of governance in Delhi and pro-people policies like free power to majority of residents, free or cheaper medical facilities will be implemented in Punjab too,” Kejriwal added. Addressing the well-attended gathering, where no leader from any farmer union was present, the AAP supremo said farmers were deprived of opportunities and good governance for the last 70 years.While he took jibes at the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) and the Congress, the AAP leader refrained from making any reference to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in his 25-minute address. ‘70 COMPLAINTS LODGED OVER DEFAMING FARM STIR’The AAP leader said the Delhi government has lodged nearly 70 complaints against the BJP leaders for allegedly trying to defame the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “Upset over our refusal to grant permission to arrest the protesting farmers in nine open jails, the Modi regime is now conspiring to reduce decision-making powers of the Delhi government. But I assure you that the AAP government will not let the Centre harm the farmers who are fighting for their survival,” he said.“True to its tradition, Punjab has again emerged as a leader for the oppressed farming community of the entire country. Our government worked to provide langar, water, toilets and free Wi-Fi to facilitate farmers at the Delhi borders,” he said.COVID-19 GUIDELINES FLOUTEDOrganised at the new grain market, Covid-19 guidelines of maintaining physical distancing and wearing face masks were blatantly flouted at the event. No one from the stage even once urged the gathering to follow the pandemic guidelines. Moga is among 11 worst-hit districts of Punjab with pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejri-sounds-poll-bugle-at-moga-kisan-mahapanchayat-says-take-revenge-on-congress-for-failing-to-keep-promises-101616355708230.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra home minister faces his biggest challenge yet||Fifteen months ago, Anil Deshmukh got the biggest opportunity of his political career as the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was chosen to head the home department in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Till then, the five-time MLA had been a minister most of the time, but never the one holding a politically significant portfolio. Just when it looked like his stakes were up, Deshmukh, 70, faces the biggest challenge in his political life. “I never had a stain on me in my 30-year-long political career,” Deshmukh had said in a function organised by Lokmat Group on Friday. Within 24 hours, former top cop Param Bir Singh levelled serious allegations against him, alleging that he had asked suspended police officer Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month. Deshmukh, a fifth-time MLA from Katol in Nagpur district, is an NCP heavyweight in the region and belongs to an affluent family of ‘malgujar’ (big landholder) in the district. He started as a president of Nagpur zilla parishad in 1990. Five years later, he contested the Assembly election as an independent. He was one of the 40-odd independent MLAs who supported the Shiv Sena-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alliance government and was rewarded a ministerial berth. With a masters in agriculture, Deshmukh later joined the NCP, when it was formed in 1999. When the Congress-NCP alliance government came to power in Maharashtra in 1999, he initially served as a minister of state for school education and was later promoted as a cabinet minister in the state government. From 2001 to 2014, he handled different ministries, including excise, food and drugs (2001 to March 2004), public works (public undertakings; 2004 to 2008), food and civil supplies (2009 -2014). He lost the Katol seat to his nephew, Ashish Deshmukh, the then BJP nominee, in 2014 assembly elections. Later, he regained the Katol seat as the NCP candidate in the 2019 state assembly elections and was appointed the home minister when the MVA came to power in November 2019. In addition to his portfolio, Deshmukh is also the guardian minister of Gondia district, a bastion of influential NCP leader, Praful Patel. As a home minister, he tabled the proposed ‘Shakti Act’ to curb violence against women and children in the Assembly on the first day of the winter session. He also took a decision to ask for feedback from women’s rights organisations, legal experts, and citizens before the implementation of the Shakti Act. As a cabinet minister for food and drugs during the regime of Congress-NCP coalition government, he enacted the law in the state to ban gutkha, a type of chewing tobacco. Ashish, who had defeated him in 2014 Assembly elections from Katol, felt Deshmukh was framed in the “scandal.” “Why should he demand huge money of ₹100 crore every month from an assistant inspector? It seems the allegations are politically motivated,” Ashish remarked. Deshmukh’s cousin Ranjit was president of Maharashtra Congress and a minister in the first Congress-NCP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-home-minister-faces-his-biggest-challenge-yet-101616355587056.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police get 1,150 complaints on grievance redressal day||Javed Ahmed Khan, a Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) member, approached Sakinaka police station in Andheri (East) on Saturday to highlight around 600 illegal online lottery, betting, bingo, casino and roulette centres operating in their jurisdiction and other areas. Khan has made numerous complaints regarding such rackets in the past, but even after several FIRs, it was still operating. Mumbai Police’s Grievance Redressal Day, to be observed every Saturday, provided Khan with a platform to flag the issue to superior officers.Like Khan, 1,150 people took their issues to the police during Grievance Redressal Day, which started on Monday with an aim to make police service more transparent and responsive to the general public. Every Saturday, one police station in each of the 12 zones in the city will hold the event. Between 9am and 11.30am, each deputy commissioner of police, assistant commissioner of police will visit one police station in their zone, and address complaints and issues raised by the public. Senior inspector of the police station, inspector (crime) and two investigating officers will also be present and will brief about the current status of already lodged complaints. Police officers said they received 311 complaints and 391 non-cognisable complaints across the city on Saturday. “Apart from receiving complaints, we also address problems of the people. On Saturday we addressed 31 complaints and returned stolen booty recovered in two robbery cases,” said Shashikant Mane, senior inspector, Juhu police station.In 2012, then Mumbai commissioner of police Satyapal Singh had started Grievance Redressal Day. However, it was discontinued. How to approach Every Saturday, the deputy commissioner and assistant police commissioners of all 12 zones in Mumbai will be present at one police station in their zone along with the senior police inspector of the police station from 9am to 11.30am, where people can come and register their complaints. People who have filed complaints earlier can also visit to enquire about the progress of their case. The police will have to state as to what steps have been taking to solve the cases.Police will notify which police stations will be implementing the scheme on which Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-get-1-150-complaints-on-grievance-redressal-day-101616355467157.html
22-03-2021||Other||Malls closed due to Sunday curbs, Ludhiana residents flock to local markets||As the state government ordered the closure of multiplexes, cinema halls and malls on Sundays in view of the spike in Covid-19 infections, residents flocked to the local markets in Sarabha Nagar, Dugri, Model Town, Chaura Bazar Ghumar Mandi and other areas, with many being seen roaming around without masks.Though the government had allowed restaurants and eateries to only provide takeaway and home delivery services, many residents were seen enjoying their meals while sitting at dhabas and eateries on the railway station road, South City, Ghumar Mandi, Model Town, Dugri and Civil lines. At some of these places, residents were also seen standing in long queues without observing distancing while waiting for their orders. Many of eatery owners even claimed ignorance over whether they are covered under the restaurant category, and hence if the rule of allowing only takeaways and home deliveries applied on them. The hotels and restaurant association members, meanwhile, cried foul, stating that curbs were only being imposed on them even as small eateries were openly flouting the norms. Punjab hotels and restaurant association president Amarvir Singh said, “We will soon writing to the district administration over the “discrimination” against us.”Administration officials clarified that no restaurant, dhaba or eatery owner will be allowed to serve food on the premises on Sundays. Additional deputy commissioner Amarjit Bains said, “All eateries, dhabas, chowpattys are covered under the restaurant category and no one is allowed to serve food on premises. Police will take action against the violators as per the norms.”Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “Cops are strictly monitoring the situation in the city and action is being taken against the violators. The owners of eateries situated at different points of the city were also directed to stop serving food on Sunday and residents are expected to follow the norms to help stop the spread of the virus.”Many rued that their business has already been hit due to the ongoing night curfew, and the weekend curfew would only add to their woes.Bhavpreet Singh, the owner of a restaurant in Sarabha Nagar, stated, “We are already suffering as we have to close our establishments before 9pm on weekdays, and now, we will lose out on business even on weekends. Allowing takeaways is a good idea but the government should still reconsider its decision of Sunday restrictions as otherwise, it will be very difficult for us to meet our fixed expenses such as salaries, electricity bill etc.” Similar views were echoed by the managements of malls and multiplexes in the city. Ajay Nayar, director, FMI Limited and Silver Arc Mall, said, “We are already witnessing a low footfall due to fear of infection. Our business had been slowly coming back on track post the lockdown as residents had started coming out for shopping, movies and dining, but the fresh restrictions mean even more losses for our establishments. Instead of imposing such restrictions, the government must focus on speeding up vaccinations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/malls-closed-due-to-sunday-curbs-ludhiana-residents-flock-to-local-markets-101616355406801.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze-Deshmukh row: Won’t touch murky case, says former Mumbai Police officer||While Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar on Sunday recommended that Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray could entrust the responsibility of carrying out a probe into the serious allegations against home minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with police officer Sachin Vaze row to retired officer Julio Ribeiro, he has refused to take up the probe. Ribeiro said, “Nobody has approached me and if they do, I will certainly not accept it. I would not like to touch this murky situation where money and encounters are involved.” Singh has accused Deshmukh of running a bribe ring and even asking Vaze to collect ₹100 crore. Deshmukh has denied all allegations. Vaze is under arrest in connection with his role in the security scare at industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home, Antilia, and the death of trader Mansukh Hiran, in whose car the loose gelatin sticks were found. Ribeiro, 91, who has the image of a clean and honest retired IPS officer and is known for raising voice for police reforms, had referred to Singh as a “bad cop” in 2018. Singh had demanded an apology and threatened to sue Ribeiro for using “contemptuous and defamatory language” against him. Singh did not respond to HT’s phone calls and messages. Ribeiro in a newspaper article in The Indian Express on chief minister Devendra Fadnavis appointing Subodh Jaiswal as the new CP, had said, (referring to no one in particular) how two aspirants were rumoured to be vying for the job and how the CM “withstood all pressures from unsuitable contestants”. Ribeiro had then not taken Singh’s name in the piece. But Singh was one of the contenders for the post. Singh, who was then the Thane police commissioner, had said, “It is clear that the primary purpose of publishing the article was to defame me by insinuation and more importantly irreparably harm my goodwill and bring about wilful disrepute to me again through insinuation. You have caused irreparable damage to my reputation and interfered with the dispensation of public duties by me and the Thane police force.” NCP chief Pawar on Sunday tweeted, “He (Rebeiro) has a great reputation and if he accepts this responsibility then the truth will definitely come to the fore and public at large will start believing more in the police and in the government in particular.” An in-depth inquiry should be conducted by an officer or an individual who enjoys utmost respect of the police administration and public at large, Pawar added. Ribeiro was the Mumbai police commissioner from January 25, 1982 to June 6, 1986. He was praised for curbing the menace of smuggling mafia that had made Mumbai its hub. He also served as the director general of police Gujarat and Punjab. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 1987 for his services. Ribeiro is also one of the former retired DGPs and police commissioners of Maharashtra and Mumbai Police who had moved the Bombay High Court last year when the “unfair, malicious and false media campaign against Mumbai Police” was carried out during the Sushant Singh Rajput death controversy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vazedeshmukh-row-won-t-touch-murky-case-says-former-mumbai-police-officer-101616355347234.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Controversy erupts over posting of non-Hindus at Jawalamukhi temple||A controversy erupted on Sunday after BJP MP Subramanian Swamy questioned the Himachal Pradesh government over positing non-Hindus to administer the Jawalamukhi Temple in Kangra.“Himachal Pradesh gov appoints non-Hindus to administer Jawalamukhi Temple - a Shakti Peeth. HP gov has completely taken over most of the Temples. Politicians and babus run Hindu Temples as their personal fiefdoms. Temple administration comes directly under CM,” (sic) Swamy tweeted.He also posted a photo of an apparent positing order on his twitter handle and wrote “Any idea about this?” His tweet soon went viral garnering 7,960 likes and 2,233 re-tweets. People were divided over the issue and many netizens attacked the government while others termed it as an attempt to create communal divide.Meanwhile, in a response to Swamy, the Kangra DC wrote that both officers were appointed at the temple in 2017 and were removed after local people objected: “Both appointed in temple in 2017 by the Previous govt. People objected to their presence around temple even though they were posted in the temple resthouse. So I transferred them 50km away to District Headquarters in order to maintain communal harmony & Law and Order,”(s ic) tweeted Rakesh Kumar Prajapati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/controversy-erupts-over-posting-of-non-hindus-at-jawalamukhi-temple-101616355288181.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid case surge not a classic 2nd wave, says Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said the current rise of Covid-19 cases in the country is not a “classical second wave” and if appropriate safety precautions are taken, the number of cases can come down within a month. “You can give it any name, but I don’t think it is some classical second wave or something. The treatment and precautions of this virus is not difficult and there is nothing powerful wearing a mask properly. If people follow this norm for one month, the virus transmission can be broken. The virus cannot remain in the air for long as it needs a host and masks will save us,” Dr Harsh Vardhan said during media interaction at the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO), where he inaugurated the Centre of Excellence for Intelligent Sensors and Systems. The minister said that no link has been established between the deaths and Covid-19 vaccination in the cases which have been investigated and proper mechanism is in place to deal with such urgencies. “There has been no death attributed to the vaccination till now. Any death which has happened (after vaccination) is being investigated from the grassroots-level to the national-level. Every death which is linked with the vaccination is being investigated properly and no link of vaccine side effect leading to death has been found so far,” he said during media interaction at an event at Central Scientific Instruments Organisation in Chandigarh. Responding to the queries on expanding the drive for other groups, the minister said that the vaccination process is very dynamic and is based on a scientific process. “As the need for prioritising more groups will arise, the vaccination drive will be expanded. Presently, we are aiming at better coverage of the priority groups, “.He however did not presented any timeline for the expansion. On the cumbersome process of signing a certificate for certifying the specific comorbidites for getting a jab for age group between 45 and 60, the minister responded that the process is “simple”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-case-surge-not-a-classic-2nd-wave-says-harsh-vardhan-101616355287082.html
22-03-2021||Other||440kg of drugs worth ₹15 crore destroyed by authorities in Mumbai||neha.tripathi@htlive.com Mumbai City’s principal commissioner of customs (preventive) department destroyed 440kg of drugs worth ₹15 crore on Friday under the provisions of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act, 1985. In a special drive conducted for destruction of seized narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and foreign cigarettes, the department incinerated these substances at the waste management facility in Taloja. The drugs included cocaine, heroin, ganja, ketamine, metaphetamine, khat leaves and diazapem tablets. The drugs were seized based on the follow-up action of various anti-smuggling operations by the Directorate of Revenue intelligence (DRI) as well as different customs teams under the jurisdiction of the principal commissioner of customs (preventive) in Mumbai. “The investigating units concerned had completed their investigations in all these cases and fulfilled the legal formalities. A high-level drug disposal committee headed by the additional commissioner (preventive) was constituted for supervision, and ensuring compliance of all relevant procedures prescribed under the Act and manual for such destruction,” said Alok Chopra, principal commissioner of customs (preventive).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/440kg-of-drugs-worth-15-crore-destroyed-by-authorities-in-mumbai-101616355166728.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra prison dept starts vaccination for inmates at Arthur Road Jail||Maharashtra prison department has started Covid-19 vaccination drive for the inmates at Arthur Road Jail or Mumbai Central Prison. Around 39 inmates were vaccinated till Saturday. Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police, Maharashtra prison department, confirmed that the vaccination drive at Arthur Road Jail started on Thursday, and added that the drive will be carried out across 46 prisons including central, district, open jails and sub-jails across Maharashtra.Inmates from Arthur Road jail were taken to Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for the vaccination. On Thursday, 10 inmates were immunised, followed by 15 and 14 inmates on Friday and Saturday, respectively. “We have started the drive and are taking precautionary measures and following the guidelines by the state government. As per the guidelines, we started with inmates above the age of 60 years and those above 45 years with comorbidities and ailing inmates. However, inmates should have their Aadhaar card, which is mandatory for the vaccination drive,” said NB Vayachal, superintendent of police, Arthur Road jail. Sources said the prison department had instructed all central and district jail to start the drive. Accordingly, all jail authorities sent letters to municipal commissioners and district collectors for arranging the vaccination drive for inmates. “The jails will first take permission from the local court or district judge, and further coordinate with the administration to make the vaccine available for inmates,” an official from prison department said. He added, “Arthur Road jail authorities, after getting permission from the court, coordinated with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and accordingly started the drive at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital. In the past three days, 39 inmates were vaccinated as per the guidelines. The jail has 3,000 inmates currently, of whom more than 100 inmates, aged above 60 years and those with health issues aged above 45 years, will be vaccinated,” added the official. Box: Till date, around 50,142 prison inmates were tested for Covid-19 across 46 prisons in Maharashtra, as per data provided by Maharashtra prison department on Saturday. Of them, 2,743 tested positive for the disease. So far, 2,618 inmates have recovered and seven have died. Meanwhile, around 3,492 jail staffers were tested till date, of whom 606 tested positive. So far, 570 staffers have recovered and eight lost their lives. At Arthur Road jail, 4,230 inmates were tested. 210 inmates tested positive, of whom 184 have recovered. Of the 153 jail staff tested, 53 tested positive and 52 have recovered. Yerawada Central Jail in Pune saw the highest number of Covid-19 cases among all the prisons across state. Around 7,084 inmates were tested, 366 tested positive and 341 have recovered. The jail also reported deaths of two inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-prison-dept-starts-vaccination-for-inmates-at-arthur-road-jail-101616355109092.html
22-03-2021||Other||Amritsar pharmacy college overcharges fee, ordered to refund||Jalandhar The State Technical and Industrial Training department, in a probe, has found that Shaheed Bhagat Singh College of Pharmacy, Sohian Kalan village, Amritsar, is guilty of charging double the fee that the state government has mandated from its diploma students. The college is affiliated with Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University, Jalandhar. Students have paid between ₹60,000 and ₹65,000 against the legitimate fee of ₹29,000. Technical education department principal secretary Anurag Verma has directed the secretary of his department to get refund of overcharged fee to students or their parents from the college management before March 31. “If the college will not return the overcharged fee to students then get FIR registered against college management,” Verma’s order adds. The department had ordered inspection against the college as it had received complaints that the college has been charging high fee from students of diploma. Rajesh Kumar, officiating principal, Government Polytechnic College, for Jalandhar on March 16, 2021. Anurag Verma wrote a letter to the secretary, technical education that the inspecting teams recorded video statements of the students. Verma also asked the secretary to initiate the process to cancel affiliation as per rules, with the inspection recording shortcomings. The college principal did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-pharmacy-college-overcharges-fee-ordered-to-refund-101616355108056.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Amid high demand for nurses, courses see many vacant seats||At a time when the world is depending on healthcare workers and nurses who are being hailed as heroes at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19, nursing institutes in Maharashtra are facing high number of seat vacancy year after year.At present, admissions are on at the institutional level, and as per figures shared by the state common entrance test (CET) cell, over 64% seats remain unclaimed across nursing institutes in the state. This, experts said, is the status of nursing as well as physiotherapy courses across the state because of the secondary importance given to all courses other than medical and dental courses.“For the past few years in the state of Maharashtra, admissions to all para medical and other courses including bachelors in Ayurveda, physiotherapy, nursing, etc take place only once admissions to medical and dental courses end. This leaves students, even who were interested, running to book seats in institutes in other states,” said Dr Ramling Mali, member of Indian Nursing Council and former president of Maharashtra Nursing Council.This year, admissions to most professional courses were delayed by a few months; first due to the lockdown and then due to a petition filed in the Bombay high court for clarity on the status of the Maratha quota. Then in December, the registration process for most professional courses including law, engineering, architecture and pharmacy had to be delayed by a few weeks to give students time to make necessary changes to their admission forms after the state decided to continue admissions without SEBC quota.Admissions to medical and dental courses had started in November last year and the National Medical Commission (NMC) had extended admissions to January 31, 2021. This deadline was further extended till mid-February for dental courses in order to fill up vacant seats in colleges. “So, admissions to courses other than medical and dental started only post February. Meanwhile, other states had already finished admissions to courses including nursing. We are now left with 64% vacant seats,” said the principal of a Nanded-based nursing institute.Statistics shared by the state CET cell shows that in nursing courses seat vacancy stood at 56% in 2016-17, 42% in 2017-18 and 30% in 2019-20.In the peak of fight against Covid-19 last year, Maharashtra had requested for nurses to be brought down from Kerala to help in state hospitals. Experts said the dearth of nurses is a result of years of under-paying nurses in several hospitals in the state.“Anyone who has spent three-four years, especially with the hope of joining a noble profession, is expecting a decent salary. But several nursing homes in Maharashtra pay not more than ₹8,000- ₹10,000 per month to nurses. Even maids make better money,” added Mali. He said that over the years, more nursing students have been moving to other states or countries with hopes of better pay.A student has to clear the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) to be eligible for any medical or para-medical courses. For years now, principals of nursing institutes have been demanding that admissions to all medical and para medical courses be conducted at the same time in Maharashtra, just like other states in the country.“Every year, students used to hold on to seats in nursing courses, and then withdraw the admission if they found even a management quota seat in medical or dental institutes. This led to bifurcating of the admissions process. However, pushing non-medical admissions until after admissions to all medical and dental seats are over has not helped our institutes either,” said Ramesh Pawar, management member of a nursing institute in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-amid-high-demand-for-nurses-courses-see-many-vacant-seats-101616355106970.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||6.76 million Indians brought back through Vande Bharat Mission||India has brought back 6.76 million stranded passengers with the help of the special international flights as Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) operating since May last year. According to the civil aviation ministry, over 8,500 distressed Indian returned to the country on Saturday alone.The government launched the VBM in early May last year to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to travel restrictions from the Covid-19 pandemic.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Sunday tweeted, “It is not just a mission that brought back stranded & distressed citizens from around the world, but Vande Bharat has been a Mission of hope & happiness; of letting people know that they will not be left behind even in the most testing times. 67.5 million…& continuing to grow…” (sic)According to the ministry of civil aviation ministry (MoCA), most of the Indians returned to India on March 20 from the Middle East. Arrivals from these countries included flights from Sharjah, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Muscat, Riyadh, Doha, Salalah, Bahrain. Other arrivals included flights from Kuala Lumpur, Kuwait, Singapore, San Francisco, Nairobi, London, Dammam, Jeddah, Paris, Frankfurt, Washington, Toronto, Newark, New York, Chicago, Vancouver and Kathmandu.Puri also said that despite rising Covid-19 cases in some regions, necessitating restrictions and imposition of compulsory RT-PCR, the number of domestic fliers is growing readily towards pre-Covid figures. He tweeted, ‘..2,47,037 fliers on 2330 flights on 19 March 2021. More than 26.3 million fliers since May 25.” (sic)Until March 19, total flight movements was 4,663 and total footfalls at Indian airports was 4,96,076. However, the minister had on Friday also said that the last few days have seen a decline in the number of air passengers largely due to restrictions and imposition of compulsory RT-PCR test by various states.While MoCA has increased the lower limit of airfare band (implemented in May 2020) twice a month, flight capacity continues to remain at 80%..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/676-million-indians-brought-back-through-vande-bharat-mission-101616355048176.html
22-03-2021||Other||Beware! Women snatchers’ gang on the prowl in Ludhiana again||Yet another elderly woman has fallen prey to a women snatchers’ gang that has been active in areas under the jurisdiction of Ludhiana police commissionerate and Ludhiana rural police for the past few years.The gang, comprising three women and a man, comes in car and targets elderly women on the pretext of offering them a lift.Their latest victim is a 69-year-old woman of Moti Bagh of Jagraon who was targeted on March 14. In the police complaint, her son, Rajnish Kumar, said that his mother was on the way to a shrine near Khanga Chowk when three women and a man in a Maruti Suzuki Swift car offered her a lift. She accepted their offer and got in but after covering some distance, the accused told her that they were heading in another direction following which the victim got off. It was only later that she notices that her gold bangle was missing.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balraj Singh, the investigating officer, said closed-circuit television cameras in the area have captured the registration number of the car used in the crime but it is likely that the accused may have changed the number plates later. A case under Section 379-B (snatching using force) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the four unidentified persons at Jagraon city police station. Similar cases in the pastMarch 10: A gang of thieves, including three women and a man, robbed a 73-year-old woman of her gold bangle in H-Block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar of Ludhiana.August 31, 2020: The women’s gang robbed two women in a day in Sarabha village and Jodhan Bazar. The accused had introduced themselves as relatives to the victims.July 26, 2020: A 53-year-old Sahnewal resident was robbed of her gold chain by a gang of women. The Sahnewal police had lodged an FIR against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/beware-women-snatchers-gang-on-the-prowl-in-ludhiana-again-101616355046883.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze-Deshmukh row: Maharashtra govt may announce probe into allegations||Amid former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegations that home minister Anil Deshmukh ran a bribe ring, the Maharashtra government is expected to announce a probe into the allegations by a retired IAS or IPS officer. Although Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar suggested probe by former Mumbai commissioner and retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro, the latter has refused to head any such probe. Deshmukh has refuted the allegations, saying he will file a defamation suit against Singh.Singh, the commandant general of home guards and former Mumbai police commissioner, alleged in his letter emailed to CM Uddhav Thackeray, that Deshmukh had asked some of the officers from Mumbai Police to collect ₹100 crore per month from bars, pubs and hookah parlours. Alleging that the home minister had indulged in interference in the police force and malpractices, Singh in his eight-page letter also said that he was under pressure to probe Mohan Delkar case in Mumbai.“There could be a probe committee appointed under a retired IAS or IPS officer to look into the allegations. The committee may not be brought under the Commission of Inquiry Act to ensure that its recommendations are not binding on the government. The government will also not want to give undue importance to the letter by Singh,” said a minister, requesting anonymity.According to an official from Mantralaya, the decision over constitution of the committee may be taken after taking the view of the home department into consideration. The officer said the department may ask for an explanation from police officers and personal secretary of the home minister named in the letter by Singh to verify the claims. “At the same time, there could be a departmental inquiry against Singh for violating the All India Services Rules by levelling allegations against the home minister and the leakage of the letter,” the officer said.Leader of opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis has demanded a probe into allegations by a central agency or a court-monitored probe. He disapproved of Pawar’s suggestion saying that a retired IPS officer cannot probe an incumbent home minister. “We have great regard for Ribeiro, but how can a former IPS officer and a retired DGP conduct an inquiry against the home minister? Deshmukh should first resign from the post for an impartial probe,” he said.Water resources minister and Maharashtra NCP chief Jayant Patil said, “If not Ribeiro, another officer of similar integrity can conduct the probe. We will have to first go into the allegations levelled by Singh to find out the truth.” He also said that the letter was an “afterthought” and an attempt to divert the attention from the main probe into the bomb scare and Mansukh Hiran case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vazedeshmukh-row-maharashtra-govt-may-announce-probe-into-allegations-101616354930073.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||No need for Anil Deshmukh to resign, decides NCP||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo and chief architect of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government Sharad Pawar on Sunday held a closed door meeting with party members including deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, water resources minister Jayant Patil, member of Parliament Supriya Sule and Praful Patel, in which it was decided that the party would not recommend home minister Anil Deshmukh’s resignation a day after the former Mumbai police commissioner addressed an unsigned letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray accusing Deshmukh of setting extortion targets of ₹100 crore for select police officials.Former CP Param Bir Singh, who was transferred from his post to Commandant General of Home Guards, Maharashtra, on March 17, brought up the charges in a letter a few days after Deshmukh told reporters that the transfer was not routine but due to “serious and unpardonable mistakes” committed by police officers in the Antilia security scare investigation.An explosives-laden vehicle was found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February. The prime suspect in that case, currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) which took charge of the probe on March 9, is a Mumbai Police Assistant Inspector, Sachin Vaze, who was reinstated in the force in 2020 after the MVA, a coalition of the Shiv Sena, Congress, and Nationalist Congress Party, took over.Emerging out of a three-hour long meeting, state NCP chief Jayant Patil said that it was decided that there was no need for Deshmukh to resign.He said the allegations against Deshmukh were an attempt to divert the attention from investigation in Antilia explosives case, which the MVA government wanted to be completed.“There is no question of Deshmukh’s resignation. We don’t want to give in to the attempt to divert attention from the incidents and investigation into the same,” Patil said.Patil indicated that the party top brass was convinced that the allegations made by Singh were motivated and were “an attempt to divert the attention.”Pawar also met politicians from coalition partners Shiv Sena and Congress on Sunday to explain the NCP decision to back Deshmukh. Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut and Congress leader Kamal Nath met Pawar separately.After the meeting, Raut said: “There cannot be resignation of chief minister or any other minister just for the sake of demand from the Opposition. Let there be an inquiry into the allegations by Param Bir Singh, after which the truth will come to the fore. If the resignations of the ministers are taken on the demand of opposition, half of the union cabinet will have to go.”Following the allegations made in the letter leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis sought Deshmukh’s immediate resignation. He also demanded an impartial probe into the allegations.“There should be an impartial probe by central agencies or a court monitored probe,” he said.“For the first time in the history of Maharashtra, a director general level officer has made such allegations and that too with chats in which demand for money was made. The chat is an evidence to what Singh has said. We are of the view that the home minister should immediately resign from his position and if he is not ready then the chief minister should take his resignation,” former chief minister Fadnavis had said on Saturday.On Sunday, BJP leaders and workers staged protests in various cities demanding Deshmukh’s resignation in view of allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Singh.Speaking at a press conference in Delhi on Sunday Pawar said that he would hold meetings with party leaders on Monday as well, and speak to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is currently under quarantine as his son, state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray is Covid-19 positive. Pawar said that the decision to remove the home minister from his post will be taken by the CM.“Being head of the state cabinet, Thackeray has every right to take action against any minister after a fair investigation. I will speak to him about the allegations against Deshmukh, though the decision over it (resignation of the minister) will be taken by the CM. I am also meeting my party leaders from the State on Monday to discuss the entire episode,” Pawar said.Pawar defended Deshmukh at the press conference and said that Singh made the allegations only after he was transferred and asked why he did not speak out about this issue during his time as commissioner of police. Pawar admitted having met Singh as mentioned in the letter but said that Sachin Vaze, the cop who has been arrested in connection with the Antilia security scare case and has been named prime accused in a related murder probe, was reinstated and given a key posting by Singh. Neither the home minister nor the chief minister had asked Singh to do so, Pawar said.Vaze, who led the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai Crime Branch was initially the lead investigator when a Scorpio with 20 loose gelatin sticks was found parked outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25. Hiran Mansukh, a Thane-based businessman linked to the SUV was found killed on March 5.Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said on Sunday the issue surrounding Deshmukh concerned Thackeray and the NCP as the minister in question is from that party.“Sharad Pawar has commented on what is essentially concerning a minister from that part of the coalition. I think it would not be fair for me to say anything, much of what has been said by Pawar in consultation with the CM,” Singhvi said.“The NIA as well as state’s Anti Terrorism Squad are investigating the case and we are sure the investigation will reach a conclusive step soon. The culprits in this case will be caught. It doesn’t matter how big the officer is,” Patil said, speaking to reporters after the NCP meeting on Sunday.“The allegations by the former Mumbai CP are shocking and sensational. Its time to take corrective measures and time for the ministers and everyone in the government to introspect and check if their feet are on the ground. I must agree that the entire episode has dented the image of the MVA government as the police force of our state has always been the matter of pride. The police force is backbone of the system,” Raut had said before the meeting with Pawar in Delhi.In the letter, which the Chief Minister’s Office has confirmed receiving, Singh accused state home minister Anil Deshmukh of “corrupt malpractices” for instructing police officers to “carry out official assignments and collection schemes including financial transactions”, as well as setting targets for them “to collect money” from establishments such as hookah bars and restaurants.Deshmukh, who denied the allegations in the letter in a series of tweets, said late on Saturday that he would file a defamation case against the former Mumbai police commissioner, who was transferred on March 17.Singh did not respond to calls and messages for a comment.While the NCP may have decided to not recommend Deshmukh’s recommendation, there is a possibility that he would be shifted to other department.“Pawar saheb is not happy with the way the entire episode was handled by the home department. Now with the allegations, there will be question of propriety as there will be a probe. As such a better option would be to take away home department from him and hand it over to another minister. Any such decision would be announced by CM Uddhav Thackeray,” said a key NCP leader said speaking on the condition of anonymity.The options that are being considered to head home department includes Ajit Pawar, Jayant Patil, labour minister Dilip Walse-Patil and health minister Rajesh Tope, the leader said.When asked if Deshmukh will be diverted of home department without taking his resignation, Patil avoided replying. “The change in the responsibilities in the state cabinet is taken by chief minister,” he said.Patil also pointed out that several ministers in previous Devendra Fadnavis government faced allegations, but nobody was sacked by himTaking the cognisance of the letter, the state government is expected to announce a probe into the allegations. “There could be a probe committee appointed under a retired IAS or IPS officer to look into the allegations. The committee may not be brought under commission of inquiry Act to ensure that its recommendations are not binding on the government. The government will also not want to give an undue importance to the letter by Singh,” said a minister requesting anonymity.According to an Mantralaya official, the decision over the constitution of the committee may be taken after taking a view of the home department into consideration. The officer said that the department may ask for an explanation from the police officers and personal secretary of the home minister named in the letter by Singh to verify the claims.“At the same time there could be a departmental enquiry against Singh for violating the All India Services Rules by levelling allegations against the home minister and the leakage of the letter,” the officer said.Pawar on Sunday recommended that Thackeray consider entrusting the responsibility of carrying out a probe into the allegations against Deshmukh to retired cop Julio Ribeiro.The former Mumbai police commissioner however, later refused to get involved in the probe.NCP chief Pawar on Sunday tweeted, “He (Rebeiro) has a great reputation and if he accepts this responsibility then the truth will definitely come to the fore and public at large will start believing more in the police and in the government in particular,” Pawar tweeted on Sunday.An in-depth inquiry should be conducted by an officer or an individual who enjoys utmost respect of the police administration and public at large, Pawar added.Fadnavis who has demanded a probe into allegations by a central agency or a court monitored probe disapproved of Pawar’s suggestion, stating that a retired IPS officer cannot probe an incumbent home minister. “We have a great regard for Ribeiro but how can a former IPS officer and a retired DGP counduct an enquiry of a home minister? Deshmukh should first resign from the post for the impartial probe,” he said.Ribeiro told news channel that he “would not like to touch this kind of murky situation” and that the state government, as such, may find another retired officer for the job.Fadnavis said Singh’s allegations were not the only instance of corruption. He said that the former director general of police Subodh Jaiswal had submitted a report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray revealing about a racket active in political circles dealing with the transfers of the senior police officers.“A probe into a nexus of middlemen was conducted by the then commissioner of intelligence Rashmi Shukla. Phone calls were intercepted to unearth the racket and a report was submitted to the chief minister. But no action was taken into the report. Had the government acted on it, today’s damage could have been averted,” Fadnavis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-need-for-anil-deshmukh-to-resign-decides-ncp-101616354928837.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Man accused of raping minor gets bail||The Bombay high court (HC) on March 17 granted bail to a 24-year-old Dombivli resident who was arrested on charges of raping a minor in 2018. The bail was granted based on the grounds that the medical reports and forensic report of the victim had failed to prove sexual assault by the applicant and the prosecution had prima facie failed to prove the man’s involvement in the crime. The single-judge bench of justice Sandeep Shinde, while hearing the plea by the man booked for rape and sexual assault under the Indian Penal Code and of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, was informed by senior counsel Manoj Mohite that the man was young and was in custody for nearly two and a half years and as he was willing to cooperate with the investigation he should be granted bail.According to the complaint, the survivor was 16-years-old when the incident took place on August 5, 2018. It was Friendship Day and hence met the applicant whom she knew for a year along with a co-accused, a juvenile-in-conflict with law. The three went for a ride on the scooter and after the ride went to a room allegedly belonging to the applicant’s family where the duo committed forcible sexual assault on her. The complaint states that as she was allegedly threatened with dire consequences if she revealed the incident to anyone, however, after reaching home the victim narrated her ordeal to her mother and a first information report (FIR) was registered with the Dombivli police station. The applicant was arrested the next day and a charge sheet was filed in due course.While referring to the medical and Forensic Science Lab (FSL) reports of the victim Mohite submitted that material on record did not indicate that the victim was sexually assaulted by two persons. He then referred to the WhatsApp chats between the two and submitted that the chats suggested intimacy between the applicant and the victim.Advocate Anjani Kumar Singh for the complainant however opposed the application and said that WhatsApp chats suggested that the applicant had lured the victim to the place with a premeditated plan and hence the court should not grant him bail. Singh also sought the trial to be expedited.After hearing the submissions the bench noted, “I refrain myself from commenting on the Whatsapp chats. However, chats also suggest, a habit of the victim and the applicant of smoking ganja (or colloquially smoking pot).”With regards to the material on record, the bench observed, “Thus, the medical reports and the FSL report together leads me to infer that prima-facie, allegations of penetrative sexual assault by the applicant and the co-accused on the victim was not likely.” The bench then noted that while the minor had alleged that she was thrown to the ground before being sexually assaulted the medical examination of the and Forensic Science Laboratory report should have suggested and corroborated her assertion, but it did not do so.While granting bail on these grounds the court noted that the trial could not be expedited in view of the pendency of cases before the special court. The court directed the man to furnish a personal bond of ₹30,000 with one or more sureties in like amount and also asked him to attend police station once a month till framing of charges against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-accused-of-raping-minor-gets-bail-101616354867164.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Petition in HC by Pune pet owners seeks quashing of order prohibiting pets on hills||The Bombay high court (HC) directed the state forest department to respond to a writ petition filed by Pune residents who objected to the notice issued by the department in January 2021 whereby pet owners were refrained from taking pet dogs onto the city’s hills/tekdis. The petition has contended that the restraining notice issued under the Maharashtra Forest Rules, 2014, is ultra vires of the other enactments related to wildlife and prevention of cruelty to animals, hence should be quashed and set aside.The petition which came up for hearing before the bench of justice S J Kathawalla and justice Milind Jadhav on March 15 was informed by advocates Kalyani Tulankar and Ajinkya Udane that the petitioners were pet parents, and each had two dogs. As the petitioners are residing in flats in Pune, they or their family members took the dogs for brisk walks on the tekdi behind ILS Law College regularly. However, on January 4, a notice issued by the forest department officers prohibited the entry of the dogs on the tekdi.The petition averred that on inquiry the petitioners learnt that as the tekdi was home to peacocks, hares, snakes, birds and other animals, the notice had prohibited dogs as they can frighten or kill the wild animals. The petition states that the assumption was not valid as the pets were on a leash, hence they would not be able to frighten or kill the wild animals.The petition also stated that as per the Indian Forest Act, 1927 and Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 the officers were not empowered to issue any prohibitory orders and as per and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 such a prohibition would entail that they (petitioners) would be punishable for not exercising their pets. In such a scenario the prohibitory notice of January 2021 should be set aside and quashed and the petitioners and other pet owners should be allowed to take their pets to the tekdi for exercising their pets.After hearing the submissions the bench directed that Pune Municipal Corporation should be added as a party to the petition and also directed the forest department represented by their officers in HC to file their response to the petition in a week and posted further hearing fo the petition on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petition-in-hc-by-pune-pet-owners-seeks-quashing-of-order-prohibiting-pets-on-hills-101616354809964.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Gold ornaments worth ₹24 lakh, cash looted at gunpoint in Amritsar||Five unidentified men looted gold ornaments worth ₹24 lakh and ₹50,000 in cash by holding a family hostage at gunpoint in the posh Mall Road area of Amritsar on Sunday.The victim, Ashish Arora, is a noted goldsmith of the city. His house is situated in vicinity of the Court Chowk, where police security remains round-the-clock. Police said five masked men gained entry into a house located near the district courts and made a family hostage at gunpoint. They remained inside the house for around an hour, said the police. Arora said he runs a jewellery shop at Guru Bazaar and was in the business along with his father SK Arora. “The masked men took us at gunpoint asked me to handover gold ornaments. When I opposed, one of them put a gun on my head and threatened to kill us,” said Arora. “Three of them entered the rooms and started searching the cupboards and took away jewellery and cash,” he added.Soon after the incident, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-detective) Jugraj Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP-detective) and assistant commissioner of police (ACP-North) Sarabjit Singh rushed to the spot. They also called a dog squad and forensic experts to examine the crime spot. “We are going through the CCTV footage and working on other aspects of the act to trace the robbers. Prime facie, the crime was committed by someone known to the family. Servants of this family are also being grilled”, said Bajwa.A case has been registered and further investigation is on, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gold-ornaments-worth-rs-24-lakh-cash-looted-at-gunpoint-in-amritsar-101616354809437.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||More than 30K Covid cases in Maharashtra||The state on Sunday recorded its highest one-day spike with 30,535 new Covid-19 infections. Since the pandemic broke out in the state on March 9, 2020, the state has never witnessed more than 30,000 cases on a single day. Mumbai also recorded its highest single-day spike with 3,779 cases. The state also recorded 99 deaths on Sunday. The state’s tally has reached 24,79,682 to date, while the number of fatalities is 53,399. Mumbai also recorded 10 deaths on Sunday. In the last five days, the state has recorded over one lakh new Covid-19 infections. Starting March 17, the state has been reporting more than 20,000 cases every day, taking the count to 1,32,354 new Covid cases in just five days. On Sunday, Nanded guardian minister Ashok Chavan said that a curfew will be imposed in the district starting March midnight for 11 days owing to the increasing number of cases. A curfew restricts the assembly of more than five people. There are 2,10,120 active cases in the state, with the highest in Pune (42,015), followed by Nagpur (29,771), Mumbai (22,081), Thane (19,788) and Nashik (15,619). On Sunday, cities like Nagpur, Nashik, and Pune also recorded a high number of cases - 2,747, 1,666 and 2,978 respectively. Experts said that the cases will continue to rise for the next few weeks. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid task force said, “The number of cases will be high as the testing has gone up by a lakh now. Also, contact tracing has been increased to 1:30 now.” He further said, “It is an alarming situation in the state but people are still not following Covid protocols. This is the time people must stay home if they do not want another lockdown. Right now, the healthcare is under stress but if its burdened more, then there will no option but to impose a lockdown.” While the number of cases in the city and state continues to rise, there was a drop in the number of vaccinations in the state on Saturday. According to official data, a total of 2,05,179 citizens, including health and frontline workers, were inoculated on Saturday. This is almost a 20% drop from Friday when 2,56,191 citizens were inoculated in the state. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the Central government to open vaccination for everyone above the age of 45 to curb the spread of the infection. On Saturday, 1,05,226 senior citizens above the age of 60 got their first dose, while 31,880 people above the age of 45 with comorbidities got their first dose. Among health care workers, 12,148 got their first dose while 15,030 got their second dose. Similarly, 19,559 frontline workers got their first dose, while 21,336 got their second dose of vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-30k-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-101616354806880.html
22-03-2021||Mumbai||Sharpest 1-day Covid spike in Mumbai||Mumbai on Sunday reported 3,779 Covid-19 cases, the highest number of infections reported in the city in a day since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year. So far, most cases recorded in a day in Mumbai were 3,063 last Friday, followed by 2,877 on Thursday. These high figures are being reported after the first peak that was witnessed in Mumbai in October 2020, and now civic authorities are calling this the next peak. However, a strict lockdown, as witnessed by the city in the beginning of the pandemic a year ago, is not on the cards for Mumbai yet, authorities said.On Sunday, Mumbai also reported 10 more Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 11,586. There are 362,675 cases in Mumbai so far, of which 22,081 cases are active ones. However, the case fatality rate (CFR) in the city has gone down to 3.1%, from 3.3% reported last week.In the past week since March 14, active Covid-19 cases have increased by 76%, to the present 22,081 cases from 12,535 reported on March 14. On March 11, active cases in the city crossed the 10,000 mark, by recording a total of 10,563 active cases. These crossed the 20,000 mark on March 20 with 20,019 active infections up to March 20.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department, said, “We can sustain this spike in cases because of our available medical infrastructure. Lockdown is not being planned in Mumbai as it brings all activities to a complete halt. We are going to increase the city’s bed capacity. Testing is being scaled up, and vaccination is being accelerated.”On Friday, BMC asked private hospitals to activate all Covid-19 beds, as were available at the beginning of the pandemic. From the present 2,400-odd hospital beds available in private hospitals for Covid-19, the capacity will be increased to approximately 4,800 beds in private hospitals. Kakani said, “As a majority of cases are from residential buildings, the patients prefer to get admitted to a private hospital instead of a municipal hospital. Our municipal hospitals have already activated their beds, but these will also be increased.”Presently, Mumbai has 12,694 hospital beds for serious, moderate and complicated Covid-19 cases, 820 beds for asymptomatic or mild symptomatic patients, 1,539 ICU beds, 966 ventilator beds, and 8,461 beds are equipped with oxygen points.The total number of hospital beds will increase to around 16,000 in the next two days, and to around 20,000 beds within the next week, Kakani said.BMC has also planned to scale up testing from the present average of 25,000 tests per day, to 50,000 per day. Rapid antigen tests will also be conducted at random, for visitors at public places such as malls, super markets, municipal markets, at railway stations and bus depots for inbound passengers on long-distance trains and buses. For Sunday’s figures, Mumbai conducted 24,220 tests.The positivity rate has drastically increased in the city in the past few days. On Sunday, the positivity rate was 15.6%, up from 9% - 10% reported earlier this week, and 4% - 5% reported in the beginning of March. BMC has asked all private hospitals, which are vaccination centres, to increase vaccination targets to 1,000 beneficiaries per day. Overall in the city, BMC plans to vaccinate 100,000 beneficiaries per day.First female loco pilot recovers from Covid-19 Surekha Yadav, the first female loco pilot, has recovered from Covid-19 and was discharged on Sunday. Yadav was undergoing treatment at Global Hospital, Thane.Yadav became the first Asian woman to drive a train in 2000. She is also the first woman to pilot the Deccan Queen.“ While on duty, I got infected. I am urging all people out on the field, kindly act promptly if you realise that you have the symptoms of Covid-19. Early detection can help in getting timely treatment and in curbing the spread of the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharpest-1-day-covid-spike-in-mumbai-101616354686917.html
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||HP braces for another spell of snow, rain till March 24||A western disturbance active over the north-western Himalayas is likely to bring a fresh spell of snowfall and rainfall to Himachal Pradesh, the weather department said on Sunday. Shimla meteorological centre director Manmohan Singh said, “A western disturbance as a trough in mid and upper tropospheric westerlies lies over north-west Rajasthan and its neighbourhood. Another western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation lies over Jammu & Kashmir and its neighbourhood and is likely to bring snow and rain to Himachal.” The precipitation will persist till March 24, he said adding that a yellow warning of thunderstorm, hailstorm, lightning and gusty winds has been issued for the low hills on Monday and mid-hills on Monday and Tuesday. Meanwhile, Keylong was the coldest place in the state, recording night temperature of 0°C, followed by Kalpa where the temperature was 3.6°C.Singh said there was no appreciable change in minimum and maximum temperatures. The minimum temperatures were 2 to 3°C above normal and the maximum temperatures were 4 to 5 °C above normal.Shimla recorded a minimum temperature of 11.2°C while the famous tourist destination shivered at 6.8°C.Hill stations Dalhousie, Dharamshala and Palampur recorded minimum temperatures of 10.3°C, 11.2°C and 12.2°C, respectively, while Kufri recorded 8.8°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-braces-for-another-spell-of-snow-rain-till-march-24-101616354626802.html
22-03-2021||City||Odisha forest official charred to death while trying to save saplings from fire||At a time when a massive fire in Odisha forests has triggered outrage, a 58-year-old man engaged by the state forest department to protect saplings was charred to death while trying to control the forest fire.Jadumani Mahanta from Jadanila reserve forest of Thakurmunda range in Mayurbhanj district was looking after the saplings when the fire broke out in the forest at around 1 pm. Instead of trying to escape, Mahanta tried to bring the flames under control but caught in the raging forest fire and was charred to death.Mahanta’s half-burnt body was recovered from the forest.Meanwhile, the head of the task force on Sunday claimed that the fire situation in Odisha is under control. "As of now, all possible efforts are being undertaken in the field to mitigate the forest fire situation in the state. All field staffs are engaged along with fire squads, ODRAF, along with the support of PRIs, VSS and local communities," said Sandeep Tripathi, head of the task force.Also read: People in Odisha's two panchayats want to be part of Chhattisgarh. Here's whyIn another development, the newly appointed principal chief conservator of forests, Sisir Kumar Ratho, said the department is thinking of training students to control forest fires."Considering the concern and interest of the students about the prevailing outbreak of wildfires in the state, interested students could be given exposure and necessary skill training after which they could be engaged in controlling forest fires. A decision on the same could be taken. After taking charge as the PCCF, my priority will be to control the forest fire incidences. We have to make sure that wildfires don’t prevail much in the future,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-forest-official-charred-to-death-while-trying-to-save-saplings-from-fire-101616353989233.html
22-03-2021||City||People in Odisha's two panchayats want to be part of Chhattisgarh. Here's why||Upset over the Odisha government’s indifference towards them, over 25,000 people in two gram panchayats of Odisha's Nuapara district on Sunday wrote to the district collector of neighbouring Gariabandh district in Chhatisgarh to take steps for including them in his district after passing a resolution to that effect.“For years we have been living without basic facilities like electricity and water as our homes are situated in inaccessible hilly terrains. The Odisha government has also not taken any steps to uplift our status. From birth to death, we depend on Chhatisgarh and identify with it. So it's better that the panchayats of Sunabeda and Soseng are included in Gariabandh district," Sunabeda GP sarpanch Tilsingh Jhakkar wrote to the district collector of Gariabandh.Jhakkar, who belongs to the Chuktia Bhunjia tribe in Sunabeda plateau of Nuapada district, alleged that since independence, the people of 23 villages in those two panchayats have never been considered as part of Odisha. There are no doctor and other staff at Sunabeda primary health centre. There is no ambulance service. Permanent land pattas are yet to be distributed to villagers while minor irrigation facilities have not been provided to different villages," he said.Also read: Odisha forest official charred to death while trying to save saplings from fireOf the 25,000 villagers who passed the resolution seeking to merge their villages with Gariabandh, 300 Paharia families are in Sunabeda plateau. Though they were counted as tribals in Odisha before independence, they were excluded from the ST list of Odisha after Independence. But Paharias in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have been included in the ST list."All the Paharias belonging to different villages of Sunabeda and Soseng panchayats are now planning to migrate to the bordering villages of Chhattisgarh to avail tribal status because in Odisha, they are deprived of their rights," said Biju Jhakkar of Sunabeda. "In these two panchayats, people are yet to get power and road connectivity as it is situated inside the Sunabeda wildlife division. But in Chhattisgarh, there are pucca roads inside sanctuaries. Many people in Sunabeda have to walk 23 kilometres to catch a bus at Barkote on the foothill of Sunabeda," said Jhakkar.The resolution of the villagers in the two panchayats has come at a time when three villages in Odisha's Koraput district bordering Andhra Pradesh have been claimed by the latter as part of its own. The Supreme Court is now hearing a contempt of court petition of the Odisha government against the Andhra Pradesh government over the latter holding panchayat polls in one of the villages of Kotia gram panchayat in Koraput district last month.On February 13, over 80 per cent of the 1,025 voters of Patusinri village under Kotia gram panchayat in Koraput district had voted for electing the sarpanch of Pattuchennuru gram panchayat of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-in-odisha-s-two-panchayats-want-to-be-part-of-chhattisgarh-here-s-why-101616353430276.html
22-03-2021||Other||Two murder accused shot dead in Tarn Taran encounter||Tarn Taran Two ‘Nihangs’, traditional Sikh warriors, were shot dead by police during an encounter after the duo attacked policemen with swords at a village in Punjab’’s Tarn Taran, police said on Sunday. The two have been identified as Mehtab Singh, alias Khandewala, 50, and Gurdev Singh, 40, of Ganda Singh colony, Amritsar. They were accused of murdering a Sikh granthi, Baba Santokh Singh, 65, in Nanded city of Maharashtra on March 11. The two were companions of the victim and had fled to Punjab, Maharashtra police had told Punjab Police.The encounter took place at Singhpura village with SHOs of Khemkaran and Valtoha, namely SI Narinder Singh, and inspector Balwinder Singh also suffered life-threatening injuries. On Saturday, Nanded police shared inputs with Tarn Taran Police on the presence of the two wanted criminals in Dera Bidhi Chand, Sursingh village. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said, “We had information that both had taken shelter in a religious Dera at Sursingh village. We conducted a search operation in the area on Sunday morning, but they had fled. We asked our network of informers to be on the lookout for the two nihangs having four-feet Khanda and two kirpans.”“A DSP and three SHOs were also put on the job. In the afternoon, we were informed that the Nihangs were moving around Singhpura village. We prepared and sent a team to the area. Both tried to flee when they saw the police,” he said.“At about 3.30pm, (near village Singhpura), the two Nihangs attacked our SHOs, when they asked them to stop. They inflicted life threatening injuries on the two police officers. DSP Bhikhiwind led a force to their hiding place, but the Nihangs again attempted to attack the police party, which had a narrow escape. Finally police fired from their service weapons to save and protect themselves from the attackers,” he added.The injured SHOs have been referred to a private hospital in Amritsar. At the time of filing of this report, they were being operated upon. An FIR has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 333 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or using criminal force on public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC at Bhikhiwind police station. Fact-finding inquiry orderedWith questions being raised on the killing of the accused, Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh has deputed SDM Patti Rajesh Sharma to conduct a fact-finding magisterial inquiry.Senior Congress leader and Punjab Mandi Board’s senior vice-chairman Tejpreet Singh Peter had alleged that the encounter was suspicious. Demanding an inquiry from the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) or the CBI, he claimed it was surprising that two SHOs, a DSP and their team could not arrest two men, who were not armed with firearms. He added the encounter purportedly happened at a desolate spot, which was also suspicious. “This is a clear violation of the human rights,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-murder-accused-shot-dead-in-tarn-taran-encounter-101616353666663.html
22-03-2021||City||Mumbai hookah parlour raided, six held for flouting Covid-19 norms||Police conducted a raid at a hookah parlour at Ghatkopar here and arrested six persons for allegedly violating the coronavirus norms, an official said on Sunday.The raid was conducted late on Saturday night, he said."Based on a tip-off, action was taken against the hookah parlour. Many people there were found not wearing mask despite the instructions. The manager of the joint and its customers were arrested during the operation," the official of Tilak Nagar police station said.The accused were booked under IPC sections 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire), 188 (disobeying the order of public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection), he said, adding that further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-hookah-parlour-raided-six-held-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-101616353230752.html
22-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana cops penalised 5,703 mask violators in first 18 days of March 2021||With the threat of a second wave of Covid-19 looming large, Ludhiana police have started tightening the noose around mask violators once again. The cops have already issued 5, 703 challans this month, collecting a fine of ₹56.9 lakh in the first 18 days of the month.In January and February, cops had been considerably lenient and had challaned only 3, 691 and 3, 383 persons respectively.Since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020, Ludhiana police have issued 1, 32, 565 challans for mask violations and collected ₹7.48 crore in all. The maximum number of challans had been issued in the months of July and August 2020 when over 23,000 persons had been fined. But the number went down to 19,435 in September 2020 and considerably reduced thereon. In view of the rising infections, Ludhiana police have once again started taking action against the violators. While appealing to residents to follow the Covid protocols for their own safety, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that cops are on the ground to ensure strict enforcement of the government’s fresh guildelines. Police have also started taking action against those violating social distancing norms. This month, 10 persons have been fined for not observing distancing while in February, a total of 33 such challans were issued. From October 2020 to January 2021, police had not issued any challan on this account. In June 2020, police had issued 69 challans to those flouting distancing norms, while in July, 126 people were fined. Hathur police conduct on-the-spot Covid tests of 90 found without masksLudhiana: A team of cops deployed at a special checkpoint at Hathur Chowk on Sunday conducted on-the-spot Covid tests of 90 persons found roaming around without masks and also fined 10 of them. Hathur station house officer (SHO), sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur said similar drives will be carried out in the coming days as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cops-penalised-5-703-mask-violators-in-first-18-days-of-march-2021-101616353306427.html
22-03-2021||Kolkata||Adhikari’s father joins BJP as Modi, Shah tour Bengal; CM call him 'traitor'||Mamata Banerjee’s aide since the birth of Trinamool Congress (TMC) and her adversary Suvendu Adhikari’s father, Sisir Adhikari, ended all speculations and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the last Sunday before the eight-phase election in Bengal. The development came at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah held back-to-back rallies to counter the chief minister’s campaign.Octogenarian Adhikari, the TMC’s eldest Lok Sabha member who represents the Contai seat in East Midnapore, attended Shah’s rally at Egra in the same district. He delivered a speech before Shah addressed the crowd but, surprising many, did not take the BJP flag from Shah’s hand, a custom seen at such events.Banerjee, who addressed two rallies in East Midnapore district on Sunday, did not hide her displeasure and, for the first time, accused the Adhikaris of swindling funds.“I am foolish as a donkey. I trust people easily. Now I hear that the gaddars (traitors) made ₹5,000 crores. The money is kept in a cooperate bank,” Banerjee said in a veiled attack on Adhikari and his family while addressing a rally at Contai.Also read: From CAA to family income, BJP’s Bengal poll manifesto leaves out nothingSuvendu Adhikari, who vacated the Nandigram assembly seat which he is now contesting against the chief minister, joined the saffron camp in Shah’s presence on December 19 last year. His youngest brother Soumendu, who headed the TMC-run Contai municipality, switched camps a few days later. The only TMC leader left in the family is Sisir Adhikari’s eldest son Dibyendu who is the ruling party’s Lok Sabha member from Tamluk.“I have not taken my decision yet,” Dibyendu Adhikari said. His father however squarely accused the TMC of “pushing” him into the BJP.“The party pushed me into the BJP. I will do what Suvendu asks me to. He will win the Nandigram seat with a record margin and the TMC will be wiped out in all 16 assembly seats in East Midnapore district. I had a word with Shah. I told him we will work with the BJP,” said Sisir Adhikari.Asked why he did not go through the custom of accepting the BJP flag, he said, “I am with the BJP since the day Suvendu joined it.”Kolkata-based political science professor and election analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay said, “Adhikari did not accept the BJP flag in public possibly because he thought photos and videos of that moment would be used by the TMC to seek his removal from the lower House under the anti-defection law. The TMC can still move the Speaker. Adhikari may argue that he only shared the dais with BJP leaders as a disgruntled TMC leader.”At her rallies, Banerjee repeatedly asked her party workers to be careful about the traitors but did not name the Adhikaris. She even alleged that local TMC leaders were receiving threat calls.At his rally in Bankura district, Modi targeted Banerjee.“I came here for the last time before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Didi (Banerjee) blocked all roads to the rally ground. Vendors were told not to supply chairs. But on the day of polling you ensured our victory,” said Modi. The BJP won two Lok Sabha seats in Bankura districts.“I see images being painted on walls, showing Didi playing football with my head. This goes against Bengal’s culture. I always bow before the people. Didi, you can kick me but I won’t let you kick the dreams of the people of Bengal,” said Modi while reiterating his attack on extortion by TMC workers.No TMC leader commented on Modi’s statements. The BJP however complained to the Election Commission of India on Sunday, saying the chief minister should be cautioned for calling the Prime Minister “demon” and “rioter” at her rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/adhikaris-father-joins-bjp-as-modi-shah-tour-bengal-cm-call-him-traitor-101616352491532.html
22-03-2021||Lucknow||Centre’s proposed power scheme aims at prepaid metering for all by March 2025||A new power scheme of the Centre aims at 100% prepaid metering for all consumers by March 2025 to make discoms (distribution companies) financially viable to supply 24x7 electricity to all.Known as the Revamped Reforms-Linked Result-Based Distribution Sector Scheme, the project is proposed to be launched by the month-end.The scheme also seeks installation of communicable meters integrated with advance metering infrastructure (AMI) for all distribution transformers (DTs) and feeders. There will be a unified billing and collection system.As per the draft guidelines circulated to the states, including UP, the scheme will have a total outlay of ₹3,03,758 crore with an estimated gross budgetary support (GBS) from Central government to the tune of ₹97,631 crore subject to the performance of a discom that wants to participate in the scheme.The scheme lays a lot of focus on metering, and that too prepaid meters or smart meters in prepayment mode, for all the consumers as a tool to reduce discoms’ aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses and eliminating the gap between the per unit average cost of supply (ACS) and the average revenue realization (ARR). “The discoms inter alia should lay down the roadmap for bringing down AT& C losses to 10-15% and ACA-ARR gap to zero by 2024-25 and project the requirement of financial support required from the state government towards payment of government dues and subsidies each year for the entire scheme duration,” the guidelines for the scheme say.The new scheme will be in effect for five years beginning 2021-22. March 31, 2026 will be the sunset date beyond which no Central funds will be released. Under the proposed scheme, the Central government grant will be 15% of the cost per meter subject to the maximum of ₹900/meter for consumer metering.“If a discom does not submit the action plan, detailed project report (DPR) for metering component and other infrastructure work by September 2021, then the total eligible sanction amount may be restricted to 50%,” the guidelines say.The funding, they further clarify, will be available only if the discom agrees to operation of prepaid meters or smart meters in prepayment mode for consumers, and in accordance with the uniform approach indicated by the Central government.“All discoms that have initiated their smart metering tenders after January 1, 2020 will be eligible for funding, only if the prepaid smart metering works are done,” they say.The scheme requires all applicant discoms to prepare individual action plans for strengthening their distribution system and to improve their performance by way of various reform measures.Discoms are also supposed to spell out major works like metering and distribution infrastructure works, along with their estimated cost, giving priority to distribution measures that are required for AT&C loss reduction.There is also a provision for the appointment of a Project Management Agency (PMA) by each discom..A tripartite agreement, under the scheme, will be signed among the state government, discom and the Central government for undertaking and agreeing to their stipulated roles and responsibilities. Intermittent assessment of performance of discoms will be done.People dealing with the issue here in the energy department said the government and UP Power Corporation Ltd will send their comments on the scheme by March 24 as told by the Centre. OBJECTIVES OF THE NEW SCHEMEImprove the quality, reliability, and affordability of power supply to customers through a financial sustainable and operationally efficient distribution sector.Reduce the AT&C losses to pan-India levels of 12-15% by 2024-25.Reduce per unit average cost of supply and per unit average revenue realisation gap to zero by 2024-25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/centres-proposed-power-scheme-aims-at-prepaid-metering-for-all-by-march-2025-101616352045735.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||For 2nd straight day, Delhi adds 800+ new Covid-19 cases||Delhi’s Covid-19 graph continued to rise on Sunday, as the Capital added 823 new infections, 10 more than were added the previous day.The Capital added 813 cases on Saturday, 716 on Friday, 607 on Thursday, 536 on Wednesday, 425 on Tuesday and 368 on Monday (March 15), government data showed.One more death was also recorded on Sunday, taking the toll to 10,956.With 79,714 total samples tested, the Capital recorded a positivity rate of 1.03% on Sunday – slightly lower than Saturday’s 1.07%. On Saturday, the positivity rate breached the 1% mark for the first time since December 27.The Capital’s positivity rate had been below 1% for 82 days before Saturday.The increase has been particularly sharp since March 15, when the city saw 368 cases.The trend is in tandem with similar rise in infections in several other states, particularly Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana. Overall, the weekly average of new cases a day across India has risen from around 23,500 on March 15 to over 31,600 on March 19.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said, “The number of tests being conducted in Delhi is much higher than the national average. We are in the right direction in terms of testing, tracking, isolating and vaccination… Around 46,000 people were vaccinated on Saturday, which is the highest so far… The situation in Delhi is under control. I still appeal to residents of the city to wear masks, follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and adhere to social distancing norms especially in the light of the Holi festival ahead. We will further scale up enforcement in public places for the safety of people.”So far, Delhi has recorded 647,984 Covid-19 cases, of which 633,410 people have recovered, government records showed.In 2020, Delhi witnessed three distinct phases of severe uptick in Covid-19 cases. At its peak, Delhi recorded 8,593 new cases on November 11 and a positivity rate of around 15.4% on November 14.Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department, Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet Covid-19 commission and vaccination task force for India, said, “Going by the findings of the last sero-survey in Delhi, around 10 million people in the city are yet to have the infection. It is quite likely that they are getting infected now. Also, the proportion of asymptomatic cases is much higher in the ongoing phase of increase in cases. The government should go for a strong containment policy and club that with aggressive tracing, testing and isolation. The government should not only aggressively identify contacts of Covid-19 cases, but ensure they are all tested and isolated on being diagnosed Covid-19 positive.”As many as 56.13% of the 28,000 people sampled during Delhi’s fifth serological survey -- in late-January -- were found to have developed antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-records-800-covid-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row-101616350365561.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||IMD forecasts rainfall, thunderstorms in Delhi today; mercury may plummet||Delhi and its neighbouring satellite towns are expected to receive light to moderate rainfall, coupled with thunder and dust storms, on Monday and Tuesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Sunday.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that under the influence of a western disturbance, strong winds and rains have already begun in parts of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh.A western disturbance is an extratropical storm originating in the Mediterranean region that brings sudden winter rain to the northwestern parts of the Indian subcontinent.“Its impact will lead to rain and dust storm in Delhi and NCR, also leading to hailstorm in some parts of Haryana. There is also a possibility of thunderstorm in some parts of Delhi,” Srivastava said.This is the fifth western disturbance to pass over the region this month. The last time the city received rain and thunderstorm was on March 12, when the city woke up to light to moderate showers, with hailstorm in parts of NCR.Strong winds, touching the speed of around 40kmph, are also expected to blow on Monday. This is also likely to help improve the air quality of the city. On Sunday, the overall air quality index of the city was 244 in the ‘poor’ category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings.On Sunday, Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the entire city, recorded a maximum temperature of 35.2 degrees Celsius — four degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature of the day was 16.2 degrees Celsius.Met officials said that while the rain on Monday and Tuesday is likely to cause a dip in temperature, this respite will be short-lived.“Till March 24, Wednesday, the maximum temperatures are likely to hover around 31-32 degrees Celsius. However, after that there is a forecast of a steep rise in maximum temperatures,” a senior IMD official said.IMD forecast said that after Wednesday, there is a possibility of the mercury levels touching 37-38 degrees Celsius. This season, the highest maximum temperature to be recorded so far was 35.3 degrees Celsius, recorded on March 18. The mean maximum temperature for March is 29.6 degrees Celsius.According to IMD data, Delhi had in 1945 recorded the highest temperature ever, with the mercury touching 40.5 degrees Celsius. IMD officials said that while there are no signs of this record being broken this time, the mercury levels will come close to the 40 degree mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/light-rain-dust-storms-expected-today-may-bring-temperature-down-101616350245562.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||BJP endorsing idea of L-G ruling Capital, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government for introducing a Bill in the Lok Sabha that proposes to give overarching powers to the lieutenant governor (L-G) over administrative affairs of the Capital, and alleged that the Delhi unit of the BJP has been going door-to-door endorsing the idea of the L-G ruling Delhi instead of an elected government.“The BJP has been sending volunteers door-to-door across localities telling people that it will be better for the L-G to rule Delhi and not an elected government. The BJP has lost assembly elections in Delhi. At the municipal level they are failing too. That is the only reason why they endorse the idea of the central government taking away the rights of an elected government in Delhi. I challenge Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta for a debate on this issue,” said the AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had called the Bill “unconstitutional” and “anti-democracy”.Delhi-BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “We have never endorsed the idea of L-G ruling Delhi. We have been going door-to-door highlighting the failures of the AAP government in Delhi. They have misled people on the governance front and used communal tactics to win polls. Instead of challenging our unit president, Mr Bhardwaj should prepare for a debate on how the AAP has performed on the governance front.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-endorsing-idea-of-l-g-ruling-capital-alleges-aap-101616350185618.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||AAP stalled central schemes in Capital: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday asked the BJP’s Delhi unit to deploy more people at the booth level to strengthen the party ahead of the municipal polls in Delhi.Speaking at the state executive of Delhi BJP on Sunday, Singh said it was regrettable that the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi stalled the implementation of Ayushman Bharat, Pradhanmantri Awaas Yojana, Ujjawala Yojana, Mudra Yojana and many other central government schemes, depriving millions of Delhiites from their benefits. He asked party workers to launch an awareness drive about this.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said that in the coming days the party will step up its activities on the ground, especially at the booth-level.“We have been working at the booth level. But we will step up the campaign to make people about central government’s schemes. We have passed a political resolution today about how the Delhi government has failed to deliver on its promises. We will also take up these issues during our campaign at the booth level,” said Gupta.With municipal polls scheduled next year, the BJP, which is ruling all the three municipal corporations for the past 14 years, is working on strengthening its base in slum clusters and unauthorised colonies. In the recent municipal bypolls, the party suffered a setback as it lost all the five seats.The AAP did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-stalled-central-schemes-in-capital-rajnath-singh-101616350186230.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Tenders to revive 200 more water bodies to be floated by next month||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s flagship initiative to turn the national capital into the ‘city of lakes’ might have sounded farfetched back in 2018, when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the project. The city, however, now is on its way to reviving 600 out of the total 1,000 water bodies that had either become local dumping grounds or lay severely polluted.Officials of Delhi Jal Board (DJB), the city’s water utility agency, said that the ‘city of lakes’ project now had 600 water bodies that will be revived in the coming years. Officials said that the tender for 150-200 among these will be floated in the next one month.When the project was launched in 2018, the agency had enlisted just around 200 water bodies. Later, on the recommendation of local citizens, legislators and land-owning agencies, the DJB started adding more such local ponds, lakes and water reservoirs that will receive a facelift in the coming months.“In the next one month, we will float tenders for the revival of 150-200 water bodies. What we have done is that we have standardised the designs for the water bodies, which will ensure faster and more efficient work. Site specific tweaking of design will continue, when and where required,” said Ankit Srivastava, technical advisor to DJB.Srivastava added, “We are getting a lot of requests from local citizens and legislators to revive local ponds or lakes in their areas, but in many cases we have faced challenges like the said water body either not existing in government records or other residents in the area not wanting the water body to be revived there. Delhi has around 1,100 water bodies, out of which around 600 can be revived and we are working towards it.”A report prepared by Delhi Parks and Gardens Society in 2014, said that at least 200 out of 1,000 water bodies in Delhi were either encroached upon or lost because of excessive waste dumping or instances of land grabbing. It was noted in the report that water bodies were illegally turned into cremation grounds, government buildings, schools, and even private houses.DJB officials said that the revival of water bodies in Delhi will perform the primary function of turning these into recharge points, which will help increase ground water levels in a radius of at least 4-5 kms around the revived water body.A working example for this can be seen at the Dwarka sub-city, where a seven-acre barren land in Sector-16 was converted into a lake in seven months by the DJB. Treated water, to the tune of nearly 50 lakh litres, is currently being fed to the lake every day as the soil is absorbing large amounts of it. This according to experts is indicative of ground water getting recharged with this water, and is also a sign of large depletion of ground water in this region over years, which is now being regained.Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator of South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People, said that this project will go a long way in increasing the city’s depleting ground water levels and must be emulated in a large scale.“With each sewage treatment plant (STP) in the city, there should be a water body where at least some percentage of the treated water can be released. Historically Delhi was never barren, it had over 600 water bodies within the city itself, but these were wiped out due to intense urbanisation or waste dumping. Our aim should be to increase input into the ground and reduce extraction,” Thakkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/world-water-day-tenders-to-revive-200-more-water-bodies-to-be-floated-by-next-month-101616350065552.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 precaution not in stock at Lajpat market||Rampant violations of rules imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 at the popular Lajpat Nagar in south Delhi has set off alarm bells with both the number of fresh cases and positivity rate in the national capital climbing up, sparking fears of yet another outbreak.During a spot visit on Sunday, HT found the market crowded with hundreds of shoppers jostling for space, most of them without a mask or wearing it improperly. Social distancing was neither being observed on the streets, nor inside the shops. The street vendors occupied the roads with usual rush of shoppers around them. Civil defence volunteers who have been deployed by the administration to enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour were hard to find, also there were no public announcements to alert people about maintaining a safe distance.The market association said they have written to the district administration to deploy more civic defence volunteers to ensure social distancing and also requested them to increase vigil and screening of visitors to the market. The association said it has also issued circulars to shopkeepers to not allow visitors without masks and asked them to discourage crowding in their shops.“The crowd in the market has grown in the last few weeks and it is likely to increase further because of Holi. We do not want a Diwali-like situation again, so we have written to the district administration to deploy more staff in the market to enforce social distancing norms. We have requested them to increase vigil and patrolling in the market and challan those who do not wear masks,” Ashwani Marwah, general secretary Traders Association Lajpat Nagar, said.Delhi recorded 813 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, the most since December 24, and the test positivity rate rose beyond the 1% mark for the first time since December 27. On Sunday, Delhi reported 823 cases with a positivity rate of 1.03%. The increase has been particularly sharp since Monday, March 15, when the city saw 368 cases. With very few people now observing Covid rules, experts have warned that large gatherings in markets, weddings and public events may turn superspreaders.Marwah said the association was planning to deploy their own teams to tell people to maintain social distancing and ensure thermal screening of visitors in the market area.Manish Kumar Saikia, a shopper, said, “It is a complete chaos here. There was a time when people had to wait to enter shops to ensure social distancing but just in one year things have changed completely. Hardly anyone is seen following social distancing now.”At a few shops though visitors were being screened and hand sanitisers were seen outside some shops. However, there were no checks at roadside vendors.Traders also complained that roadside vendors don’t follow rules and add to crowding. “The number of street vendors have also increased in the market and they do not follow any Covid-19 guideline. People throng at roadside makeshift eateries where they do not even keep sanitisers, so this is a cause of concern,” Praveen Gupta, a shopkeeper, said.In a circular issued to the shopkeepers, signed by association president Sanjeev Madan, the body has said, “Please do not entertain people who are not wearing masks. Ensure that social distancing norms are followed even if we have to ask our customer to wait for few minutes. Please ensure that thermal checking of all visitors is done and also make sure that they sanitise their hands before entering our establishments.”District administration said necessary measures were being taken and violators fined. Vishwendra, district magistrate (southeast), said that 179 challans were issued on Saturday in the district against violators for not wearing masks. “This number was 34 till last week. As coronavirus virus cases are increasing, we have also increased our vigil. We have dedicated one enforcement team only for Lajpat Nagar area. We will further increase our vigil and deploy more people,” Vishwendra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-precaution-not-in-stock-at-lajpat-market-101616350005516.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Tepid demand chokes small-scale industries||In May last, when thousands of factories in the capital’s industrial areas were allowed to open after lockdown, imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, their operations were hamstrung by labour shortage, cash crunch, disruption of supply chains, and lack of demand.A year on, these Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises ( MSMEs) continue to be beset by many of these problems — and a few new ones. While the supply chains remain disrupted and the demand is far from reaching pre-pandemic levels, the rising cost of raw material and transportation has added to their woes.Shashi Mahajan, a shoe manufacturer in Udyog Nagar in Delhi, one of India’s biggest footwear manufacturing hubs with about 200 factories, says that he is working at only 40% capacity compared to pre-Covid days. “Earlier, I used to make 10,000 shoes a day, now I make about 4,000 only,” says Mahajan.It is an unusually hot March afternoon and inside Mahajan’s factory about 50 men are working at the conveyor production line — where the stitched uppers of shoes are moving from a counter moulding machine to toe- lasting and then to sole- pressing machines. “We are majorly into school shoes and most schools continue to be closed across the country. We had our biggest market in Gujarat and Maharashtra, where Covid cases are rising fast again,” he says. The factory has stickers on the walls warning employees that not wearing a mask will result in a deduction of ₹2,000 from their salary.Mahajan says that most of his 100 employees who had gone to their villages have returned, but he has been able to re-hire only half of them, as demand continues to be tepid. Gian Dhamija, another shoemaker, says that he is working at 60% capacity. “ Eighty per cent of my business comes from schools; I am still sitting on almost 1 lakh pair of unsold shoes from last year,” says Dhamja.The factories here source raw material used in the production of shoes — such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC ), polypropylene ( PP), ethyl-vinyl acetate ( EVA) as well as shoe colours — both domestically and from countries such as Austria, China, and South Korea. “But their rates have almost doubled, and we have to wait for the supply for much longer, ” says Ashok Gupta, president, Udyog Nagar Factory Owners Association. “Right now, the cost of raw material is the highest that it has been in 10 years,” says Kamal Kiran Seth, another factory owner.“The high cost and the disrupted supply of raw material are delaying recovery,” says Virender Nagpal, owner Sportsline, an original equipment manufacturer for some of the top sports brands, such as GM and Slazenger. He makes a range of products, including cricket helmets, batting pads and abdominal guards.The demand for his products, he says, started picking up in August, but is nowhere near the pre-Covid levels. “Fifty per cent of our products are exported. Since many countries in Europe are still under lockdown restrictions, and sporting events are yet to resume fully, the demand is only 50% compared to pre-pandemic levels,” says Nagpal, who also manufactures skateboards, roller skates, cycle helmets, under his own brand name Yonkers.“ Here in Udyog Nagar, we have proved that we can match any country in terms of quality; otherwise, we would not be manufacturing for top global brands.”Framed pictures of Nagpal with past and present cricketing greats such as Sunil Gavaskar, Sachin Tendulkar, and Virat Kohli, among others, adorn the stair walls of his office. “Almost every top cricketer has worn our helmet and batting pads,” he says.In Okhla, the city’s oldest and the largest industrial estate, a majority of factories are operating at 50% capacity says Sunil Malhotra, president, Okhla Industries Association. “The garment factories are among the most badly hit. The pandemic has hastened the decline of Okhla, which is an important part of the city’s industrial heritage,” he says.For the uninitiated, Okhla Industrial Estate, which derives its name from Okhla village, was set up by the National Small Industries Corporation ( NSIC), and is one of the 12 such estates developed across the country to encourage small industries after Independence. The construction began in 1952, and it was was inaugurated in 1958.Okhla, a symbol of industrialisation in Delhi post-Independence, has been home to some of the biggest electronics companies, including early television manufacturers, garment manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies, plastic and packaging industries, printing presses, among others. As imports from China increased, many factory owners here became traders and importers, turning their factories into warehouses, office spaces and automobile showrooms.Today, Okhla’s factories manufacture garments, cardboard boxes, speciality plastic films, and electric items, among others. Besides, it is also a hub of printing presses.Anil Varma, a garment manufacturer, says that Covid-19 has ripped through the garment industry in Okhla that has about 200 manufacturers, which make garments for many international apparel brands. Most say their orders have dwindled sharply and they are working at 40 to 75% capacity. “The lockdown was sudden and all manufacturing had to stop overnight. There were shipments in warehouses, in transit and heaps of half-sewn garments that were wasted,” says Varma, who makes garments for top apparel brands in Australia and France. “ Many manufactures here have lost clients to Bangladesh, Cambodia and Sri Lanka. “What is also not helping is the fact that the cost of cotton has gone up by 25% in the past few months.”Things are no better in Narela, which is home to over 3,500 factories. Like elsewhere in Delhi, most factories here are working at reduced capacity. “I am operating at 50% capacity as demand continues to be a problem,” says Basant Somani, who runs a plastic factory in Narela. “The continuing blockade of the Singhu border due to the farmers’ protest has also led to a rise in transport costs and has disrupted supplies,” he says. “The road to recovery is going to be much longer than we had thought”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tepid-demand-and-rising-cost-of-raw-material-delay-recovery-for-delhi-s-small-scale-industries-101616349946675.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Vaccination numbers drop at pvt facilities as most head to govt centres in Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination sites at government facilities in Delhi have seen higher turnout rates than those in private facilities since last week, government data shows, an increase that state government officials attribute to a host of measures put in place to increase the number of jabs administered at centres in hospitals and clinics run by them. Senior officials said they expect this gap to widen as state-run facilities add more vaccine sites and extend the window for on-spot registrations by four hours from Monday.Data seen by Hindustan Times showed that on March 15, the turnout rate at vaccination sites in government facilities was 64%, while this was 72% in private ones. However, the trend turned from the next day. On March 16, government facilities recorded a turnout rate of 65%, against private ones logging 61%. On March 17, government sites saw a 69% turnout, and private facilities 54%.This gulf stretched the next day, with a 72% turnout at government facilities, 49% at private sites.To be sure, the number of vaccinations in absolute terms have dropped at private facilities over the previous week, and increased significantly at government centres. While 15,917 vaccine doses were administered in private centres on March 15, this fell to 11,179 by March 18. In comparison, this number went from 23,285 in public facilities on March 15 to 29,385 on March 18.“The trend has continued so far. Earlier, such instances were rare and never happened for two or more consecutive days till last week,” said a senior government official.State officials put this trend down to authorities engaging with residents, especially in low-income group colonies, as well as eased registration rules and timings.“The Delhi government last week issued directions asking state-run hospitals to allow on-spot registration between 3pm and 5pm every day. This strategy, along with district administrations engaging in door-to-door drives — especially in low-income group colonies — to convince eligible beneficiaries to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest and arranging for transport facilities if needed, has led to higher turnout rate in the government facilities as against the private ones,” said a senior health department official.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said that he hoped the turnout will increase as Covid-19 vaccine centres in the city open for 12 hours a day (from 9am to 9pm) — from eight hours currently (9 am to 5 pm) – from Monday. He said the window for on-spot registrations will also be increased in state-run centres starting the same day.“It has also emerged that a large number of beneficiaries who register themselves for vaccines on a particular time slot fail to arrive at the centre in time. So, on-spot registrations will be allowed from 3pm-9pm in all state-run centres. Currently, they only allow on-spot registration between 3pm and 5pm. We shall request private centres to follow the same protocol,” said Jain.The rule regarding 12 working hours, however, will apply to both state-run vaccination centres and the private ones, as per government orders that have already been issued.Delhi currently has 550 vaccination sites – of which around 325 are in government facilities. While vaccines are administered for free in the government centres, private ones are allowed top charge up to Rs.250 per dose.With most government centres now allowed to vaccinate up to 200 persons per day, the city’s total daily vaccination capacity is currently around 64,000 doses. Of these, around 41,000 shots can be administered in government facilities, while 23,000 is the cumulative capacity of centres in private facilities.Experts said costs concerns and the relative ease of on-spot registrations, which don’t require residents to sign up online, has skewed the turnout in favour of government facilities.“Delhi has a large population which will find it difficult to shell out ₹250 for each vaccine dose. But it is important to note that there is also a mass perception that government facilities are more equipped to deal with potential cases of adverse effects, compared to the less-known private hospitals,” said Dr Namrata Makkar, deputy medical superintendent at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said, “Most vaccine centres at government facilities opened on-spot registration from March 15. That has come as a major relief for people who are not comfortable with technology or those who do not own smartphones.”Dr Kishore also welcomed the government’s move to extend the vaccination and spot registration windows.The decision to extend timing of vaccination centres from Monday was taken by the Delhi cabinet on Thursday. After the cabinet meeting, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a press briefing that the government also plans to double vaccine sites in the city – with which vaccines administered per day would increase from 45,000 to 125,000 – and urged the central government to relax norms and allow vaccination of all adults.Currently, the vaccination is open for health workers, front line workers, people aged over 60 years and individuals aged over 45 years who also have co-morbidities (among those on a list prepared by the central government). The vaccine drive was launched across India on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-numbers-drop-at-pvt-facilities-as-most-head-to-govt-centres-in-delhi-101616349945596.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||Woman held for killing 3-year-old in Budh Vihar||A woman strangulated a three-year-old boy to death, stuffed his body in a sack and dumped it on the roof of a building in outer Delhi’s Budh Vihar on Saturday, the police said on Sunday after arresting the suspect.Pranav Tayal, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini), quoted the suspect as having confessed that she would be taunted by her in-laws and others for having not conceived in eight years of marriage, and she killed the boy as a “sacrifice” in the hope that she would bear a child. “She said she worked on the advice of a self-styled godman she met four years ago,” said Tayal.Local enquiry, eyewitness accounts and loopholes in the woman’s statements to the police gave her away, said the DCP. “We arrested the woman. She told us that she killed the boy as a sacrifice as she was under pressure due to constant taunts of her in-laws and the society in general for not being able to conceive,” the DCP said.Investigators said the three-year-old lived with his parents and two siblings on the second floor of a five-storey building in Budh Vihar, near Rohini.In the same building, on the top floor, lived Pankaj Gupta, husband of the 25-year-old suspect Neelam Gupta.According to the police, Neelam and Pankaj were married since 2013, but did not have a child. “They sought medical help, but to no avail,” Tayal said.About four years ago, Neelam had also visited a godman, who apparently told her to sacrifice a child if she wanted to conceive.The investigators are undecided about whether they should book the alleged godman, as they said Neelam had met the man only once, four years ago.Neelam, police said, allegedly killed the boy sometime around 9am on Saturday.The boy’s father, Daya Ram, said,“My wife sent my son to call his sister who was playing on the terrace. My daughter came down, but my son stayed back,” said Daya Ram.By 9.30am, the family, when the boy did not return, the family began a search and called the police for help around 2pm.The police checked CCTV footage in the building and ruled out the possibility of the boy leaving the building. Then, one team searched every room in the building, while another began checking the terrace and water tanks. “It was at that time that a police team looked at the roof of a four-storey adjacent building, where they found a large sack lying on one side,” said the boy’s uncle, Rahul Gupta.That aroused suspicion and the police checked the sack to find the missing boy’s body stuffed inside around 4pm. There were injuries on the boy’s neck suggesting that he had been strangulated.Several people told the police that Neelam was the last person to be seen with the boy.She was then picked up for questioning, and by late Saturday night she allegedly confessed to killing the boy. She has been arrested and booked for murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-kills-three-year-old-dumps-body-on-roof-in-budh-vihar-arrested-101616349946117.html
22-03-2021||Delhi||JNUTA accuses V-C Kumar of ‘abuse of extended tenure’||The Jawaharlal Nehru University teachers’ association (JNUTA) on Sunday alleged that the decision to organise a meeting of the university’s academic council on Monday was a “brazen abuse of temporary extension” by vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar.The academic council is expected to discuss matters of appointment, admission policies, including conduct of Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) among other things, university officials said. While Kumar’s tenure was set to end on January 26, the education ministry on January 22 directed that Kumar be allowed to continue in his position “until further orders”.JNUTA said the continuation of Kumar as the vice-chancellor as per the order of the education ministry is not an extension of his term and places him only in a position of an “interim administrator” until the appointment of a successor.“Implicit in this arrangement is the understanding he will not indulge in exercising powers in this interim period that are otherwise part of the official duties of a regular vice-chancellor. These include all powers related to appointments, introduction of new academic courses and programmes, amendment of rules and ordinances of the university and other such matters,” the teachers’ body said in a statement.Alleging “administrative overreach” by Kumar, JNUTA secretary Moushumi Basu said the association had sent a letter to the secretary of education ministry and University Grants Commission on the powers of interim vice-chancellor.Despite repeated attempts, the ministry and UGC officials did not comment on the matter.“Tucked away in the agenda, are papers and items that hold significance for the future. Specific examples include items for discussion such as finalisation of academic ordinances in relation to new programmes of study, including writing to UGC requesting for teaching positions that would be needed; recognition of post graduate diplomas offered by an institution presently outside the institutional framework of JNU; changes in admission policies of the university, conduct of Central University Common Entrance Test in future etc,” JNUTA said.The teachers’ body also questioned the agenda item “that seeks to review the criteria for nomination of faculty to the academic council” and said it was against university statutes for any authority to take decisions on the matter.Kumar and Rector-I Chintamani Mahapatra did not respond to the allegations by JNUTA despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jnu-v-c-abusing-temporary-extension-allege-varsity-teachers-body-101616348205310.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Arjun Kadhe fulfils dream of becoming national champion||After falling short three times previously, Arjun Kadhe made history on Sunday by becoming the national tennis champion. Kadhe defeated Prithvi Sekhar of Railways 6-3, 6-4 in a two-set victory at the Tennis Project, Baliawas, Gurugram on Sunday. It was a long wait for the 27-year-old city tennis star Kadhe who has won the U-12, U-14, U-16, U-18, and men’s doubles national championships in the past. “I had a really good week. This win means a lot to me because I was hoping to get this from the last few years and I had lost three finals and this was my fourth and I am really happy to get the tag of the men’s national champion finally and I am excited about the upcoming tournaments,” said Kadhe from Gurugram. Kadhe who trains with Hemant Bendrey at the PYC Hindu Gymkhana will be seen in action now in the $15,000 ITF WTT cup main draws from Tuesday at the Deccan Gymkhana. In the semi-final, Kadhe defeated Ishaque Eqbal 6-2, 2-6, 6-2. Kadhe has started the post lockdown season on a good note as he clinched the $25,000 ITF doubles title with Dan Added of France as the duo defeated Inigo Cervantes Huegun of Spain and Mark Vervoort of the Netherlands 6-4, 6-2 at Villena, Spain in February. In women, second-seeded Shrivalli Bhamidipaty of Telangana upset top-seeded Vaidehi Chaudhari of Gujarat 6-2, 7-6 (7-2) to be crowned the women’s national champion. The defending champion Niki Poonacha had the consolation of winning the doubles title with Anirudh Chandrasekar defeating Ishque Eqbal and Nitin Kumar Sinha 4-6, 6-3, (10-5). Sai Samhitha did well to win the doubles title in partnership with Rishika Sunkara, beating top seeds Soha Sadiq and Saumya Vig 7-5, 7-6 (7-2). Results Men Arjun Kadhe (Mah) bt Prithvi Sekar (Railways) 6-3, 6-4 Doubles: Niki Poonacha and Anirudh Chandrasekar bt Ishque Eqbal and Nitin Kumar Sinha 4-6, 6-3, (10-5) Women Shrivalli Bhamidipaty (TS) bt Vaidehi Chaudhary (Guj) 6-2, 7-6(2) Doubles: Sai Samhitha and Rishika Sunkara bt Soha Sadiq and Saumya Vig 7-5, 7-6 (7-2). Box 1 Pune’s Adkar is U-14 national champion Asmi Adkar, one of the rising players from the city rallied back from one set down to clinch the under-14 national championship title defeating Sohini Mohanty of Odisha 1-6, 6-4, 6-2 at the Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association (MSLTA), GA Ranade Tennis complex in Mumbai. Adkar who has good control over backhand and forehand made things difficult for the Odisha player as she was not ready for aggressive tennis played by Adkar who trains under Kedar Shah at Bounce tennis academy. Recently, Adkar had won the doubles crown at the under-16 championship series at Ahmedabad and also won the under-14 national series which was held at Haryana. The boys’ title went to Krish Tyagi of Karnataka who upset top seed Pranav Rethin RS of Tamil Nadu 6-4, 7-6 (7-5) in a close match. Results: Girls: 14-Asmi Adkar (Mah) bt Sohini Mohanty (Odisha) 1-6, 6-4, 6-2. Boys: 2-Krish Tyagi (Kar) bt 1-Pranav Rethin RS (TN) 6-4, 7-6(7-5). Box 2 $15K ITF WTT cup main draws from March 23 The main draw of KPIT –MSLTA ITF WTT Cup $15,000 men’s tennis championships will kick start at Deccan Gymkhana on Tuesday. Sidharth Rawat (474), Manish Sureshkumar (675), local lads Arjun Kadhe (677) AryanGoveas (863) are the Indians who have got an entry into the main draw. Four Indian players, Ganta Sai Karteek Reddy, Karan Singh, Dhruv Sunish and Atharva Sharma have been awarded the main draw wildcards in the singles. Simon Carr IRL (549), Aidan Mchugh GBR (568), Jonathan Mridha SWE (590), Oliver Crawford USA (604), Zane Khan of USA are amongst the players from 11 countries namely France, Ireland, Great Britain, USA, Switzerland, Sweden, Italy, Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary will be seen in action at the event. The Pune leg is the third ITF men’s event in India with the two previous legs being played at Lucknow and Indore. The Pune event will be followed by an ITF men’s event in Delhi. The double’s final will be held on March 27, while the singles final will be held on March 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/arjun-kadhe-fulfils-dream-of-becoming-national-champion-101616347605301.html
22-03-2021||Pune||BJP steps up pressure on Uddhav Thackeray to act against Anil Deshmukh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stepped up pressure on Uddhav Thackeray’s government to act against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, a day after shunted Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that the minister had asked arrested Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze to extort ₹100 crore a month from Mumbai’s bars and restaurants. The BJP workers led by state unit chief Chandrakant Patil staged a protest at the Deccan area in Pune, demanding the resignation of Deshmukh. BJP workers also staged protests at Kolhapur, Nagpur and Aurangabad. Former chief minister and leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that protests will continue across Maharashtra until Thackeray acts against Deshmukh. Param Bir Singh, in his letter written on Saturday to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, alleged that Deshmukh had tasked assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze with collecting ₹100 crore when the latter was the chief of Mumbai’s crime intelligence unit. The letter has added another sensational twist to the case of an explosives-laden car found in front of Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai recently. “The new revelations have shown how corrupt this government is. Uddhav Thackeray should immediately sack Deshmukh and initiate inquiry against him,” said Patil. The BJP state unit chief also appealed to Raj Thackeray-led MNS and Prakash Ambedkar led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi to join the protests. Param Bir Singh enclosed various chat messages to support his allegations purportedly exchanged between himself and assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil during March 16th and 19th. The latest revelations have put further pressure on the MVA government to act against Deshmukh, who is already facing allegations of mishandling the Antilia explosives case, which has resulted in an embarrassment for the Mumbai police and the state government after NIA arrested Sachin Vaze, the investigating officer in the case, alleging he was himself involved in the plot. The state government then shunted Param Bir Singh to fix accountability for the fiasco; however, Singh’s bombshell has now left the government red-faced, once again. While Deshmukh has threatened to sue Singh, Sharad Pawar convened an urgent meeting in Delhi on Sunday evening to deal with the fallout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-steps-up-pressure-on-uddhav-thackeray-to-act-against-anil-deshmukh-101616347485277.html
22-03-2021||Other||18-year-old driver whose Mercedes crushed three to death in Mohali arrested||The Mercedes car that claimed the lives of three men near Radha Soami Satsang Chowk in Mohali on Saturday morning was being driven by an 18-year-old boy, who was out for a joyride with his friends after a drinking session in the car, police said on Sunday.The driver, Samrat Singh, a resident of Sector 34D, has been arrested. His Mercedes-Benz GLE Coupe 43 (CH01-CA-1869) was moving at a speed of 140km per hour when he crashed into a taxi and then ran over two cyclists. The collisions had killed two occupants of the taxi and one of the cyclists, while three were left critically injured.“His family runs Weldon Opticians store in Sector 17, Chandigarh. He doesn’t have a driving licence and was drunk at the time of the accident. His two friends travelling in the car with him, identified as Arjun and Prabhnoor Singh, have also been booked. They are at large,” senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said, adding that liquor bottles and glasses were found in the luxury car.After the accident, the trio fled the scene in another car even after sensing the victims’ serious condition and didn’t even inform the police or ambulance, the SSP said. The deceased, all residents of Mohali, were Ram Prasad of Mataur, who was on a cycle, and Ankush Narula of Zirakpur and Dharampreet of Gholumajra village, who were returning from work in the taxi.Among the injured, cab driver Harish Kumar is stated to be critical at PGIMER, Chandigarh. Pradeep Kumar, who was in the cab, survived the crash with fractures in both legs and arms and is admitted at a private hospital in Sector 71, Mohali. The second cyclist, Shripal, is out of danger and admitted at the Phase-6 Civil Hospital. Raids on for absconding friendsPolice said they were conducting raids to arrest Arjun and Prabhnoor, while Samrat had been sent to one-day police remand by a local court. All three study at a private school in Sector 26, Chandigarh. Arjun lives in Sector 9, Chandigarh, and Prabnoor, who is the son of the owner of Hotel Majestic in Phase 9, Mohali, is a resident of Phase 7.All accused are facing charges under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code.“Investigations will be completed in the next two weeks, and the court will be asked to conduct a speedy trial and give an exemplary punishment to the culprits,” the SSP said. “We have lost everything”Jasbir Singh, father of Dharampreet, 23, who died in the accident, said they had lost everything with his son’s death. “He got a job with Unify, a billing services provider, in Phase 8B, Industrial Area, three years ago and was expected to get married by the end of 2021. He was earning a good salary and was helping with our house’s construction in Gholumajra village,” said Jasbir, a daily wager.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/18yearold-driver-whose-mercedes-crushed-three-to-death-in-mohali-arrested-101616347185959.html
22-03-2021||Pune||Pune district’s positivity rate up from 10% in February to 31% on March 21||The spread of the Covid-19 infection continues to grow, as is evident by the district’s rising positivity rate.The positivity rate on March 21, as per the district health office is 31%, higher that the peak positivity rate last year.The positivity rate, which was 10% in the week between February 13 and February 19, 2021, has now gone up to 21%, between March 14 and March 20. The positivity rate was at 5.7% in between January 30 and February 5.Despite the administration increasing its testing, the number of cases also continues to rise. State officials believe that this could be because of a new variant of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Coronavirus, which is transmitting much faster.The fresh Covid cases include tests results of both RT-PCR and the Rapid Antigen tests.During the peak months of August and September 2020, the positivity rate had reached 24%, and 19%, respectively, for Pune. The current rate is almost at par with this peak of the first wave of infections.On November 2, 2020, Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor to the Maharashtra government, in a letter to divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, had written about a possible second wave.In the letter, Salunkhe references the positivity rate in September being 24.30% and then, in November, going down to 9.94%.In the letter he advises aggressive testing, surveillance on super spreaders and a sero survey in urban and rural areas.The administration has performed only one sero survey so far.Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, former head scientist of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases division at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said, “We have no concrete proof of mutation and we need stronger evidence. As of now we know that people are not following Covid- appropriate behaviour. Also, now we are going in for demand-driven tests, which is what most people are demanding; RT-PCR tests; which is why the number of false negatives is going down. Only wearing masks and social distancing will help. Variants may compromise the vaccine efficacy or even the possible factor of reinfections, but irrespective of all this, only a mask is most effective.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-s-positivity-rate-up-from-10-in-feb-to-21-in-march-101616335544519.html
