23-03-2021||Lucknow||Now, govt recognition mandatory for pre-primary schools in UP||There has been a big change in the rules of operation of pre-primary schools in Uttar Pradesh. Under this, all pre-primary schools running across the state must compulsorily get recognition from the Uttar Pradesh government for their functioning. The government has taken this step to clamp down on the hefty fees charged in the schools. As of now, no such recognition was needed to run any pre-primary or play school in Uttar Pradesh.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday has issued directives for the formation of a pre-primary unit under the ‘Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan’ to recognise the pre-primary schools and prepare a set of rules for pre-primary education. Apart from this, from the new academic session, pre-primary education will also be introduced in all the government Anganwadi centres and they will also be developed on the lines of pre-primary and playschools.Acting on the chief minister’s order, the department of basic education is now preparing a list of guidelines for all pre-primary schools.The government is aiming to curb the unethical practice of charging hefty fees ranging from ₹2500 to ₹1000 in more than 2000 play or pre-primary schools that are being operated in the state’s capital city Lucknow alone. Many localities have opened playschools in their houses or are taking classes in just two to three rooms and are demanding heavy fees from the parents. Besides, under the guidelines of the National Education Policy (NEP), the accountability of schools will also be fixed for the safety of children.Formation of a Pre-Primary UnitA pre-primary unit has been formed under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan to recognise pre-primary schools and frame a set of rules for the same. This committee will decide on standards and schemes related to pre-primary level education. Under the new rules, the government will include children from three to six years of age in formal education. Currently, children up to the age of 6 years are included in formal education from class one, an official said.Like council schools, Anganwadi centres for young children will be developed like playschools. For this, Anganwadi workers will also be trained by March 31. Private institutions will have to seek recognition from the Basic Education Council to open playschools. Around 1.89 lakh Anganwadi centres are being operated in 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh where children aged 6 years will be given education along with proper nutrition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-govt-recognition-mandatory-for-pre-primary-schools-in-up-101616521136842.html
23-03-2021||Gurugram||DHBVN’s grievance forum to be shifted from Hisar to Gurugram: Officials||The Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has decided to shift the permanent office of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam’s (DHBVN) grievance forum from Hisar to Gurugram, according to the officials.This move would help the electricity consumers in the city and neighbouring Faridabad, particularly those who have grievances related to the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN). One HERC spokesperson said that Gurugram and Faridabad have the maximum numbers of consumers, and the number of grievances were high. So, it was decided that the records and data of the Consumer Grievances Redressal Forum (CGRF) will be shifted to the city permanently, said the spokesperson.The grievance forum resolves the complaints of the electricity consumers, pertaining to bills, meters, connections, voltage fluctuations, and other issues related to power supply and more.The DHBVN has more than 3.7 million power connections, and the maximum consumers are located in Gurugram (570,000) and Faridabad (579,000). Given the large number of grievances, it was prudent to have a permanent office in Gurugram rather than having it in Hisar, said the HERC spokesperson, adding that the DHBVN also supplies electricity to Palwal, Rewari and Narnaul districts — that are also contiguous to Gurugram.The CGRF hearings used to take place in Gurugram, but for the benefit of the consumers, it was decided that the records will be shifted and based in the city permanently. “The maximum number of consumers are from here, so are the complaints lodged,” the spokesperson added.The entire record has been shifted to the permanent CGRF office in sector 16, the commission said.The forum will not only hear the complaints at its office but will also visit various circles under the jurisdiction of the DHBVN areas to redress issues raised by the residents.During the coronavirus-induced lockdown, a lot of residents had approached the forum regarding issues over delayed and inflated bills, particularly raised by the DHBVN . The large number of problems arising out of the recently launched digital electricity meters have also been submitted to the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dhbvns-grievance-forum-to-be-shifted-from-hisar-to-gurugram-officials-101616521076698.html
23-03-2021||Gurugram||Most meat shops shut, violators let off with warning||Officials said that 120 of the 129 meat shops remained closed during checks on Tuesday, as the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) started to enforce the House decision to shut meat shops on Tuesdays.“Almost all the licensed meat shops operating in the city were found to be closed during our inspections. There were nine such shops which were found to be open, all in areas located in the vicinity of Sadar Bazar. Owners of such shops were let off with a warning this time and their shops were closed immediately. From next week, any violator will be immediately penalised,” said Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, the official responsible for issuing licences and penalties to meat shops in the city and ensuring norms compliance.Around 70 teams of the MCG and around 300 Gurugram police personnel scanned the city for open meat shops, officials said, and upon finding open ones near Sadar Bazar, alerted senior officials.According to MCG officials, the owners of all nine open meat shops were aware of the MCG’s direction. However, they had opened their shops hoping there would be no spot check or penalties.During an MCG House meeting on March 18, the civic body decided to close meat shops on Tuesdays after two councillors had floated the proposal citing religious sentiments. Despite the MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh stating that eating meat is a “personal choice” and the House should consider this before coming to a decision, the MCG approved the proposal as per the provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation by-laws, 2008, which permits the shutdown of meat shops on one day of the week.During last week’s House meeting, MCG officials also approved a proposal for increasing the fines for meat shop violations by 10 times, from ₹500 to ₹5,000 and permanently sealing a meat shop, if the owner commits three violations. MCG officials said that before next Tuesday, they will be issuing a notification regarding the change in the fine amount and then start sealing meat shops.Usha Kundu, the assistant commissioner of police (headquarters), Gurugram, said that around 300 personnel were deputed for the task, but did not find any open meat shop.“Our teams carried out inspections till the afternoon, especially in areas such as Jacobpura, Khandsa, Chakkarpur, and Badshahpur that have a sizeable number of meat shops. However, no meat shop was found to be operational. We also did not receive any receive report of any ruckus or complaints on the matter,” said Kundu.The MCG and Gurugram police were operating independently on the matter.“Across the city, almost all the meat shop owners complied with the MCG’s direction. The MCG needs to realise that more than 80% of the city’s meat shops are owned by local businessmen who operate their shops on a low scale. Their income and survival depend on the daily sale of meat. On Tuesdays, they had a sizeable amount of business and the MCG’s direction has put them under immense financial duress,” said Pritam Bhagat, president, Jacobpura meat shops’ association, adding that such small-scale owners do not have the wealth or the expertise to pursue the matter legally against the MCG.“I complied with the direction of the MCG, as I did not want me or my employees to face any trouble. Our business has been hit by the coronavirus and more recently, by bird flu. The MCG’s direction has only made things worse for us,” said Aftab Khan, a meat shop owner in Sector 12.MCG officials also clarified that only physical shops will remain closed while online meat delivery portals can continue to operate. On Tuesdays, such portals were found to be operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/most-meat-shops-shut-violators-let-off-with-warning-101616521018444.html
23-03-2021||Gurugram||Farmers’ protest enters Day 100||The farmers’ protest at Shahjahanpur-Jaisinghpur Khera at the Haryana-Rajasthan border continued for the 100th day on Tuesday. Protesting farmers’ groups said that they would be marking the completion of 100 days by thanking locals and other stakeholders, and will be observing a “Gratitude Day” on Wednesday. Sanjay Madhav, a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of farmers’ unions protesting at Delhi borders, and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that farmers would be marking the completion of 100 days of the ongoing agitation by expressing their gratitude for various people who had supported the protest in various capacities. “Our protest has received support from various quarters. We will be thanking locals from villages in the vicinity that pitch in with support whenever required. People who have their shops on this stretch have also extended cooperation in the past 100 days. We will be expressing our gratitude by garlanding them and giving a certificate to thank them,” said Madhav. Farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September last year. Farmers fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Farmers from Rajasthan and Haryana started a sit-in protest at the Haryana-Rajasthan border on December 13, when they were stopped by the Haryana police from entering the state. Madhav said that protesting farmers will be thanking all allies and participants on Wednesday for sustaining the movement. “Our movement has received public support over the past several months. From Good Samaritans who pitch in with support through grocery and other essential requirements to local villagers and workers, people from different sections of the society have joined forces with us. Their contributions are invaluable,” said Madhav. He also shared that farmers camping at the site were preparing for Bharat Bandh that is scheduled for March 26. He said that the strength at the protest site would increase by leaps in April, after Holi. “The call for Bharat Bandh will once again mobilise people from different states and we expect the protest to get further intensified from thereon,” said Madhav. Protesting farmers also marked the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, and Sukhdev on the occasion of Shaheedi Diwas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-protest-enters-day-100-101616521019072.html
23-03-2021||Gurugram||14 booked for allegedly developing illegal colony in Sadhrana village||The police registered two cases against 14 landowners and property dealers on Monday for allegedly developing an illegal colony in Sadhrana village along the Dwarka Expressway.The officials of the enforcement wing of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) had filed a complaint about the same. The cases were registered at the Sector 10 police station.The DTCP, in its complaint, had said that the suspects were carving out an illegal colony in Sadhrana village in violation of various sections of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, according to the police. Despite repeated notices, the landowners and property dealers developed the illegal colony and lured people to invest in the projects. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the land on which the colony was developed falls within the controlled urban area. No construction work can be carried out any land that falls within the limits of a municipal area or notified area, without necessary permission. Also, subdividing the land is prohibited without approval, Bhath said, adding that the land on which the illegal colony was developed falls within the urban area limit of Sadrana village. As per the norms in such cases, a police officer, not below the rank of a sub-inspector, has the power to arrest the offenders, he said. “We have requested the police to keep vigil in this area and surrounding areas and bring instances of unauthorised colonisation to the notice of the department,” Bhath added. On February 24, 2021, the police had registered two cases against 18 landowners for allegedly developing an illegal colony in Farrukhnagar after a complaint was filed by the officials of the DTCP’s enforcement wing.Police commissioner KK Rao said, “Two cases were registered. We are investigating the cases... No arrests have been made so far, but the suspects have been identified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/14-booked-for-allegedly-developing-illegal-colony-in-sadhrana-village-101616521017827.html
23-03-2021||Gurugram||‘Sukoon’ for inmates: Prison dept launches project for online therapy, counselling||With an aim to provide online counselling and therapy to undertrials aged between 18 and 21 years, the prison department in Haryana launched project ‘Sukoon’ on Tuesday. Some 106 inmates will be counselled under this project.The counsellors will interact with the inmates with an objective to instil hope, and bring a positive change in their behaviour, the officials said.A pre-assessment study will be conducted, beginning Tuesday, to assess and identify the inmates, who are suffering from mental health issues. This would help the officials to develop a suitable virtual intervention plan for them.Major mental health issues such as stress, anger management, and depression among others need to be addressed. We aim to do so through this project, said the officials. The Haryana prison department is working on the project in coordination with the India Vision Foundation.K Selvaraj, director-general (prisons), said that both qualitative and quantitative measures are used to assess the need for mental health intervention. “A certain standardised self-report measures assessing the inmates’ current level of distress, a structure assessment to measure cognitive functioning and a case history intake, and a semi-structured interview on a one-on-one basis with each inmate were conducted on Tuesday,” Selvaraj said.“During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, social workers and counsellors have been restricted to visit the prisons. So, we have decided to start an online counselling for the inmates, where the counsellors and psychologists will conduct the sessions through video calling,” said Monica Dhawan, director, India Vision Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sukoon-for-inmates-prison-dept-launches-project-for-online-therapy-counselling-101616521017280.html
23-03-2021||Gurugram||1,000 EWS flats constructed in 2011 likely to be allotted in April||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has initiated the process to renovate over 1,000 flats that were built under the Ashiyana Scheme in Sector 47 and have been lying vacant for almost a decade.The move comes after a direction from the chief administrator, HSVP, who has asked administrators across the state to ensure that flats built under the Ashiyana scheme are made ready by April 5 for allotment to beneficiaries. HSVP officials said that it is likely that the Haryana government will launch a statewide programme to allot these houses to eligible applicants by next month.HSVP had constructed 1,080 flats for economically weaker sections (EWS) and below poverty line (BPL) residents of the states, and the project was completed in February 2011. However, these houses have been lying vacant as they could not be allotted to eligible applicants due to discrepancies over allotment criteria and identifying allottees.As a result of the delay in allotments, HSVP officials admitted that the condition of these flats is bad and a major renovation drive is being planned so that these flats can be handed over to allottees. At present, the HSVP is working along with the district administration to identify allottees as well.As per the directions issued by the chief administrator, the flats need to be renovated by March 31, the allotment process completed by April 5 and details of successful applicants to be shared with the headquarters in Chandigarh by April 8, as it is likely the state government plans to launch this allotment scheme by the middle of the month, said authority officials.Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, said that the authority has already started working on identifying the eligible applicants and a lot of work in this regard has already been completed. “I have already visited the flats in Sector 47 and though the condition is not very good, the engineering cell has been asked to prepare an estimate on priority for renovating these flats. The work of identifying the eligible applicants is also the final stages,” he said.Yadav also said that similar flats built in Rewari will also be allotted and work is also on to renovate them. “The contractor who built the flats will be asked to renovate these houses. The project in Rewari is in far better condition,” he said.Under the ‘Housing for All’ campaign, the Haryana government has planned to launch several housing projects in the affordable category and for EWS and BPL category residents of the state as well as migrants.In January, the government had announced that it would build low-cost flats for those living in slum clusters and chose Gurugram and Faridabad districts for the pilot project. The government also launched a new rental policy whereby affordable housing projects can be developed to be rented to migrant and industrial workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/1000-ews-flats-constructed-in-2011-likely-to-be-allotted-in-april-101616521016732.html
23-03-2021||Gurugram||42-year-old man held for raping 14-year-old daughter||A 42-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping his 14-year-old daughter over the last year, the police said, on a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother.The accused, who works as a cab driver, would sexually assault his daughter whenever he found her alone at their rented accommodation in Sector 81. His wife worked in residential societies and used to return home late after cooking meals. The girl is the eldest of three siblings, said police.The girl’s mother, upon returning home late on Monday, found her daughter crying and after a while came to know of the repeated sexual assaults, as her daughter decided to confide in her, the police said.The accused is suspected to have raped the girl at least 15 times over the last year, according to the girl’s statement to the police on Tuesday.“The girl’s mother lodged a complaint against her husband on Monday following which we arrested him. He has been booked for rape and unnatural offences along with other relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,” said Krishan Kant, station house officer of Kherki Daula police station.The mother told the police that when she returned home from work on Monday night, she found her daughter crying. She could not muster up the courage to complain against her father but eventually told her. The accused also allegedly threatened her life and used to beat her as well, including on Monday, which left her in tears.According to the police, the girl asked her mother to move to another city as she did not want to live with the father anymore, fearing that he might sexually abuse her two younger sisters. “He was produced before the district and sessions court and has been sent to 14-day judicial custody,” said Kant.The police said that the man worked with a cab aggregator, mostly during the night.Sonia Yadav, a member of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), said that the girl is in trauma and requires several counselling sessions. “We counselled her on Tuesday and she was taken to Civil Hospital for a medical check-up. Her mother has also been counselled and advised not to ask the girl questions related to the incident,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/42yearold-man-held-for-raping-14-year-old-daughter-101616520956790.html
23-03-2021||Gurugram||Mass antigen testing starts as Covid-19 cases continue to mount||The health department started mass screening for Covid-19 infections, using antigen tests, to identify locations where the Covid-19 infection is spreading fast, as Gurugram recorded 188 new infections on Tuesday, officials familiar with the developments said.“The current positivity rate – total confirmed positives out of the samples tested – of the district is less than 5%. Considering the rapid increase in Covid-19 infection, the department has started antigen testing camps under different urban primary health centres (UPHC) to identify locations where the infection has been prevalent,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. According to the health department bulletin, the overall count of active cases reached 1,088, the highest caseload in the last three months, leading to an immediate prioritising of mass testing. The overall tally of infections now stands at 61, 016. An antigen test is a speedy testing strategy that delivers results in 30 minutes. It easily detects cases having a high load of SARS-CoV-2 virus, but due to specificity issues, it misses infections with low viral levels. It, however, helps in telling or identifying areas where the virus is present in high concentration and more people are likely to get infected. Antigen camps will be organised at more than 115 sites till April 5 and on Tuesday, about 230 antigen tests were done, said officials, attributing the low number to a government leave, on the occasion of Martyrs’ Day. Since the beginning of March, the district has been reporting a constant uptick in coronavirus cases. From 343 active cases until March 1, the count has ballooned to at least 1,088, showing almost three times the rise in the infection. The spike has also added to the Covid-19 burden of Haryana. The active case count of the state reached 5,698 on Monday, which, until the first week of March, was around 1,200. To control the surge, testing has already been raised by 19% in the district. Data shows that almost 27, 554 tests have been administered from March 17 to 23, while at least 22, 316 were done from March 10 to 16. According to officials, over 14 contacts are traced and tested for every positive case. Data shows that about 75 people with moderate to severe illness have been admitted to hospitals, while nearly 925 active cases are in home isolated. The death toll remains at 361. Under each UPHC, camps will be held in different densely populated locations on different days. For instance, at Sector 31, camps will be held from March 27 to 29 at Chikitsa Charitable dispensary, Housing Board Colony and HSIIDC Apartment. Under Wazirabad UPHC, camps will be held at health department subcentres in Jharsa, Chakkarpur and the community centre in Sector 46. A large number of camps will also be held at Farrukhnagar, Sohna and old Gurugram areas of Mullahera, Basai, Kasan and Badshahpur, among others, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mass-antigen-testing-starts-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-mount-101616520897530.html
23-03-2021||Gurugram||Over 7,700 vaccinated across session sites, condominiums||On Tuesday, over 7,777 Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered at various vaccination sites, including condominiums, taking the overall count of vaccinated people in the district to 116,341. Officials said that vaccination will intensify from April 1 as the central government has permitted all citizens above the age of 45 to take the vaccine shot. “Until now, only those aged between 45 and 59 years with an existing illness were given vaccine shots. But as the vaccination will open for everyone above 45 years of age from April 1, the vaccination process will gain pace. For this, more session sites will have to be created in the district to cover people,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. He said that guidelines are still awaited from the state health department. In the district, footfall for vaccination at private hospitals has already declined. Only 1,974 (25.3% ) of the 7,777 took the vaccine jab at private hospitals, while 5,803 turned up for vaccination at government sites. On Monday too, of the 25,000-odd inoculations, more than 80% was at government facilities. To increase the coverage, the health department and private hospitals also set up vaccination camps at various condominiums. At Ardee City in Sector 52, Medanta Hospital registered around 100 people for vaccination at its clinic located on the premises. “People were registered with the hospital a day before the camp. It helped in streamlining the payment process at the site. But many people walked in directly at the centre and were registered at the spot,” said Dr Mehjwooba, internal medicine, Medanta, who was present at the site. Besides the vaccination staff, doctors were also stationed at camps to sign medical certificates for people above 45 years of age with existing illnesses. “Many people have come with diseases that are not in the list of illnesses mentioned in the medical certificate, such as neurogenic tumours. In that case, we mention the name of the disease in the certificate and vaccinate people. Only those people who are on anti-coagulant medicines have to get the certificate signed by their regular physician,” said Dr Mehjwooba. At The Palm Springs on Golf Course Road, a vaccination camp was set up by the health department and a doctor was stationed by a charitable trust, All India Human Development Council, to sign medical certificates at the site. Vishal Sinha, a resident of The Palm Springs, said, “A vaccination camp within the condominium is the easiest way to take the vaccine shot. The real benefit has been that you don’t have to visit a hospital for vaccination.” By 1pm, at least 18 people were vaccinated at the centre set up in the condominium club. Drives were also held at Silver Oaks in DLF-Phase 1, Maple Heights in Sector 43, The Pinnacle in DLF-5, and Vatika India Next in Sector 84. Citing a government holiday on Tuesday, on account of Martyrs’ Day, the health department did not release information on the overall footfall at these condominiums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-7-700-vaccinated-across-session-sites-condominiums-101616520896801.html
23-03-2021||Other||Asked to pay for food at dhaba, three Etah cops send 10 to jail; Booked, suspended||The Uttar Pradesh police on Tuesday suspended three policemen for framing and arresting 10 people, including eight customers and two kin of owner of a roadside ‘dhaba’ on Agra–Etah road, where two of them got involved in a squabble over payment of bill of the food they ate on February 4.While directing to register a case against three cops, the additional director general (ADG) Agra zone Rajeev Krishna also ordered a probe into serious allegations against them.Sources said two cops, Santosh Kumar and Shailendra Yadav, from Kotwali Rural police station in Etah refused to pay for the food they had consumed at an eatery, leading to an argument. Later, they together with incharge of Kotwali Dehat police station Indreshpal Singh, allegedly filed a fake case against 10 people and arrested them.The dhaba is run by Praveen Kumar, a physically challenged man, with the help from his brothers Pushpendra Kumar and Deepak Kumar.“Two cops came to have food at dhaba on the night of February 4 but were not prepared to pay for the food they ate. They had heated arguments with us and other customers who asked cops to pay at least the nominal charge, but they instead threatened to send them all to jail,” said Kumar in his complaint..“Later, they returned with more cops and took into custody ten men from the dhaba.They were taken to Kotwali Dehat and booked in a false case of a gang planning loot.All 10 people are still in jail, alleged Kumar, in a complaint submitted to Etah district magistrate Dr Vibha Chahal. .The police also claimed that the arrested persons were nabbed after an encounter. They also showed recovery of illicit liquor from their possession.Two of the cops also allegedly sought bribe to release the arrested persons.After the complaint was lodged, matter came into limelight and ADG Krishna took cognizance of it.“There were serious allegations labeled in the complaint regarding the incident that took place on February 4,” said Krishna, AD (Agra zone)“The probe was conducted by SP (crime) at Etah, and prima facie allegations made by the complainant were found true. Incharge of Kotwali Dehat Indreshpal Singh and constables Santosh Kumar and Shailendra Yadav have been booked. Besides, they have also been suspended,” said Krishna.‘’To ensure fair probe, the case is being registered in Aligarh,” said Krishna.Indreshpal Singh was already suspended on March 11 after liquor recovered in a case went missing from the police station. IG, Aligarh range, Piyush Mordia, meanwhile has asked SP Kasganj to get the preliminary inquiry done and submit report within 10 days in the case related to 10 persons who are in jail for no fault of theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/asked-to-pay-for-food-at-dhaba-three-etah-cops-send-10-to-jail-booked-suspended-101616520716731.html
23-03-2021||Jaipur||Ensure compliance of Covid guidelines: Rajasthan CM Gehlot to officials||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday asked officials to ensure the compliance of fresh coronavirus guidelines to prevent a second wave of the infection in the state, according to an official statement.Chairing a review meeting, the chief minister said corona warriors played a very important role in the past one year but their efforts should not go in vain because of carelessness.Gehlot praised his government’s Covid management and said the Rajasthan model has been appreciated worldwide and to maintain this, there is a need of effective implementation of the guidelines.The CM also laid emphasis on the vaccination drive, saying Rajasthan has emerged as an example in the country.Principal Secretary (Home) Abhay Kumar, Health Secretary Siddharth Mahajan and other officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ensure-compliance-of-covid-guidelines-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-to-officials-101616520036231.html
23-03-2021||Lucknow||UP fixes limit for stocking liquor at home||Months after the state cabinet approved the new excise policy making licence mandatory for stocking liquor at home; the Uttar Pradesh (UP) excise department on Tuesday issued the notification setting limits for the same.Anyone wanting to purchase, transport and to possess the liquor for personal use in quantities more than prescribed limit will have to obtain a personal home licence. The annual fee for the said licence shall be ₹12,000 and the security shall be ₹51,000. “Liquor cannot now be sold to any person by retail shops in excess of quantities prescribed by the new notification,” said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary (excise).Moreover, liquor up to the prescribed limit can only be sold to a person above 21 years of age, he said. What are the new limits? After this notification, no one can possess more than five bottles of 200ml capacity of country-made liquor (plain) and five bottles of 200ml capacity of country-liquor (spiced). The prescribed limit for foreign liquor is 1.5 litres each of Indian made and imported foreign liquor and any stocking more than this would invite action or fine, excise officials said. In case of wine, the prescribed limit is 2 litre each of Indian made and imported wine, while for beer the limit is 6 litres each of Indian made and imported beer. 1.5 litres for all other kinds of Indian/imported liquor the prescribed limit is 1.5 litres while 6 litres of low alcoholic beverages are new home stock limit. “Any violation of the notification would invite legal action under section-60 of the United Provinces Excise Act, 1910. The action includes provision of imprisonment up to 3 years and fine of 10 times the amount of consideration fee involved in the liquor or ₹2000 whichever is greater. Moreover, action may also be taken under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code,” Bhoosreddy said.What were old home stock limits? As per earlier rule, one could store country liquor (both spiced and plain) up to 1.5 litres each and around 6 litres of IMFL and 6 litres of imported liquor. For wine bottled in India and in the country of origin, the limit was around 3 litres. Similarly, for beer bottled in India and in the country of origin, the limit was around 7.8 litres each.Personal home licence He also informed that any person intending to purchase, transport and to possess the liquor for personal use in quantities more than prescribed limit can obtain a licence in 2021-22. “The terms and conditions and the maximum quantity of liquor permissible has been mentioned in the excise policy of 2021-22. The annual license fee for the said license shall be Rs.12,000 and the security shall be Rs.51,000,” he added. He said licence shall be called as Personal Home Licence. Within the premises approved in the licence, adult family members, relatives, family guests and friends of licensee who are not below the age of 21 years will be allowed to consume liquor without making any payment in cash or kind. No personal home licence for farmhouses or guest houses“Only one Personal Home Licence shall be granted to a person for their main residence and shall not be granted to anyone for his farm-house or guest house,” Bhoosreddy said. He said the applicants who are income tax payee for the last five years and of which they have paid income tax under the slab of 20 percent for at least 3 years shall be eligible to get the licence. In case of any violation of conditions of Personal Home Licence, action may be taken against the licensee under relevant sections of United Provinces Excise Act,1910 and Indian Penal Code, he added.Mixed reactions from liquor sellersThe cap on home stock has evoked mixed reactions from liquor sellers.“I think the move will help generate revenue besides discouraging hoarding of liquor from states where it is cheaper,” said Kanhaiyalal Maurya, general secretary of Liquor Seller Welfare Association.“There are connoisseurs who love to stock up their bars with choicest liquor. The decision would hit us as people would be wary of purchasing for home. Moreover, the decision could always be misused to target people,” said a prominent liquor seller on condition of anonymity.“It’s like making people feel guilty or nervous while purchasing liquor,” said another seller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-fixes-limit-for-stocking-liquor-at-home-101616520356854.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees 1,101 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day tally in several months||Delhi witnessed a major rise in its daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as more than 1,100 fresh infections were detected in the national capital on Tuesday, the health department’s bulletin showed. Overall, the city saw 1,101 new cases of the viral disease on Tuesday, along with four deaths, taking the total infection tally and death toll to 649,973 and 10,967 respectively, the bulletin showed.This is Delhi's highest single-day rise in 2021, as well its highest in several months.620 more patients recovered from coronavirus in Delhi, taking the number of recovered cases to 634,595, the bulletin showed. The active caseload, meanwhile, rose to 4,411, an increase of 477 cases from Monday. Recovered cases and deaths contribute 97.63% and 1.69%, respectively, of Delhi’s total Covid-19 tally.The bulletin also showed that 52,099 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests were done on Tuesday, while the corresponding figure for the Rapid Antigen tests stood at 32,138. With this, total 13,974,132 tests have been conducted in Delhi, while tests per million are at 735,480.Since March 20, Delhi had been witnessing more than 800 new Covid-19 cases daily. On March 20, there were 813 cases and four deaths, while on March 21, 823 cases and one death were reported. On March 22, the capital city logged 888 infections and seven deaths.Meanwhile, with daily Covid-19 cases on the rise, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday announced that no public celebrations would be allowed for festivals like Holi, Navratri, Shab-e-Barat etc., news agency ANI reported.Also Read | 'Considerable threat': Delhi bans public fests of Holi amid daily covid surge“Amid rising Covid-19 cases in NCT (National Capital Territory) of Delhi, celebrations for upcoming festivals such as Holi, Navratri and gatherings in general will not be allowed. All DMs and concerned authorities should ensure strict adherence to the order,” the DDMA said, according to ANI.The agency also said that random Covid-19 testing will be done at airports, railway stations, bus terminals and other alighting points for passengers coming from other states which, too, are witnessing a steady rise in their daily new cases of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-1-101-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-tally-in-several-months-101616517314280.html
23-03-2021||Other||PLFI area commander in police remand escapes||An area commander of a banned Maoist outfit, who was recently arrested by the Ranchi police, managed to escape from Balumath police station in Latehar district on Tuesday, officials said. The ultra, identified as Krishna Yadav, was a member of extremist outfit People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI). He was on a two-day remand with Latehar police following his arrest. Latehar superintendent of police (SP) Prashant Anand said, “This is gross negligence and we will conduct a thorough probe into the incident to identify the culprits. We will also ensure exemplary disciplinary action against those found involved in this incident.”The incident has shocked people and brought security arrangements under scanner as the Balumath police station, from where the ultra escaped, is surrounded by wired fence and has a security guard at its only exit point round-the-clock.According to officials, the Latehar police brought Krishna, who was highly active in areas under Chanho and Khelari police stations in Ranchi as well as Chandwa and Balumath police stations in Latehar, to Balumath police station for interrogation. “After his two-day remand period ended, he was to be sent to jail on Tuesday,” informed a police officer.The PLFI ultra managed to escape when he was being taken by a security guard to the washroom.The SP, who was out of the district headquarters area to carry out anti-Maoist offensive in different parts of the district for past two days, said, “Several teams are conducting raids at all possible hideouts of the fleeing Maoist. We expected to nab him again very soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plfi-area-commander-in-police-remand-escapes-101616517896308.html
23-03-2021||Ranchi||Over 1 million people inoculated in state||Jharkhand on Tuesday achieved the feat of inoculating over one million people with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The milestone was achieved 67 days after the launching of the nationwide mass vaccination programme.The state recently ramped up pace of Covid-19 vaccination by organising special vaccination drives in three phases at the panchayat level this month. On Tuesday, the second phase of the two-day special vaccination drive was launched in every panchayat across the state.As many as 122, 262 people took their first jab on Tuesday, taking the tally of total number beneficiaries to 1.07 million (1,070,204), according to the health department’s bulletin of March 23.The state has so far inoculated 403,593 health care workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW), 546,026 senior citizens and 120,585 people aged between 45-59 years and having comorbidities. Out of the total HCWs and FLWs inoculated, as many as 224,934 have also taken their second dose.Since the beginning of the first phase of the nationwide mass vaccination drive on January 16 till February 26, the state vaccinated as many as 304,194 beneficiaries, that included only HCWs and FLWs.The vaccination exercise was kept suspended for two days on February 27 and 28 in order to prepare for the launch of the second phase, under which certain priority groups were included for inoculation.The second phase, that was launched across the nation on March 1, targeted citizens aged 60 years and above, and those aged 45 years and above with comorbidities, besides HCWs and FLWs. According to a a rough estimate, Jharkhand has to inoculate 35 lakh people in this phase.However, the Centre recently showed its dissatisfaction over slow pace of vaccination in Jharkhand, and asked state authorities to pull up their socks.Following this, Jharkhand chief secretary held a review meeting with various departments and others on March 10. It was decided that the state will now vaccinate 50,000 beneficiaries daily on an average.In order to achieve the target, the state health department decided to launch the three-phase special vaccination drive on March 20-21, March 23-24 and March 26-27 at the panchayat level.In the first phase, as many as 263,291 beneficiaries were given their first shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/over-1-million-people-inoculated-in-state-101616517596292.html
23-03-2021||Ranchi||Select Committee to review Bill reserving job in private sector for locals||The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021, which proposes to reserve 75% jobs in the private sector for locals, was on Tuesday sent to Select Committee of the Assembly for further review, as a number of legislators sought amendments to the proposal. The decision to send the Bill, which was introduced in the House by labour welfare minister Satyanand Bhokta, to the Select Committee was announced by chief minister, as six legislators, including two from the treasury bench, brought in amendment motions. “This bill is related to empowerment of locals and we are very concerned about it. I can see that 22 amendment proposals have been brought altogether from both sides. We are sending this bill to the Select Committee,” said Soren. The bill proposes to reserve 75% jobs in private establishments against such posts where the gross monthly salary or wages are not more than ₹30,000 or as notified by the government from time to time. Soon after the minister tabled the Bill, legislator Pradeep Yadav, who joined ruling Congress after split in his former party JVM(P), and CPI (ML) legislator Binod Singh, who is supporting the government from outside, jointly brought a motion, requesting the House to send it to the Select Committee. Singh argued that the copy of the proposed bill was provided to the legislators merely a day before and hence, they needed to review it as according to him, “it’s better to make adequate amendments than regret later”. Yadav, on other hand, objected to some clauses, including inclusion of certain technical aspects, exemption clause for private entities on certain grounds, besides ensuing that local social demography is taken care of in recruitment, as reservation for Scheduled Caste groups can’t be applied in a private entity. “Section 5 of the bill mentions exemptions that could be sought by companies with permission from the deputy commissioner concerned. This can be misused by companies. Besides, there needs to be a mechanism that representation of different social groups is maintained in recruitment, as the employer can employ persons from his or her own caste,” said Yadav. However, the motion was turned down by the House, as the Treasury bench was not impressed. BJP’s Amit Mandal proposed to include all companies including public sector undertakings in the ambit of the Bill. “Companies like ECL, BCL and and NTPC have major stakes. They should be brought into it,” he said. As other legislators continued with their amendment motions, CM Soren intervened and announced that the Bill was being sent to the Select Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/select-committee-to-review-bill-reserving-job-in-private-sector-for-locals-101616517476244.html
23-03-2021||Ranchi||State hikes age limit for tobacco consumption to 21 years||The state government has hiked the legal age for consumption of tobacco products to 21 years, besides banning hookah bars. This came after the state Assembly recently on Monday passed the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) (Jharkhand Amendment) Bill 2021, introducing amendments in the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA), 2003.Earlier, the legal age for consumption of tobacco products was 18 years, according to the Centre’s COTPA, 2003.The government also increased the fine for spitting in public to ₹1,000 from the existing ₹200, besides extending the ban on sale of tobacco products outside educational institutions to ban on sale of these products within a 100 metre radius of public places such as hospitals, health institutions, public offices and courts and educational institutions.Arguing in favour of the amendments, the Bill states that usage of tobacco products caused six out of every eight deaths in the state. It also said that around 40% of non-communicable diseases were a direct result of consumption of tobacco products.As per Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS-2017), atleast 59.7% of males, 17% females and 38.9% adults in Jharkhand either smoke or consume other tobacco products.In order to ensure complete ban on hookah bars in the state, the new Act, once notified, aims to impose a minimum fine of ₹50,000 and maximum up to ₹1 lakh, besides slapping a jail term up to three years and not less than one year. However, the offence will be bailable in nature.AJSU Party legislator Lambodar Mahto introduced an amendment, suggesting the government to increase fine for spitting in public to ₹10,000 and offence for opening hookah bars as a non-bailable one. However, the treasury bench turned down the suggestion and went ahead and passed the Bill as tabled.“Jharkhand is a poor tribal state. We have already increased the fine from ₹200 to ₹1,000. Slapping such a heavy fine will not be prudent,” health minister Banna Gupta said in the Assembly in response to Mahto’s suggestion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-hikes-age-limit-for-tobacco-consumption-to-21-years-101616517356302.html
23-03-2021||Patna||Doctor’s body found hanging at his house in Jamui||A 55-year-old doctor posted with community health centre at Giddhaur in Jamui district was found hanging at his official residence on Tuesday morning.The deceased doctor was in-charge of Covid isolation and treatment centre as well as of vaccination programme in the district. Police said a suicide note was found from the spot in which the doctor said he was taking the extreme step due to work pressure and health problems. “After suffering from corona, I feel mental imbalance, loss of memory and sleep. Due to this, I am unable to work properly,” the note read, according to the police.The deceased was a native of Kharagpur in Munger and had been posted in Giddhaur since 2015. Police said the doctor’s driver found him hanging at his residence and took him to hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. His colleagues and relatives claimed there was a lot of administrative pressure on him. Civil surgeon Dr Binay Sharma said that during treatment of a Covid patient, the deceased tested positive for the virus but recovered later.Subdivisional police officer Dr Rakesh Kumar said a case of unnatural death has been registered at Giddhaur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/doctors-body-found-hanging-at-his-house-in-jamui-101616517236215.html
23-03-2021||Patna||CAG raps state for loose budget control, ailing medical education||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), in its latest report on Bihar’s state of finances for the fiscal 2018-19, has put the government in the dock for failing to make realistic budgets, high expenditure during the last quarter of successive fiscal years and, most notably, on the poor state of medical education.The CAG report on state of finances for 2018-19 fiscal was placed in the Assembly on Tuesday by deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad along with two other reports on general, social and economic sectors for the financial year ending in March 2018.The report highlights variations in the actual against the budget estimates for 2018-19, noting that revenue receipts in 2018-19 grew by ₹14,347 crore (12.22%) over 2017-18, but were lower than the budget estimates by ₹26,257 crore (16.61%). Similar gaps were found in expenditure and capital expenditure too.“The finance department should rationalise budget preparation exercise so that the gap between budget estimates and actual is bridged,” the report has recommended. Similarly, the CAG has taken strong exception to non-reconciliation of balance in personal deposit ( PD) accounts, which are accounts opened in treasury where any special purpose vehicle, board, authority, agency, society constituted by state government could receive money in any form be it grant or loan.“Non-reconciliation of balances in PD accounts periodically and not transferring the unspent balances to consolidated fund of the state before the closure of financial year entails the risk of misuse of public funds, fraud and misappropriation,” the report has said.The CAG has, however, given credit to the state government for keeping the ratio of fiscal deficit to GSDP ( gross state domestic product) to 2.48% which was well within the prescribed limit of BFRBM (Bihar Fiscal Responsibility Budget Management act and 14th finance commission for the year 2018-19.On medical education in Bihar, the central audit body has given a thumbs-down to the government, observing that vacancies for physicians, Ayush doctors, dentists and nurses, were as high as 92 per cent, going by their numbers peer one lakh population.The audit observed that against the construction of 12 medical colleges (including a dental college) taken up during 2006-07 to 2016-17,only two medical colleges became functional till 2018. Construction of only two nursing institutes could be completed till 2018 against the planned 61. “Government of Bihar did not make effective efforts to increase seats of existing medical colleges,” CAG report has said. The audit body has also said that the shortage of teaching and non-teaching staff in all streams of medical education ranged from six to 56 per cent and eight to 70 per cent, respectively.Deficiencies have also been found in infrastructure of medical institutions, which also face shortage of medical equipment in 20 departments in test-checked five medical colleges (GMC Bettiah, DMCH-Darbhanga, IGIMS, Patna, NMCH Patna, PMCH ,Patna).Lastly, the CAG report on PSUs has pulled up the Bihar State Financial Corporation and Bihar State Warehousing Corporation for not placing the spate audit report to state legislature for one year and Bihar State Road Transport Corporation for last 32 years. The audit body has also detected shortcomings in the claims by DISCOMs of 100 per cent electrification in rural households by October 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cag-raps-state-for-loose-budget-control-ailing-medical-education-101616517176278.html
23-03-2021||Patna||RJD workers clash with cops; Tejashwi, Tej Pratap court arrest||Over a dozen people, including police officials, were injured on Tuesday when RJD workers clashed with the police during a march to the state Assembly, permission for which was denied by the administration earlier. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, who also hit the street and courted arrest along with brother Tej Pratap Yadav, accused the state government of “murdering democracy” after police used water cannons and batons on protesting RJD workers.The RJD had given a call to protest across the state against unemployment, inflation, fuel price hike and problems being faced by the people due to the pandemic. Speaking to reporters during the protest, Tejashwi Yadav said, “Democracy is being murdered. The police used water cannons and lathis us and our workers on the orders of Nitish Kumar.”“Today, we remember Ram Manohar Lohia and Shaheed Bhagat Singh on their death anniversary. Lohiaji had said if streets remain empty then the government becomes rogue.Today, this dictator government lathi-charges us when we ask for jobs, arrests protesters. The government is fully corrupt.” Trouble began when demonstrators insisted on walking right up to the Assembly from JP roundabout near Gandhi Maidan. Police said RJD workers removed barricades between the JP Roundabout and Dak Bungalow and pelted stones on the police team, besides damaging windscreens of several vehicles.The police resorted to use of water cannons and fired tear gas to disperse the agitators. The clashes disrupted the traffic for nearly three hours, police said, adding that normalcy was restored after protesters were detained.The injured protesters were hospitalised and a few were rounded up for questioning, the police said.Patna’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Upendra Sharma said, “RJD workers were asked not to proceed towards the Vidhan Sabha because of Covid-19 restrictions and because the Bihar Assembly is in restricted area. But they resorted to violence and attacked the police.” RJD had sought permission from the district administration for the demonstration, but it was declined.“Don’t stop, don’t hold on or bend in front of autocratic government,” Tejashwi Yadav had tweeted on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjdworkers-clash-with-cops-tejashwi-tej-pratap-court-arrest-101616517056224.html
23-03-2021||Other||Bihar Special Armed Police Bill passed: Oppn runs riot, cops walk in to evict members||PATNABihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, was on Tuesday passed by the state’s Legislative Assembly without any debate amid unprecedented scenes during which police had to be called in to evict protesting members of the Opposition, which termed it as a “black bill”, ransacked tables and surrounded the Speaker’s chair.After over half a dozen adjournments, when the House resumed around 7.30 pm, in-charge home minister Bijendra Prasad spoke on the Bill and described the Opposition protests unfounded and the scenes in the House unwarranted. “There is nothing in the Bill that is not there. It is just to reduce dependence of central paramilitary force and create state’s own specialised force, which will also create job opportunities for youth,” he said.Later, chief minister Nitish Kumar, who also holds the portfolio of home, expressed his displeasure over whatever happened by “an uninformed Opposition bent upon creating misunderstanding about the Bill”.“Just the name of the Bihar Military Police (BMP) has been changed to Bihar Special Armed Police in keeping with its new role and changing requirements, which has also been done in many states. I would have been happy to hear the Opposition’s point of view and replied to their concerns, but this is not the way, especially the way they tried to disrupt the House and ransack the tables and chairs. They even prevented you (Speaker) from coming here. Still, I thank you for sticking to the day’s business despite such unprecedented scenes,” he said.“The bomb blast in Mahabodhi Temple premises is known to all. Now BMP is guarding it. More installations will be handed over to the force, but they also need powers to discharge their duty. After arresting anyone, they have to hand over the person to the police station, as is the case with police. A lot of wrong publicity has been done about it. I was a member of the Assembly in 1985 for the first time and I have never seen what happened in the House today, especially the role of new comers. They need training about legislative procedures,” he said.Earlier, as the standoff continued well past the scheduled time of 5 pm and the government was firm on getting the Bill passed, police and auxiliary police used force to bodily lift many of the members to take them out. Woman police was also called to whisk away protesting woman legislators from near the Speaker’s dais to clear the area.This angered leader of opposition Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav, who even had an argument with the city SP over forcible removal of the Opposition leaders. He also got on to the dais arguing with police. Later, the police swarmed the well, set the chairs and table, but protests continued by the Opposition. The Speaker’s chair was surrounded at 7.32 pm, not by marshals but by police, a first in the Bihar Assembly.The Opposition later staged a walkout, while the Bill was passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-special-armed-police-bill-passed-oppn-runs-riot-cops-walk-in-to-evict-members-101616516936112.html
23-03-2021||Other||Lucknow logs 232 fresh Covid cases||LUCKNOW The state capital saw 232 fresh Covid cases while only 38 patients recovered during the last 24 hours. Indira Nagar logged the maximum – 24 cases, followed by Gomti Nagar 14, Mahanagar 12, Aliganj 12, Vikas Nagar 11 and nine each in Ashiana and Jankipuram. The district’s total corona count stood at 954 on Tuesday. No death was reported due to the virus and fatality count remained at 1,192.Health officials continued aggressive contract tracing and testing in Lucknow on Tuesday too. Samples of 8,948 people were taken by teams on the basis of surveillance and contact tracing. “As many as 639 corona patients are undergoing treatment in home isolation. Till now, 63,063 patients have recovered from Covid in home isolation while 63,703 have opted for treatment in home isolation,” said Sanjay Bhatnagar, CMO.In all, 6,506 people were vaccinated in the city on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-logs-232-fresh-covid-cases-101616516276156.html
23-03-2021||Other||NO CORONA FEAR? BHU students play Holi on campus before leaving for home||VARANASI: Students of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) celebrated Holi by smearing each other’s faces with abir and gulal, before leaving for their houses on Tuesday. BHU administration on Monday declared Holi holidays from March 23 itself after four students of two different hostels tested positive on Sunday. Those who tested positive for COVID-19 have been quarantined in their hostel rooms.While leaving for their homes, students engaged in Holi revelry. “Before leaving for our homes we are celebrating the festival of Holi with our friends. By doing so we are trying to do away with the disappointment caused by Covid-19 pandemic,” said a student on condition that his identity should not be revealed. Soaked in Holi colours, the student turned towards a group of students and urged them to continue smearing each other with colours. “Gulal and abir are inseparable part of Holi and I urge you to enjoy the festival,” he said to his friends. He and few others then started chanting, “go corona go!” “May the Holi colours be as dark as they were before the advent of corona,” the students said while taking a selfie. Allaying all corona fears, another BHU student said. “Just enjoy and watch our Holi celebration. Corona cannot stop us from celebrating the Holi,” he said. The students however claimed that they followed the COVID-19 protocol while celebrating with their friends on campus. “We know what is good and what is not. We are mature. We celebrated Holi on our own responsibility,” said another student.BHU public relations officer Dr Rajesh Singh said that all the students have been asked to follow all the guidelines, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and to avoid visiting crowded places. He appealed to all the students to follow guidelines and take all preventive measures to keep Covid-19 infection away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-corona-fear-bhu-students-play-holi-on-campus-before-leaving-for-home-101616515976119.html
23-03-2021||Other||Poachers on forest dept’s radar after spike in tiger deaths||Lucknow: Day after a tiger carcass was found in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve forest, officials began crackdown against active poachers in nearby districts. A poacher was arrested in Shahjahanpur on Tuesday and a rapid response team was set up in nearby Pilibhit district to target poachers. The accused identified as Luv Kumar was booked under anti-poaching laws and was the first case lodged in the district concerning Dudhwa Tiger reserve in Shahajahnpur since 2018, police said. Superintendent of Police (SP) of Shahjahanpur S Anand confirmed Luv’s arrest. “We recovered two black cobras and endangered tortoise from Luv Kumar’s possession. The arrest was made in a joint operation by forest officials and intelligence sources. The accused has confessed that the snakes recovered from him were endangered and were caught from bordering Dudhwa Tiger reserve. He said, he was planning to sell them to buyers.” Anand said. Meanwhile, officials at nearby Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) formed a dedicated team to act against poaching activities in reserve. The action came after death of five big cats in Dudhwa and Pilibhit Tiger reserve this year. Of these five tiger deaths, poaching activities might have led to the death of at least two tigers, officials said. They said the most recent death was reported from Kishangarh Wildlife Sanctuary in Dudhwa forest reserve on Sunday. The carcass has been sent for post-mortem investigation, but forest officials have not ruled out foul play. In PTR, a tigress died after being caught in a snare placed by poachers on March 11. The forest officials lodged an FIR of poaching at Jehanabad police station against a dozen people. According to experts the recent spike in poaching activities near the reserve are being seen after a gap of at least two years. “In PTR the last poaching incident was recorded in 2017 while in Dudhwa it was last reported in 2019,” said Zafar Iqbal an environmental activist. “The poachers take advantage of the very narrow, nearly non-existent buffer zone of the reserve that allows them to easily reach the core area and poach animals,” he added. Forest officials have now decided to put in place measures against poaching activities in the area. Divisional forest officer, PTR (social forestry) Sanjeev Kumar said, “We are working closely with local police and animal rights groups to identify possible poaching activities in the area. We have also sought help of the local intelligence units in identifying poachers who are active in nearby districts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poachers-on-forest-dept-s-radar-after-spike-in-tiger-deaths-101616515796002.html
23-03-2021||Dehradun||In isolation after testing Covid positive, Uttarakhand CM holds online meetings||In isolation since testing positive for Covid-19, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Tuesday held online meetings with officials and also addressed a gathering at a programme virtually.Rawat had tested positive for the coronavirus on Monday and isolated himself at the Bijapur Safe House on the advice of doctors.The chief minister believes that taking precaution is necessary after one tests positive for Covid-19, but if possible administrative duties should be discharged while living in isolation, an official release issued here said.Addressing the programme, which was organised to mark World Meteorological Science Day, virtually, Rawat said considering the vulnerability of Uttarakhand to natural disasters, central projects for installing early warning systems should be completed on time.Minister of State for Disaster Management Dhan Singh Rawat informed about the steps being taken to install the warning systems.A doppler radar has been operationalised in Mukteshwar and two more are being set up at Surkanda near Mussoorie and Lansdown in Pauri district, the minister said.In total, 176 early warning weather stations have been built in different parts of the state jointly by the disaster management and meteorological departments, Secretary S A Murugesan said.The chief minister, while chairing a meeting online, ordered speedy disposal of pending issues related to transfer of forest land for construction of border roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/in-isolation-after-testing-covid-positive-uttarakhand-cm-holds-online-meetings-101616515449719.html
23-03-2021||Other||Ban on rain dance and get-togethers in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Organising rain dance events, get-togethers, cultural programmes and parties may invite legal action as the district administration on Tuesday imposed a ban on all such activities in Lucknow till further orders. Permission given earlier for such events also stands cancelled. The decision is part of the UP government’s measures for the containment of Covid ahead of the Panchayat elections and Holi, said officials. Officials stated that no processions will be taken out without prior permission and Covid test of all those coming in from high-incidence states will be mandatory. As per the guidelines applicable across UP, the responsibility of implementing precautionary measures like maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks by people participating in programmes will be on the organisers. Organisers (of public events granted permission) will not allow people above 60 or below 10 years of age or those with co-morbidities in such events, as per the guidelines issued by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari a day after the chief minister held a high-level meeting to discuss anti-Covid measures. The fresh directives mandate Covid tests of passengers at railway stations, bus stations and airports besides reactivating Covid helpdesks, running dedicated Covid hospitals in all districts and keeping other hospitals ready for any future needs. There is emphasis on identifying suspected cases with the help of thermometers and oximeters. The order also includes the announcement by the chief minister on Monday regarding schools. All divisional and district officials have been asked to declare Holi holidays in all private, government, and semi-government schools from March 24 to March 31. Holi holidays have also been declared in other educational institutions (barring medical and nursing colleges), and those places where exams are on. The chief secretary also directed that a nodal officer be deployed for every gram panchayat in villages and each municipal ward in cities. This nodal officer will coordinate with the nigrani samitis (vigilance committees) so that people coming outside get tested and stay home till test reports come. Tiwari also directed the state administration to ensure that there is no crowding at public places and asked the police to take all necessary measures. He also specified a guideline for jails, saying whenever a jail inmate goes out or returns, all protocols including social distancing be followed, and when an inmate returns, he or she should undergo Covid test first. Tiwari said help desks at various places should be reactivated to test any suspected case by using pulse oximetre and infrared thermometer.“Cases are on the rise, hence we have decided to impose a ban on holding parties and get-togethers, especially rain dance events that are generally a trend during summer season,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, Lucknow. In case of any important event, organisers have to take prior permission that would be granted only if the organiser assures that Covid protocols would be followed strictly. Those found violating norms would be subjected to legal action under The Epidemic Act, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ban-on-rain-dance-and-get-togethers-in-lucknow-101616515496034.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||2004 graft case: Rohtak Then BSNL general manager gets 4-yr RI for accepting bribe of ₹25,000||The special CBI court, Panchkula, awarded a four-year jail term to the then Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL, Rohtak) general manager Chandra Shekhar for accepting a bribe of ₹25,000 to approve a tender in 2004. The court of Jagdeep Singh, special CBI judge, also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on the convict, who is currently posted as deputy director general in the Union department of telecommunications in New Delhi.He has been convicted under Sections 7, 13(1) (D) with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.Alleging that Chandra Shekhar had sought a bribe from his firm, Hare Krishna Hare Rama, Gurgaon, for approving tenders for the laying of underground cables in Tosham and Kalanaur area of Haryana, complainant, Shiv Raj Khatana, had approached the CBI. A trap was laid and on June 3, 2004, the CBI had caught the BSNL official red-handed while accepting a bribe of ₹25,000. Another case of disproportionate assets was registered against him after ₹45 lakh more was recovered from his house. On Monday, the BSNL official pleaded for leniency, stating that he has never been convicted before and that his wife has cancer and is bed-ridden because of a fracture in the foot. However, special public prosecutor Jitender Kumar argued for maximum punishment.The judge observed: “No doubt corruption is a menace to the society and this menace is eating into the vitals of our society. In fact, it is the most serious internal threat to our nation.”He added: “The tentacles of corruption have spread far and wide and moral values amongst public servants have touched nadir. A corrupt public servant is the worst violator of the constitution of India. Corruption by public servants not only upsets the balance of society, but also works against aspirations of the people of India.”The judge awarded rigorous imprisonment of four years and fine of ₹1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2004-graft-case-rohtak-then-bsnl-general-manager-gets-4-yr-ri-for-accepting-bribe-of-rs-25000-101616514655923.html
23-03-2021||Other||BHU hostellers clash during Holi revelry||VARANASI Tension prevailed on the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) campus on Tuesday following a clash between inmates of Birla hostel and LBS hostel of the university over a trivial issue, said police. Two students sustained minor injuries in the incident of brick-batting from both sides during the Holi revelry. However, the situation was under control, they said, adding that police force has been deployed on the campus to avoid further escalation of tension, they said. According to police, a student informed that that the inmates of both the hostels celebrated Holi, hurled ‘gulal’ and smeared colours on each other faces. However, the situation turned tense when an inmate of Birla hostel beat up an inmate of the LBS hostel in the afternoon. A senior police officer, who did not wish to be quoted, said that as students of LBS hostel came to know about the incident, they raised voice against the act of Birla hostel inmates which led to exchange of arguments. In the meantime, heavy stone pelting began from both sides. Two students suffered minor injuries in the incident, he added. On being informed, police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. BHU proctorial board team along with BHU security guards also reached there and asked the hostellers to vacate the hostels in view of rising number of Covid-19 cases. “The attempt to create ruckus on the campus by some students is completely inappropriate,” said a member of the proctorial board. “Students have already been asked to vacate the hostels in view of rising cases of coronavirus,” said Rajesh Singh, public relation officer, BHU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhu-hostellers-clash-during-holi-revelry-101616513215844.html
23-03-2021||Other||FIR against two cops for framing youth in loot case||PRAYAGRAJ An FIR has been lodged at Soraon police station of trans-Ganga, on Monday evening, against two sub-inspectors who allegedly implicated a youth in a loot case and sent him to jail. The duo used a witness statement of a retired IAS officer who had died before the incident took place. The youth’s mother approached the court which issued instructions to register the FIR against the cops.A resident of Bankat village of Tharwai area, Satya Devi has registered a case against retired sub-inspector Ram Sanehi Yadav and S-I Kripa Shankar Rai at Soraon police station on Monday for fraud and other sections of the IPC. Satya Devi claimed the two cops framed her only son Vishwa Pratap Singh in a case of loot at the behest of her opponents in the village. In 2015, police arrested her son and showed recovery of ₹1000 looted cash from him.Police showed retired IAS Saraswati Prasad as a witness who has died in 2013.Later, they even attached his statement with the charge sheet. The other witnessed refused to recognise Vishwa Pratap at the court following which he was acquitted by the court in 2017. Since then, Satya Devi appealed to many police officials to take action against the accused cops but to no avail following which she approached the court. Soraon police said an FIR has been lodged in this connection and further action will be taken based on evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-two-cops-for-framing-youth-in-loot-case-101616513095667.html
23-03-2021||Other||‘BKU activists show black flags to BJP state chief’||MEERUT Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) activists greeted BJP state president Swatantra Deo Singh with black flags and anti-BJP slogans near Rasheedpur Garhi village in Bijnor district on Monday evening, said BKU youth wing state president Chaudhary Digamber Singh. Farmers, including members of the BKU, are protesting the three new farm laws of the central government for over two months now. The BJP state chief had gone to Bijnor to attend a programme, where he spelt out the achievements of Modi and Yogi governments. When his cavalcade was returning, BKU activists intercepted it and shouted anti-BJP slogans. They also showed black flags and tried to stop the cavalcade, which led to a ruckus with police detaining five protesters. Digamber Singh, who belongs to Bijnor, threatened to announce a “curfew” for BJP leaders in villages if the detained activists (farmers) were not released. Meanwhile, in a tweet BKU leader Rakesh Tikait directed farmers to be ready for “jail bharo” if the detained farmers were not released. They were released late in the night after a large number of BKU activists, led by Bijnor district president Kuldeep Singh, staged a demonstration outside the city Kotwali, Digamber Singh said. “We released the detained persons in the night,” Bijnor SP (city) Praveen Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-activists-show-black-flags-to-bjp-state-chief-101616512975761.html
23-03-2021||Other||Complete ban on operation of boats in Varanasi on March 29||The district administration has issued prohibitory order, which will be in force from noon till midnight on March 29, to maintain peace, law and order during the festival of Holi. During this period, there will be a complete ban on operation of all sorts of boats in the Ganga. “Neither people will take bath using soaps in the river nor wash their clothes using detergent or chemicals at the ghats. No one will be allowed to go across the river by boats,” stated Kaushal Raj Sharma, district magistrate on Tuesday. Section 144 would also remain in force from noon till midnight at the ghats of Varanasi to check gathering of people who usually take bath in the Ganga after celebrating Holi, the DM said. A senior official said the Holi will be celebrated in the district on March 29. After celebration of the festival, commoners go to take a bath in the river. “If a huge crowd gathers at the ghats, an untoward incident cannot be ruled out,” he added. Sharma said that strict action would be taken against those violating the prohibitory order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/complete-ban-on-operation-of-boats-in-varanasi-on-march-29-101616512795786.html
23-03-2021||Other||Pune district reports 5,741 positive cases and 19 deaths||PUNE Pune district reported 5,741 positive cases and 19 Covid-related deaths on Tuesday, as per the state health department. This takes the district’s progressive positive count to 4,81,212. Of these cases 4,29,355 have recovered, and 8,267 is the death toll. A total of 43,590 are active cases. PMC reported 3,145 fresh positives, taking its total of Covid-19 cases to 2,48,143 with 11 deaths in the last 24 hours. The death toll is now 4,672. PCMC reported 1,488 fresh positives taking the total of Covid-19 cases to 1,21,019, and five deaths in the last 24 hours till Tuesday evening, took the death toll to 1,358. Pune rural reported 1,108 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,12,050 and three deaths in last 24 hours till Tuesday evening, took the death toll to 2,188.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-5-741-positive-cases-and-19-deaths-101616512735738.html
23-03-2021||Pune||GR office verifies 2 lakh property documents in 17 sub registrar offices in Pune||Pune: The Inspector-General of Registration and Controller of Stamps, Pune (IGR) has carried out the title verification and other details of over two lakh registered property deeds and plans to cover another one lakh deeds before March this year. The action follows complaints related to bogus registration at some of the sub registrar offices during the past two years. The property documents from 17 sub registrar offices of the total 27 have been checked and verified after the state revenue department issued an order to the effect. Considering the voluminous nature of documents to be scrutinised, the deadline to submit the report to the government has been extended from January 31 to March 31. The IGR officials investigating the case have laid focus on whether the builders who engaged in registration of property have Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) number, permission to construct from government authority and whether a plot of land was divided and sold off. During the early 2020, complaints were made to the Mantralaya alleging illegal registrations taking place in Pune in connivance with officials. The then Inspector-General of Registration and Controller of Stamps, Pune (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh had stated that there were complaints regarding registration of properties of unauthorised constructions and illegal plotting. The IGR office formed squads to probe the case. Despite repeated attempts, IGR Shravan Hardikar did not respond to calls/messages. The office of state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat is yet to respond to queries. Earlier, the state government had received complaints, especially 1,000 of bogus registrations at the sub-registrar office, Hadapsar on a single day, in violation of the Real Estate Regulation and Development (RERA) Act, 2016. The IGR squad comprises deputy inspector general of registration Govind Karad, acting DIG (headquarters) Bharat Garud, joint district registrar of stamps Vijay Bhalerao and joint district registrar Udayraj Chavan. What led to the investigation An alleged complaint of registration of flats ignoring norms was brought to the notice of Mantralaya The revenue department orders probe of cases and verification of over 300,000 documents The IGR office forms squads to probe RERA number of the real estate developer, construction and land details The report is expected to be submitted to the state by March 31||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gr-office-verifies-2-lakh-property-documents-in-17-sub-registrar-offices-in-pune-101616511955534.html
23-03-2021||Other||Pune MP, legislators pen letter to PM requesting increase in vaccine quota||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) member of Parliament (MP) from Pune, Girish Bapat, and other party legislators from the city, on Monday, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention in increasing the Covid-19 vaccine quota for Pune district. Their letter, jointly signed by public representatives, also put forth a proposition to open up the vaccination process for people above the age 30, to help contain the spread of the infection in the city. “Pune has been one of the worst hit cities by the Covid-19 pandemic. While the entire nation suffered through the first wave of Covid-19, the second wave has hit Pune much harder than any other city in the country. From a low of 4,587 cases on February 1, the cases have more than quadrupled to 21,788 on March 12. Pune district now accounts more than 10% of active cases nationwide, and about 20% of those in Maharashtra,” the letter stated. On Friday, the Pune city administration had increased Covid-19 testing to 12,000 tests a day. “We would, therefore, request an increase in Pune’s vaccination quota, and to open up vaccination for all above the age of 30, which will enable Pune to become India’s first Covid-free city. This would allow the economy to thrive again. Pune has an excellent apparatus, enough doctors, and the vaccine manufacturing set-up of the Serum Institute of India, which can be fully leveraged,” read the letter. The active number of cases in Maharashtra stood at 2,11,416 on Tuesday till 8 am. Pune reported as many as 4,321 positive cases and 33 deaths in the last 24 hours. Currently, the number of active cases in the district is 40,092 Earlier last week, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the district administration will also prepare a proposal to be sent to centre for mass vaccination in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-mp-legislators-pen-letter-to-pm-requesting-increase-in-vaccine-quota-101616510875540.html
23-03-2021||Other||Central Railway shows 146% increase in vehicles transported in 2020-21||PUNE The Central Railway (CR) has recorded an increase of 146 per cent in the loading of automobiles for transport in 2020-21, as compared to 2019-20. Even in the Pune division, where major automobile industries are set up, racks of vehicles have been dispatched across the country. The Central Railways set-up Business Development Units (BDUs) at the zonal and divisional levels and these BDUs are aggressively marketing new proposals and flexible schemes. “Central Railway has loaded a total of 32 rakes of automobiles during February 2021, as against 12 rakes loaded during the corresponding month of last year. This is an increase of 166 per cent. During the current financial year, from April 2020 to February 2021, automobile loading registered 246 rakes as against 118 rakes loaded from April-2019 to February 2020. Thus shows an increase of 146 per cent. The dispatches of automobiles were made to various parts of the country and even as exports to Bangladesh,” said chief public relation’s officer, Shivaji Sutar. Loading facilities for transportation of automobiles is developed at Chinchwad station for Pune Division, Kalamboli for Mumbai Division, Nashik road for Bhusaval Division, Bale station fir Solapur Division and Ajni station for Nagpur Division.“The Parel workshop of the Railways has developed a prototype coach for carrying automobiles for easier loading of automobiles, by considering the suggestions of the manufacturers,” added Sutar. Rakes of automobiles sent by the Central Railways in last three financial years2020-21 - 2462019-20 - 1182018-19 - 49||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/central-railway-shows-146-increase-in-vehicles-transported-in-202021-101616510335421.html
23-03-2021||Other||FYJC admissions to end on March 26; colleges plan extra classes to complete syllabus||PUNE The admission process for Class 11, or the first year of junior college (FYJC) will now end on March 26, as per the state government. The FYJC process is the only post-lockdown course still open for admissions. College principals and administrations are now worried about the completion of the syllabus. At least 30,000 seats are still vacant in the Pune division.After completing three regular rounds and two special rounds of the FYJC admission process, the deputy director of Education (DYDE), Pune, last week released a timetable for a first-come-first-served (FCFS) round, which began from March 19. “It is a challenge for all the colleges to complete the syllabus for FYJC students due to the delayed admission process. If admissions were done earlier, colleges would have started online or offline classes. Now we are planning extra classes to cover the syllabus,” said Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar. Junior colleges in the city started offline classes from January 4 for students of Class 11 and 12. After the spike in Covid cases, the district administration closed down all schools and colleges till March 31. For this year’s Class 11 admission process, a total of 72,820 students are eligible for the first round of admissions in 304 colleges of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Due to an interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in the jobs and education sectors, the state education department stopped the admission process for FYJC on September 9, and it resumed on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fyjc-admissions-to-end-on-march-26-colleges-plan-extra-classes-to-complete-syllabus-101616509735402.html
23-03-2021||Bangalore||With 2,010 new Covid cases, Karnataka sees highest jump in daily tally since Nov||Karnataka on Tuesday registered 2,010 new cases of the coronavirus disease and five more related fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 973,657 and 12,449, respectively, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 677 people were discharged and the total recoveries are nearing 946,000 while the active cases have climbed to 15,595, the bulletin showed.Tuesday’s case count has been the highest in more than four months, according to news agency PTI. The last time the daily cases had breached the 2,000-mark was on November 13, 2020 - when 2,016 people were detected positive.Bengaluru Urban contributed the maximum number of cases on Tuesday at 1,280 (over 63%), followed by Kalaburagi (129), Mysuru (100), Bidar (76) and Dakshin Kannada (74). With nearly 420,000 cases so far, Bengaluru Urban is the worst-hit region. However, it has also seen the highest recoveries in the state at 404,515.Karnataka reports 2010 new #COVID19 cases, 677 discharges and 5 deaths in the last 24 hours. Total cases 9,73,657Total recoveries 9,45,594Death toll 12,449Active cases 15,595 pic.twitter.com/jcGAAfgMiHCases in Karnataka have been spiking since the beginning of March with health minister Dr K Sudhakar pointing out on Sunday that the second wave has already begun. He urged residents to follow all Covid-related norms with a view to control the spread of the disease. “We are at the beginning of the second wave of coronavirus. Let us all join hands to control it because the next three months are crucial for us,” the health minister told news agency PTI.The state government on Monday made it mandatory for all travellers arriving from Punjab and Chandigarh to produce a negative RT-PCT test report which is not older than 72 hours. This restriction has also been placed for Kerala and Maharashtra- which have been seeing an increase in their cases.Over 27.3 million beneficiaries in Karnataka have been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease- 2,347,603 with the first dose and the remaining 382,853 with both doses. Sudhakar said on Tuesday there is currently no shortage of vaccine doses and the Centre will provide 1.25 million doses by next week. “There is no shortage of vaccine in the state. We have discussed this with the Centre and the Centre has assured us there will be no shortage of supply of vaccine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/with-2-010-new-covid-cases-karnataka-sees-highest-jump-in-daily-tally-since-nov-101616509220464.html
23-03-2021||Other||Baba Kalyani chosen for this year’s Punya Bhushan award||PUNE Prominent industrialist from Pune, Baba Kalyani, has been chosen for this year’s (2021) Punya Bhushan award, organisers said on Tuesday. Kalyani will be conferred the award by scientist Raghunath Mashelkar after the Covid situation in the city subsides, said office bearers of Tridal, the organisation that has instituted the award. Every year one renowned personality from Pune in the fields of art, music, culture, science, industry, social service and sports, is chosen as the “pride of Pune”, and is felicitated publicly. Kalyani served as the chairman and managing director of Bharat Forge, the flagship company of the Kalyani group and the world’s second largest forging manufacturer. This is the 32nd year of the Punyabhushan award, which comprises ₹10,00,00 in cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/baba-kalyani-chosen-for-this-year-s-punya-bhushan-award-101616509195429.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Cheers! Delhiites welcome new legal drinking age of 21||The Delhi government’s move to reduce the legal drinking age from 25 to 21 years has got glasses clinking in the Capital, as young Delhiites as well as restaurateurs feel the move has been long in the making. “Delhi was one of few states that had the higher benchmark of 25. Lowering the age to 21 is progressive and pragmatic. We had been requesting for this reduction for a long time and we are grateful to the state government which finally made this happen. This move will bring more footfall and revenue to Delhi and also compensate for the losses that the hospitality industry suffered during the last year,” says Delhi-based restaurateur Priyank Sukhija. Restaurateur Saurabh Khanijo concurs with Sukhija and adds, “This is a very welcome change which was a must. When the eligible age to get married is 21 then why should the age for drinking be 25? The idea that individuals need to drink responsibly applies to everyone at all times. Restaurants have to ensure responsible drinking for people above 25, and with the age now at 21, our responsibility remains the same. Besides, this is in line with the rules world over, where drinking age is even lower than 21.”Youngsters in the Capital are also elated at the news, and feel this will allow them to drink responsibly. “We can now enjoy our parties without any guilt! This move will help people buy liquor from stores instead of paying someone more money to buy it illegally. Also, I believe those under 25, who may be addicted to alcohol, can now seek help at various deaddiction centres without any fear,” opines Dhruv Barak, a final year Philosophy honours student at Delhi University. Anysha Kumar, another BA Programme final year student at St Stephen’s college in DU says, “It’s about time. People are drinking anyway, and it is only logical to not penalise them for something that’s permissible a few kilometres across the border in cities like Noida!”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cheers-delhiites-welcome-new-legal-drinking-age-of-21-101616508301152.html
23-03-2021||Other||Advancing farmers’ movement true tribute to Bhagat Singh: BKU faction||Observing the 90th martyrdom day of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev, hung by the British government on March 23, 1931, on Tuesday Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) state general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said advancing the farmers’ movement will be the only real and truthful way to pay homage to the martyrs. “Keeping aside differences of caste, religion and community to defeat the imperialist attack of the Modi government on land, employment and bread will be a truthful way to pay homage to the martyrs,” he told a gathering at Tikri border. Following a call from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the farmer outfit observed the martyrdom day of the martyrs at Delhi’s Tikri border where thousands of farmers including women and youths paid tribute to the freedom fighters. Kalan added that the struggle against the three ‘black laws’ will continue till these were not repealed. “The youth and farmers have failed the nefarious moves of the Modi government to defeat the farmer struggle. The Centre tried to create a rift in the farmer struggle and then associating it only with a specific religion and finally unleashing a wave of police repression. All of such oppressive methods have been of no use,” he added.Union state vice-president Jaswinder Singh Longowal said that the Modi government was following the “divide and rule” policy of the country’s erstwhile ‘British masters’, against whom the martyrs launched a struggle and even sacrificed their lives.State general secretary of Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, Laxhman Singh Sewewala said the country has been facing the problems of poverty, hunger, inflation, unemployment, debt and suicide, even after 74 years of transfer of power to Indian rulers. Other farmers and unions also paid homage to martyrs across Sangrur and Barnala districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/advancing-farmers-movement-true-tribute-to-bhagat-singh-bku-faction-101616507876052.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Submitted all evidence on Maharashtra transfer posting racket: Devendra Fadnavis||Devendra Fadnavis, the Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly and former chief minister of the state, said on Tuesday that he had submitted all evidence to the Union Home Secretary pertaining to the alleged transfer posting racket of IPS and non-IPS officers of Maharashtra Police.Fadnavis had earlier in the day said that he possessed "6.3 GB data" of call records to prove that the Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA) government in the state did not act on an "incriminating" state intelligence department report containing audio intercepts of a "large scale corruption" in police transfers and postings. He sought time from Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla to meet him and hand over the evidence himself.Accordingly, the Leader of Opposition arrived at the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) this evening, later informing journalists that he has handed over all relevant call recordings and documents to the Union Home Secretary."I gave all evidence to the Union Home Secretary in a sealed envelope. I have demanded a CBI inquiry. He assured me that he'll look into it and that the government will take appropriate action. Why was the matter brushed under the carpet? Why did the state government do nothing? Who did they want to protect?" Fadnavis told journalists present at the spot.I gave all evidence to Union Home Secy, in a sealed envelope. I've demanded CBI inquiry. He assured me he'll look into it & govt will take appropriate action. Why was the matter brushed under carpet? Why did state govt do nothing? Whom did they want to protect?: Devendra Fadnavis pic.twitter.com/2AgiAhwF7hThe BJP leader said that back in 2017 when he was the chief minister of the state, a tip-off was received by some police officers about a meeting underway in a hotel regarding the transfer of police officials. "It was a part of the racket and completely illegal, hence a raid was conducted and arrests were made," said Fadnavis, who had held Home portfolio when he was the chief minister."Commissioner of Intelligence, Rashmi Shukla, had come to know about a similar activity and sought proper permissions from then ACS (additional Chief Secretary), Home, and intercepted phone calls of several police officials and politicians," the BJP leader said.According to Fadnavis, the Commissioner of Intelligence had sent a report in August 2020 of intercepted suspicious calls to be involved in the transfer racket to DG Maharashtra. The report was later forwarded to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who "expressed concern but took no action"."When the DG inquired about the report, he got to know that it was sent to the Home Minister (Anil Deshmukh). No action was taken against the people involved but the action was taken against COI Rashmi Shukla who prepared the report. Her promotion was delayed and transferred to a post that did not even exist when she was sent there," Fadnavis said.The former chief minister further said that the case should be investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/submitted-all-evidence-on-maharashtra-transfer-posting-racket-devendra-fadnavis-101616503359561.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||In HP, Kaza woman pradhan takes on gamblers, litterbugs||At 12,500 ft, Kaza village in Himachal Pradesh’s tribal Lahaul and Spiti district is scaling new heights thanks to the initiatives of the local panchayat, led by a young and feisty woman pradhan (head) Sonam Dolma, to fight social evils such as gambling, littering and drinking in public places. Cracking the whip on gamblers and litterbugs, the gram sabha led by the 31-year-old pradhan recently imposed a fine of ₹40,000 for gambling and ₹1,000 for littering and open defecation. Besides, the panchayat has written to the administration to relocate two liquor vends outside the village and barred schoolchildren from whiling away their time at snooker parlours. “Gambling and card games had become a major problem in our area, so we needed to deal with it urgently. We decided to fine each violator ₹40,000,” said Dolma, who headed the Kaza Mahila Mandal before being elected to the panchayat. Last June, the Mahila Mandal made headlines for spearheading the movement in Spiti, banning the entry of outsiders in the tribal valley amid the Covid-19 lockdown. She along with women members stopped state agriculture minister Ram Lal Markanda from entering Kaza. The cases registered against them only strengthened their resolve till the government backed down. On the panchayat’s resolution to relocate liquor vends from the village, Kaza additional district magistrate Gian Sagar Negi said: “The request has been forwarded to the excise and taxation department for consideration.” Snooker parlours to be open from 10am to 6pm Kaza, which is the headquarters of Spiti valley, is a big draw with tourists. With brawls and fights on the rise at such parlours, the gram sabha set new timings. “Snooker parlours run till late at night in the area and mostly schoolchildren play there. Often, they pick up fights,” Dolma said, “so it’s been decided that the snooker palours will remain open only between 10am and 6pm.” The entry of schoolchildren will be banned at such parlours. “If a minor is still caught playing snooker, the operator will be fined ₹5,000,” she said. Those found in the parlours beyond permissible hours will not be issued character certificates, the panchayat decided. “Offenders may not get this important document needed for government work,” she said. The Mahila Mandal has set up two squads to carry out surprise checks at regular intervals to ensure the implementation of the resolution. Spic and span Spiti valley Though there are 39 hotels and 70 homestays in Kaza, located near the ancient Tabo monastery, the area has no waste management plant. The state government had sanctioned ₹30 lakh, but work has taken a backseat due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Expressing concern over the dumping of waste on hill sides and problem of open defecation, the gram sabha adopted a resolution to penalise litterbugs. “Littering is banned and if someone is found dumping garbage in open places, he or she will have to pay ₹1,000 as penalty,” Dolma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-hp-kaza-woman-pradhan-takes-on-gamblers-litterbugs-101616505896305.html
23-03-2021||Bangalore||No shortage of Covid vaccine in Karnataka: Health minister Sudhakar||Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said there was no shortage of Covid vaccine in the state. "There is no shortage of vaccine in the state.We have discussed this with Centre and the Centre has assured us there will be no shortage of supply of vaccine," Sudhakar said.He said the state will be receiving 12.5 lakh doses of vaccine from the centre by next week. Before that additional 4 lakh doses will be dispatched through flight.The government will ensure there is no shortage of vaccine, the minister was quoted as saying to reporters at Chikkaballapura by his office in a release.Noting that the second wave of Covid-19 has begun in the state, Sudhakar said cases are increasing in several parts, and people should be vigilant and ensure that Covid protocol is followed."People not wearing masks and violating norms are being penalised. Functions and gatherings should be avoided for next two months," he added.Further stating that from April 1, vaccine will be available to all citizens above 45 years, the minister said, "this will ensure better coverage and will further expedite our efforts to make Karnataka Covid-19 free." He urged all eligible citizens to get vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-shortage-of-covid-vaccine-in-karnataka-health-minister-sudhakar-101616503525113.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Mansukh Hiran murder: ATS calls Sachin Vaze ‘mastermind’, to seek custody||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Tuesday said that its preliminary investigation has revealed that assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze was the “mastermind” in the Mansukh Hiran murder case, adding that there was a possibility that more suspects will be arrested in the course of the probe.“We have recorded statements of several witnesses while many have agreed to give their statements before a magistrate under section 164 of the CrPC. Sachin Vaze is in the NIA’s custody till March 25, and we will approach the NIA court to seek his custody. As per the investigation, Vaze is the mastermind of the murder case. There is a possibility that more suspects will be arrested in the case during further investigation,” Jaijit Singh, the Maharashtra ATS chief, said in his press conference.“The arrested accused have destroyed some of the sim cards and mobile phones used in the conspiracy and crime. During investigation several names and evidence have been found and further investigation is going on. During investigation we learnt that the accused were involved in the crime and destroyed several CCTV footage,” Singh further said.The ATS has arrested three accused, including a convicted constable and a bookie, in connection with the case, thus far. The Thane-based Hiran was the owner of the explosive-laden SUV which was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, in Mumbai on February 25. His body was recovered from a creek on March 5.The briefing by the ATS came even as the central government, on March 20, transferred the investigation into the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The NIA is already probing the discovery of the SUV in the Ambani bomb scare case. Vaze, who was earlier heading the Antilia case probe, was formally arrested by the central agency on March 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mansukh-hiran-murder-ats-calls-sachin-vaze-mastermind-to-seek-custody-101616502750778.html
23-03-2021||Lucknow||UP gives CBI prosecution sanction against ex-executive engineer in Gomti River Front project scam||The state government on Tuesday gave sanction to the CBI to prosecute former executive engineer, Lucknow Division, Sharda Canal, Roop Singh Yadav, and former junior assistant, Irrigation Works, Lucknow, Raj Kumar Yadav, for allegedly resorting to corrupt practices in the execution of Lucknow’s Gomti River Front Development Project. The CBI had on February 17, 2021 filed a chargesheet against five people, including Roop Singh Yadav, Raj Kumar Yadav and two directors of M/s KKSpun Pipe Pvt Ltd-- Himanshu Gupta and Kavish Gupta-- and a senior advisor of M/s Brand Eagles Longjian Badri Shrestha that had joint venture with M/s KK Spun Pipe Pvt Ltd. The chargesheet was filed at the CBI court in Lucknow in the matter related to anomalies in awarding work of intercepting trunk drain of the project, read a press note from the state home department. The statement said the state government had given clearance to the CBI request to initiate trial against the two government servants. A senior home department official said a letter regarding this had been sent to anti-corruption bureau of CBI Lucknow unit. In the matter, Roop Singh Yadav and Raj Kumar were arrested by the CBI on December 20, 2020. The CBI had registered the case on the request of Uttar Pradesh Government on November 30, 2017. A CBI official, who is in the know of things but didn’t want to be named, said it was alleged in the FIR that irregularities were committed in implementation of “Gomti River Channelization Project” and “Gomti River Front Development” by irrigation department of the UP government. The official said it was further alleged that the accused awarded the work to an ineligible private firm and the date of tender was extended twice to accommodate the said firm. In addition, the forged documents of another bidder/private party were also arranged to complete the quorum of three participants in the tender, he said. The official said the investigation revealed that the agreement for the work was allegedly executed by the accused without obtaining the approval and allotment of funds. He said further investigation was on to look into the role of other accused. The ₹1600 crore project was launched by the previous Samajwadi Party government in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-gives-cbi-prosecution-sanction-against-ex-executive-engineer-in-gomti-river-front-project-scam-101616503254906.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||SC to hear tomorrow Param Bir Singh’s plea seeking CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh||The Supreme Court will on Wednesday hear a petition filed by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh whom he has accused of running an 'extortion racket.'Also Read | Param Bir Singh moves Supreme Court for CBI probe against Anil DeshmukhA two-judge bench of the top court, comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy will take up the plea filed by Singh, who was transferred last week by the Maharashtra government to the Home Guards, for "mishandling" the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case.In his petition, filed on Monday, the senior police official also sought a stay on his transfer. Singh has alleged that he was transferred to the "low-key" post in the Home Guards "immediately after" he brought Deshmukh's alleged corrupt practices to the notice of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and some other senior leaders of the state government."The petitioner has invoked writ jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court to seek unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the corrupt malpractices of Shri Anil Deshmukh, the Hon’ble Home Minister of Government of Maharashtra, before the evidence are destroyed," Singh's writ petition, filed through advocate Abhinay, said.In his letter to Thackeray, mailed on March 20, the senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer had alleged that Deshmukh had directed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore per month from hotels, bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Singh had mentioned meeting Deshmukh and Vaze "in and around mid-February and thereafter" at the home minister's residence. It was at these meetings, the officer alleged, that Vaze was tasked with collecting the money.Vaze is currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) which is handling the Ambani bomb scare probe and the related Mansukh Hiran death case.Both Deshmukh and his Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have denied Singh's allegations, with the minister even threatening to file a defamation case against him. Both have cited Deshmukh's Covid-19 diagnosis in February to counter Singh's claims.Besides the NCP, Maharashtra's ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) comprises the Shiv Sena and the Congress. NCP chief Sharad Pawar held press conferences on Sunday and Monday, backing his party colleague Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-to-hear-tomorrow-param-bir-singh-s-plea-seeking-cbi-probe-against-deshmukh-101616502963484.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Will Delhi’s excise reform end the theka raj?||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia likened liquor shops to jails as he announced sweeping changes to the excise policy on Monday that will allow the private sector to fully take over liquor retailing in Delhi. The policy, among other things, envisages new super-premium liquor shops for high-value products.“When you go to a shop, there is a grille and people rush and throw money to buy liquor. There is no dignity. It will no longer be like that.”A government report on the policy, a copy of which HT has seen, refers to a slew of measures to ensure this. It seeks to improve the buying experience and includes a rule that will need any liquor shop in the city to be at least 500 square feet in size. The shops have to be spacious to allow customers a walk-in experience. The report says the shops cannot have counters facing towards roads. Shop owners will have to ensure that liquor sale and pick-up takes place properly inside the shop premises and there is a proper order outside.Also Read | Delhi reduces age bar in major liquor reform“The retail shopping experience for an average customer in Delhi is very pathetic. The scene outside any government vend resembles a zone of a mob craving liquor. The customer has no choice to choose any product and large-scale brand pushing and extra charging happen rampantly. The customers are made to feel like criminals,” the report says.Brand pushing refers to a practice of suppressing certain brands and pushing others, often at the behest of colluding manufacturers and retailers.The government seeks to end the current environment around liquor shops which is particularly bad for women.“The super-premium vends can set up a tasting room within the premise which will have to be an enclosed area, not visible from the rest of the store. This room can only hold training and tasting sessions. The licensee is permitted to have a shop-in-shop concept for exclusive display of various brands in exclusive shelves so that the customers can walk-in into the display for their selection of products,” says the report.Ankita Kumar, who works with an event management firm, said the new policy if implemented will bring changes to the retail experience of alcohol purchase and also help to gradually reduce the stigma attached. “Currently, the whole environment near a liquor shop is very masculine. I often start doubting if I have come to a place I am not supposed to be in. It is quite unsafe as well. I have been a victim of stalking once when I went to a liquor store in my locality to purchase a few bottles with a friend,” she said.Vinod Giri, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies, said the rules would mean all the government liquor shops would go and new private ones will be opened instead.“The government has to ensure that the demand-supply chain is not affected during the transition to full privatisation of the liquor retail sector. The proposed rules also suggest that mostly the big players will be able to get ownership of retail vends even as manufacturers have been strictly asked to stay away from the retail business,” he said.Officials said keeping big players in retailing will ensure that quality liquor is sold, and the store standards are not compromised with.The rules seek to end the entire ecosystem that automatically comes up when a liquor shop is opened. “If you see the city’s liquor shops now, invariably they are lined with tiny shops selling snacks, cold drinks, plastic glasses, cigarettes among other things. This leads to crowding of a particular gender [men] around liquor vends and ruins the entire experience, especially for women and even the passer-by,” said an official, requesting anonymity.“…[there is] an additional condition that the licensee will have to ensure no dry snacks or cooked food outlet gets opened right outside the shop, which encourages people to drink and loiter around,” the official said.The report says that retail shops can be opened in any of the markets, malls, commercial roads/areas, local shopping complexes, etc as long as the standard rules and regulations of opening a new vend are followed. This includes restrictions on opening vends within a specified distance of schools, religious institutions.A second official pointed out the entire system of a “theka” will not completely go away.“These reforms do not mean that country liquor is being banned in Delhi. The government is preparing a separate report on the operational models for the sale of country liquor in the city which will be completed in a few weeks.” The second official said basically, the reforms imply that by and a large majority of the liquor stores in Delhi are set to become bigger and more welcoming in their appeal. “…a few stores selling country liquor shall remain across the city. We hope this will boost not just the liquor and food and beverage industry, but also the excise revenue of the government by ₹1,500-2,000 crore.”The population-to-vend ratio in Delhi is one of the lowest in the country. Delhi has 849 liquor shops. Yet around 58% of Delhi is either unserved or underserved. Only 8% area of the city is normally served.“Equitable distribution will ensure less crowding and easy access which will automatically improve customer experience. To make liquor more accessible to people, it is proposed that Delhi will be distributed into 32 pre-defined zones and each zone will have three categories of liquor stores depending on high, medium, and low sales,” the second official said.Each zone will mandatory have at least two vends in every allocated ward. The remaining will be categorised as freehold, This means that they could be set up in any of the wards under that zone. For clarity, a zone with 27 vends allocated across nine wards will imply that each ward will need to have two vends mandatory. It would make 18 vends as mandatory vends and the remaining nine vends freehold, the report says.A former excise commissioner, who did not wish to be named, said the proposed rules will potentially overhaul the excise sector of Delhi completely. “…the government’s plans appear to have a holistic approach addressing the loopholes in the liquor business of Delhi. In the past, there were a few attempts by the excise department to exit the retail business, but the government at that time had apprehensions about completely letting go of its control from the sector,” the former commissioner. “Another aspect that is interesting is that the government has allowed liquor retailers and wholesalers to offer discounts. This is something which a few excise commissioners had rooted for in the past, while most others had rejected it saying it would result in revenue losses to the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-delhi-s-excise-reform-end-the-theka-raj-101616503015759.html
23-03-2021||Jaipur||This time farmers will sell their crop outside Parliament: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, in Rajasthan to garner support for the farmers’ protest on Delhi borders, said on Tuesday that farmers will now sell their crop outside the Parliament.Addressing a Kisan Mahapanchayat, also his first in Jaipur, at Vidhyadhar Nagar Stadium, Tikait said, “We will not spare this government which has divided the country on the lines of caste, creed, and religion. Get your tractors, you have to march to Delhi.”Watch | ‘Farmers will sell their produce in the Parliament…’: Rakesh TikaitHe added, “The government told us that farmers can sell their crops anywhere. We will prove it to them by selling our produce outside assemblies, Collector’s office and Parliament. No mandi could be better than Parliament. Last time [on Republic Day], 350,000 tractors had entered Delhi, and they will do so again.”State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Mukesh Pareekh said, “The Kisan Mahapanchayat was a flop show. Despite all the help from the Congress, there was hardly any crowd, clearly signalling that the farmers of Rajasthan do not support the protest. Some people are just confusing the farmers.”Also Read | NHAI suffers ₹814 cr toll loss in 3 states due to farmers’ protestHowever, state Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said, “BJP is frustrated because of the farmers’ protest. The mahapanchayat is being organised by the farmers for the farmers. We are supporting it morally as our party also wants that the black farm laws should be rolled back.”More than 250 organisations in the state have pledged support to the mahapanchayat so far. These include CPI, CPM, Bhim Army, Rajasthan Jat Mahasabha, Jamiat-Ulema-Ae-Hind, and Akhil Bhartiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/this-time-farmers-will-sell-their-crop-outside-parliament-tikait-101616502837532.html
23-03-2021||Lucknow||BKU activists try to stop BJP UP chief’s cavalcade, wave black flags||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) activists greeted BJP state president Swatantra Deo Singh with black flags and anti-BJP slogans near Rasheedpur Garhi village in Bijnor district on Monday evening, said BKU youth wing state president Chaudhary Digamber Singh. Farmers, including members of the BKU, are protesting the three new farm laws of the Central government for over two months now. The BJP state chief had gone to Bijnor to attend a programme, where he spelt out the achievements of the Narendra Modi and Yogi Adityanath governments. When his cavalcade was on its way back, BKU activists intercepted it and shouted anti-BJP slogans. They also waved black flags. Police detained five protesters. Also Read | NHAI suffers ₹814 cr toll loss in 3 states due to farmers’ protestDigamber Singh, who belongs to Bijnor, threatened to announce a curfew against BJP leaders in villages if the detained activists (farmers) were not released. Meanwhile, in a tweet, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait directed farmers to be ready for “jail bharo” if the detained farmers were not released. They were released late in the night after a large number of BKU activists, led by Bijnor district president Kuldeep Singh, staged a demonstration outside the city kotwali, Digamber Singh said. “We released the detained persons in the night,” Bijnor SP (city) Praveen Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bku-activists-try-to-stop-bjp-up-chief-s-cavalcade-wave-black-flags-101616499895425.html
23-03-2021||Other||Himachal CM launches 4 e-services for Lahaul-Spiti||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur virtually launched four electronic services for Himachal Pardesh’s Lahaul-Spiti district on Tuesday. Launching the services — e-office, e-heli service, e-aagman and e-Lahaul, Thakur said they will go a long way in providing people-friendly services to the public of Lahaul-Spiti district. “These initiatives are the best example of optimum use of information technology for good governance,” he said.The e-heli service will provide details of flights available from different blocks and subdivisions of Lahaul and Spiti, detailed policy about flight service, eligibility and fee structure, integration of payment gateway and online approval or rejection of applications. The service is multi-lingual and easy to use and access on both mobiles and the web, Thakur said. E-office will help improve the operational efficiency of government departments by transitioning to a paperless office, which will make the overall working of the district administration effective and efficient.“With this system, movement of receipts and files will become seamless and transparent as each and every action taken on a file will be recorded electronically,” he said. The e-Lahaul web application has been developed to register local vendors. “The main objective of the application is to identify legal vending and to make the process of registration transparent and efficient. The application will ensure automatic registration of vendors, auto fee calculation for different category of vendors and payment gateway integration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-cm-launches-4-e-services-for-lahaulspiti-101616499835479.html
23-03-2021||Other||Complete ban on operation of boats on March 29 in Varanasi||The district administration has passed a prohibitory order, which will be in force from noon till midnight on March 29, to maintain peace, law and order during the festival of Holi.During this period, there will be a complete ban on operation of all sorts of boats in the Ganga. “Neither people will take bath using soaps in the river nor wash their clothes using detergent or chemicals at the ghats. No one will be allowed to go across the river by boats,” stated Kaushal Raj Sharma, district magistrate on Tuesday. Section 144 would also remain in force from noon till midnight at the ghats of Varanasi to check gathering of people who usually take bath in the Ganga after celebrating Holi, the DM said. A senior official said that the Holi will be celebrated in the district on March 29. After celebration of the festival, commoners go to take bath in the river. “If huge crowd gathers at the ghats, an untoward accident cannot be ruled out,” he added.Sharma said that strict action would be taken against those violating the prohibitory order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/complete-ban-on-operation-of-boats-on-march-29-in-varanasi-101616499054786.html
23-03-2021||Other||2 dead, 16 injured in boiler blast at IFFCO||Two workers died and 16 were injured when a steam boiler of ammonia gas plant of Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) located at Phulpur, around 30km from the Prayagraj district, exploded on Tuesday afternoon. Senior officials of IFFCO said the rescue operation began immediately and injured were rushed to hospital. Around 8 ambulances of ‘108 service’ and 1 ALS ambulance were also pressed into service, claimed officials. An investigation into what caused the blast has also begun, they added. Meanwhile, a large number of kin of deceased and injured workers assembled at the main gate of the IFFCO and raised slogans against the members of the management, blaming them for the alleged negligence. They demanded immediate compensation to the relatives of the deceased and injured workers. Heavy force was deployed outside IFFCO as precautionary measure. Public relation officer (PRO), IFFCO, Phulpur, Sanjay Mishra said, “The entire unit was shut down for maintenance, only the power-plant was operational on Tuesday. At around 1.15pm, the boiler of the plant exploded because of which two workers, Pradeep Yadav of Pali village of Phulpur and Babuji Yadav aka Vijay of Mungari village of Industrial area of Prayagraj died. While Pradeep died on the spot, Vijay breathed his last while on the way to a private hospital at Prayagraj.” Around half-a-dozen other persons are also being treated at the health centre of the plant, located within the premises of IFFCO, Ghiya Nagar, Phulpur. Earlier on December 22, 2020, two officials had died and over a dozen staff got ill following ammonia gas leakage at the plant. Earlier, in April 2019, four employees had fallen ill because of leakage of Ammonia and in May 2018, nine persons had fallen ill due to same reason. However, there were no causality in these two incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-dead-over-a-dozen-injured-in-boiler-blast-at-iffco-101616497794565.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab private schools not to impose books of publishers||The Punjab government has directed the managements of schools not to impose books, published by private publishers, on students studying in their schools and they should recommend the books only published by the certified institutes. A spokesperson of the state school education department said in Chandigarh on Tuesday that the director, school education (SE), has written to the managements of all private schools affiliated to the CBSE, ICSE and Punjab School Education Board in this regard. The aim is to protect the interest of students. According to the spokesperson, some private school managements are imposing the books published by private publishers to students in their schools and asking them to buy the books and uniforms from particular shops at exorbitant prices. In view of the complaints, the education department issued instructions to the managements not to directly or indirectly force the students to buy books and uniforms from special shops/firms. In case of doing so, the accreditation/no-objection certificate of the schools will be revoked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-private-schools-not-to-impose-books-of-publishers-101616496415362.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leader Gurnam Singh Abulkhurana passes away||Veteran Congress leader and former minister Gurnam Singh Abulkhurana, 90, passed away in Chandigarh on Tuesday. He was battling age-related ailments. He is survived by a daughter and three sons, including Punjab Congress general secretary Jagpal Singh. Abulkhurana was elected from the Lambi assembly segment of Muktsar district in 1992. He had contested the elections when militancy was at its peak in Punjab. He served as the revenue and irrigation minister in the Beant Singh government. In a condolence message, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh described Abulkhurana as a gentleman politician and leader of the masses with the qualities of head and heart, who worked tirelessly for the welfare of the downtrodden and the overall development of Malwa . He said that Congress leader will be remembered for his strong connect with local residents at the grassroots. “In his death a void has been created in the political circles, which is difficult to be filled,” the CM added.Paying tributes, state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said Abulkhurana was a popular leader in south Punjab and his son, Jagpal, was taking forward his political legacy. Family sources said the last rites will be conducted at his native village of Abul Khurana at 11am on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-leader-gurnam-singh-abulkhurana-passes-away-101616493354943.html
23-03-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies: Of hostage negotiators in city markets||Hostage negotiators would have a hard time in Bangalore, because folks here upend the whole logic of negotiation with their bargaining. In any negotiation, goes the business saying, you have to create a win-win situation for everyone. That is anathema to the folks on Avenue Road in Bangalore, whose idea of bargaining is more like a sumo wrestler bringing his opponent to heel. The goal is to pummel the opponent, who in this case, happens to be a hapless shopkeeper.Do you know how to bargain — for vegetables, clothes, jewels or electronics? If you are under 20, I would wager not.Some of the reasons why this generation is entirely without bargaining skills have to do with the speed of transactions and the way the shopping experience is set up. Either you shop exclusively online as we all have done last year. Or you go to the mall, zip through several stores, and pay what they ask. It’s fast, efficient, and it works. So why waste time haggling?This particular argument holds no merit for compulsive bargainers like my aunt, Lily. To them, bargaining is not a transaction, a means to an end. It is like drinking Horlicks after doing your homework. It is a way to add sweetness to a chore. The actual money involved is almost beside the point. This was what I found out at a jewellery shop on Commercial Street.Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: The art of negotiation—Commercial Street editionThere is a cost, of course. Shopping with Lily Aunty takes four hours longer than usual and usually ends up in a cloud of insults combined with an ingestion of antacid upon return to the house.So when I called Lily Aunty to help me buy a beautiful silver dinner set, I imposed a set of rules. She couldn’t feign heart attacks. This was the time of Covid and it wasn’t fair to do this to people. Second, she claimed to be related to Shilpa Shetty, Aishwarya Rai, or Deepika Padukone. She was a Bunt from Mangalore but that didn’t make her a movie star. Third, she had to open negotiations at 50 per cent of the asking price, not 5 per cent, as is her wont. Fourth, she had to stop cursing in Konkani. This was the best jewellery store in Bangalore, I said, not some Mangalore fish market where she had cut her bargaining teeth.Lily Aunty looked wounded at the last phrase. “What do you know about buying fish, you vegetarian?” she ground out from between clenched teeth. “It is harder to buy quality fish in Mangalore than it is to buy silver in Bangalore.”“Aunty, I mean it this time,” I warned just before we entered. “This shop is not some cottage emporium, okay. I don’t want them to blacklist me because of your behaviour.”“Look how you are standing,” Aunty scolded. “Like some foreigner.”It was true. My stance was defensive. I protected my space, rather than aggressively hogging it. My tone was matter-of-fact rather than truculent, outraged, or ideally, a combination of both. My attitude indicated my willingness to negotiate.“Negotiation has no place in shopping,” pronounced Aunty. “Negotiation means compromise. We want to bend them to our will.”I had unleashed the serpent, I realised. What now?“Understand one thing,” said Lily Aunty. “Words are cheap, particularly in India. People don’t say what they mean, and nothing is what it seems.”This I knew from a previous experience. When we were wedding shopping for a cousin, Lily aunty entered a saree store in Chikpete. She ran a practised eye over the silk sarees behind the glass counter, pronounced them to be “rubbish” and demanded to be taken to the back room where the “real stuff” was. The weird thing was that the salesmen gave her more respect after her rudeness, brought her soda and kolbada and fussed over her like she was Saroja Devi or Bharati Vishnuvardhan.When I attempted such assertiveness, my statements came out like a croak and I was asked to take my business elsewhere.So we walked in. And there was the silver dinner set that I had kept on hold. The shopkeeper took one look at Aunty, squared his shoulders, and smiled wanly. He had met a worthy match.Egged on by her hot breath on my shoulder, I took a deep breath and simulated the light-headed feeling that comes at the tail end of a 16-hour long intermittent fast.“Eshtu?” I drawled, flicking a dismissive finger at the sparkling offerings I coveted. “How much is this set worth?”“One lakh,” said the shopkeeper without blinking.Lily Aunty snorted. I glared at her and pretended to laugh derisively, like Kannada superstar Yash does in the movie, M.rand Mrs Ramachari.“Ree (which is the Kannada equivalent of ji), don’t joke, ree,” I said.“Would I lie to you, Akka?” He had called me his sister. Game on.“This is an heirloom set. Custom piece. Only one in entire Bangalore. I would happily give it to you for free, but my boss will kill me.”“And my mother will kill me if I buy it for anything more than ₹30,000,” I said.“Nanjudeshwara!” he said, throwing up his arms prayerfully. “How you joke, sister? Do you know what this is? Silver. Not stainless steel.”I ended up paying ₹70,000 for the set. Lily Aunty insisted that I had overpaid by ₹50,000, but I was jubilant. In my mind, I had found a bargain.“Go back to Ulsoor market,” said Lily Aunty witheringly. “Start with vegetables. That is the nursery school for bargaining. Then work your way up to silver.”As we paid, Lily Aunty delivered the final verdict. She stared scornfully at the shopkeeper. “You made a mistake, my friend,” she said. “If you had given a good price, this silly girl would have bought a set for 12 people. Instead, now you are only selling her one set.”With one sentence, Lily Aunty had managed to make both the shopkeeper and me feel bad. Which I guess, was the point of it all.Shoba Narayan is Bangalorean by choice and speaks kannada fluently-ish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-of-hostage-negotiators-in-city-markets-101616491435231.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||‘What did Param Bir Singh, Sachin Vaze discuss for 3 hours before arrest?’: NCP||Adding to the war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) over former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s corruption charges against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday questioned why the top cop met Sachin Vaze before his arrest in the Mansukh Hiran death case.“What did Singh discuss with Sachin Vaze for three hours before he was arrested in the Hiran case?” Malik asked soon after BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis’s press conference in which the former chief minister further raked up the “discrepancy” in NCPs statements on the matter.Fadnavis was referring to NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s statements on Monday which implied that Deshmukh was in Nagpur between February 5 and February 27 after he tested Covid-19 positive. However, in a video message earlier in the day the state home minister said he flew to Mumbai for home quarantine from February 15 onwards.Also Read: Anil Deshmukh reiterates Sharad Pawar’s remark on quarantine, one detail changedThe confusion comes in the backdrop of a letter by Param Bir Singh, who was recently removed from his post, to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging Deshmukh met Vaze in February regarding the extortion of ₹100 crore a month from Mumbai’s restaurants and bars. Vaze has been suspended after his arrest.On Deshmukh’s February meeting with Vaze as claimed by Singh, Fadnavis produced police records of the minister’s movement when he was reportedly under home quarantine. “Sharad Pawar saheb yesterday said that Deshmukh was home quarantined from February 15 till the end of the month. But the police records show that he attended meetings at Sahyadri guest house on February 17 and 24. Pawar saheb has been given wrong information and thus, his attempts to shield Deshmukh have failed,” he said.Fadnavis also claimed that Thackeray overlooked a “very sensitive and explosive” report regarding the alleged corruption in transfers of Indian Police Service (IPS) officers submitted by the director general of police (DGP). He told reporters that the then commissioner of intelligence, Rashmi Shukla, reportedly intercepted some phone calls pertaining to police transfers and submitted a report to then DGP Subodh Jaiswal who subsequently sent it to the state government on August 25, 2020.Following this, Malik alleged that Shukla was illegally tapping the phones of certain people and said that 80% of police officers mentioned in her report were not transferred. He asserted that police transfers are done as per recommendations of DGP and a police establishment board.The minister accused Fadnavis and BJP of trying “other methods to pull down the Maha Vikas Aghadi government since they failed to lure our MLAs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/what-did-param-bir-singh-sachin-vaze-discuss-for-3-hours-before-arrest-ncp-101616490199611.html
23-03-2021||Jaipur||Remove age restriction for Covid-19 vaccination, says Ashok Gehlot to Centre||Voicing concern over rising cases of Covid-19 across the country, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said there should be no age restriction for getting the Covid-19 vaccination.He also demanded that the Centre provide more vaccine doses to the state, while noting that another lockdown would prove fatal to the livelihood of people.“Corona cases are increasing rapidly in the country. Experts are of the opinion that the government of India should focus more and more on vaccination.Public will be safe from corona only with maximum vaccination,” he said in a series of tweets.Gehlot said that everyone should be vaccinated by removing age restriction.Referring to the opinion of Dr Devi Shetty of Bengaluru, the chief minister said it seems reasonable that people in the age group of 24 to 45 years should also be vaccinated soon as these people step out of home for work and can become super spreaders.“India also has a large number of vaccine production capacities that should be used,” he added.The chief minister appealed to the Centre to provide more vaccines to the states so that the second wave of corona infection can be controlled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/remove-age-restriction-for-covid-19-vaccination-says-ashok-gehlot-to-centre-101616490145658.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||NCP counters Fadnavis’ corruption claims, alleges illegal phone tapping||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) countered the allegations of corruption in police personnel transfer made by leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis citing a report of former DGP Subodh Jaiswal and phone call records. The ruling party claimed that transfer of 80% of the police officers mentioned in the report didn’t take place and former intelligence commissioner Rashmi Shukla illegally tapped the phones of people. He also said that Shukla was tapping the phones of all the political leaders even when the state was facing a crisis over government formation in 2019 after the state assembly elections.NCP chief spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik also alleged that both Shukla and Jaiswal were working for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the erstwhile BJP-Shiv Sena government. He said the party is trying other methods to pull down the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government since they failed to lure the coalition’s MLAs.Also Read | Fadnavis demands CBI probe in alleged corruption in police transfersMalik was responding to the allegations made by the former chief minister.Malik, who is also minority affairs minister, clarified that police personnel are transferred as per recommendations of two boards of police establishment, one headed by additional chief secretary, home, and another by the DGP himself. The first board looks after the transfer of senior officers and second of the junior officers.“BJP pulled down governments in Karnataka, Uttarakhand, northeast India and Madhya Pradesh, but it failed to pull down the MVA government by luring our MLAs in the state. Now they are trying to bring down the MVA government by defaming [us] and creating sensation with false allegations,” Malik said.“According to Jaiswal’s report, there was corruption in police personnel transfers, but transfer of 80% of the police officers mentioned in the report didn’t take place at all. Rashhmi Shukla, who prepared this report also tapped phones of the people involved in the alleged racket with permission from ACS, home, according to Fadnavis. Here again, it is not right as she didn’t obtain permission and tapped phone records illegally, which is a crime,” Malik said.“This is not the first time she was tapping phones. We have information that she was tapping phone calls of all the political leaders when the state was facing a crisis over government formation (in 2019),” Malik alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-counters-fadnavis-corruption-claims-alleges-illegal-phone-tapping-101616490174898.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||81% of 401 samples from Punjab show UK variant: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||With 81% of the latest 401 samples sent by the state for genome sequencing turning up positive for the new UK Covid variant, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday appealed to the people to get themselves vaccinated, even as he urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to widen the vaccination ambit to cover those younger than 60 since this mutant has been found to be infecting young people more.Expressing concern over the emerging situation, the chief minister stressed on the need for the central government to urgently open up the vaccination for a bigger section of the population. The process needs to be expedited, he said, pointing to the fact that experts had found the existing Covishield vaccine to be equally effective against the UK variant, B.1.1.7. It was essential to vaccinate more and more people to break the chain of transmission, he said.Also read: India’s Covid-19 infections, deaths, active cases: Today’s data decodedCapt appeals to people to adhere to safety protocols Captain Amarinder also urged the people to strictly adhere to all Covid safety protocols, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The state government, which has already announced fresh restrictions, would be forced to impose more curbs if the people do not follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, he warned.The appeal from the chief minister came after the state’s Covid expert committee head, Dr KK Talwar, apprised him of the developments on the new variant in the state, which has been witnessing a surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases during the last few weeks.More infectious yet not more virulent The state health department had sent 478 Covid positive samples to NIB, IGIB, and NCDC for genome sequencing, of which the results of 90 samples were received and those showed only two samples for N440K variant.Subsequently, a team from the ministry of health and family welfare, Government of India, visited the state to review the increase in positivity. The team was informed about the pending results of genome sequencing.Thereafter, 401 more samples, collected between January 1, 2021, to March 10, 2021, were sent to NCDC for genome sequencing. The result of these samples was worrying as it showed the presence of B.1.1.7 variant in 326 Covid samples, said Dr Talwar.The Chief Minister said he had been informed by Dr Talwar that though this UK variant, B.1.1.7, is more infectious yet not more virulent. Further, the Oxford (Covishield) vaccine is equally effective against this new UK variant.The B.1.1.7 variant is now spreading rapidly in many parts of the world, representing 98% of the new cases in the UK and 90% in Spain. The UK authorities have suggested it is up to 70% more transmissible than the original virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/81-of-punjab-covid-samples-show-uk-variant-101616487894624.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Stan Swamy part of organisation that wanted to create unrest: NIA court||The special NIA court on Monday rejected Father Stan Swamy’s bail plea, observing that he was a member of an organisation that “hatched a serious conspiracy to create unrest in the entire country and to overpower the government.”Father Swamy was arrested on October 8 last year for allegedly being part of a conspiracy in connection with Bhima Koregaon case. He had moved a bail plea in November claiming he had been falsely implicated due to the nature of his writings about the caste and land struggles of the people in India and research on undertrial adivasis.While rejecting the bail plea, the special judge DE Kothalikar said, “The material placed on record thus prima facie denotes that the applicant was not only the member of banned organisation Communist Party of India (Maoist) but he was carrying out activities further in the objective of the organisation which is nothing but to overthrow the democracy of the nation.Therefore, I do not find merit in the submissions made by the learned advocate for the applicant that only because of membership of banned organisation the applicant cannot be detained in jail, is not acceptable.”Also Read | NIA says Mehbooba Mufti key player in terror funding caseThe prosecution, while objecting to the bail, cited around 140 emails and letters exchanged between Father Swamy and other accused persons such as Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha. The NIA also claimed that Father Swamy was a “staunch supporter of the activities of the organisation, which is a frontal organisation of CPI (Maoist).”Father Swamy denied his role in the conspiracy and also cited his age and ailments as grounds for bail.The court discarded the plea of his old age observing, “The collective interest of the community would outweigh the right of personal liberty of the applicant and as such the old age and/or alleged sickness of the applicant would not go in his favour, so that the discretion to release the applicant can be exercised in his favour.”The court refused to refer to a report from a Massachusetts-based digital forensics firm, Arsenal Consulting, which claimed that just a few hours before arrest of one of the accused Rona Wilson, his computer was tampered with. The court said “such extraneous material is not required to be considered while deciding the application for bail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stan-swamy-part-of-organisation-that-wanted-to-create-unrest-nia-court-101616485554433.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Retired armyman shot dead in Delhi in a suspected case of mistaken identity||A 43-year-old retired Indian Army jawan was shot dead by two unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants in southwest Delhi’s Ujwaa village near Jarafpur Kalan on Monday evening. The retired armyman, identified as Mukesh, was singing songs with his friends in an agricultural field when the assailants arrived, asked them about a person, and then opened fire at him. At least five bullets were fired, of which three hit Mukesh, killing him on the spot, the police said. Police suspect the murder of Mukesh could be a case of mistaken identify and the real target of the assailants may be his brother, who has a criminal past. “There is a possibility that the assailants had come looking for Mukesh’s brother but they ended up killing Mukesh,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena. Also Read | Man held for floating ponzi scheme, duping over 500 of ₹8 lakh in DelhiDCP Meena said that crime took place around 5.30pm on Monday. Two unidentified men arrived on an Apache motorcycle and asked them about one Rakesh. “Mukesh and his friends told the duo that Rakesh was not with them. Suddenly, the man who was enquiring about Rakesh opened fire from a countrymade pistol at Mukesh and fled,” said the DCP.Mukesh’s friends raised an alarm after which his nephew rushed him to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. A case of murder was registered. A crime spot investigation team visited the scene and collected evidence. “The statements of the eyewitnesses were also recorded. Our teams are making efforts to identify and nab the suspects,” added DCP Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/retired-armyman-shot-dead-in-delhi-in-a-suspected-case-of-mistaken-identity-101616483334231.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Will ex-top cop Sanjiv Bhatt’s allegations against Modi be probed: Shiv Sena||Pushed into a corner over allegations against the Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, the ruling Shiv Sena went into an offensive on Tuesday against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying that former Gujarat IPS officer Sanjiv Bhatt made serious allegations against then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi and asked if the law ministry will take action based on the letter now. “If a letter from a police officer is used to seek a government’s dismissal or home minister or chief minister, then I ask those who created the ruckus, BJP and Ravi Shankar Prasad, the law minister, Sanjiv Bhatt, IPS officer and one other officer, has repeatedly written such ‘letter bombs’ against the Gujarat government. Are you going to take action against then chief minister and current chief minister based on the letter? The allegations made by Sanjiv Bhatt were even more serious than Param Bir Singh’s. But you have put Bhatt behind bars,” Raut told reporters in New Delhi.Former policeman Sanjiv Bhatt accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chief minister of Gujarat, of complicity in the 2002 communal riots, and was jailed for life on June 20, 2019 for the death of a man in custody in 1990. Meanwhile, Singh was recently removed as the Mumbai police commissioner over alleged mishandling of a bomb scare case near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence. Singh wrote to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray a few days ago, alleging that Deshmukh asked Sachin Vaze, a suspended policeman who has been arrested in connection with the case, to collect ₹100 crore from various establishments in Mumbai. The bomb scare case is being handled by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Deshmukh said that the former Mumbai top cop is trying to save himself.Also Read | SC likely to hear ex-Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh’s petition on March 26Raut said that the letters written by Bhatt should be brought out and discussed. He said that the Sena has the letter and asked if Ravi Shankar Prasad will take action. “The letter should be excavated by them or we will provide them the letter. We have the letter [by Bhatt] and will send it to the law minister, he should study it.” Ravi Shankar Prasad had addressed a press conference on Singh’s allegations in Bihar two days ago and said that there must be a fair probe into the allegations by an outside agency.A day after Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar said that there was no need to seek Anil Deshmukh’s resignation, Raut said that Pawar spoke based on information and his assessment was “logical”. “There are no different [stands] of either the Shiv Sena or NCP. It is a government decision. If Pawar saheb has put forward some point, then I believe that it is the government’s stand,” Raut said.On Singh’s move to approach the Supreme Court and seek a probe into his allegations by a central agency, Raut cited former Chief Justice of India and Rajya Sabha member Ranjan Gogoi’s statements that the Supreme Court works under pressure and is used like Enforcement Directorate and Central Bureau of Investigation. “It is good that Param Bir Singh has gone to the Supreme Court. Retired Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi, who is a Rajya Sabha member, had said that nobody gets justice in Supreme Court and it works under pressure. If Singh wants to get his work done through this pressure, he can do so,” he said.When asked if the state government will order a probe into Singh’s letter, Raut said that the government will decide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-ex-top-cop-sanjiv-bhatt-s-allegations-against-modi-be-probed-shiv-sena-101616482554287.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rain, strong winds leave wheat, kinnow growers in Punjab worried||Rain accompanied with strong winds on Tuesday flattened wheat crop nearing maturity and caused damage in kinnow orchards where trees are in the flowering stage in south Punjab, leaving growers worried. Farm experts say irrigated wheat fields may suffer up to 10% drop in yield and losses are feared only if the crop witnesses heavy rain or hailstorm. According to the Punjab Agricultural University’s observatory at the Bathinda-based regional research centre, south Malwa witnessed winds with a velocity of 40-45km/hour early on Tuesday. “Most parts of the region experienced light showers. South Punjab may witness winds with 20km/hour velocity and another spell of showers is forecast by Tuesday night,” said Raj Kumar, an agrometeorology scientist at PAU. Wheat farmers want crop loss assessed Farmers such as Tejinder Singh of Gobindpura village in Bathinda district have expressed the fear of a comprehensive loss of his wheat crop sown on seven acres. “I was hoping for a good wheat harvest, but the winds have led to lodging of the crop,” he said. Another wheat grower, Hakam Singh, said the government should initiate crop loss assessment to support farmers ahead of the harvesting season. “Inclement weather will lead to a loss of more than 25% of the produce. Grains were in the final stage of maturity and harvesting is expected to begin in a fortnight,” said the elderly farmer. Can regain position if weather stays clear now: Kinnow grower Abohar-based orchardist Arvind Setia said the sudden change in weather had affected the kinnow trees. “The citrus orchards are at the flowering stage and stormy weather for more than three hours past midnight has done considerable damage to the crop that is at the initial stage. Kinnow plants have another week of flowering. We can regain the position if the weather does not get rough again,” Setia said. GP Singh, the director of the Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research, an Indian Council of Agricultural Research laboratory, in Karnal, said the present climatic condition is not hostile to wheat. “Irrigating wheat fields at a time when harvesting is less than three weeks away, is not recommended. Limited crop loss may be recorded in the waterlogged fields but overall, the ongoing climatic conditions are highly conducive. We expect a record pan-India production of 112 million metric tonnes of wheat,” said GP Singh. Farmers told to drain out water from fields to reduce damageFarmers of Majha region fear the lodging of wheat in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts due to rain and strong winds on Tuesday may reduce the crop yield.Teams of the state agriculture department are conducting a survey to ascertain the damage.Amritsar chief agricultural officer Kuljit Singh Saini, who holds the additional charge of Tarn Taran, said, “I’ve visited the affected areas. The rain and winds have definitely damaged the crop because it was close to maturity. Farmers are advised to drain out water from fields to lessen the damage.”Wheat has been sown on 1.84 lakh hectares in Tarn Taran and almost the same area in Amritsar district.Pargat Singh, a farmer of Loharka village in Amritsar, said, “We are at the mercy of the weather.”(With inputs from HTC, Amritsar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-strong-winds-leave-wheat-kinnow-growers-in-punjab-worried-101616480874677.html
23-03-2021||Patna||Thousands march to demand justice for woman raped and murdered in Bihar||Thousands of people marched to the police superintendent and sub-district magistrate’s office in Bihar’s Bagaha on Monday to demand justice for a 20-year-old tribal woman, who was allegedly raped and murdered on March 14.Police recovered the woman’s body on March 18 from a canal days after she went missing after appearing for an exam on March 14 for recruitment of constables.Since March 19, residents have been holding a candle march in Bagaha demanding capital punishment for the accused.Adiwasi Oraon Mahasabha chief Rajesh Oraon said the incident has shaken the community and demanded a fast-tracked investigation and ₹20 lakh compensation for the woman’s family.Also Read | Mayawati attacks UP govt over Hathras caseThe woman’s father alleged that Chiutahan and Semra police stations earlier referred the matter to each other over jurisdiction issues when he visited them to file his daughter’s missing report.“My daughter last talked to me around 8 pm on Sunday when she was returning home in an auto after taking the exam. Her phone was switched off a few hours later. ...I lodged a complaint at the Chiutaha police station the next morning.”Police superintendent Kiran Kumar Gorakh Jadhav said on the basis of the father’s statement, they arrested the auto driver Raju Baitha and send him in judicial custody. He added the girl’s autopsy report has established rape. “Action will be taken against the police officers if they are found guilty of inaction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/thousands-march-to-demand-justice-for-woman-raped-and-murdered-in-bihar-101616480694097.html
23-03-2021||Pune||Pune BJP MP, MLAs write to PM, seek more Covid-19 vaccines for district||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Lok Sabha MP Girish Bapat and other party MLAs from Pune on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention in increasing the Covid-19 vaccine quota for Pune district.The letter also put forth a proposition to open up the vaccination process for people above age 30 to help contain the spread of the infection in the city.On Friday, the Pune city administration had increased the Covid-19 testing up to 12,000 a day to combat the virus in wake of a spike in the number of the infection.The active number of cases in Maharashtra stood at 2,11,416 on Tuesday till 8 am.Pune reported as many as 4,321 positive cases and 33 deaths in the last 24 hours.Currently, the number of active cases in the district is 40,092.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-bjp-mp-mlas-write-to-pm-seek-more-covid-19-vaccines-for-district-101616476564793.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtang tunnel closed due to snowfall in higher reaches of Himachal||Atal Tunnel across the Rohtang Pass was closed for traffic after heavy snowfall in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday. The middle and lower hills of the state received widespread rain accompanied by high velocity winds amid a fresh western disturbance in the region. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said there was heavy snowfall at the north and south portals of the tunnel. He said the road will be cleared soon and advised people to avoid venturing out the snow-prone areas. Kalpa, the small hill town in tribal Kinnaur district, experienced 5cm of snowfall, while Keylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti district, got 4cm of snowfall. There are reports of heavy snowfall in the higher reaches of Shimla, Kullu, Chamba, Mandi and Sirmaur districts. Shimla-based meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said the inclement weather will prevail in middle and high hills till Wednesday. However, the skies will be clear in the low-lying areas. The weather will clear up on Thursday, he said. Temperature dips with rain in Shimla, Manali and Dalhousie The hill station of Dalhousie in Chamba district received 42mm of rainfall, while Manali got 20mm of rainfall. Shimla experienced 19.7mm of rainfall and the nearby hill stations of Narkanda and Kufri received 15mm and 12mm of rainfall, respectively. Dharamshala got 10.6mm of rainfall, Nahan 10.1mm, and Bhunter 9.8mm of rainfall. The mercury dipped slightly in some places. Keylong was the coldest with a minimum temperature of minus 3.3 degrees Celsius followed by Kalpa that recorded 0 degrees Celsius. The meteorological department director said the mercury fell by 2-3 degrees Celsius with Manali recording a low of 3 degrees and Dalhousie 3.5 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in Shimla was 8.4 degrees, Narkanda 3.8 degrees, Kufri 5.5, Dharamshala 9.2 and Palampur 11 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtang-tunnel-closed-due-to-snowfall-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal-101616477454041.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai municipal body places demand for 1 million doses of Covaxin||With the rise in Covid-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) wants to vaccinate the public as fast as possible. To do so, the civic body has demanded 1 million units of indigenous vaccine, Covaxin.BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal has set a target to vaccinate 4.5 million people in the next 45 days. This means that the city’s 95 vaccination centres will have to collectively vaccinate one lakh people everyday. To achieve the target, BMC will require more number of vaccine doses.“We want to fasten the process, so we have demanded 1 million doses of Covaxin. As per the preliminary instruction, we will get the consignment this week,” said an officer.Also Read | Centre wants gap in Covishield jabs widened to 4-8 weeks: All you need to knowIn the second week of March, BMC received 63,000 doses of Covaxin. The vaccine uses an inactivated virus paired with an adjuvant – a chemical that boosts immune response. When administered, immune cells recognise the dead virus which prompts the immune system in the body to make antibodies against the pandemic virus.Recently, its manufacturer, Bharat Biotech claimed that the vaccine has demonstrated an interim clinical efficacy of 81% in the phase 3 clinical trial.Soon, the civic body will also start providing Covaxin to private hospitals. Already, some names have been shortlisted.To assist people in their registration on the centralised Co-Win app, BMC will also set up camps, especially in slums like Dharavi.“People who are willing to get vaccinated can approach these champs. There will be a help desk. The trained volunteers will help them to get registered on the Co-Win app. Following this, they can go to their nearby vaccination centere antime and get inoculated,” said Kiran Dighavkar, ward officer, G-North that covers Dharavi.The civic body is also collaborating with local non-government organisations (NGOs) to sensitise people about the need for vaccination.“They will go from door-to-door to encourage people, especially those above 60 years, to get the jab which will provide them protection against the virus. The volunteers will also answer to their queries about the vaccines,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-municipal-body-places-demand-for-1-million-doses-of-covaxin-101616477395096.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh reiterates Sharad Pawar’s remark on quarantine, one detail changed||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said he was in quarantine after contracting coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during the period when former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused him of meeting Sachin Vaze, the police officer arrested in connection with Mukesh Ambani security threat case. Singh has accused Deshmukh, a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, of corruption.In a video message shared on Twitter, Deshmukh said that he was in a hospital in Nagpur between February 5 and February 15 as he had tested positive for Covid-19. “Over the past few days, false reports are doing rounds in media... I was discharged on February 15 and was under home quarantine for 10 days. On February 15, I came to Mumbai in a private plane,” the state home minister said in Marathi.Also Read: Why NCP chief Sharad Pawar didn’t sack Maharashtra home minister Anil DeshmukhDeshmukh’s clarification comes after Singh wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last Saturday suggesting the home minister’s involvement in corruption. In his letter, Singh has stated Deshmukh told Vaze to collect ₹100 crore a month from Mumbai’s bars and restaurants. The NCP leader has denied the claims saying was Singh was trying to save himself as his involvement in the cases related to bomb scare at Ambani’s home was becoming clearer.The minister said he was hurt by the attempts made by some people to spread wrong information about his meetings and visits when he was infected with the virus. He clarified that he stepped out of his home for the first time on February 28 for official work. “I am sharing all this so that people are not misguided,” he added.Also Read: Holes in NCP defence as Sharad Pawar backs Anil DeshmukhAbout his meetings during the period when he was infected with Covid-19, Deshmukh said, “As per doctor's advice, I used to visit park late at night for pranayama. I attended few virtual meetings from the Nagpur hospital and later from my official Mumbai residence during quarantine. Several officials met me at official residence for briefings ahead of the budget session that started from March 1.”Deshmukh’s video message came a day after NCP’s chief Sharad Pawar made similar comments on the issue except for one detail. “Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in his letter stated that Sachin Vaze met the home minister in mid-February whereas the hospital certificate clearly states that he was hospitalised for Covid-19 treatment between February 5 and 15 in Nagpur. Later, he was home quarantined in Nagpur,” Pawar said on Monday.Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis accused Pawar of diverting the matter. "It seems Sharad Pawar ji is not briefed properly on Parambir Singh letter. In this letter only, the SMS evidence shows that the meeting date was mentioned as end of February. Now who is diverting issue?" Fadnavis said in a tweet and also shared a video of the home minister addressing a press conference on February 15.Singh, meanwhile, has approached the Supreme Court demanding a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Deshmukh for allegedly running a “money collection scheme” through the police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/on-param-bir-singh-s-charges-deshmukh-says-false-reports-was-in-quarantine-101616475069873.html
23-03-2021||Lucknow||Awards in limbo as UP’s Urdu Akademi awaits new chairperson||Uttar Pradesh Urdu Akademi has been without a chairperson since January 2020 since Asifa Zamani’s term ended, and this has among other things delayed awards for scholars and writers for over a year.State minister Mohsin Raza said chief minister Yogi Adityanath is aware of the vacancy and will take a decision on the issue soon. “It is getting delayed due to the upcoming panchayat polls. Several names have been discussed for the post.” He added Adityanath has the final authority to name the chairperson. “[The name] would be announced after the panchayat polls.”Also Read | Interview: Mehr Afshan Farooqi, author, Ghalib: A Wilderness at My DoorstepUrdu poet and scholar Sanjay Mishra Shauq is believed to be the front-runner for the post. Shauq is known for his command over Sanskrit, Hindi, English, Tamil, Persian, Urdu, and Gujarati. Khushbir Singh Shaad is believed to be among other contenders.The Uttar Pradesh Urdu Akademi last announced its awards in September 2019 when Zamani awarded herself the Amir Khusro Award of ₹1.5 lakh. The state government cancelled the awards following protests over Zamani’s move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/awards-in-limbo-as-up-s-urdu-akademi-awaits-new-chairperson-101616474753932.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Ajay Kumar appointed HP Public Service Commission chairman||The Himachal Pradesh government has appointed former Indian Forest Service officer Ajay Kumar as chairman of the state public service commission. Kumar succeeds major general Dharamvir Singh Rana (retd), who completed his term on Monday. Considered close to central BJP leaders, Ajay Kumar has retired from the post of chief principal conservator. His wife, Savita Sharma, has taken charge as the chief principal conservator. The state government has appointed Jai Parkash Kalta, a former managing director of the state electricity board, as one of the members of the commission. The appointment of both Ajay Kumar and Kalta will be for six years or 62 years, whichever is earlier. Three posts of member had been vacant on the completion of the terms of Mohan Chauhan, Man Singh and Meera Ahluwalia. Two posts of member are still vacant. It is learnt that at least 10 aspirants, including serving and retired bureaucrats, are vying for the posts. Rachna Gupta, a member of the commission, was also in the race to become the chairperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ajay-kumar-appointed-hp-public-service-commission-chairman-101616474693734.html
23-03-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh's Damoh assembly bypoll on April 17, BJP set to field Lodhi||cThe Damoh Assembly bypoll in Madhya Pradesh on April 17 is likely to be a fight between the BJP's Rahul Lodhi and the Congress' Ajay Tandon.The bypoll was necessitated after Lodhi resigned from the Assembly and the Congress and joined the BJP in October last year.Party sources said the BJP was almost certain to field Lodhi, while the Congress announced that Tandon would be its candidate.Tandon had contested against the BJP's Jayant Mallaiya two times earlier. Mallaiya had won the Damoh seat six times between 1990 and 2013, before losing to Lodhi in 2018 by a slender margin of 798 votes.In bypolls held for 28 seats last year, the BJP had managed to win 19, giving the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government a majority in the 230-member MP Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-s-damoh-assembly-bypoll-on-april-17-bjp-set-to-field-lodhi-101616471433439.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic at Delhi borders remains diverted||Tikri and Singhu borders, connecting Delhi and Haryana, remained completely closed on Tuesday as farmers continued their agitation against the three farm laws. One carriageway at Ghazipur border, however, remained open for those heading to Ghaziabad from Delhi, even as farmers continued blocking the other road of the elevated highway.The Delhi Traffic Police in its advisory asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Chilla border are also open for commute.The entry and exit points between the national Capital and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh borders, continued to remain closed.Also Read | NHAI suffers ₹814 cr toll loss in 3 states due to farmers’ protestMotorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana can take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-at-delhi-borders-remains-diverted-101616468873610.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Possibility of light rain in Delhi today, air quality poor||A day after parts of Delhi received trace rainfall coupled with strong winds, the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am was recorded 222, in the “poor” zone.Central Pollution Control Board data shows that the overall AQI in Delhi on Monday was 196, categorised as “moderate” on the AQI. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that with more clouds passing over the city, there is a possibility of light rain continuing on Tuesday.“More clouds are moving over the region. Though Delhi is not expected to receive any intense rainfall, the weather will be largely cloudy with light rain in some parts,” a senior Met official said on Monday.Also Read | Rain brings down mercury in Punjab, HaryanaThe overcast skies on Monday brought some respite from the rising heat in the city. The maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 33.6 degrees Celsius. However, Delhi on Monday also recorded the highest minimum temperature for the season, with the mercury levels touching 20 degrees Celsius.Scientists explained that temperatures usually tend to rise during the onset of a western disturbance, as in the early hours on Monday when the minimum temperature recordings are noted.A western disturbance is an extra tropical storm that originates in the Mediterranean, which brings with it rain and a drop in temperature and is mostly associated with winter rain in India. This is the fifth western disturbance to pass over the region this month. The last time the city received rain and thunderstorms was on March 12, when the city woke up to light to moderate showers, with a hailstorm in parts of NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/possibility-of-light-rain-in-delhi-today-air-quality-poor-101616467853687.html
23-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP chief gets Guard of Honour from police due to 'misunderstanding'||Uttarakhand BJP president Madan Kaushik was given a Guard of Honour on Monday by the state police in Bageshwar in violation of protocol, with a senior official saying it happened due to a "misunderstanding".Pictures of the state BJP chief being given the Guard of Honour on his arrival at Bageshwar were shared on social media.Kaushik, who was a member of former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat's cabinet, was recently appointed president of the state BJP.Admitting that the Guard of Honour given to the state party president was wrong, deputy inspector general (law and order) Neelesh Anand Bharne said it was due to a "misunderstanding"."The official responsible for it had just returned from leave and was not aware of the recent changes in government in the state," he said.Trivendra Singh Rawat had tendered his resignation earlier this month, and Tirath Singh Rawat was sworn in as the state's chief minister on March 10.Kaushik, who represents Haridwar in the state assembly, was appointed state BJP president on March 12 replacing Bansidhar Bhagat who is now a minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-bjp-chief-gets-guard-of-honour-from-police-due-to-misunderstanding-101616465864553.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||888 new Covid cases, seven deaths on Monday; highest fatality count in 46 days||Even with fewer tests over the weekend, Delhi reported 888 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, with an increase in the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – to 1.32% on Monday, according to the daily data released by the Delhi government.This is the third day on the trot that the city has seen over 800 cases of Covid-19 this year.There were also seven deaths due to the viral infection on Monday, which is the highest toll in 46 days -- the last time the city saw as many deaths was on February 4. So far, 10,963 people have succumbed to the infection in the city since the first death was reported on March 13, 2020.The highest number of deaths reported in a day was 131 on November 18, 2020. Experts say the increase in the number of deaths, however, is not surprising given the sudden spike in the number of cases in the city.“The severity of the infection in a patient peaks at around 8th to the 12th day. If the incidence of the viral infection is high today (Monday), its impact in terms of deaths will likely be seen around 10 days later; the two highs are never simultaneous. We have been seeing an increase in the number of cases since February, gradually at first, and then swiftly over the past two weeks or so,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care.He said he has been seeing an increase in patients and the number of severe patients over the past one week.Vaccination is one of the best methods to prevent severe Covid disease manifestation and death. To increase vaccination, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had last week announced that vaccination centres at Delhi government hospitals will run between 9am and 9pm.The expanded drive that began on Monday, failed to increase the number of shots administered across the city on the first day. The city saw 45,337 shots being administered across the city as per the government’s provisional data (which is may increase Tuesday). The city had, however, administered 46,769 shots on Saturday when the centres were running only between 9am and 5pm.“We were prepared but there were only 470 people who came for vaccination throughout the day. Of them, only around 22 came after hours (post 5pm). That may be because people are still not aware that shots are being given in the evening. Hopefully, the numbers will increase over the week,” said a senior doctor on condition of anonymity.At Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, there were only 390 people immunised on Monday which is almost the same as its daily average. A senior doctor on condition of anonymity said, “The number of people who come for vaccination in the second half of the day is anyway fewer, and fewer still came after hours. Increasing the timing and number of centres has only added to the wastage of doses. Even if one person comes after hours, we have to open a vial that contains 10 doses and the other nine will go to waste.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/888-new-covid-cases-seven-deaths-on-monday-highest-fatality-count-in-46-days-101616455242672.html
23-03-2021||Lucknow||UP schools upto class 8 to remain closed till March 31 due to Covid-19 surge||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, all schools upto class 8 in Uttar Pradesh will remain closed from March 24 till March 31.All other educational institutions where exams are not underway will remain close from March 25 to March 31, according to the Uttar Pradesh government.The decision was taken during a high-level meeting of the Chief Minister with officials to combat Covid-19.Several state governments have announced the closure of schools and colleges following a spike in Covid-19 daily cases in the country.At present, there are 3,036 active coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh, as per the Union Health Ministry. 8,759 people have lost their lives due to the virus in the state, while 5,95,743 have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-schools-upto-class-8-to-remain-closed-till-march-31-due-to-covid-19-surge-101616460116020.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Brother-sister duo turns passion for strawberries into profitable business||During the Covid lockdown, many of us made the resolution to follow our passions, but a lot of us couldn’t stick to it. However, a brother-sister duo from Chandigarh, turned their hobby of growing strawberries into a commercial venture in the last year. “Freshville” started as a hobby for Vritti, 25, and Parth Narula, 20, when they were at home while the lockdown brought the world to a standstill. “Our father was always interested in growing strawberries and we have a few acres of land in New Chandigarh where we started growing them on a small scale,” says Vritti, who works as a jewellery designer and was born and brought up in Chandigarh along with her brother Parth. They are both lifers at Vivek High School in Sector 38-B.“Earlier, we were growing strawberries on half an acre and selling them to our friends through WhatsApp. But now, we have expanded it to over four acres of land and started an Instagram page from where we take orders. We make around 80 deliveries per day,” Vritti adds.While Parth primarily concentrates on growing the fruits and planting them, Vritti works on marketing the venture, dealing with clients and running operations.Talking about how the strawberries are grown, Parth, a final-year student of Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) in Mumbai, said, “Earlier, we started with two varieties, but now we are up to six, which we hope will bear fruit till May. The mother plant that we use has been imported from California while we get runners from places like Himachal Pradesh. It’s completely organic and no chemicals or pesticides are used at all.”There are around 11 employees that help them pick strawberries and after picking in the morning, they get them back to their house in the city to pack them and they hire three riders on a per day basis to deliver the orders. “We are the only venture here that provides fresh strawberries,” he added.The duo has now also started making and selling strawberry products like jam, crush, slush, sugar-free jam and ginger ale. “We started making jam based on our mother’s recipe. The response was positive, so, we recently diversified to other products. The crush and ginger ale are especially popular.”Talking about their future plans, Vritti said they are exploring tie-ups with various supermarkets in the city and expanding to other cities. “We have received queries from places as far as Kanpur and Bangalore. Even now, we supply orders as far as Gurdaspur and Ludhiana. By next year, we plan to start a venture in Delhi,” she added.The strawberries can be purchased through their Instagram page, its freshville, starting at ₹200 per kilo. They are graded into three categories based on size and the A+ grade with the biggest strawberries sells for ₹400 per kg. “All grades sell equally well and for people who want to make jams or smoothies, we suggest they go for the smaller ones,” Vritti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-brother-sister-duo-turns-passion-for-strawberries-into-profitable-business-101616453633563.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man held for floating ponzi scheme, duping over 500 of ₹8 lakh||Delhi Police on Monday claimed to have arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly running a ponzi scheme and cheating more than 500 people on the pretext of providing them rations for a period of 15 months. Senior police officers said the suspected con man collected ₹1,500 from each person to fraudulently enrol them as a member of an NGO named “Target Welfare Association” to avail of rations and later fled with the money. Till date, over 500 people have been duped of more than ₹8 lakh cumulatively, police said. Police have identified the arrested man as Rajesh Kumar Bhartiya. Senior police officers said the forgery came to light when multiple complaints were received against the “NGO Target Welfare Association” that despite paying ₹1,500 and enrolling for free distribution of ration -- flour, rice, sugar, and refined oil etc -- for 15 months, the NGO did not give any ration. Deputy commissioner of police (economic offences wing) Mohammad Ali said preliminary probe revealed that the NGO is run by one Rajesh Kumar Bhartiya and his associates. “It was also found that the same NGO was running similar schemes in the areas of Jhandewalan, Pratap Nagar, Manakpura, Kishanganj, Mukundpur, Dabri etc. Complainants further alleged that the NGO is neither supplying the ration nor answering the phone since the membership amount was paid. A case of cheating was registered, and investigation was taken up,” Ali said. The DCP said during investigation, it was established that Bhartiya is the key accused who is running the ponzi scheme and he is also the beneficiary of the money duped from people. “When our teams tried to contact him, he never joined the investigation and frequently changed his address. With the help of technical surveillance, our teams managed to zero in on him in Nangloi and he was arrested on Friday following a search,” the officer said. During questioning, police found that Bhartiya and his associates have cheated at least 535 persons so far by enrolling them in their NGO. “They initially used to distribute some ration but later would flee with the membership amount and change their contact details,” a police office said, adding that efforts were on to arrest the remaining suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-held-for-floating-ponzi-scheme-duping-over-500-of-8-lakh-101616445412130.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Three men arrested, juvenile apprehended for series of crimes||Police on Monday said they had arrested three men and apprehended a juvenile for allegedly committing nearly a dozen cases of armed robberies, snatchings, attempts to murder and vehicle thefts. Within three hours on March 12, the minor boy and his partner allegedly stole two motorcycles from Jahangirpuri and Bharat Nagar and used them in two robberies in Shalimar Bagh and Majnu Ka Tila in north Delhi, the police said.In both robberies, the suspects had fired shots. A 12-year-old had sustained a bullet injury in his arm when he along and his father and seven to eight labourers tried to nab the robbers who had snatched the mobile phone of the driver of a goods vehicle in Shalimar Bagh village. A man suffered two bullet injuries in his legs when he resisted the robbery. The suspects had fled with his mobile phone, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said the gang is infamous as “Pagal (mad) gang” among criminal circles because of the aggressive behaviour of its members, who often fire during robberies. One pistol, three cartridges and five stolen motorcycles were recovered from the arrested persons, said the DCP.On March 12 around 5am, Alphonse said one Saurabh Sharma from Pitampura was waiting for a bus to Jaipur near Majnu Ka Tila, when two persons arrived on two separate motorcycles and robbed him of his mobile phone at gunpoint. When they tried to snatch Sharma’s bag, he resisted and overpowered one of them. The other suspect fired two bullets that hit Sharma in the leg. The suspects fled leaving behind one motorcycle that later turned out to be stolen from Jahangirpuri area, just a few hours before the crime, he said.On March 18, the juvenile and his associate, identified as Akash alias Bhalla,22, were caught from Civil Lines area with a pistol and three bullets. Their questioning led to the recovery of three bikes that they had stolen from Usmanpur, Paharganj and Jafarabad. Two other members of the gang, identified as Sahil alias Ajaz24, and Sahil alias Fazal,21, were arrested from near Kashmere Gate bus terminal on March 20.During the questioning, the DCP said, it was revealed that after March 11 midnight, Akash and the juvenile first stole a motorcycle from Jahangirpuri and used it to rob the mobile phone from goods tempo driver in Shalimar Bagh. They had fired a bullet when some people tried to overpower them. The bullet went through the left arm of a 12-year-old boy. After the robbery and firing, the duo stole another bike from Bharat Nagar area and used both the bikes while robbing Sharma at Majnu Ka Tila, the officer said.“Three brothers of the apprehended juvenile are also into crime and presently in jail for various crimes including murder. The juvenile came into contact with Aakash through a common friend,” said Alphonse, adding that Ajaz and Fazal were involved in 37 and 20 crimes, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-three-men-arrested-juvenile-apprehended-for-series-of-crimes-101616445411582.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: CCTV cams of police station not working when man assaulted, forced to sing national anthem, was ‘detained’||The Delhi Police on Monday told the Delhi high court that the CCTV cameras at the Jyoti Nagar police station, where a man was detained after being allegedly beaten up by police officers and forced to sing the national anthem in an injured condition during the north-east Delhi riots last year, were not working due to a “technical fault”.In an affidavit filed before justice Yogesh Khanna, through advocate Amit Mahajan, the city police said the CCTV cameras were not working owing to technical reasons and no tampering was noticed by the technician who had come to repair them. The police’s response comes on a plea by Kismatun, mother of Faizan, who had sought an SIT probe into her son’s death, who along with four other Muslim men, was seen in the video allegedly being assaulted by police officers and forced to sing the national anthem on February 24, 2020.According to the plea by Faizan’s mother, through advocate Soutik Banerjee, the police had illegally detained her son and denied him critical health care as a result of which he succumbed to injuries on February 26. She said her son was mercilessly beaten by the police on February 24 which is evident from the video of the alleged incident that had gone viral back then.On the last date, the court had asked the police to file an affidavit with info about CCTV cameras functioning in the relevant month along with relevant documents. It also asked the police to file an affidavit about preservation of relevant documents.In response, the police affidavit stated that apart from the service report about the repair of cameras, a report has also been obtained from the office of station house officer, Jyoti Nagar police station, north-east district, confirming that on the date and time of the incident, the CCTV Cameras on the premises of the police station were not functional -- the issue was got rectified only on March 4, 2020.Earlier, the police had told the court that it had pinpointed a probable police officer who could have shot a viral video wherein police officers were seen assaulting the youth and forcing him to sing the national anthem in his injured state.The police had also said they have not been able to identify the police officers in the video footage as they were wearing helmets and did not have name plates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-cctv-cams-of-police-station-not-working-when-man-assaulted-forced-to-sing-national-anthem-was-detained-101616445351556.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||SDMC approves proposal to provide a plateful of food for ₹15, 40 kiosks to be set up||The standing committee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Monday approved a proposal to restart its Atal Aahar Yojna by remodelling the scheme which was launched in 2018. In the scheme, people will get a thali (food plate) at a subsidised rate of ₹15. The idea was proposed in SDMC’s final budget presentation in February this year. The SDMC had in 2018-19 implemented the step on a pilot basis by opening five kiosks but the project was put on hold after the coronavirus pandemic struck the country. Senior SDMC officials said nearly 40 kiosks will be established at different places in south Delhi. The outlets will prominently cater to the lower-income groups as due to financial constraints, they mostly partake of unhygienic food, risking their health.“Initially, 10 kiosks with inbuilt kitchen mobile vans (IKMV) will be placed in each of the four zones and later, their number will increased or decreased, depending upon the requirement (in each zone). SDMC will provide bare spaces of 5X3 metres on a “as in wherein basis“ to the bidder who will be allowed to construct eco-friendly kiosks with no permanent structure. The bidder will bid considering the revenue potential and SDMC will not be responsible for losses,” stated the proposal which was approved by the standing committee. It will now be placed before the house meeting for a final nod.A senior SDMC official said the outlets will sell breakfast from 8am to 11am and lunch from noon to 3pm. “The maximum rate for breakfast would be ₹10 and lunch would ₹15. The menu will include puri and stuffed paratha in breakfast and rice, dal, raita, and roti in lunch,” said the official.The proposal also mentioned that a bidder can apply for a maximum of five sites at a time. Officials said chairs or temporary structures, which may hinder the movement of pedestrians, will not be allowed at these kiosks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-approves-proposal-to-provide-a-plateful-of-food-for-15-40-kiosks-to-be-set-up-101616445352070.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||888 new Covid cases and seven deaths on Monday; highest fatality count in 46 days||Even with fewer tests over the weekend, Delhi reported 888 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, with an increase in the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – to 1.32% on Monday, according to the daily data released by the Delhi government. This is the third day on the trot that the city has seen over 800 cases of Covid-19 this year. There were also seven deaths due to the viral infection on Monday, which is the highest toll in 46 days -- the last time the city saw as many deaths was on February 4. So far, 10,963 people have succumbed to the infection in the city since the first death was reported on March 13, 2020. The highest number of deaths reported in a day was 131 on November 18, 2020. Experts say the increase in the number of deaths, however, is not surprising given the sudden spike in the number of cases in the city. “The severity of the infection in a patient peaks at around 8th to the 12th day. If the incidence of the viral infection is high today (Monday), its impact in terms of deaths will likely be seen around 10 days later; the two highs are never simultaneous. We have been seeing an increase in the number of cases since February, gradually at first, and then swiftly over the past two weeks or so,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care. He said he has been seeing an increase in patients and the number of severe patients over the past one week. Vaccination is one of the best methods to prevent severe Covid disease manifestation and death. To increase vaccination, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had last week announced that vaccination centres at Delhi government hospitals will run between 9am and 9pm. The expanded drive that began on Monday, failed to increase the number of shots administered across the city on the first day. The city saw 45,337 shots being administered across the city as per the government’s provisional data (which is may increase Tuesday). The city had, however, administered 46,769 shots on Saturday when the centres were running only between 9am and 5pm. “We were prepared but there were only 470 people who came for vaccination throughout the day. Of them, only around 22 came after hours (post 5pm). That may be because people are still not aware that shots are being given in the evening. Hopefully, the numbers will increase over the week,” said a senior doctor on condition of anonymity. At Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, there were only 390 people immunised on Monday which is almost the same as its daily average. A senior doctor on condition of anonymity said, “The number of people who come for vaccination in the second half of the day is anyway fewer, and fewer still came after hours. Increasing the timing and number of centres has only added to the wastage of doses. Even if one person comes after hours, we have to open a vial that contains 10 doses and the other nine will go to waste.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/888-new-covid-cases-and-seven-deaths-on-monday-highest-fatality-count-in-46-days-101616445051493.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Drugs kingpin Kishan Singh extradited from UK in connection with 2017 meow meow seizure in Delhi||Alleged drugs syndicate kingpin Kishan Singh, a British citizen, has been extradited to India from the UK, Delhi Police said on Monday. Singh was wanted by the Delhi Police in a case from 2017, wherein 25 kilos of mephedrone (commonly known as meow meow), estimated to be worth about ₹50 crore, was recovered from his three associates. Police said Singh runs an international drugs syndicate that deals in meow meow. Senior Delhi Police officers said that this is the first and only case so far of extraditing a UK-based international drugs kingpin to India. Police said the extradition process against Singh, 39, was initiated in June 2018 when the proposal was sent to the UK through Interpol. Singh was living in Hayes, London, from where he has been extradited to India. Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said Singh was engaged in procuring high-quality psychotropic substances for the United Kingdom through his network in India. “The meow meow drug that Singh deals in, originates in the African subcontinent from where it reaches Mumbai via shipments. Singh has a chain of associates in Mumbai. Once the consignment reaches Mumbai, he coordinates with agents in Delhi and Mumbai to fetch the consignments and subsequently transport them further to the USA, the UK, the UAE, Malaysia and other countries,” Yadav said. The DCP said Singh was wanted in a case of 2017. “On February 15, 2017, three drug traffickers – Amandeep Singh, Harpreet Singh and Harnish Sarpal -- were arrested in Delhi and 25.852 kilos of meow meow, worth ₹50 crore, was recovered from them. During interrogation, the trio had disclosed that they work for Singh who is based in the UK. During further investigation, Singh was declared a proclaimed offender and a non-bailable warrant was obtained against him. The extradition proceedings were initiated against him in June 2018,” the DCP said. Singh was born in Nagaur, Rajasthan, and migrated to the UK in 2009. There, initially, he tried to start a business and in 2015, acquired British citizenship, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/drugs-kingpin-kishan-singh-extradited-from-uk-in-connection-with-2017-meow-meow-seizure-in-delhi-101616444931480.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Nearly 218 people die each year in Delhi from thermal power plant fumes: Study||Every year, nearly 218 people die in Delhi from exposure to a toxic cocktail of fumes from the 12 thermal power plants located in a 300km radius of the national capital, an estimate by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) showed.Sunil Dahiya, an analyst at CREA and the primary author of ”Health and economic impacts of unabated coal power generation in Delhi-NCR”, said the study estimated that the operation of the 12 power plants around the capital resulted in 218 deaths annually in Delhi, and 682 across Delhi-NCR, and more than 4,800 deaths across the country at 55% plant load factor—the ratio of average power generated by the plant to the maximum power that could have been generated in a given time—and more than 8,200 deaths at 100% PLF.“The installation of emission control technologies would prevent 62% of these deaths across the country, which would translate to around 2,976 to 5,084 lives saved annually,” Dahiya said.To arrive at the estimates of annual deaths caused by power plant pollution, researchers took the actual emissions from these 12 power plants in 2018 and assessed their impact on a city’s population. Meteorological conditions were also taken into consideration, CREA said.The findings also highlighted that pollution from the 12 plants had economic impacts far beyond Delhi-NCR. The state-wise distribution of economic impacts of power plant operation in Delhi-NCR suggests that the highest cost burden was faced by Uttar Pradesh ( ₹2,301 crore) followed by Rajasthan ( ₹1,125 crore), Madhya Pradesh ( ₹1,100 crore), Haryana ( ₹395 crore), Gujarat ( ₹362 crore), Delhi ( ₹292 crore) and Punjab ( ₹242 crore).Experts pointed out that while pollution had become a conversation starter in the national capital, which forced governments to act on controlling various pollution sources, there was still a lack of awareness about how exposure to power plant emissions impacts health.The Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), in 2015, had notified emission norms for particulate matter (PM), sulphur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen, which had to be complied with by power stations in 2017.However, the industry pushed back and committed before the Supreme Court that it will comply with norms by 2022. In January this year, the power ministry asked the environment ministry to dilute norms for SO2 emissions from coal-fired thermal power plants citing “unachievable deadlines and unnecessary norms”. There was also a proposal to extend the deadline for complying with the emission norms from 2022 to 2024.A recent compliance report by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) showed that out of the 12 power plants located around Delhi, SO2 control technology was available only in two plants. It was observed that in six of these power plants, work on the control of SO2 emissions was underway, while in the remaining four plants, the work progress was slow.“In India, 58% of the thermal power plants are still not complying or haven’t put out tenders to comply with 2015 emission standard notification. Whether it is a state power plant, state discom or private power plant, nothing is being done to resolve issues. Non-compliance has to be taken seriously, and the onus is as much on the state governments as on the Centre, where there is a need for enhanced transparency,” said Nivit Kumar Yadav, programme director (industrial pollution unit), CSE.Yadav further said, “Old power plants need to be phased out at the earliest as their harmful emissions impact everyone’s health.”They said the only significant work to control the pollution from thermal power plants in the Delhi-NCR was the closure of the Badarpur Thermal Power Station in 2018.“My concern about compliance is that the standards keep changing continuously. We may press for various standards, but the coal plant operators can get the standards changed. What’s worse, the deadline to install emission control technologies seems to be further extended biannually,” said environment lawyer Ritwick Dutta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nearly-218-people-die-each-year-in-delhi-from-thermal-power-plant-emissions-finds-study-101616444932048.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Robbers use brick to smash man’s leg, then snatch his phone and bag; two suspects held||In order to neutralise a 21-year-old pharmaceutical firm employee whose mobile phone they planned to rob, two snatchers allegedly attacked him with a brick while he was walking home from work in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, the police said on Monday after arresting the two suspects.The brick attack left the victim, Akash Mishra, with a fractured leg and unable to resist the robbery, but he managed to note down the model, colour and the last four registration digits of the motorcycle used by the suspects.That bit of information, coupled with the police’s investigation and multiple searches, led to the arrest of the two suspects, said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). “We have recovered the phone, the gym bag and tiffin box that the victim was robbed of,” Thakur said.Mishra lives with his family in Sangam Vihar and works in Green Park. He was targeted around 11.30pm on Friday while walking home from work.The two suspects, identified by the police by their first names as Manish and Vicky, allegedly intercepted him and the pillion rider approached him with a brick and thrashed him until he fell on the road. Mishra would later learn that the brick attack had fractured his legThe robbers then fled with his phone and a gym bag which contained some cash and a tiffin box.Later, the police registered a case of robbery and learnt from Mishra the last four digits of the suspects’ motorcycle registration number.The DCP said with the information that Mishra supplied, the police were able to zero in on an Apache motorcycle that was registered in Sangam Vihar.Luckily for the police, the suspects had used a motorcycle owned by Manish, rather than a stolen one, to carry out the crime. Having identified the house where the motorcycle owner lived, the police waited patiently before nabbing Manish, 25, on Sunday. At his instance, his associate Vicky, 28, was also nabbed.While Manish has no criminal record, Vicky has seven previous cases of theft, robbery and snatching against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/robbers-use-brick-to-smash-man-s-leg-then-snatch-his-phone-and-bag-two-suspects-held-101616444871487.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Glaciers have reduced from 25% to 17% in J&K: Sinha||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Monday underlined reconciliatory measures to recharge the rapidly depleting water resources in Jammu and Kashmir. Sinha said climate change has impacted J&K as well where glaciers have reduced from 25% to 17%. “Out of 208 hydrograph stations that were monitored, the water level in 171 wells has decreased. The water level has increased in only 37 wells in Jammu division,” he said. Sinha said the water-level in Kathua, Samba, Jammu and Udhampur districts has also gone down and efforts need to be made to recharge them with the active support of the people. “It is high time that we work out an integrated strategy to increase the receding water level in the wells before it is too late,” he said. He, however, expressed satisfaction that the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) has kept all 20 districts of the UT in ‘safe category’. “But it has also asked us to be cautious because climate change is also affecting J&K,” said Sinha. The L-G said 90% of the water bodies, including ponds in J&K, remained ignored. In this context, he cited a report of the Survey of India in 1911 regarding Wullar Lake in Kashmir valley. “As per the report, Asia’s largest freshwater lake today has shrunk to 75.82 sq km from 91.29 sq km open area. I have cited just one instance. There are many such lakes and ponds,” said the LG. In Udhampur district, he said, there were 26 lakes and water bodies which have now been reduced to only 19. He called for active participation of elected representatives and people of J&K in rainwater harvesting and water conservation activities On the occasion, he also inaugurates and laid foundation for various water supply schemes, irrigation schemes and projects worth ₹117.49 crores. He also underlined the need of supplying potable water through pipes to every household in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/glaciers-have-reduced-from-25-to-17-in-jksinha-101616444812096.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi cabinet nod for setting up 100 schools of specialised excellence||The Delhi cabinet on Monday approved the setting up 100 schools of specialised excellence to cater to children with specific interests in science, arts, and skills education. The schools will cater to students from classes 9 to 12, the government said on Monday.“In order to better serve the needs of gifted students of government schools of Delhi, the Delhi government plans to establish “Schools of Specialised Excellence” that will cater to students who are gifted in various areas of study such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), performing and visual arts, humanities and high-end 21st-century skills,” the government said in a statement, adding that the cabinet approved the setting up of 100 such schools.“These schools will be choice-based and will cover grades 9 to 12, i.e., the last four years will be in the “5+3+3+4” framework of schooling introduced by the New Education Policy (NEP), 2020,” the statement added.The government vision includes upgrading the existing government schools to the level of 22 Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalayas and six existing Schools of Excellence – both categories of institutions are high-end and resource-rich. While RPVVs only have classes from 6 to 12, the medium of instruction in SoEs is English.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had announced setting up of 100 schools of excellence in the state budget earlier this month. On Monday, he said the schools would provide the “right platform” to students to hone their skills in their area of interest.“..These new Schools of Specialised Excellence will nurture specialisations among children having special aptitude and interest in the four domains [STEM, Performing and Visual Arts, Humanities, and skill education],” the education minister said.In order to enable students to achieve their highest potential, the schools will aim to provide holistic and experiential learning opportunities through good infrastructure, creativity and problem-solving focused learning and teaching, strong partnerships with universities and industry leaders, mentorship schemes and easy access to role models.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-nod-for-setting-up-100-schools-of-specialised-excellence-101616444751482.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Olive component effective against Parkinson’s disease: PU study||A study carried out by the researchers at Panjab University (PU) has found that a component in olives is effective in treating Parkinson’s disease.Hydroxytyrosol (HXT), a phenolic compound present in olives, was evaluated in the pre-clinical studies, and the results were published in an international journal, Biomedicine and Pharmacotherapy, last week. The study was conducted by a PhD student of PU’s biochemistry department, Anjana Pathania, under the supervision of professor Rajat Sandhir.Affecting 10 million people worldwide, Parkinson’s disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease after Alzheimer’s, in which a part of the brain progressively damages over the years. It is a type of movement disorder caused due to the loss of a chemical called Dopamine that sends signals and controls body movement. The study found that hydroxytyrosol works by targeting an enzyme that is responsible for dopamine loss.Anjana Pathania said, “The study evaluated the potential of hydroxytyrosol as an anti-Parkinsonian molecule in terms of its ability to maintain dopamine (DA) levels in the patients of Parkinson’s.”Results and benefitsAccording to the results of the study, hydroxytyrosol has the potential to be a future treatment as it successfully reduces motor abnormalities by increasing dopamine levels in the brain. It also preserves neurons, which are damaged due to Parkinson’s.Professor Sandhir said, “The findings of the study are of high interest to the pharmaceutical industry because of various beneficial properties, and are expected to provide a new therapeutic approach against Parkinson’s that affects millions worldwide. However, clinical studies would be required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/olive-component-effective-against-parkinson-s-disease-pu-study-101616444632585.html
23-03-2021||Other||Tarn Taran encounter: SIT formed, forensic team visits site||A day after two murder accused were shot dead in a police encounter at Singhpura village in Bhikhiwind sub-division of Tarn Taran district, a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to probe the case as questions are being raised on the police action. The nihangs, Mehtab Singh, 50, and Gurdev Singh, 40, were accused of murdering a Sikh granthi, Baba Santokh Singh, 65, in Nanded city of Maharashtra on March 11SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said DSP rank officers Ravisher Singh and Kanwaljit Singh will be members of the SIT and Mehtab Singh, SP investigation, will supervise the investigation. A team of doctors has also been formed to conduct post-mortem of bodies. The SSP said family of one of the dead accused, Gurdev Singh, who belonged to Amritsar city, have been traced and intimated about his death. “We have found that the second accused, Mehtab Singh, belonged to Anandpur Sahib but his kin is yet to be traced,” he said, adding that a transparent and fair investigation was already on in the case. Notably, Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh had ordered a magisterial probe hours after the Police action and assigned the probe to Patti SDM Rajesh Sharma. However, the SDM did not start the probe till Monday. “I will start probe tomorrow (Tuesday),” said SharmaMeanwhile, a team of Forensic Science Laboratory, Chandigarh, on request of the Tarn Taran Police visited the site for examination. Human rights organisations, including Khalra Mission Organization and Punjab Human Rights Organization, have sought a probe into the incident by HC judges. A joint statement by many such organisations said police could not murder an accused, with only the court empowered to do so. Khemkaran station house officer (SHO) sub inspector Narinder Singh and Valtoha SHO sub inspector Balwinder Sing who had been attacked with a sword by the accused underwent hand surgeries and their condition is stated to be stable. Bhikhiwind SHO Sarbjit Singh, said, “The thumb of sub inspector Narinder Singh’s left hand was almost cut off by the sword, while the attackers severed sub-inspector Balwinder Singh’s little finger. Doctors successfully operated both officials and they are out of danger.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-encounter-sit-formed-forensic-team-visits-site-101616444152089.html
23-03-2021||Other||GMADA’s new policy to give relief to 400 property defaulters||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has come up with an amnesty policy to provide relief to defaulters who bought properties, both commercial and residential, in draws of lots and auctions in the last four years, but failed to clear their outstanding dues within stipulated periods of time.As many as 400 defaulters of various projects including Aerocity, Eco-city, Purab Premium apartments and several other commercial properties stand to benefit.As per the policy, which has been sent to the Punjab cabinet for final approval, only those who paid 25% of the amount are eligible under the scheme.‘GMADA was charging 18% annual interest’A senior official of GMADA said, “It was a long-pending demand of the defaulters as GMADA was charging 18% interest annually on the defaulted amount, which amounts to a huge sum. We want to give the allottees a chance to clear their dues. The defaulters who failed to clear their dues in the last four years stand eligible under this policy.”He further said that most of the defaulters were those who were successful in buying the properties during the draw of lots.By way of draws of lots and auctions, GMADA in the last five years has sold properties including built-up booths, showroom sites, institutional sites and residential projects in Aerocity, Knowledge City and IT City, also close to the airport; and Eco City-1 and 2, Edu City and Medi City, all in New Chandigarh.As per the norms, if a successful allottee does not pay the required amount within the stipulated period of time, the property is resumed by the estate office.Shailander Anand, former chairman of Mohali Property Consultants Association (MPCA), said, “We have requested GMADA to consider the demand of the allottees to allow them to pay the outstanding amounts in installments. Also, the authority should slash the interest amount from 18% to around 12%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gmadas-new-policy-to-give-relief-to-400-property-defaulters-101616443852094.html
23-03-2021||Other||PSPCL paid ₹5,400 cr to pvt plants for power it did not draw||‘Power Surplus Punjab’ has cost the state a fortune, while also taking a huge toll on consumers’ pocket. The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has been paying fixed costs to Independent Power Producers (IPPs) for its failure to draw power from these. This is as per Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) with the IPPs and this deal was done to make sure the state has surplus power. These charges are ultimately passed on to consumers. The clause, however, has proved counterproductive for the PSPCL as it has shelled ₹5,400 crore to these private thermal power plants, since they came on-stream. The opposition has demanded a white paper on the PPAs, with the issue likely to snowball into a poll issue as payments have risen manifold over the years. In a recent review meeting of Power Corporation Management, it has come out to fore that the power surrender cost to the IPPs has been increasing. The Nabha Power Plant and Talwandi Sabo Power Plants are the biggest beneficiaries of PPA clause of paying for fixed cost. “We are in shock. Since 2013 onwards, PSPCL has paid ₹5,400 crore as fixed cost for not drawing power as per capacity of the IPPs. It was a poor policy decision taken in 2009. Things are going to worsen, as we anticipate a cost of ₹1,400 crore per year for the next three years. With this amount, PSPCL could have set up its own new plant of 1,400 MW,” said an engineer, who was part of the deliberation. As per PSPCL’s calculations of amount paid for surrendered power, Talwandi Sabo Power Plant has got ₹2,729 crore in last six fiscals, Nabha Power Plant has got ₹1,811 crore for seven fiscals, and GVK Talwandi Sabo got ₹887 crore over the past four fiscals as fixed cost in lieu of PSPCL not drawing power.In the past PSPCL has tried to avoid paying for fixed charges by keeping its own plants shut for eight months is a year. This is another disadvantage as PSPCL is paying salaries to power generation staff without using them full time. The utility has also been trying its best to decrease the burden of surrendered power by selling power through exchange. “Surplus power has became a big problem. Peak demand remains is only four months. Punjab has planned IPPs by assuming power demand as per peak demand. Policy makers should have done PPAs as per Gujarat, which seeks power only for peak demand months, and have made no provision of paying fixed cost for remaining months. It could have saved several thousands crores of rupees,” said a PSPCL functionary. “As this malaise looks incurable, the state government and the PSPCL should take the burden of such expenses. Consumers must not be burdened,” said Vijay Bansal, a businessman. All India Power Engineers Association (AIPEF) spokesman VK Gupta said they had raised this issue with the PSPCL and the government a number of times. “PPAs are faulty. It has now been proved that power demand was inflated and wrong figures were used to bring IPPs into the state.”WORKING TO REDUCE THIS BURDEN: PSPCL CMDPSPCL chairman and managing director (CMD) A Venu Parsad said the corporation was paying fixed cost, as per the provisions of the PPA. “To reduce this burden, the PSPCL aggressively sold surplus power during winter, apart from banking of power with other states, which the utility draws during summer.” He added that the bill of the fixed cost appeared to be high, as the PSPCL has brought cheaper from the power grid over the past two years, which was more economical than all Punjab-based generation stations, government or private. “PSPCL takes purchase decisions on merit, considering that whether power is cheaper from the grid or from own resources,” he said, claiming that power purchase cost has reduced over the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pspcl-paid-5-400-cr-to-pvt-plants-for-power-it-did-not-draw-101616443793071.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||₹7.29-cr bank fraud: CBI court frames charges against 5, including retired officials of Indian Overseas Bank||A special CBI court has framed charges against five persons, including directors of Arvind Machine Tools Private Limited, proprietor of Punjab Steel Scrap Corporation and retired officials of Indian Overseas Bank (IOB), Sector 7-C, for causing wrongful loss to the bank to the tune of ₹7.29 crore.The court on Monday framed charges against Arvind Machine Tools Private Limited director Sahil and his mother Daljit Kaur, proprietor of Punjab Steel Scrap Corporation Parminder Singh, then IOB branch manager Adarsh Kumar Rajwanshi and former senior manager Raj Kumar Panjla.The court has already declared Amarinder Singh Gorwara, another director of Arvind Machine Tools Private Limited, as proclaimed offender.The charges were framed under sections 120-B, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act. The court would start recording evidence in the case from June 4.The case The CBI on October 7, 2015, had registered an FIR following a complaint by IOB chief regional manager DC Kar.As per the FIR, the firm (Arvind Machine Tools) was engaged in manufacturing of auto components. Arvinder (now deceased) and Amarinder were the company directors, but in 2014, Arvinder was removed and Sahil was made the director without the knowledge and consent of the bank.The investigations revealed that in order to siphon off money from the bank, the firm made transactions through RTGS in the accounts of multiple bogus companies.It was mentioned by CBI that due to the omissions and commissions on part of the accused, the bank was defrauded to the tune of ₹7.29 crore by using fabricated documents.Two bank officials dischargedThe special CBI court has discharged two IOB officials — then senior manager Vijay Kumar Grover and then chief manager Satya Kumar Pareek.They were discharged on basis of a letter of the bank’s vigilance department whereby grant of sanction for prosecution against Grover and Pareek has been declined by the general manager, disciplinary authority of IOB.Even the chief vigilance officer had declined the grant of sanction for prosecution against both the accused persons while agreeing with the competent authority’s decision. “This court cannot take cognisance against accused Grover and Pareek and therefore, they are ordered to be discharged from the offences,” said the court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/729cr-bank-fraud-cbi-court-frames-charges-against-5-including-retired-officials-of-indian-overseas-bank-101616443792017.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||HP records 200 new cases, bans gatherings in school, colleges||There is no let-up in Covid-19 infections as Himachal Pradesh Monday recorded 200 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 60,878. This is the highest single day spike this year.The death toll has mounted to 1,008 after three more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 96 were reported in Una, 41 in Kangra, 26 in Solan, 17 in Sirmaur, seven in Bilaspur, six in Shimla, three each in Kinnaur and Mandi and one in Hamirpur.Recoveries have reached 58,466 after 68 people recovered. The active caseload climbed to 1,385.Shimla is the worst-hit district with 10,691 cases, followed by Mandi with 10,376 cases, and Kangra with 8,988 cases. Solan has 7,065 cases, Kullu 4,500, Sirmaur 3,758, Una 3,592, Hamirpur 3,175, Bilaspur 3,093, Chamba 2,988, Kinnaur 1,394, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,258. Meanwhile, given the spurt in Covid-19 cases the state government has banned all kind of gatherings in the schools and colleges in the state.Director, higher education, Amarjeet K Sharma has issued an order to this effect and asked the heads of the educational institutions to comply with the orders in letter and spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-records-200-new-cases-bans-gatherings-in-school-colleges-101616443732179.html
23-03-2021||Other||Mohali car crash: If found guilty, teen accused could face life imprisonment||The 18-year-old accused of driving the Mercedes that ran over three persons near Radha Soami Satsang Chowk in Mohali on Saturday morning, could face life imprisonment or jail up to 10 years as police have added sections of culpable homicide to the case.The teen, identified as Samrat Singh, a resident of Sector 34D, Chandigarh, was arrested on Sunday while two of his friends, who were allegedly in the car at the time of the mishap, are currently on the run. They have been identified as Arjun Kapoor, son of a stock broker and a resident of Sector 9, Chandigarh, and Prabhnoor Singh, son of the owner of Hotel Majestic, Phase 9, Mohali, who resides in Phase 7. All three study at a private school in Sector 26, Chandigarh. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said, “We are hopeful of arresting the other two soon. We have already requested the court for speedy trial in the case and exemplary punishment for the culprits. Had the teens stopped their car and taken the victims to a hospital, the victims’ lives could have been saved. But the trio was under the influence of liquor and fled from the scene.”The case against the trio has been registered under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code. District attorney Sanjiv Batra said if the police have added Section 304, it entails imprisonment for life, or imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death.While raids are on to arrest Arjun and Prabhnoor, police will be producing Samrat in the court on Tuesday as his one-day remand ended on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-car-crash-if-found-guilty-teen-accused-could-face-life-imprisonment-101616443552401.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hand grenades seizure case: NIA files chargesheet against 7 Khalistani operatives||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday filed a chargesheet against seven alleged Khalistani operatives in connection with a hand grenades seizure case in Amritsar, an official said.Jajbir Singh Samra, Varinder Singh Chahal, Kulbir Singh, Manjit Kaur, Taranbir Singh, Kulwinderjit Singh, operatives of Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), and Harmeet Singh, a Pakistan-based self-styled chief of the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), have been named in the chargesheet filed before a special NIA court in Mohali.They have been charged with sections of the Explosive Substances Act and the UA (P) Act, the official said.The case, filed in June 2019, pertains to the seizure of two hand grenades and a mobile phone from a bag recovered by the Punjab Police, which was thrown by two unknown bike-borne assailants at a bus stop in rural Amritsar when they were stopped by the police during a regular checking.The NIA took over the case and began investigation, the official said. Jajbir and Varinder were part of a narco-terror module involved in distributing the heroin smuggled from Pakistan in order to channelise the proceeds of drugs to various terrorist entities on the directions of Pakistan-based terrorist Harmeet Singh, the NIA official said.They also picked up grenades and concealed them at a pre-decided location for carrying out terrorist act to further the conspiracy hatched by Harmeet and Kulwinderjit, the official said.Kulbir, Manjit and Taranbir had harboured and provided logistics support, including accommodation, business VISA for Kulwinderjit in Cambodia and Malaysia when he had escaped from India, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case continues. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hand-grenades-seizure-case-nia-files-chargesheet-against-7-khalistani-operatives-101616443492000.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||J&K records 132 fresh cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded 132 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the total cases to 1,28,679 while the death toll stood at 1,981 with no fresh fatalities. Officials said 104 positive cases, including 19 travellers, were reported from Kashmir division while 28 fresh cases were reported from Jammu division.Since March 17, Jammu and Kashmir has constantly reported over 100 fresh daily cases with a major portion of them in Kashmir valley. Officials said 1, 25,362 people have recovered in the UT so far taking the recovery rate to 97.42%. There are now 1,336 active cases in the UT. A total of 1,249 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 732 in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-records-132-fresh-cases-101616443371944.html
23-03-2021||Other||Youngsters from BKU (Ugrahan) march to Delhi||Sangrur To observe Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s martyrdom day that falls on Tuesday, a caravan of youth activists under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugarahan) marched to the Tikri border of Delhi via Khanauri border of Sangrur on Monday. The youngsters modelled themselves the great freedom fighter and revolutionary in their attire and raised slogans against the three ‘black laws”.Jagtar Singh Kalajhar, a youth leader, said the youngsters were enthusiastic in their effort to pay tributes to Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev.“The government is practising the policy of divide and rule. The young, however, will prove that they will combine the maturity of the elderly with the energy of the youth and make March 23 special. The government wants to demoralise the farmers’ agitation; albeit, such a day reminds the people of the significance of struggle,” added Kalajhar, adding that all youngsters needed to be disciplined to ensure that their agitation cannot be crushed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/youngsters-from-bku-ugrahan-march-to-delhi-101616443252535.html
23-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana marriage palace owners bear the brunt of fresh curbs||Marriage palace owners in the city and its periphery are finding it difficult to cope with the fresh directives issued by the state government regarding restrictions on gathering at weddings and functions up to 20 guests only.According to marriage palace owners, 99% bookings of for March have been cancelled and those who had made reservations for April are in the lurch.The owners have sought relaxation from the government citing the losses they have already suffered in the last one year. Ludhiana district has 130 marriage palaces.Amarjit Singh, president of the local marriage palace owners’ welfare association, said they have to pay salaries of the staff and maintain the facility as well.He said theatres are allowed to operate with 50% occupancy, while marriage palaces are way bigger than multiplexes and theatres. “Marriage palaces have big halls and lawns. Some of them have a capacity of accommodating 1,500 to 2,000 guests,” he added.“Such decisions should be practical. We should be allowed to hold functions and parties as we have a lot of space to maintain social distancing,” said Amarjit.“At least 200 families are being directly affected by the curbs. Waiters, cooks, photographers, dancers, DJs, security guards, florists, and vendors are directly dependent on weddings. Apart from it, sectors like garments, shoes and fashion accessories also bank on such ceremonies,” he added.Rajnish Kumar, secretary of the association, said people started cancelling their programmes after the government enforced the night curfew. “Now, the government has restricted gathering to 20 guests only. While some have postponed their plans, others are opting for simple ceremonies in gurdwaras, temples and other religious places,” he said, adding that they will take up the issue with the government.Earlier, Punjab hotel and restaurant association had criticised the government for allegedly discriminating against them. Representatives of the association had sought permission to organise events with 50% capacity.They had said that 95% of the bookings stood cancelled and people started shifting the programmes to Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh, where no such restrictions are in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-marriage-palace-owners-bear-the-brunt-of-fresh-curbs-101616443134088.html
23-03-2021||Other||Gunman of Punjab BJP spokesperson dies as AK-47 goes off accidentally||A head constable, who was a part of security detail of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Punjab unit spokesperson Anil Sareen, died when his service rifle went off at the leader’s house on Monday morning. The bullet hit his chin and pierced through his head.The deceased has been identified as Joginder Singh, 50, of Raikot. He was deputed in the security of Sareen three months ago. Naresh Kumar, driver of the BJP leader, in his statement to police said he and head constable Joginder used to live in one room of the house. On Sunday night, Joginder had told him that he will clean his rifle in the morning. On Monday morning, Joginder woke up early and went to another room to clean his AK-47 rifle which accidentally went off. Sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh from Division Number 8 police station said that on hearing the gunshot, Naresh rushed to the room where he found Joginder Singh dead. He raised alarm and informed the police. The SI added that the police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.Joginder Singh is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. Previous incidentsMarch 20, 2020: A security man deputed with former deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Sukhpal Singh Brar suffered a bullet injury on his left shoulder when his service rifle AK-47 accidentally went offSeptember 3, 2018: Facing departmental inquiry for being absent from the duty, a head constable “committed suicide” by shooting self in his head with a self-loading rifle in Division Number 2 police station. He was filling in for a munshi. However, police officials had claimed that the head constable died in accidental fireApril 16: A constable deputed as gunman with PPS officer Paramjit Singh Pannu had ended his life by shooting himself with his duty rifle at his quarter. His neighbours came to know about the incident when they witnessed foul smell emitting from his residence. The police had suspected that he died in an accidental fireMarch 24: A head constable deputed at Police Lines station was injured when his service rifle accidentally went off. The cop, Balwinder Singh, 45, resided in the employees’ quartersJanuary 26: Manjit Ram, 44, the driver-cum-gunman of Jagraon City SHO, Inderjit Singh, was killed when the AK-47 he (Ram) was carrying fired accidentally||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gunman-of-punjab-bjp-spokesperson-dies-as-ak-47-goes-off-accidentally-101616443133080.html
23-03-2021||Other||Covid infects 341 more in Ludhiana, cases go past 31,000 mark||More than 300 coronavirus cases were reported on the third consecutive day in Ludhiana and the district also saw two deaths, which took the toll to 1,085. The city recorded 341 fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours, toppling the Sunday and Saturday’s records of 330 and 329 cases. Monday’s figure became the highest single-day count of the year so far. In the last eight days, the district has recorded a total of 35 Covid-related deaths and 1,941 fresh infections with over 200 new cases being added to the tally every single day. However, it is for the third time in over five months that the single-day count has breached the 300-mark. The cumulative case count crossed 31,000-mark in merely three days. It was on March 19 that the coronavirus cases in the district had surpassed 30,000 barrier. With 27,962 recoveries so far, the district is left with 1,085 active cases. The latest fatalities in Ludhiana included a 55-year-old man from Angad Enclave and 65-year-old man from Aman Nagar. Meanwhile, noted ENT specialist and social worker Dr Arun Mitra tested positive again for Covid-19. Mitra, who had contracted the virus last year, said he tested positive again on Sunday. He is suffering from fever and cough. Dr Mitra had received the first dose of vaccine nearly 10 days ago. 13 students among those infectedThose who tested positive in the last 24 hours included two healthcare workers, five teachers and 13 students. The teachers are from Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS) Jarkhar, Sacred Heart School, BRS Nagar and DAV School, Pakhowal Road. While four students each from GSSS Rakba and Gosla villages have tested positive, two students from GSSS Chak Kalan and one each from PCTE College, Baddowal, GMT International School, Inder Nagar and Multipurpose school contracted the virus. Besides, six staffers of Government College Girls and GSSS Gosla village also tested positive. CMCH report indicated doubling of casesThe findings of reports shared by the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) with the state health department had indicated doubling of cases. Dr Jeyaraj Durai Pandian, principal and professor of neurology, CMCH, said the report was compiled by the community medicine department that was shared on March 5 and had highlighted some observations. In the report, it was stated that if Covid norms are followed, then the infection will reach its peak by March 20 and witness a decline thereafter. The report had stated that if people fail to follow ‘safe behaviour’, then the cases may begin to rise and by March 22, the state will begin to witness 3,000 infections daily. The report had mentioned schools and colleges to be the drivers of pandemic.It was observed that youngsters carry high viral load, but mild symptoms of infection which could result in spreading the virus among elderly, leaving them seriously ill. 5,928 people inoculated As many as 5,928 people turned up for Covid vaccination at various government and private health centres in Ludhiana on Monday. These included 2,278 senior citizens and 1,240 comorbid people. Besides, 510 healthcare workers came for the first dose, while 106 received the second dose. At least 1,569 frontline workers also got the first dose and another 225 came forward for the second dose. So far, 1,09,866 people in the district have been inoculated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-infects-341-more-in-ludhiana-cases-go-past-31-000-mark-101616443132078.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||J&K lecturer held for issuing fake appointment, transfer orders||The Crime Branch on Monday arrested a lecturer for issuing forged and fictitious appointment and transfer orders in Jammu and Kashmir. The accused, Arfat Ahmed Khan, was working as a computer science lecturer at a government higher secondary school Jakyas in Doda. He is a resident of Baland Pur in Assar tehsil of Doda. “The accused was arrested under Sections 465 (house-trespass),468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (uses as genuine a fraudulent record) of the Indian Penal Code for his involvement in issuing forged and fictitious appointment and transfer/posting orders in the school education department. The accused was not cooperating and was constantly on the run. He kept changing his location from one place to another in both Jammu and Srinagar to evade arrest,” said a spokesman. Crime Branch Jammu vigorously contested the anticipatory bail application of the accused, which led to his application being rejected. “The case owes its origin to a communication made by director school education, Jammu, alleging that while scrutinising records, some fake and forged transfer orders of lecturers were detected and reported,” he said. On this, the crime branch, Jammu initiated a preliminary enquiry and involvement of Arafat Ahmed Khan (lecturer) was prima facie established. Besides issuing fake and fictitious orders of appointment and transfers to others, he had also issued a similar transfer order shifting himself from government higher secondary school Jakyas to Kishtwar. “The accused has been arrested and produced before a court. Police remand has been sought for further investigation of the case,” said a spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-lecturer-held-for-issuing-fake-appointment-transfer-orders-101616443011860.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Cong attempts to rein in rebels ahead of MC polls in Himachal||A day after the Congress announced its list of candidates for the four municipal corporations due to go to polls in the hill-state, the party’s disciplinary committee met on Monday to discuss reining in of potential rebels. In the meeting, which was chaired by Congress’ former Rajya Sabha member Viplove Thakur , members were asked to keep tabs on anti-party activities. The party’s general secretary Sanjay Awasthi, leader Kewal Singh Pathania, and Rohru legislator Mohan Lal Brakta were also in attendence. Thakur said, “No party or family can move forward without discipline. I will personally look into complaints pertaining to Kangra and Shimla districts.” Allocating district-wise responsibilities to the members of the committee, she said Brakta will oversee the polls in Solan and Sirmaur, while Pathania will be responsible for Mandi and Hamirpur. Chet Ram Thakur has been entrusted with complaint redressal in Kinnaur, Lahul Spiti and Kullu and Sanjay Awasthi in Una, Chamba and Bilaspur. Sharmila Patial will be the coordinator. Viplove said all leaders, office bearers of the Congress party and its frontal organisations and departments of the party have been asked to alert the district or block Congress committee and the state Congress office about all political programmes. “Action will be taken against any party member who speaks out against any Congress leader to the media or through social media,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-attempts-to-rein-in-rebels-ahead-of-mc-polls-in-himachal-101616442651937.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||US Sikhs to donate ₹8 crore for 1MW solar system at Golden Temple, adjacent gurdwaras||Some US-based Sikh orgainsations have agreed to donate ₹8 crore for installing a 1 megawatt solar power system in the Golden Temple in Amritsar and the historic gurdwaras situated in its surroundings as part of a project proposed by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). A delegation of Sikh devotees comprising Rachhpal Singh Dhindsa, chairperson, United Sikh Mission, California, and Sikh Lens Foundation president Vicky Singh held a meeting with SGPC president Jagir Kaur regarding the project which will help reduce electricity expenses at the shrines. Jagir Kaur said, “Rachhpal Singh Dhindsa had offered to fund the project. We accepted after exploring all the technical aspects it was decided that the solar power system will be installed on the roofs of the buildings. She added, “In today’s meeting it was discussed that the project will be completed in 3-4 months. The task has been assigned to the United Sikh Mission and the Sikh Lens Foundation, both based in California. The plant would produce 14 lakh units a year and it will reduce the SGPC’s electricity expenses at Sri Darbar Sahib by about 50% i.e. about ₹1 crore.”Such systems will also be installed at Takhts (Sikh temporal seats) and other gurdwaras managed by the SGPC, she said.Dhindsa said, “We are thankful to Guru Ramdas for blessing us with the sewa (service) at Sri Darbar Sahib. We have completed the study to install the solar power plant. We have received proposals from seven top solar companies based in India. We request the Sikh sangat settled abroad to contribute to serve the gurdwaras.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/us-sikhs-to-donate-rs-8-crore-for-1mw-solar-system-at-golden-temple-adjacent-gurdwaras-101616442535185.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||BJP announces candidates for civic body polls in Himachal||The BJP’s state election committee on Monday released a list of candidates for the municipal corporation polls scheduled for April 7. The ruling party has declared candidates for all 64 wards of the four municipal corporations — Dharamshala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan.State BJP president and MP Suresh Kashyap said the candidates had been selected on the basis of deliberations, surveys and feedback from the public.“All BJP candidates are committed workers, honest and known for the work they have done for society,” he said, adding that the saffron party had already declared election in-charges for each municipal body. Forests and sports minister Rakesh Pathania is in-charge of Dharamshala, industries minister Bikram Singh of Palampur, Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur of Mandi and former state president Rajeev Bindal of Solan.This time, the MC elections are being held on party symbols. The Congress has declared its list of candidates for all but nine wards of the four municipal corporations late on Sunday.Notably, the Dharamshala MC is going to polls for the second time after its formation in 2015 while the other civic bodies are newly formed and will be going to polls for the first time.At present, the Congress is incumbent in Dharamshala and the BJP is hoping to wrest the civic body from the Congress. The ruling party only has three councillors in the outgoing house while Congress has 14.The process of filing nomination has already begun and will end on March 24. Scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on March 25 while candidates may withdraw their nominations on April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-announces-candidates-for-civic-body-polls-in-himachal-101616442292091.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder dismisses Kejriwal’s claim of not keeping a single poll promise||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday dismissed as ridiculous his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal’s claim that the Congress government in the state failed to keep even a single promise made in the run-up to the 2017 assembly polls. “The people of Punjab were wise enough to your deceptions then, and can see through them now as well. Your barefaced lies will be exposed again, just as they were in 2017,” said the CM, in response to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener’s criticism of his government during a rally in Moga on Sunday. The AAP leader had said his party will give 20 lakh jobs to the youths if voted to power in Punjab in 2022. Amarinder said it was ridiculous to compare his government’s track record of implementation of over 84% promises with fulfilling less than 25% of the promises AAP made in the election manifesto. “If this is the Delhi model you (Kejriwal) are promising, then people of Punjab are better off without it. Instead of indulging in claims and taking revenge, Kejriwal should focus on Delhi as he had fulfilled only 11 of his party’s 70 promises. The voters in Punjab will not be deceived by hyperbole,” Amarinder addedAmarinder pointed out that as per a report on periodic labour force survey (2018-19) released by the Union ministry of statistics and programme implementation, Punjab has 7.2% unemployment against Delhi’s 8.0%, even lower than the national average. “The AAP government in Delhi failed to show its progress on its 8-lakh jobs promise made in 2015. In contrast, our government in Punjab provided 16.29 lakh jobs/self-employment opportunities under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission, and 58,709 jobs alone in the government sector,” said Amarinder. The Punjab CM also lambasted Kejriwal for not ensuring Covid-19 protocol during the Moga rally, as many AAP leaders were seen without masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-dismisses-kejriwal-s-claim-of-not-keeping-a-single-poll-promise-101616442175616.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Doaba belt accounts for 45% of Punjab’s Covid deaths this year||Punjab’s Doaba region comprising four districts of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar and Hoshiarpur has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot amid the second wave of infection as it contributes nearly 45% of the total virus-related deaths in the state this year so far. The region witnessed as many as 451 fatalities of the state’s toll of 1,041 in the first 11 weeks of 2021. Of these, Jalandhar recorded the maximum 182 deaths, which was also the highest for any Punjab district, followed by Hoshiarpur where 152 people lost their lives to the virus. Kapurthala and SBS Nagar witnessed 35 and 82 deaths. On Monday, Doaba witnessed 31 of the state’s 58 fatalities, accounting for 53% the total figure. The maximum 10 deaths were reported in Hoshiarpur, followed by 9 each in Jalandhar and SBS Nagar.During the first coronavirus wave (till December 31, 2020), the situation in Doaba with regards to number of deaths was better as the region had nearly 23% (1,232 of 5,341) of the state’s total deaths. Hoshiarpur’s tally highest among 4 dists in last weekIn the last week, Hoshiarpur recorded the highest number of 47deaths among the four Doaba districts, followed by Jalandhar (46), SBS Nagar (22) and Kapurthala (11). Hoshiarpur’s figure was also the highest for any Punjab district during the same period. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the reason behind Doaba witnessing the maximum cases non-adherence to safety protocols. “Also, people report to hospital when their oxygen level gets very low. Nearly 80% of those who lost their lives to Covid-19 came for the test when the oxygen level had touched a low of 60%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doaba-belt-accounts-for-45-of-punjab-s-covid-deaths-this-year-101616442174665.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid-ve report, no entry: Karnataka to travellers from Punjab, Chandigarh||The Karnataka government on Monday decided to make a negative Covid-19 report not older than 72 hours mandatory for travellers from Punjab and Chandigarh. The government had already made the provision for those from Kerala and Maharashtra. “In order to contain the second virus wave, the existing guidelines issued to incoming travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra to carry negative RT-PCR negative reports not older than 72 hours at the time of entering Karnataka have been extended to Punjab and Chandigarh,” health minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted. A government circular said that recently a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases has been witnessed in Punjab and Chandigarh. The technical advisory committee recommended extending the same provision that existed for the travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra to those coming from Chandigarh and Punjab. The circular said the airlines should issue boarding passes only to those passengers who have the negative report. The railway officials and bus operators should ensure those entering Karnataka from these states have such a report. The deputy commissioners of the districts bordering Maharashtra and Kerala have been tasked with making arrangements to ensure that all the vehicles are checked for compliance of the order. Constitutional functionaries and healthcare professionals and children below two years old have been exempted from this provision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-ve-report-no-entry-karnataka-to-travellers-from-punjab-chandigarh-101616442172432.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Water harvesting structure to be built in each Jal Shakti subdivision: HP CM||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said at least one water harvesting structure will be constructed in each subdivision of the Jal Shakti department during the golden jubilee year of Himachal Pradesh’s statehood.He was presiding over a state-level World Water Day function at Kuthah near Janjehli in Seraj assembly segment of Mandi district. “The state government has taken the decision as per the Prime Minister’s call to ensure water conservation and rainwater harvesting in the state,” Thakur said, adding a special campaign will be launched in the first fortnight of June to check the quality of water, under which water samples will be collected in villages, schools and anganwadi centres for lab tests.A cleanliness drive for all sources of water will be launched from October 2 to 31, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. “ The objective of these programmes is to make ‘water quality and conservation’ campaign a mass movement,” the CM said.“The year 2021 is being celebrated as the golden jubilee year of statehood and different events on ‘water quality and conservation’ will be held till January 24, 2022 by the state’s Jal Shakti department, the CM said, adding that special gram sabhas will be held in all 3,615 panchayats of the state, in which a village action plan will be approved, and a village water and sanitation committee constituted.“When my government took over the reins three years ago, the state capital was facing a major water crisis. It was then that the state government decided to launch a ₹ 80-crore water supply scheme for Shimla that was completed within a year,” he said.The CM also remembered late Mandi MP Ramswroop Sharma and said people of the district would miss him as he had always taken up the developmental demands and aspirations of the people of the area during his tenure.App for paying water bills launched He also launched the ‘HP Water Bills Mobile App’, which will enable citizens to pay their water bill through their mobile. The app has been developed by the state’s National Informatics Centre and will facilitate 13.5 lakh consumers. The App will become functional from May 1.He also administered a ‘jal sapath’ on the occasion and interacted with the representatives of a few panchayats and consumers through videoconferencing and discussed the issue of water conservation. He also distributed water testing kits to women representatives of different panchayats.Thakur also launched ‘Seraji Tea’, an initiative by a local NGO. Later, the CM inaugurated the office building of PWD executive engineer, Seraj, at Janjehli and the science block of a Government Senior Secondary School Janjehli.Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur said it was the duty of every citizen to conserve water and ensure rainwater harvesting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/water-harvesting-structure-to-be-built-in-each-jal-shakti-subdivision-hp-cm-101616441933672.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Tibetan govt-in-exile: Tsering, Aukatsang to battle it out for Sikyong’s post||Former speaker of the Tibetan government-in-exile Penpa Tsering and Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang will contest in the final round in the general election for the post of Sikyong, president of the Central Tibetan Administration. Tsering had emerged winner in the preliminary round of the elections held on January 3, polling 24,488 votes. Aukatsang, who had been the Dalai Lama’s representative to North America and special advisor to the incumbent Sikyong, Lobsang Sangay, secured the second position with 14,544 votes. Eight people had contested in the first round for the top post. The final round of elections is slated for April 11.CTA’s chief election commissioner Wangdu Tsering Pesur said, “We have also shortlisted 20 candidates and three volunteer candidates for Utsang, 20 candidates and one volunteer candidate for Dotoe and 20 candidates for Domey constituencies and four candidates each for the four schools of Tibetan Buddhist sects and Yungdung Bon Religion.” Candidates have a 19-day window for campaigning, which will end on April 8. The 2021 general election for Sikyong and members of the 17th Tibetan Parliament is the third direct election of the Tibetan leadership since the complete devolution of political authority by the Dalai Lama in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tibetan-govt-in-exile-tsering-aukatsang-to-battle-it-out-for-sikyong-s-post-101616441575683.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh closes schools, colleges till March 31 in view of surging Covid cases||In view of the surging Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, the UT administration has announced a fresh slew of curbs for the city, including the closure of schools and colleges till March 31. Chandigarh had added around 2.900 cases to its tally in the first 21 days of the month, with over 200 cases being reported every day since March 17. The UT administration has also imposed curbs on gatherings, including political, social and wedding events, making it mandatory for residents to obtain permission from the deputy commissioner (DC), who will decide the number of guests for such events. The administration has also announced a ban on all public gatherings for Holi and no clubs, hotels or restaurants will be allowed to host any ceremonial gathering on the occasion. Residents celebrating the festival at home are expected to follow all Covid-appropriate protocol.Besides, the administration has announced curbs for restaurants, hotels and eateries across the city, which will now have bring down their shutters by 11pm and take the last order by 10pm. These units will also have to limit their customers to 50% of their seating capacity. The state museums, libraries, auditoriums and theatres etc run by the Chandigarh administration will remain closed till further orders. The administration has also decided not to grant permission for holding exhibitions or melas. However, all those events for which the administration gave a go-ahead earlier will be allowed as per schedule.There will also be strict monitoring at Sukhna Lake, apni mandis, markets and malls to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is being followed. To reduce crowding at apni mandis and the wholesale market in Sector 26, the municipal corporation will allow vegetable and fruit vendors to visit residential areas with their carts. Frontline workers, including health workers, police officials and municipal officials have been asked to come forward to get vaccinated. Eligible teachers and shopkeepers, who come in contact with students and people on a daily basis, have also been advised to get vaccinated without delay. No change for PU, PECWhile all schools and colleges in the city will remain closed till the end of the month, Panjab University (PU) and Punjab Engineering College (PEC) have not made any new announcements. PU is currently allowing PhD scholars and some categories of PG final year students to stay in hostels while at PEC, post graduate students are being allowed to visit the campus for classes.PU’s official spokesperson Renuka Salwan said that there is no change for PU students as of now, however, university authorities will review the situation and take a call accordingly. PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “Only postgraduate students are attending physical classes right now. If the students insist on stopping the offline classes, we will review our decision.”Govt school offline exams postponedIn a relief for government school children, all ongoing exams for students of Classes 9 and 11 have been postponed in view of the fresh restrictions. Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The exams for Classes 9 and 11 in government schools have been postponed for now and instructions for a revised schedule will be announced later.” However, all teaching and non-teaching staff will continue to come to the school on working days. Exams for Classes 3 to 8 in government schools, which are being conducted online, will continue as per schedule. Most private schools have already finished their exams and students aren’t coming to school anymore. Terming this a good decision, president, UT cadre of educational employees union, Swarn Singh Kamboj, said, “The union is fine with teachers being called for work as the safety of students is of utmost importance and it is necessary to break the chain. We will grade the online exams and do other school work during this time.”6 more containment zones in cityUT administration on Monday declared six more containment zones in the city. These include: parts of Sector 34-D, 38-D, 46, 49-B and Sector 63. UT adviser Manoj Parida said regular screening and monitoring of the areas will continue and frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted and residents are advised to strictly adhere to social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. On March 18, the UT administration had declared six containment zones in parts of Sector 15, 29, 33-B, 38-B, 44-D, and 49-A (Pushpak Enclave).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-closes-schools-colleges-till-march-31-in-view-of-surging-covid-cases-101616441574589.html
23-03-2021||Other||AAP’s Baghapurana rally: Admn shies away from taking action against Covid violators||The Moga district administration remains non-committal on initiating action against the political activists who blatantly flouted Covid-19 guidelines at a rally organised by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Baghapurana on Sunday.Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said the administration has videographic evidences that social distancing was not followed and a sizable section of the gathering at the ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ was without face masks amid second wave of coronavirus infections.“We are well aware of what happened at Sunday’s event (where Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was the chief guest). The entire matter is being looked into,” said the DC.Baghapurana deputy superintendent of police Jasbinder Singh said no action is being taken as the police have not received any complaint against violation of guidelines issued by the administration.Following assessment by the team of health experts, the Punjab government had rated Moga as one of the 11 districts worst-hit by the surge in pandemic outbreak.Official sources said after AAP leadership violated official instructions, onus lies with the district administration to take action. “But it is highly unlikely that the state government will approve any punitive action to be taken against the AAP or farmer unions who have been constantly holding rallies for the last several months amid pandemic outbreak. District authorities face an administrative dilemma to justify imposing fines on a common man but turn blind eye on violations committed by the political fronts and trade unions,” said a senior functionary posted in a district.On Sunday, a large posse of the police deployed at the Moga rally did not intervene when pandemic rules were breached.On March 12, the Moga district authorities granted a permission to AAP to hold a public gathering at new grain market with conditions of strict compliance of Covid-19 rules.As per the administration’s instructions, AAP had deployed volunteers with hand sanitisers at different entry points.But hardly anyone was spotted with face covers among the gathering and several AAP leaders sharing dais with Kejriwal were also spotted without masks.There were no chairs for the public and distancing was not arranged for all those squatted at the rally venue.Galleries reserved for the media and others were thrown open by the organisers for its activists and the enclosures were overcrowded and chaotic. Some journalists had to step out of the pandal as the police and AAP organisers allowed free movement of public who were not followingNo appeal was made from in this regard from the dais that was occupied by Delhi CM, Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann and several AAP legislators.In the presence of Kejriwal, several AAP leaders mocked Covid guidelines as a conspiracy to derail their Moga rally.State media coordinator of AAP Manjit Sidhu said the party did its best to follow guidelines but the state government did not extend any support to those who had come to attend a rally that had an official sanction.“We distributed nearly 75,000 face masks and all buses and venue were thoroughly sanitised. Only people with Covid negative report were allowed on the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aaps-baghapurana-rally-admn-shies-away-from-taking-action-against-covid-violators-101616441573426.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal coloniser attempts suicide, accuses DTP of harassment||A private coloniser has allegedly attempted to commit suicide by consuming some poisonous substance after accusing some officials including Karnal district and town planner of harassment and taking bribe from him.He is admitted at a private hospital and his condition is said to be stable.Before taking the extreme step, the man had recorded a video and posted it on his Facebook page, accusing five people including Karnal district town planner Vikram Kumar of taking ₹28 lakh from him in exchange for not demolishing his unauthorised colonies.Members of Pal Community came out in his support and held a protest. They met Karnal SP seeking action against those who “pushed the victim to take the extreme step”.SP Ganga Ram Punia said police have started investigation and action will be taken as per findings of the probe and statement of the coloniser.As of now, no written complaint has been made with the police, he said.Meanwhile, the Karnal district town planner has denied the claims and said that the allegations are baseless.He said that Praveen has set up three colonies, including one in Taraori town of Karnal, and the department had demolished the colony six months ago as it did not fulfill the criteria as per government guidelines.He said that this is internal matter of the coloniser and the stake holders and they are trying to implicate him by leveling false allegations against him.The DTP said that he did not meet the victim and take the any bribe from him for approval of his colony.“I am ready for any police investigation but action against unauthorised colonies will continue in future,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-coloniser-attempts-suicide-accuses-dtp-of-harassment-101616441151986.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Active Covid-19 cases up by 142% since March 1, 53% beds vacant||According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the number of active cases of Covid-19 in the city has increased by 142% since March 1. However, 53% of hospital beds reserved for Covid remain vacant as 70% of the current Covid cases are asymptomatic. The city’s Covid fatality rate remains below 1%. On March 1, Mumbai had 9,690 active cases of Covid-19, which surged to 23,448 on March 21. The number of Covid patients in hospitals has also seen a sharp rise. For instance, the civic-run Rajawadi Hospital admitted around 10 Covid patients daily in January and now is admitting 30 patients daily. At the jumbo Covid centre in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) on January 31, there were 120 patients receiving treatment. As of the afternoon of March 23, the centre had 920 patients. “Last week alone, we admitted 520 Covid-19 patients. The footfall of patients has increased considerably compared to January. But thankfully, most of the newly-infected patients are mildly symptomatic,” said Dr Rajesh Dere, in-charge of BKC jumbo centre. BMC’s data shows that 70% of the current Covid cases are asymptomatic. Dr Samrat Shah, consultant internist at Bhatia Hospital said, “We are observing that the virus in the second wave is easily transmissible but less virulent hence infectivity rate is high but hospital admissions and fatalities are far less in comparison to the beginning of 2020.”Doctors say the high number of asymptomatic cases has helped prevent hospital bed shortages. At the start of the pandemic in March last year, when the number of active cases started rising, citizens reported a shortage of hospital beds for Covid patients. According to BMC, 12,694 beds in hospitals are reserved for Covid-19 patients and 5,916 of these are vacant at present. In government-run hospitals, 10,198 beds are reserved for Covid cases and 5,005 of these are vacant. There are 2,496 reserved beds in private hospitals of which 1,585 are occupied. Of 1,539 beds in intensive care units for Covid patients, 61.8% (952) are occupied. Out of 8,461 oxygen beds, 48.3% (4,087) are being used. Almost 68% of the 966 ventilator beds (for severe cases of Covid) are vacant and 657 are occupied. In BMC-run Covid care centres-1 (CCC-1), for close contacts of Covid patients, there are 12,353 beds of which 554 are occupied. Mumbai’s doubling rate fell from 174 on March 1 to 106 on March 20. With BMC conducting more than 24,000 tests daily, officials say the daily positivity rate is around 17% and likely to rise further. “The only way to stop the second wave is through testing and vaccination. We have been given a target to do 45,000 rapid antigen tests in malls and other crowded places. This will increase the daily overall testing to almost 65,000. With this, we will identify more Covid-19 patients. But gradually, with early isolation and treatment, the chain of infection would stop,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. At present, the daily fatality rate remains below 1%. “It has been seen that the fatality rate in second waves is low, like in Europe. The infection is more transmissible but milder. However, it is too early to comment anything with certainty,” said Dr Avinash Supe, in-charge of the Covid-19 death committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-active-covid-19-cases-up-by-142-since-march-1-53-beds-vacant-101616441091840.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s daily Covid cases may reach 6,000: BMC||For the third time this month, the city saw over 3,000 new cases of Covid-19 when on Monday, 3,262 new cases were recorded. The total number of Covid cases stands at 365,937, of which 23,671 are active. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) anticipates the daily caseload could go up to 6,000 in coming days as it plans to double the number of tests conducted daily. However, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has said another lockdown was not expected in Mumbai as the situation is manageable since the majority of the new cases are asymptomatic. After reporting the highest daily caseload since the beginning of the outbreak — 3,779 new cases — on Sunday, Mumbai recorded 3,262 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday. The city’s recovery rate has slipped to 90% from 95% in February. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 has shot up to 0.69% compared to 0.20% - 0.25% recorded in February and early March. The doubling rate is down to 97 days, compared to 455 days recorded in mid-February. Chahal said on Monday, “Logically, we can predict that the number of cases per day will double as the number of tests done per day is doubled. As of today, BMC has no plans to impose a lockdown in Mumbai as the situation is under control. Even today, about 86% of the 3,200-odd patients in Mumbai are asymptomatic. Among the remaining, 50% are mildly symptomatic and do not need to go to hospitals for treatment, but are quarantined at home. So at a time, not more than 1,000 hospital beds will be occupied even if we have 6,000 cases in a day.” On Monday, BMC started conducting rapid antigen tests at malls, shopping centres and markets by randomly selecting visitors. The civic body plans to increase the number of tests conducted daily from 25,000 to 50,000 approximately. So far, Mumbai has conducted 3,730,450 tests, of which 19,347 were conducted on Sunday. On Monday, Mumbai reported 10 deaths from Covid-19, taking the toll to 11,569, with a case fatality rate of 3.1%. The daily positivity rate has jumped to 16.8%, compared to 12% on the weekend and 4-5% in early March.Suresh Kakani, additional civic chief and in charge of BMC’s public health department, on Sunday said, “We can sustain this spike in cases because of our available medical infrastructure. Lockdown is not being planned in Mumbai as it brings all activities to a complete halt. We are going to increase the city’s bed capacity. Testing is being scaled up and vaccination is being accelerated.” On Friday, BMC asked private hospitals to reactivate all beds reserved for Covid-19 beds. At present, there are 2,496 beds reserved for Covid patients in private hospitals. This number will be increased to approximately 4,800. Kakani said, “As a majority of cases are from residential buildings, patients prefer to get admitted to a private hospital instead of a municipal hospital. Our municipal hospitals have already activated their Covid-19 beds, but these will also be increased.” There are currently 10,198 beds reserved for Covid cases in municipal hospitals. Of the total 12,694 hospital beds for Covid patients, 820 are for asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic cases; 1,539 are beds in intensive care units (ICU); 966 are ventilator beds; and 8,461 beds are equipped with oxygen points. Kakani said the number of hospital beds for Covid patients will increase to 16,000 in the next two days and within a week, it will go up to approximately 20,000. On Monday, 42,420 people were vaccinated in Mumbai across 100 vaccination centres. Of those vaccinated on Monday, 22,185 are senior citizens and 4,975 are above 45 years of age with comorbidities. While 35,232 beneficiaries received their first dose, 7,188 received the second. Of the 10,579 frontline workers who were vaccinated, 5,537 received their second dose. Of the 4,681 healthcare workers who were vaccinated, 1,651 received their second shot. A total of 902,077 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the city, of which 420,303 are senior citizens and 66,258 are above 45 years old with comorbidities. Meanwhile, the first vaccination centre in Dharavi started on Monday at Urban Health Centre with 68 people getting vaccinated. Dharavi, on Monday reported 40 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-daily-covid-cases-may-reach-6-000-bmc-101616441033201.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 58 deaths, 2,319 fresh Covid cases||Punjab reported 2,319 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 2,15,409, while 58 fatalities pushed the death toll to 6,382.The districts which saw fatalities included Hoshiarpur (10), Jalandhar (9), SBS Nagar (9), Amritsar (4) and Gurdaspur (4), according to a bulletin.The infection tally climbed to 2,15,409 with over 2,300 more people getting infected, the bulletin said.Ludhiana reported a maximum of 341 Covid-19 cases, Jalandhar 309, Mohali 295, Hoshiarpur 230 and Amritsar 210, among districts, which witnessed new cases. The number of active cases increased from 18,257 on Sunday to 18,628 on Monday.A total of 1,870 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of those recovered to 1,90,399, it said.There are 23 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 270 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 56,26,458 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-58-deaths-2-319-fresh-covid-cases-101616441032060.html
23-03-2021||Other||Ethics panel to evaluate research projects at two Tata cancer hospitals in Punjab||Faridkot An institutional ethical committee has been formed for the evaluation of research projects at two cancer hospitals and research centre that the Mumbai-based Tata Memorial Centre (TMC) has set up at Sangrur and New Chandigarh (Mullanpur). The Sangrur centre is operational, while the second is expected to start by August this year.After the approval of the TMC, a six-member committee headed by Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) was formed for Homi Bhamba Cancer Hospital at Sangrur and Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre at New Chandigarh (Mullanpur).The committee will evaluate research projects for both institutions and only after the approval of this committee, the two institutions will conduct research on cancer. The institutional ethics committee will review proposed studies to ensure that they conform to internationally and locally accepted ethical guidelines, monitor studies once they have begun. If and wherever relevant, the committee will take part in follow-up action and surveillance after the research ends.The first meeting of the committee was chaired by Dr Bahadur in Sangrur on Monday. Other members of the committee are Dr Baljinder Singh, Dr Sunil Arora and Dr Sameer from Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and Dr Shailendra Jain, director, Sant Longowal Institute of Engineering and Technology (SLIET), Longowal. Dr Raj Bahadur said, “The committee will evaluate research work and give approval to research projects on cancer. The TMC has already set up the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital in Sangrur, and according to the director, the Mullanpur centre will also be operational by August this year.” The state government had allotted 50 acre to TMC in Medicity in 2016 to establish a cancer institute, rechristened as Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital & Research Centre. The 300-bed hospital would be equipped with high-end cancer diagnostic and treatment facilities besides chemotherapy and surgical facilities. It will also have the facilities of day care centre, ICU and recovery units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ethics-panel-to-evaluate-research-projects-at-two-tata-cancer-hospitals-in-punjab-101616440793075.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination drive goes big in Haryana with 2.48 lakh shots, virus continues to spread||Even as Haryana went big on its mega-vaccination drive, inoculating 2.48 lakh individuals on Monday itself, the state registered a rise of 2,074 fresh coronavirus infections last week (March 15-21) in comparison to the week before.Increase in the number of Covid cases has been on for six weeks now after 11 successive weeks of decline.The state reported 4,691 new infections last week as compared to 2,617 the week before (March 8-14). Last time these many infections were reported during the virus climb was between July 6-12 last year, when 4,235 weekly infections were detected.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said the health department on Monday vaccinated 2.48 lakh individuals during the first day of the weekly mega-vaccination drive.“Our sample positivity rate has dipped to 4.6% from 4.7%. We have again ramped up sampling. Last week, the department tested about 1.33 lakh persons as compared to about a lakh last week. The department had tested 1.27 lakh persons between March 1-7 and 1.15 lakh persons in February 22-28. About 99% of the testing is being done using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) kits,” Arora said.NCR, Ambala push vax pedal, Panchkula lagsThe ACS said that the twice a week mega vaccination drive is aimed at extensive coverage. “The vaccination target for Monday was 2.43 lakh persons and 2.48 lakh shots were given. Last Monday, we had inoculated about 1.50 lakh persons. As on Monday, the department has vaccinated 11.56 lakh persons,” Arora said.Gurugram with about 25,000 inoculations. Ambala with about 23,000, Faridabad with about 21,000, and Sonepat with about 18,000 were the leading districts in terms of Monday’s vaccination coverage, while Panchkula lagged behind with just 5,169 inoculations, data showed.3 districts still in critical categoryHealth department data showed that despite increase in the number of infections, only three districts - Faridabad (8.4%), Gurugram and Rewari (6.7% each) continue to have a critical positivity rate of over 6%.Sixteen districts still have a positivity rate in the range of 2.5% to 5.5%, meaning it is lower than the critical positivity rate of over 6%, but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.Three districts - Nuh (0.8%), Charkhi Dadri (1.1%) and Jhajjar (1.8%) continue to have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2% for past several weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-drive-goes-big-in-haryana-with-2-48-lakh-shots-virus-continues-to-spread-101616440791895.html
23-03-2021||Other||Athawale demands President’s Rule in Maharashtra, citing law and order collapse||Union minister Ramdas Athawale has asked the country’s home minister Amit Shah to impose President’s Rule in Maharashtra in view of the “deteriorating law and order” in the state. Athawale said he will meet Shah on Tuesday to apprise him of the situation in the state and press for the dismissal of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. In his press release, Athawale pointed out that the current situation – former cop Sachin Vaze’s arrest and the allegations by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against state home minister Anil Deshmukh – has caused tremendous anger among citizens. “These incidents indicate the collapse of law and order and call for President’s Rule in the state,” said Athawale, adding that the recent incidents had adversely affected the morale of the Maharashtra Police. Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded an open inquiry against a top-serving police officer, alleging that he seems to be abetting the mafia raj in the state. AAP leaders alleged that the said officer has also been indicted by his seniors, but has been able to escape punitive action due to the blessings of his political masters, spread across party lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/athawale-demands-president-s-rule-in-maharashtra-citing-law-and-order-collapse-101616440671924.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Sachin Vaze stayed at five-star hotel using forged Aadhaar card’||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday conducted a search in a five star hotel in South Mumbai where suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, arrested for his alleged role in planting the explosive-laden Mahindra Scorpio found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month, was staying recently.NIA officials said that a team conducted a search in a room in the Trident hotel at Nariman Point where Vaze reportedly resided from February 16 to February 20. Vaze reportedly booked the hotel room with a forged Aadhar card using his photograph with fictitious name, said an NIA official.A senior official said that documents and CCTV footage have been recovered from the hotel.“The case is being investigated by NIA and anti–terrorism squad (ATS). The probe is ongoing and we are extending our fullest cooperation,” a spokesperson of the hotel said.A Mumbai Police officer said that those dates coincided with the time when Vaze was part of a team that raided various establishments in Mumbai at night for violations of licence conditions such staying open at night beyond allowed hours, among other reasons.Vaze also reported for work at the crime intelligence unit of the Mumbai crime branch during those dates.The NIA team seized some documents from the hotel room, but it is not clear what the documents pertain to as yet. The team has also seized the CCTV footage from the hotel to probe who all met Vaze at the hotel.On March 13, Vaze, who was the lead investigator in the case, was arrested by NIA which took over the probe earlier this month. Vaze has also been named prime accused in the murder of Mansukh Hiran, a 48-year-old Thane businessman who was linked to the Scorpio.An NIA team visited Hiran’s home to record the statements of his wife Vimala and other family members.The Union home ministry had transferred the murder probe, currently being conducted by the Maharashtra ATS, to NIA on March 20. “The NIA had come home to explain us the status of their investigation and informed that they will take all the details from ATS in the coming days. As of now they haven’t officially filed any case in the murder of my brother. They told us that they will come to meet us in next two days with more information on the case. They have not shed light on the role of Shinde or the bookie to us. They stayed for a short time and left,” Hiran’s brother Vinod said.ATS had on Sunday arrested two persons in connection with Hiran’s murder: a former constable Vinayak Shinde and a bookie Naresh Gor. Shinde, convicted in an encounter killing, was released on parole last year during the decongestion of prisons due to the pandemic.Vinod claimed that Hiran’s family is satisfied with the pace of the investigation and hope it will be resolved soon. A Scorpio that Hiran had been driving for three years and reported stolen on February 18, was found parked outside Ambani’s residence Antilia on February 25. It had 20 sticks of gelatin (but no detonator or timer) and a threatening letter addressed to Ambani.Vimla’s statement to the ATS revealed that Vaze had borrowed this car from Hiran last year, and returned it to him on February 5.Hiran reported the car stolen on February 18. On February 25, the car was found parked outside Antilia with two identical sets of three different registration number plates kept beneath the rear seat of the vehicle, and its own engine number and body number of the vehicle removed. Even the chassis number embossed on the car near right front wheel was wiped out.The Gamdevi police registered an FIR in the case on multiple charges. On March 7, on the basis of a statement given by Vimala, ATS registered a murder case against an unknown person and started the probe. The next day, NIA took over the probe into the Gamdevi FIR after orders from the Union home ministry..Who is Shinde?In 2013, a Mumbai sessions court had awarded life sentences to 21 people, including 13 Mumbai Police personnel, for an encounter killing of a gangster named Lakkhan Bhaiyya (Ramnarayan Gupta) in 2006. Gupta was a member of the dreaded Chota Rajan gang.One of the policemen convicted was Vinayak Shinde, 55, a constable, who was released on parole last year in the state’s drive to decongest prisons during the coronavirus pandemic.Shinde is one of the co-accused, along with bookie Naresh Gore and prime suspect Sachin Vaze, a suspended assistant inspector currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), in the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran.According to investigators of the state Anti Terrorism Squad, Shinde took care of Vaze’s “illegal dealings in Thane and Kalwa areas” and executed the murder of Hiran on Vaze’s behest. Shinde was in Mumbai Crime branch in the mid 2000s and had a good network in Mumbai as well as Thane. “Shinde has a good network across Thane and also has connections with local goons,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity. One of Shinde’s family members said that after he came out of parole, he would stay home. Shinde celebrated his birthday on March 11 with his family at his house. With inputs from Anamika Gharat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-stayed-at-five-star-hotel-using-forged-aadhaar-card-101616439891834.html
23-03-2021||Other||Param Bir Singh’s allegations: BJP MLA lodges plaint against Maharashtra home min||htmetro@hindustantimes.com Mumbai Atul Bhatkhalkar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Kandivli, on Monday submitted an application to Samta Nagar police, seeking the registration of a first information report (FIR) against Maharashtra home minster Anil Deshmukh over the allegations levelled against him by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in his letter to the chief minister (CM). Bhatkhalkar has urged the police to investigate into the allegations of ‘abetment to extortion’ against Deshmukh. Along with the application, Bhatkhalkar has attached the letter written by Singh and Deshmukh’s reply to CM Uddhav Thackeray. The application has also demanded action against Deshmukh’s secretary Sanjeev Palande, deputy commissioner of police Raju Bhujbal and assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Sanjay Patil for ‘extortion’ worth ₹100 crore. Senior inspector Anandrao Hakke of Samta Nagar police station said that they have received the application and it is under investigation. “We cannot divulge information about the contents of the application now,” said Hakke. Bhatkhalkar has urged the police to investigate into the allegations from “all the angles and secure the evidence” as they can be “destroyed if not kept safe”. Bhatkhalkar also asked the police if the 1,750 establishments mentioned by Singh in his letter fall in the jurisdiction of Samta Nagar police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/param-bir-singh-s-allegations-bjp-mla-lodges-plaint-against-maharashtra-home-min-101616439713556.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Guv should apprise Prez about situation, says BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has upped its ante against Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), seeking the ouster of home minister Anil Deshmukh, with its state unit urging Governor BS Koshyari to seek an explanation from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and send a report on the situation to the President. Party MPs from Maharashtra demanded President’s rule when the issue was raised in the Lok Sabha on Monday. A state BJP delegation will meet the Governor on March 24. BJP leader and former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar drew a parallel between the current situation in the state with the one in 1980 when President’s rule was imposed. “A similar report was sent in September 1980, when the Sharad Pawar-led Progressive Democratic Front government was in power in the state. Based on that, President’s rule was imposed in the state. I think a similar turmoil exists today in the state and it should be reported to the President by the governor. We are not demanding President’s rule, but want a factual report to be sent to the President,” he said. Mungantiwar, in a press conference held at the party’s Nariman Point office, also said on Monday that several government officials have been complaining about corruption in the administration and the pressure they have been going through to be part of the malpractices. Such officers should come forward and submit their complaints to the governor with proof, he said. “The allegations levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh are serious, despite which the state has been dismissing them. Singh, in his letter, said he had apprised Thackeray about the home minister’s illegal demand of police officers collecting money from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours. Neither the officers, who have been quoted in Singh’s lette, have denied it, nor have the associations of bars and restaurants have refuted it,” Mungantiwar said. Party MPs Girish Bapat, Manoj Kotak and others raised the issue in Lok Sabha and demanded imposition of president’s rule. “The law and order situation in the state has deteriorated and it calls for enforcement of President’s rule in Maharashtra,” he said. Mungantiwar also demanded a judicial probe into the allegations levelled by Singh against the home minister. “These are not political allegations, but are facts brought to light by an IPS officer of the rank of director general. They need to be taken seriously and an impartial probe by a high court judge is necessary,” he said. Meanwhile, leader of opposition and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis raised questions over NCP leader Sharad Pawar’s claim about the home minister being in hospital from February 15 and 27 after the Covid infection. Pawar said the period mentioned in Singh’s letter during which Deshmukh is alleged to have demanded collection of ₹100 crore a month from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours clashes with the period of his hospitalisation. Fadnavis, in his tweet on Monday afternoon, said Deshmukh held a press conference on February 15, then how can Pawar say that he was in home quarantine?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/guv-should-apprise-prez-about-situation-says-bjp-101616439651745.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena not happy with handling of Deshmukh controversy||While the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) struggles to defend home minister Anil Deshmukh, amid allegations of bribery by former top cop Param Bir Singh, the Shiv Sena, its ally in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, is supporting the NCP’s stand but wants a probe into the allegations. Significantly, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has maintained silence over the issue. Sena MP Sanjay Raut has maintained the party supports the NCP’s stand not to sack Deshmukh. Party leaders said the Sena leadership also wanted some action against Deshmukh such as his ouster from the home department to send a message to the people that the government is taking action. The Sena is on the backfoot after NCP chief Sharad Pawar ruled out Deshmukh’s resignation. In his first reaction to Singh’s letter that dropped on Saturday evening, Raut on Sunday called for “introspection” by all MVA partners and “corrections” to “come out clean”. A day later, Raut said there are several other issues before the government, including rising Covid-19 cases, besides Deskmukh’s resignation. Between the two statements, Raut met Pawar at the latter’s residence in New Delhi. A senior Sena leader said the two leaders deliberated over options before the MVA. “Pawar saheb felt that if resignations are taken on merely wild allegations, it would set a wrong precedent,” said a leader, privy to the details. Further, the Sena is treading cautiously as the Opposition is targeting Sena minister Anil Parab, who is known to be close to Thackeray. “If the chief of NCP has decided there is no truth in the allegations made on Deshmukh and there must be a probe, what is wrong in it? Levelling accusations has become a trend today.. If we keep taking resignations of everybody against whom accusations are levelled, running the government will become difficult,” Raut said in Delhi. Raut, however, said a probe will be conducted by the government. “Param Bir Singh’s letter is being termed a bomb, but it is not so. Deshmukh has called for a probe on this letter. The chief minister himself will probe it... If the government is taking up the challenge of investigating, why is resignation being sought repeatedly,” he said, adding: “Till Thackeray is the chief minister, all issues can be probed in a free and fair manner”. There are speculations that Thackeray was not happy over the manner in which NCP ministers Dhananjay Munde and Deshmukh were protected by the party leadership, but Sena minister Sanjay Rathod, who faced allegations related to the death of Pune woman was asked to resign. Raut said Deshmukh and Rathod cannot be compared. Another option being considered is moving Deshmukh out of home portfolio. “If an inquiry is ordered, Deshmukh can be moved out and given another portfolio,” a Sena leader said. Meanwhile, Raut said the attempt to get President’s rule in the state will not be successful as the government’s hands are “clean”. “If somebody is trying to misuse central agencies to impose the President’s rule, I wish to warn them that you will burn in that fire. I wish to tell them their efforts will not succeed... Henceforth, we will not even respond to your allegations,” Raut said. The Sena leader said the Opposition is using Singh as a “weapon” now but they did not show much trust in him when he oversaw the TRP scam and action against actor Kangana Ranaut. “The opposition is now shooting the gun from his shoulder. But their gun doesn’t have any bullets,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-not-happy-with-handling-of-deshmukh-controversy-101616439592320.html
23-03-2021||Other||Mahadayi dispute: Goa leader writes to Karnataka CM, SC after reports of fracas during joint inspection||PANAJI Goa Forward Party leader Vijai Sardesai has written a letter to Karnataka chief minister B.S Yeddyurappa alleging that officials from the latter’s state behaved high-handedly with the members of the Goa delegation during the joint inspection ordered by the Supreme Court in the Mahadayi river dispute. Sardesai has also addressed a letter to the Chief Justice of India. While the Goa government was yet to register a formal protest, officials of the Goa water resources department admitted that there was a ‘fracas’ outside the gates of the venue where the inspection was scheduled, with some members of the state delegation involving in a confrontation with the Karnataka Police, who, they said, behaved in a demeaning manner with them. “We believe that the restriction of the Goan delegation by the Karnataka police is a gross violation of the Supreme Court… we remain utterly shocked and express our deepest concerns to the numerous examples of misconduct and verbal abuse faced by the Goan officers,” Sardesai wrote in his letter to Yeddurappa. “We urge Karnataka and especially its police force to duly permit and not obstruct the proceedings of the Joint Inspection Committee. We have always treated our neighbours with respect and dignity. Likewise, we too expect the same from Karnataka,” Sardesai added. Rajendra Kerkar, who was one of Goa’s expert witnesses called to testify before the Mahadayi Tribunal during the hearings, said that members of the delegation were roughed up, had their ID cards confiscated and treated ‘insultingly’. “Although this was meant to be an inspection by the three nominated officers from each state, Karnataka brought a battery of officials who had no business being present for the inspection, but from Goa side only one official was allowed to take part. The rest were treated like criminals,” said Kerkar, who was among those who was involved in the confrontation. Sardesai has, meanwhile, also urged the Supreme Court to take note of Karnataka’s ‘misbehaviour’. “The Goan delegation who were part of the joint inspection team were made to wait outside the Kalsa project while the joint inspection was being carried out, their lDs confiscated by the Karnataka police. Additionally, the Goan delegation reported that they face numerous instances of verbal abuse and were treated with utmost disrespect,” Sardesai wrote in his letter. “By obstructing the Goan delegation from performing and inspecting their due diligence at the Kalsa project, the Government of Karnataka and the Karnataka Police force have violated the Supreme Court’s order and we urge that the apex court look into this matter,” Sardesai added. While hearing Goa’s contempt plea filed before the Supreme Court alleging that Karnataka had violated the terms of the Mahadayi tribunal award and had begun diverting water even before they met the conditions stipulated by the tribunal, the Supreme Court ordered that a joint inspection of an official nominated by each of the three contesting states — Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra — be held. Despite the inspection being held last week, officials said that the report to be submitted to the Supreme Court is yet to be finalised. Goa has opposed any diversion of waters of the Mahadayi river, which originates in the Western Ghats in Karnataka, takes a detour via Maharashtra and enters Goa as the Mandovi. The Mahadayi river basin drains an area of 2,032 sq km, out of which 375 sqkm lies in Karnataka, 77 sqkm in Maharashtra and rest in Goa. Both the Goa and Karnataka governments have, for very different reasons, challenged the final award granted by the Mahadayi Interstate Water Disputes Tribunal, which in a verdict in August 2018, granted Karnataka a total of 13.42 Thousand Million Cubic Feet (TMC) of water out of their demand of 36.558 TMC. While Goa has approached the Supreme Court arguing that Karnataka shouldn’t be allowed to divert any water owing to the fact that the Mahadayi is a water-deficient river, Karnataka has argued that the tribunal erred in granting it only 13.42 TMC of water. Besides the Goa government has also filed a contempt petition accusing Karnataka of violation of the Supreme Court’s orders in going ahead with the diversion while the case is ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mahadayi-dispute-goa-leader-writes-to-karnataka-cm-sc-after-reports-of-fracas-during-joint-inspection-101616439471752.html
23-03-2021||Other||State decides to approach SC to raise reservation cap||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Monday decided to inform the Supreme Court that it favours increasing the cap on reservation beyond the 50% ceiling, which will pave the way for chief minister B.S Yediyurappa-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state to heed to the growing reservation demands from dominant and politically influential communities.“The decision to approach the Supreme Court was taken today,” said one cabinet minister of the Karnataka government, requesting not to be named.However, the state is yet to file an affidavit before the apex court, according to an official aware of the developments.At least five other states — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand — have decided to ask the highest court to increase the reservation cap. The reservation in government jobs and educational institutions was capped at 50% by the Supreme Court in a 1992 order by a nine-judge Constitution bench. However, the apex court allowed the relaxation provided there was enough scientific data to justify the raising of the cap.Dominant communities like the Panchamasalis, a subsect of Lingayats, Vokkaligas, Valmikis and Kurubas have sought a higher allocation of reservation-based opportunities and a change in category among other requests. Yediyurappa, who has been under pressure to heed to these requests, has set up a committee to study these requests.Yediyurappa, known for his reservation-based politics, has tried to assuage the demands of these dominant communities to earn their support in the 2023 assembly elections. A Lingayat himself, Yediyurappa has enjoyed the support of the community and has attempted to further consolidate the community’s support to fuel his ambition of bringing the BJP to power on its own in the next assembly elections. He has reached out to communities that are not known to back the BJP as well. The Vokkaligas, found in large numbers in the Old Mysuru region, are known to back the former chief minister H.D Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular), while backward classes, the Kurubas and minorities have often backed the Congress.By heeding to requests for higher allocations and even change of category of reservation, Yediyurappa is attempting to expand the support base of the saffron party, analysts said.The Panchamasalis called off their agitation in Bengaluru after assurances by the chief minister while other communities have kept the heat on the chief minister.Yediyurappa is reported to have further strained his relations with the BJP’s top central leadership and has battled dissent within his government, the opposition and growing reservation demands to remain in power at least till the next elections.Yediyurappa has allocated ₹500 crore each to the Lingayats and Vokkaligas and another ₹50 crore for the Brahmin community in the state budget. He has also budgeted ₹1,500 crore for minorities in the state budget.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-decides-to-approach-sc-to-raise-reservation-cap-101616439471171.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||CM likely to take call on probe after consulting Pawar||Even as the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has thrown the ball over announcing a probe into the allegations made by former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh in Uddhav Thackeray’s court, the chief minister (CM) has not taken a decision on it yet. Senior Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers said the CM is expected to make a decision in consultation with Pawar on the scope of the probe and then decide.MVA government is also racing against time, as Singh has moved the Supreme Court on Monday, seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the entire issue. But as MVA government has withdrawn the general consent given to CBI, the agency has to seek the state’s permission for cases registered in Maharashtra before it can conduct a probe, unless an investigation is ordered by the court. If the Apex court hears Singh’s petition and decides to allow the central agency to probe the case, it will be another embarrassment for the three-party government. It could also be politically problematic for the ruling coalition. An MVA minister, requesting anonymity, said, “CM is waiting to have a dialogue with Pawar over the probe. Once they discuss the modalities and the scope of the probe, a decision is expected to be made on it.” Earlier in the day, Pawar told reporters in Delhi that the decision to announce an investigation lies with CM. “To probe or not the CM’s right and he has to decide on it. Yesterday [on Sunday], I had suggested that a person like [former IPS officer Julio] Ribeiro should probe the matter. But as it is clear that he was not there [in Mumbai], now it is not our demand,” he said.Most MVA ministers, however, want a probe to send across a message that the government is taking due cognisance of the serious allegations against it. Meanwhile, CM held a review meeting with law and judiciary department officials on Monday evening. .Athawale’s demandUnion minister Ramdas Athawale has asked the country’s home minister Amit Shah to impose President’s Rule in Maharashtra in view of the “deteriorating law and order” in the state. Athawale said he will meet Shah on Tuesday to apprise him of the situation in the state and press for the dismissal of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. In his press release, Athawale pointed out that the current situation – former cop Sachin Vaze’s arrest and the allegations by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against state home minister Anil Deshmukh – has caused tremendous anger among citizens. “These incidents indicate the collapse of law and order and call for President’s Rule in the state,” said Athawale, adding that the recent incidents had adversely affected the morale of the Maharashtra Police. Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded an open inquiry against a top-serving police officer, alleging that he seems to be abetting the mafia raj in the state. AAP leaders alleged that the said officer has also been indicted by his seniors, but has been able to escape punitive action due to the blessings of his political masters, spread across party lines. AAP has demanded that the inquiry be conducted by a sitting or a retired judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-likely-to-take-call-on-probe-after-consulting-pawar-101616439413451.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Nuh struggles to pick pace; vaccine stock exhausted in Jind||Nuh, the majority Muslim population district of Haryana that is grappling with the tag of backwardness, has been testing to the hilt the grit of Haryana health department teams tasked to mobilise the target groups for Covid-19 vaccination.On Monday, during a mega Covid-19 vaccination drive, 1,151 people were given the vaccine jabs in Nuh, while 2,48,312 beneficiaries were given Covid-19 vaccine across state on Monday during mega vaccination day.Apart from Nuh, other districts where the Covid-19 vaccination pace has been sluggish are Jind and Charkhi Dadri.Last Friday, state health minister Anil Vij had expressed unhappiness over “low testing and vaccination” in Palwal, Mahendergarh, Fatehabad, Nuh and Jind districts.Till Monday, 12,738 people were vaccinated in Nuh, while 30,478 in Jind, and 21,817 in Charkhi Dadri, as per the health bulletin.According to Nuh district immunisation officer (DIO) Dr Basant Dubey, there is vaccine hesitancy among a sizeable section of Mewat residents.“Also, there is lack of internet or access to smartphones in villages, which is another hurdle that the health department is facing to persuade people to walk into the identified Covid-19 vaccination centres,” Dr Dubey said.Dr Dubey added that health teams including ASHA workers, ANMs, and trained staff have been going to villages with twin objective of persuading people and doing on the spot online vaccine registration.“In other districts, people are coming to health centres for the shots, but in Mewat, the health teams are moving from village to village for online registration of people and their vaccination,” the DIO of Nuh said, pointing out that online registration is the key problem in district.“Vaccine hesitancy among residents is another problem. There are multiple challenges on the ground level,” Dr Dubey said.After the vaccination drive was launched on January 16, healthcare and frontline workers, who directly deal with Covid-19 patients, were given shots of the vaccine in the first phase of the vaccination drive.In the second phase that began on March 1, people above the age of 60 and above 45 with co-morbidities were chosen for vaccination.Dadri DIO Dr Ashish Mann said 6,450 people were vaccinated during Monday’s mega vaccinations drive.Vaccine out of stock in JindBarring Narvana civil hospital, the vaccine was out of stock towards afternoon in Jind as over 13,000 people were inoculated on Monday.“We utilised almost the entire vaccine stock on Monday,” Jind DIO Dr Navneet Singh said.“Our efforts finally bore fruits on Monday as we were successful in mobilising people in large numbers. The vaccine was almost out of stock in district by Monday evening except in two centres,” Dr Singh said.Jind district has 34 cold chain points, 27 primary health centres (PHCs) and seven community health centres (CHCs).Dr Singh said he received frantic calls from almost all PHCs and CHCs, demanding more vaccine doses as there were more people waiting for the jab.He said that Monday’s response to the drive from Jind residents, a predominantly rural district, was a testament of people “overcoming the vaccine hesitancy”.“Now, the drive has picked the desired momentum. Public demand is vital for success of such a massive immunisation drive. And that is what happened on Monday in Jind,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nuh-struggles-to-pick-pace-vaccine-stock-exhausted-in-jind-101616439411739.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Why NCP chief Sharad Pawar didn’t sack Maha home minister Anil Deshmukh||Claiming that the allegations of bribery made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against home minister Anil Deshmukh were false, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Sharad Pawar on Monday reiterated that they will back the minister and not seek his resignation over the controversy. He stressed the allegations were made to divert attention from the bomb scare case, in which gelatin sticks were planted in a car parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, in south Mumbai, as the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) arrested two persons allegedly involved in the murder of Mansukh Hiran, who was believed to be the owner of the car. According to NCP insiders, the party top brass is convinced the allegations were malafide and, if Deshmukh resigns, the Opposition’s next target could be chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, as they want to pull down the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Pawar pointed out flaws in the letter: “Deshmukh was in a hospital being treated for Covid when he met Vaze, according to Singh.” He said there was no need to initiate a probe into the allegations, however, it was the prerogative of Thackeray to decide over the probe or action and that he would be sharing fresh evidence with him as well. “In view of fresh evidence that proves that Deshmukh was not in Mumbai, it would not be fair to take his resignation… The BJP’s demand for home minister’s resignation has no substance… I am absolutely clear that allegations made against Deshmukh were incorrect as he was in Nagpur,” the NCP supremo said. Hinting at the conspiracy, Pawar said, “It appears that the ATS probe is in the right direction. There are some names that need to be investigated in detail… I suspect that certain people may not want that to happen.” “Their ultimate target is Thackeray. Since the beginning, the BJP is targeting him by making claims he wanted Vaze to be reinstated. Devendra Fadnavis (leader of opposition) said that when he was chief minister he got a call from Thackeray requesting Vaze’s reinstatement. In that scenario, if the party decides to remove Deshmukh, they (BJP) will train their guns on the chief minister and try to bring the government in trouble,” said a senior NCP minister, requesting anonymity. However, Deshmukh may be shifted to some other department in due course of time. “He may be replaced by state labour minister Dilip Walse Patil,” said a senior minister. Refuting the claims, Amit Malviya, national in-charge of BJP’s Information & Technology department, tweeted: “On February 8, a delegation of the Congress party met Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, claiming that influential voices tweeted against anti-India voices, under pressure from the BJP. Where did the delegation meet Anil Deshmukh? In the hospital?” Meanwhile, Fadnavis raised questions over NCP leader Sharad Pawar’s claim about the home minister being in hospital from February 15 and 27 after the Covid infection. Responding to Fadnavis, the home minister in a video statement said, “I was infected with coronavirus and was admitted to Alexis hospital, Nagpur between February 5 and 15. While leaving the hospital after getting discharged on February 15, media persons wanted to ask some questions. I was fine by that time and thus decided to respond to the queries by sitting on a chair. Later, I left for my home and home quarantined till February 27. I stepped out of my home only on February 28,” Deshmukh said.Reacting to queries raised by Malviya, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the meeting was held online. “It is a full-fledged war against the MVA government,” said a senior NCP functionary. He was indicating towards senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar meeting the Governor and BJP MP Girish Bapat demanded imposition of the President’s rule in Maharashtra in the Lok Sabha. Reacting to the demand for President’s Rule, Pawar said, “I have said this before as well. The case won’t impact the MVA government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-didn-t-sack-maha-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101616439232054.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Convicted cop Vinayak Shinde executed Hiran Mansukh’s murder’||Preliminary investigation by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) in Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran’s murder has revealed that former police constable Vinayak Shinde was the one who had called the 48-year-old auto spare parts trader to Ghodbunder Road on March 4, the day Hiran went missing.“Our probe has confirmed that while [Sachin] Vaze was the mastermind, but the murder of Hiran was executed by Shinde. Shinde had called Hiran to Ghodbunder Road on March 4,” said a senior ATS officer.The ATS on March 21 arrested two men, Vinayak Shinde, a convicted constable on parole in an encounter case, and bookie Naresh Gor in the murder of the 48-year-old spare parts dealer, who is linked to the SUV that was found parked outside Mukesh Ambani’s Antilia residence last month containing 20 loose sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter addressed to the industrialist.The state investigation agency also named suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his role in planting the explosives outside Antilia, as the prime accused in the case.The Union home ministry on Saturday handed over the Hiran murder case to NIA, but ATS officials, as of Monday, were still sharing details of their own probe.“Vaze is a prime accused in the Hiran murder case. He had played a key role. During the probe, ATS found that Gor had provided five SIM cards to API Vaze and Shinde for the crime. Shinde used to help Vaze in his illegal activities,” an ATS officer had said earlier, claiming that their arrests was a major breakthrough.ATS investigators said Shinde was in regular touch with Vaze ever since he got out on parole in May 2020 and, according to ATS remand application, Shinde was looking after Vaze’s “illegal activities” in Mumbai and Thane area.An ATS officer said Shinde, who was convicted for the encounter killing of Lakhan Bhaiya in 2006, had called Hiran late in the evening of March 4 pretending to be a police officer named Tawde from Malwani, and had asked to meet him somewhere along Godbunder Road in Thane.In a statement to the ATS, Hiran’s wife Vimla had said that an officer by the name of Tawde had called Hiran on March 4, prompting her husband to leave his home at 8.30pm. When he did not return, she tried his phone at 11.30pm but found it to be switched off. The following morning, she filed a missing person report.The ATS team on Monday took Shinde and Gor to the creek where Hiran’s body was found, and also conducted a search at a godown in Majiwada area, believed to be of a firm owned by Vaze.“Today, we took Shinde to the spot where Hiran’s body was found at Mumbra, then to his house in Kalwa, Vaze’s house in Saket, a car décor shop and a godown at Majiwada and Bhoomi World complex in Bhiwandi to trace Shinde’s entire movement on March 4 and 5,” the officer said. “We suspect that Shinde made Hiran unconscious in the godown by administrating chloroform and later dumped him in the creek,” the officer added.Investigators on Monday also took Shinde to his residence in Kalwa and seized a printer, suspected to be used to print the threatening note left behind in the explosive-laden SUV abandoned near Ambani’s residence.Another ATS team on Monday apprehended a man from Gujarat who had allegedly supplied some SIM cards obtained on the basis of bogus documents to co-accused Naresh Gor, a cricket bookie.One of the SIM supplied by Gor was purportedly used by Shinde to stay in touch with other accused in the case, said the official, adding that the ATS team that has gone to Gujarat has also recovered 14 SIM cards.Several senior ATS officials who are part of the investigating team including additional commissioner Shivdeep Lande, DCP Rajkumar Shinde and ACP Shripad Kale, senior police inspector Daya Nayak were in Thane for almost the entire day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/convicted-cop-vinayak-shinde-executed-hiran-mansukh-s-murder-101616439051754.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 24k cases, experts say surge will continue for 3 more weeks||Amid the grim surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, experts and state-appointed medical professionals said the number of cases is expected to drop only post April 15, around eight weeks since infections started increasing in the state. Maharashtra has been witnessing an alarming spike in daily infections since mid-February now. After reporting more than 30,000 cases on Sunday, the state reported 24,645 new cases and 58 deaths on Monday, taking the tally to 2,504,327 and toll to 53,456. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said if the spike continues, the government will have to impose a lockdown in certain cities.Tope said, “The chief minister in his address to citizens has been saying that if the number of cases keeps increasing, we will have to impose a lockdown. I will be talking to the chief minister again tomorrow. If cases continue to increase, then we will have to impose stricter restrictions.” He also said most of the cases in the state are asymptomatic. “It is my appeal to citizens to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour if they want to avoid a lockdown.”Since March 17, when the state started reporting more than 20,000 cases a day, 156,999 infections have been recorded. In comparison, the state recorded 143,262 cases in total in November 2020 and 120,684 cases in December 2020. There are also 215,241 active cases in the state. The state’s positivity rate is 13.56%. Dr Avinash Supe, chairman of the state-appointed death audit committee, said that numbers will stabilise post April 15. “Speaking to various epidemiologists and going by previous trends, we expect the number to stabilise in eight weeks, which means we can expect a drop only after April 15,” Dr Supe said. He also added that, unlike the previous year, the case fatality rate (CFR) is low in the state. “The number of asymptomatic patients is higher,” Dr Supe said. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), on Saturday had also told HT that cases will surge till April 15.On Monday, the state’s CFR was 2.13%. Dr. Shashank Joshi, a member of the state-appointed task force said the state will see a spike in the coming days. “The numbers will increase and the state will break records in the coming days. Apart from non-compliance to Covid-appropriate behavior, the other reasons for the surge is also increased testing and increased contact tracing in all districts,” Dr. Joshi said.Dr. Uday Pai, a practicing paediatrician from Mumbai, said, “Ever since the city and state have opened up, people have become complacent. There is complete lack of discipline when it comes to following protocols.”On Monday, Mumbai recorded 3,262 new infections and 10 deaths, taking the tally to 365,937 and toll to 11,596.Meanwhile, experts also said that since the state is the worst-affected in the country owing to the pandemic, the pace of vaccination needs to increase rapidly. Dr Supe said, “By now, we should have opened vaccination for anyone more than 45 years of age.” Thackeray had also raised this demand with the Central government, however, vaccination is limited to those above 60 years of age and those above 45 with comorbidities. The state is vaccinating around 200,000-250,000 people on an average every day. Tope, on Monday, said that the state has vaccinated 4.5 million citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-24k-cases-experts-say-surge-will-continue-for-3-more-weeks-101616438633438.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Nothing incriminating in chat between Arnab Goswami, Partho Dasgupta: ARG counsel to Bombay HC||The counsel for ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, which runs Republic TV, submitted that the WhatsApp chat between Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta was merely a friendly chat and there was nothing incriminating in it. The counsel also alleged that the Mumbai Police was harassing the employees of the company by taking the chat out of context and ascribing it to be part of the television rating point (TRP) manipulation case. The counsel submitted that though Goswami is just a suspect and has not been summoned by the police so far, there was an apprehension that he may be named as an accused on the whims of the police. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition filed by ARG Outlier and Goswami seeking to quash the first information report (FIR) and proceedings in the charge sheet against ARG Outlier employees in the TRP manipulation case, was informed by senior counsel Ashok Mundargi that the voluminous chat record between Goswami and Dasgupta had nothing incriminating in it. He submitted that the chat between the two was only about market trends and individuals, which usually transpire between friends, and hence the same could not be construed in any other way except normal chat. When the bench referred to a portion of the chat wherein it was said that “I am only helping you” indicating that Dasgupta was helping rig TRP in favour of Republic TV, Mundargi said if that was the case, it should have been mentioned in the charge sheet, but there was nothing like it. He added that by keeping the probe open-ended and vague, the police was resorting to tactics to harass Goswami. In view of this, the counsel sought protection from coercive action on Goswami till the investigation was completed. The court, however, declined it. The court then referred to the chat and sought to know from the state as to how it managed to recover the chats even after they were deleted, to which chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare said it was possible though the social messaging platform claiming that the messages were end-to-end encrypted. Thakare said he would make a statement on the same in the next hearing, following which the court posted the hearing to March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nothing-incriminating-in-chat-between-arnab-goswami-partho-dasgupta-arg-counsel-to-bombay-hc-101616438511881.html
23-03-2021||Other||7 Patiala police personnel sacked for prolonged absence||Patiala Seven police personnel of Patiala police have been dismissed from service on disciplinary grounds on Monday. Those dismissed are assistant sub-inspector Satwinder Singh; head constable Charno Devi; constables Gagandeep Singh, Maninder Singh, Jatinderpal Singh, Gurpreet Kaur and Sandeep Kaur. The action was taken on the basis of the reports filed by different inquiry officers on their prolonged and continued absence from duty. SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said he had given his approval to dismissal orders against police officials who have been absent from their respective duties. “The action has been initiated after the completion of departmental inquiries initiated against these officials,” he said, adding, “Most of the cops we have dismissed are settled abroad and have failed to report to duty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-patiala-police-personnel-sacked-for-prolonged-absence-101616438392583.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra forest dept plans to felicitate staff for probing Wildlife Act violations||In an administrative circular issued on March 19, the Maharashtra forest department has asked officials at the divisional and district level to compile a list of staffers who have contributed significantly in investigating violations of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972. Such officials will be felicitated on Maharashtra Day on May 1 to “boost the morale of the forest force”, as per the circular.“The forest department, unlike other departments in the state, is not just a department but a law enforcement agency. Prevention of forest crime and its investigation is part of the routine work of officials... In order to achieve these objectives, the morale of the organisation should remain high,” states the circular, translated from Marathi.For this, the circular continues, it is “desirable to reward government servants who are doing their best to protect the forest and investigate related crimes.” It also mentions that if “award ceremonies are not held at various levels, the department is likely to lose vigour”.Sanjeev Gaur, additional principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) (protection), said, “There are many frontline staff whose hard work has been central to cracking forest law offences. Statutory provisions under Maharashtra Forest Rules, 2014 and WPA 1972 provide for giving cash rewards, up to ₹10,000 in case of the latter, subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. However, a substantial time generally elapses during the judicial process and the contribution of these officials remains unnoticed.”To remedy this gap in the institutional process, the department has instructed district level officials to “issue commendation certificates to government servants for effective performance without waiting for a verdict from a judicial or quasi-judicial authority”. District level committees have also been constituted to assess the performance of staffers. The committees have been asked to complete their assessment and compile a list of deserving officials by April 15.Gaur, however, clarified that these felicitations will only involve issuing tokens of appreciation, and no monetary rewards as prescribed under Section 60A of WPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-forest-dept-plans-to-felicitate-staff-for-probing-wildlife-act-violations-101616438272761.html
23-03-2021||Other||‘Climate change impacting J-K, time to recharge depleting water resources’: L-G||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Monday underlined reconciliatory measures on war-footing to recharge rapidly depleting water resources in river and snow-rich Jammu and Kasmir before it proved too little, too late. Addressing a gathering on the occasion of World Water Day, Sinha said that climate change has impacted Jammu and Kashmir as well where glaciers have reduced from 25 per cent to 17 per cent. “Out of 208 hydrograph stations which were monitored, the water level in 171 wells has decreased. The water level has increased in only 37 wells in Jammu division,” he said. Sinha also said that the water level in Kathua, Samba, Jammu and Udhampur districts has also gone down and efforts were needed to recharge them with the active support of the people. “This is high time that we should work out an integrated strategy to increase the receding water level in the wells before it is too late,” he said. He, however, expressed satisfaction that the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) has kept all 20 districts of the UT in ‘safe category’. “But it has also asked us to be cautious because climate change is also affecting J-K,” said Sinha. The L-G said that 90 per cent of the water bodies, including ponds in J-K, remained ignored. In this context, he cited a report of Survey of India in 1911 regarding Wullar Lake in Kashmir Valley. “As per the report, Asia’s largest freshwater lake today has shrunk to 75.82 sq kms from 91.29 sq kms open area. I have cited just one instance. There are many such lakes and ponds,” said the L-G. In Udhampur district, he said, there were 26 lakes and water bodies which have now been reduced to only 19. Sinha called for the active participation of elected representatives and people of J-K in rainwater harvesting and water conservation activities.On the occasion, he also inaugurated and laid the foundation for various water supply schemes, irrigation schemes and projects worth ₹117.49 crores. He also underlined the need of supplying potable water through pipes to every household in the UT. However, it may be stated here that many areas in Jammu city still san piped water supply, especially densely populated areas like Sainik Colony and Channi Himmat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/climate-change-impacting-j-k-time-to-recharge-depleting-water-resources-lg-101616438271679.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||1 killed, 3 injured in lightning in Dadri village||A migrant worker died and three other workers sustained injuries when a tree under which they were standing to take shelter from rain was struck by lightning in Dadri’s Pathanwas village on Monday.According to police, the incident took place on Monday afternoon when a group of workers from Bihar were thrashing mustard crop in the fields of farmer Azad Singh at Pathanwas.“The workers stopped work due to rain and took shelter under a tree. Due to lightning, Adga Singh died on the spot while Laxman Singh, Bimlash and Arun sustained injuries and are undergoing treatment at Dadri civil hospital,” said a spokesman of the Dadri police.“Statements of the injured were not taken and no complaint has been filed or FIR is lodged yet,” the spokesman added.Crop damaged due to hailstormAs unseasonal rainfall lashed in the region in the last 48 hours, mustard, barley and wheat crops were damaged due to hailstorm in Bhiwani’s Siwani block.Dayanand Punia, secretary of Kisan Sabha, said that farmers were harvesting their mustard crop and wheat harvesting was about to start by next week but hailstorm damaged the crop in many villages of Siwani block.“Government should compensate the farmers for the losses,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1-killed-3-injured-in-lightning-in-dadri-village-101616438151772.html
23-03-2021||Other||Rahul attacks ruling LDF over corruption, jobs crisis in Kerala||Kochi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday intensified his attack on the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala, alleging that it was steeped into politics of vendetta, nepotism and corruption and urged the people to give the party a befitting reply in the April 6 assembly elections. “The government was on the verge of giving fishing rights to an American giant and it was stopped after the Opposition leader raised the issue. Later, the government was forced to scrap the agreement,” said the Wayanad MP, who is on a two-day campaign visit to the poll-bound state.The Congress, which is part of the United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala,  is contesting on 91 seats in elections to the 140-member assembly. Among other UDF allies, the Indian Union Muslim League will be contesting on 27 seats, the Kerala Congress, the splinter group headed by PJ Joseph, will field its candidates for 10 seats, the Revolutionary Socialist Party ( RSP) will for five seats and the Mani C Kappan-led faction for two seats.Addressing a rally in Kochi, Gandhi also alleged that the youth in Kerala can only dream of  employment. “The Government’s primary responsibility is to give jobs to youngsters, not to their own organization and cadres. The LDF government here and the BJP in Delhi have failed miserably on this. If you are a young person in Kerala, a job isn’t a reality but a dream,” he said. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) -led LDF, however, rubbished his allegations. “He makes many such silly comments. He has changed narrative of a national leader,” said senior CPI(M) leader M A Baby.Earlier in the day, the Congress leader interacted with the students of St Theresa’s College and exhorted women to realise their real strength. “I will tell you a secret that men will never tell you, women are much more powerful than men,” said the 50-year-old leader as he helped the students learn a basic lesson in the Japanese martial art form Aikido. “Society wants to convince you that you are less powerful, but don’t buy it,” he said. He, however, advised women not to misuse their power. “Once you realize that you are powerful, then the tendency to misuse it also comes, it is not right.” Gandhi has been campaigning extensively in the poll-bound state and interacting one-on-one with local residents. Just weeks ago, he took a swim in the sea with fishermen in the state’s Kollam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rahul-attacks-ruling-ldf-over-corruption-jobs-crisis-in-kerala-101616438032346.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||4 killed, 7 injured as two trucks collide in Palghar near Mumbai||Four persons were killed and seven were injured when a truck, carrying cement bricks, collided head on with a container filled with refrigerators at Dadhde-Palavpada village in Vikramgad, Palghar district late on Sunday night. The two truck drivers have been booked by Vikramgad police. No arrest has been made, as the duo is admitted in hospital for treatment.The truck was heading to Bhiwandi while the container was proceeding to Vapi, Gujarat from Bhiwandi when the drivers — Surendra Chauhan, 30, and Mohammad Eijaz Ahmed, 27 — lost control and collided with each other, said senior inspector Mahesh Balwantrao. After the collision, the truck ran into seven bystanders, injuring them, said Balwantrao. “We have admitted Chauhan in Jawhar Hospital and Ahmed in Vikramgad Hospital. We have registered a case against the duo under sections 304(a) (causing death by negligence), 337, 338 (causing hurt), 427 (mischief), 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act. The dead have been identified as Sachin Khanjode, Anil Kharpade, and Jayant Raote. Another victim is yet to be identified,” said Balwantrao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-killed-7-injured-as-two-trucks-collide-in-palghar-near-mumbai-101616438031940.html
23-03-2021||Mumbai||Colleges await University of Mumbai guidelines for final-semester exams||While the University of Mumbai (MU) is yet to announce its plan for exams, many city colleges are gearing up for online examinations for the final-semester. Usually, final-semester exams take place in April, but they have been pushed to May this year owing to the lockdown and subsequent delay in admissions. With Maharashtra witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 infections, colleges in the city expect MU to announce online exams. Principal of St Xavier’s College, Rajendra Shinde, said, “Given the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the city, it is safe to assume that the university will decide on online examinations.” Shinde also pointed out that students hadn’t done any practical classes or lab work for an entire year. “We have completed our internals by collecting assignments from students. However, there is no word yet from the university. It’s about time students had some clarity,” said a principal of a suburban college, requesting anonymity. Sources in the varsity said online exams are most likely. MU’s pro-vice-chancellor Ravindra Deshmukh did not respond to queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colleges-await-university-of-mumbai-guidelines-for-final-semester-exams-101616437911876.html
23-03-2021||Pune||Mosquitoes, bad odour put citizens at risk in Pune’s Aundh area||Pune: The stink and an influx of mosquitoes from an open plot full of garbage between two societies on Ambedkar Chowk, Aundh is causing trouble for residents.Yash Towers, a commercial building and Parth heights are the worst impacted communities in the area.“Ever since we have had an open office since November, we have observed a rise in mosquitoes even during the daytime. No cleaning work of this area has been done in the last two months by the administration,” said Ranjan Natu who has an office in the Yash Towers.When HT visited the spot, it found out that empty liquor bottles were also thrown in the garbage.“Many nearby shops throw garbage here, it is not a garbage dumping zone, however, people continue with their old habits. There has been no response from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on the cleaning work,” said Mangesh Sharma from Yash Towers.Security guards from Parth Heights complained against the stink which they have to bear for the whole day.“We are sitting outside the whole day, so it becomes very hard for us. I have seen many people throwing garbage, but no one restricts them. The PMC should take some concrete decisions,” said Shivkashi Ram, Parth Heights.Kiran Kumar Naidu, a resident from Parth Heights added, “Stink is a major problem when we open the windows. Most of the residents are facing this problem.”“Since many days, the work in the Aundh area is pending. We will send officials to clean the garbage from the plot,” said Ajit Deshmukh, PMC’s solid waste management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mosquitoes-bad-odour-put-citizens-at-risk-in-aundh-101616427530492.html
23-03-2021||Pune||Residents of Pune’s Baner-Pashan Link road fume over civic apathy||PUNE Underdeveloped road, garbage piled up on streets, lack of street lights, open drainage chambers – are major civic problems faced by residents of Baner-Pashan Link road as infrastructure development work is continuing at a snail’s pace in the area.Even stray dog menace, especially during the night time, has made it difficult to commute on the road, say, residents.“The road work is pending for the last two years. No work was undertaken even after the lockdown period ended. Stray dogs are making things even worse as two cases of dog bite have occurred in last four days,” said Dinesh Sood, a resident of Baner-Pashan Link road.There are 65 housing societies on the Baner-Pashan Link road area and at least 12,000 residents reside here.A member of Baner-Pashan Link road Vikas Samitee said, “When I called Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) road department an official said currently other projects are undertaken on priority due to the March 31 deadline so we are not focusing on Baner-Pashan Link road as of now.”Baner-Pashan Link road Vikas Samitee has so far conducted several meetings with PMC, but development work never picked up speed in the locality, claim members.“According to the development plan of Baner-Pashan Link road, it should have gardens, libraries, children playground, but there is no infrastructure for common public,” said Sood.Ashish Sharma, a resident of Crystal Palace housing society in the area, said, “There are all posh societies in this locality where people have spent crores of rupees to buy homes, but they are suffering without basic infrastructure.”In 2019, PMC had decided to acquire land for the 120-foot-long link road, using the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, (LARR Act) 2013.“Last year, no budget was allocated for the development of Baner-Pashan Link road. This year funds have been allotted and after the tendering process is complete the work will start, most probably after the monsoon. Since it is a big project it will need approval from the standing committee,” said Dinkar Gojare, superintendent engineer, PMC road department.“There are two-three such localities where people are not willing to give land under the LARR Act. We will take advice from the land acquisition department,” said Gojare.As per the LARR Act, PMC will have to pay a compensation of ₹5.9 crore to the landowners and an initial amount of ₹1.5 crore will have to be deposited with the district collector before the land acquisition process is initiated by the collector’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-of-baner-pashan-link-road-fume-over-civic-apathy-101616419970206.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Inside Delhi’s ambitious plans to turn transport services online||What comes to your mind when you think of a regional transport office (RTO)? Most of us would think of a crowded public building, marked with people frantically moving from counter to counter, long queues, the smell of dusty files and the nearly-ubiquitous sound of fingers bagging on computer keyboards.One may not need to visit a transport office beyond a few times in life – considering how most documents such as drivers’ licenses (DL) and registration certificates (RC) demand renewal only after 10-20 years for most people. But the sheer high number of vehicle registration in the city often succeeds in ensuring that the RTOs are jam-packed.Delhi has at least 10 million registered vehicles, of which 7.9 million are two-wheelers and 3.3 million are four-wheelers, of which 0.5 million vehicles were registered in 2019-20.In the light of the pandemic, crowding at RTOs, a key government office with high degree of public interface, has generated concerns. Also, a single visit in a packed RTO building can take a long time — which essentially means more exposure to an air-borne virus, more contact points and, hence, a high probability of transmission.Also Read | Delhi traffic police test new diversion plan for Ashram flyover extensionTo address this challenge, and to ease services for citizens, the Delhi government has come up with a plan that aims at making nearly 70 essential transport services completely online in two phases over the next few months. These services include renewal and duplicate DL or RC, permit or RC transfer, NOC for other states, among others, which currently demand physical visit to the RTOs in Delhi and in most other states. Several cities, globally, have succeeded in transforming their RTOs completely or partially online in the recent past.The shift to digital Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said Delhi is going to be the first state in the country to move in this direction. In February this year, the Delhi government started the “ambitious project” to shift all its transport services to the online mode.At present, only appointment booking facilities to visit an RTO for various documentation is available online.“The project aims to decongest all the 13 RTOs of the city as it will allow people to get important documents, including renewal of DLs or transfer of vehicle ownership, from the comfort of their homes. This is the biggest reform package from the transport department that we have planned this year. Under the first phase, 12 services will be made 100% online. The second phase will include 58 services. Since it is a radical shift from the traditional way RTOs operate, it is difficult to set a specific launch date at the moment,” Gahlot said.Trials for the project started from February 19, under which 12 services related to DLs and RCs are being provided online in all the RTOs.Government data accessed by HT showed that between February 19 and March 17, the transport department managed to provide 100% online services to at least 34,000 applicants. It means that 34,000 people actually did not turn up at any RTO in the 27-day period of the trials so far. All these applicants received their RC or DL related documents at their homes through speed post. In pre-Covid times, Delhi’s 13 RTOs together used to witness a footfall of at least 100,000 every month.Also Read | Delhi traffic police to install cameras in 31 locationsData from the ongoing trial period showed that 66% of the total applicants eligible for online services were still visiting the city’s RTOs. This is also because the transport department has not opened the online service completely at the moment and is capping the number of daily online applications received at each RTO.What it means for citizensDarshan Rai (42), a salesperson in an apparel store in Connaught Place, took a casual leave earlier this month to renew his driving license as the Centre’s relaxation, owing to the pandemic, on driving with an expired DL or RC will end on March 31.“Renewal of my DL at the RTO took the whole day as the waiting time has increased further due to social distancing norms being followed. In between, there’s lunch time and one has to wait for the officers to return to their seats. Then physical verification of all the documents takes time,” Rai said. “Thankfully, I took leave from office. Otherwise, my colleagues were suggesting that I take a half day. Had I done that, I would have had to visit the RTO once again to get the final document,” he said.Rai’s experience is representative of the wider experience of citizens. They will, however, have to wait before the trek to the RTO can fully transform to a digital experience.The transport department still has a month or two more to go until all RTOs shift to 100% online services, said Ashish Kundra, Delhi’s transport commissioner. He also clarified that once fully implemented, only the applicants seeking a learner’s license or permanent DL or vehicle fitness certificate will have to physically visit the RTOs as these documents require appearing for tests.The challenges ahead Kundra explained the challenges faced in the project and the interventions made in terms of technology and capacity building.“There was re-engineering of business processes involved because officials at the counters in RTOs are used to seeing physical files and people standing in the queue,” he said.“In terms of technology, our system has to be geared not only to receive the increased volume of applications online, but also to enable officers to ensure compliance by checking that all the documents required as per law are in order. Once the verification is done, the officials will simply approve it online, get the document printed and send it to the applicant by speed post. All payments will be online,” Kundra said.Also Read | Legal age to drink lowered to 21 from 25 in Delhi, announces Manish SisodiaA challenge being faced by the department is managing applicants, most of whom are confused about the online system and insist on coming to the RTOs, or those delivering the services at the transport offices.Pravesh Biyani, associate professor at IIIT-Delhi, who has collaborated with various state governments on providing contactless services especially in the transportation sector, said the move will not only make public services hassle-free for people but will also curb corruption.“But making public services faceless also makes it difficult for those who are not technology-savvy. This is my biggest worry about such schemes. I also hope that the government provides a very good user experience while shifting to 100% digitisation and computerisation,” Biyani said.Kundra said that for applicants who do not have access to computers or the internet, the department has decided to open help desks at all the 13 RTOs which will fill the forms, submit the documents for them.For its own officers, the department is now organising training sessions in batches on learning the software and the online application, verification and approval system.“There are teething issues that are either people oriented or process oriented. We have to reorient our own people because they are not accustomed to our model. We are also learning as we go along. Also, we are constantly working to see how the user interfaces can be made better. The ambition is that the transport department should go completely online for everything except a driving test or vehicle fitness test,” said Kundra.Shreya Gadepalli, who leads the South Asia Programme of the Institute for Transport and Development Policy (ITDP), said the idea is a welcome move and is likely to be a one-of-a-kind project in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/inside-delhi-s-ambitious-plans-to-turn-transport-services-online-101616417210818.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Legal drinking age to be lowered to 21 from 25 in Delhi: Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday announced that the drinking age in Delhi will be lowered to 21 and the system of “age-gating” will be introduced in the city wherein persons below 21 will not be allowed to enter any restaurant, pub or club that serves liquor by themselves. The change in rules is part of the new proposed Delhi excise policy which Sisodia said is aimed at improving excise revenue and liquor-buying experience by equitably distributing liquor vends and making good quality liquor available in the market.Addressing a press conference, Sisodia said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal approved the recommendations of the group of ministers on Monday. A proper policy document will now be drafted and then notified. He said the entire process would take about three months, upon which the new rules will be implemented.Also Read | Remain alert, follow Covid-19 guidelines during Holi: Satyendar Jain“Delhi is going to make the legal drinking age at par with its neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh. The legal age to purchase and consume liquor in the Capital is going to be 21. We will also introduce the age-gating system wherein those below 21 are not allowed entry to any liquor serving outlet alone. They will be allowed entry if they are accompanied by their parents or others who are 21 years and above,” Sisodia, who is also the excise minister of the city, said.The current drinking age in Delhi is 25.The deputy chief minister also said that the policy aims to put an end to the liquor mafia which he claimed is thriving because of the inequitable distribution of liquor vends in the city. He said no new liquor shops will be opened in the city and that the existing ones will be relocated. He added that with these reforms the government expects a growth of about 20% from excise as compared to the current annual growth of 5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/legal-drinking-age-to-be-lowered-to-21-from-25-in-delhi-manish-sisodia-101616416490640.html
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chill back in the hills as mercury dips after snow, rain in Himachal||The prolonged dry spell was finally broken on Monday when the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh experienced snowfall and the middle and low hills got moderate rainfall. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of tribal Lahaul and Spiti district, witnessed 9cm of snowfall, Udaipur 26cm, Gondla 15cm and Hansa 5cm snow. The Atal Tunnel, Rohtang has been closed for tourists after heavy snowfall on its north portal. Meanwhile, the tourist resort of Manali recorded the highest rainfall of 30mm. “More rain and snow are likely in the state over the next two days as a western disturbance is active over the region,” said Shimla meteorological centre director Manmohan Singh. Seohbag in Kullu recorded 19.2mm of rain and Mandi and Dalhousie got 10.1mm and 10mm of rain, respectively. Sundernagar received 8.2mm of rain, Shimla 5.2mm, Palampur 3.4mm and Dharamshala 3.4mm, respectively. Shimla cold at 8 degrees, Dalhousie at 5.2 Keylong was the coldest place in the state, where the minimum temperature fell to minus 0.2 degrees Celsius, followed by 1.7 degrees in Kufri and 2.6 degrees Celsius in Kalpa. State capital Shimla was cold at 8 degrees Celsius. “There was no appreciable change in the minimum temperatures since Sunday. The minimum temperatures were 1-2 degrees Celsius above normal,” Singh said. However, the maximum temperature dropped by 2-3 degrees Celsius. Dalhousie experienced a low of 5.2 degrees Celsius, while Manali and Palampur recorded a minimum of 11.5 degrees Celsius. Dharamshala recorded a low of 10.4 degrees Celsius. Rain relief for wheat farmers The rain has come as a relief for farmers, who feared losses due to the dry spell. “The fresh rainfall is good for the Rabi crop, especially wheat. There has been a loss of 30% crop in non-irrigated areas,” said Ramesh Chaudhary a farmer in Kangra. He said if it continues to rain for two-three days, it would be enough to save the rest of the crop. In the higher altitude areas, rains are good for the apple crop but decline in temperature could impact the blooming as cloudy weather and rains disturb natural pollination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chill-back-in-the-hills-as-mercury-dips-after-snow-rain-in-himachal-101616403469990.html
23-03-2021||Delhi||Over 4000 DU students protest digitally to reopen campus||From increased screen time and consequent headaches to problematic wifi connections, students of Delhi University aren’t enjoying the #digitalcampuslife. It’s been almost a year since DU shifted to the online mode for teaching and learning, however, students are still having a tough time with regard to online classes, and more than four thousand DU students are protesting digitally by signing a petition to open colleges. “We are organising digital protests. Thousands of students are participating in twitter storms and have signed an online petition for reopening of campus. We will be sending this petition to our VC. There are multiple student protest groups formed on Whatsapp where we coordinate our protests. Some of us make meme pages and post memes asking for colleges to reopen, others make reels on the issues faced in online classes and the rest of us tweet tagging the authorities,” shares Pranshu Nain, of Ramjas College.The digital petition to reopen campus is spammed with comments after comments by students enlisting reasons as to why they are demanding the campus re-opens. “The digital divide is steep. Many of my friends in Kashmir weren’t even able to attend most of their online classes because of wifi problems. Some of my classmates living in villages don’t get steady electricity connection, what to say of wifi. Teachers aren’t able to explain the concept properly because if you get a bad connection in between you have an audio and video lapse. There is limited interaction in classes. Even extra curricular activities have become digital. The confidence and exposure students get from physical interaction with the faculty, seniors and friends is stumped,” says Aatika Choudhary of Vivekananda College.The current student life is rampant with digital fests, online freshers and online exams and handling everything virtually is taking a toll on students who have been reaching out to their seniors for help. “Scores of students reach out to me daily with their problems. They cry on the phone and are mentally anguished. Students are so worried about their future. The digital campus is no longer working. Sports, dramatics, workshops - all of these were a very important aspect of personality development for students and there’s nothing happening to make up for that. The university isn’t well equipped with handling the online shift. It’s been a year and the exam portal still crashes while students submit their answers while attempting Open Book Examinations,” says Shubham Chaudhary, Executive Councillor, Delhi University Student Union.The authorities of DU claim that they are trying their best to help the students but safety comes first. “No plans of re-opening campus as of now. Covid-19 cases have increased. MHA guidelines and government advisories suggest restrictions and precautions. So we will have to wait and watch. We are with the students and are trying to help them to the best of our capabilities. We are also trying to ensure that all colleges make study material available on their website,” says Rajeev Gupta, Dean Students’ Welfare, Delhi University. But what do the authorities suggest to combat problems of weak internet connection that hampers the study session of students? “Difficult to suggest any amicable solution regarding wifi problems faced by students because they are currently spread over the country and not residing in a student hostel where we could provide all of them with a speedy connection. However, once the entire study material is available online, things will get smoother for the students. Students are welcome to reach out to us and we will help them in whatever way we can,” says Gupta.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4000-du-students-protest-digitally-to-reopen-campus-101616401552435.html
