25-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG assigns official to tackle encroachments||The charge of enforcement for clearing encroachments in all areas of Gurugram district came under a single official, with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) giving the charge of enforcement to the district town planner (enforcement) of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Tuesday. Officials said that this would ensure that violators do not use the multiplicity of agencies as a loophole to evade actionWith the development, RS Bhath, who also holds the charge of planning for MCG, holds the charge of enforcement for DTCP, MCG, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM). While the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has separate wings to deal with violations, officials familiar with the matter said that violations are few in HSVP sectors as most of these are planned constructions.MCG officials said that the decision to appoint Bhath as enforcement officer of MCG will help in curbing violations and illegal constructions in MCG areas across the city. With several private colonies such as Palam Vihar, Sushant Lok 1 and others coming under the jurisdiction of MCG for maintenance, it is important that the enforcement should either be handled by a single agency or official, said officials. MCG commissioner, Vinay Pratap Singh said that the suggestion to give charge of enforcement to Bhath was put forward by councillors in a recent House meeting. “Apart from this suggestion, the work done by the enforcement wing of DTCP led by him in private licensed colonies also led to this decision. The enforcement activities need to be streamlined in the city and having a single officer across agencies will help greatly,” said Singh. Over the last year, the enforcement wing of DTCP carried out over 150 demolition drives and got over 35 FIRs registered against the violators. The department also cleared illegal colonies from around 300 acres. After taking the charge, Bhath said that violators and illegal colony developers were taking advantage of the fact that the writ of multiple agencies runs in the city and they were able to use it as a loophole to evade action. “We can now take a comprehensive view of encroachments and illegal developments and these would be curbed across the city,” he said.The primary focus is to ensure that prime plots of the civic agencies that are encroached are reclaimed, Bhath said. “We have already identified prominent sites and visited three of them on Thursday. Likewise, a comprehensive plan is being chalked out so that encroachments and violations are brought to a minimum,” he said.The MCG areas form the core of the city, surrounded by HSVP sectors and private colonies, while the developing sectors along the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and Dwarka Expressway comprise the rest of the area. “Each area has different issues and problems, but they need to handled in a centralised manner so that there is no loophole left to be taken advantage of,” he said, adding that a spate of demolition drives would be planned in coming weeks in all these areas after analysing the data. “The message is clear. As the government wants to boost affordable housing and housing for the poor, the city cannot become a hub of illegal colonies,” he said. When asked about the sealing properties in MCG areas, Bhath said that in future, the properties would be de-sealed only after the violators submit an affidavit and provide guarantees. The violations have to be restored as well, he said. On Thursday, Bhath also launched a drive to remove encroachments from MCG plots and visited three sites are earmarked for developmental works. The enforcement team took stock of illegal hutments, temporary structures and other encroachments that have come up on plots located in Vyapar Sadan of Sector 14, besides in sectors 53 and 52A. “Notices were issued, announcements were made and occupants asked to clear the sites within three days. If this does not happen, then a large-scale demolition drive will be carried out and the land cleared,” said Bhath. MCG officials, meanwhile said that illegal encroachments at the three sites halted developmental works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-assigns-official-to-tackle-encroachments-101616695884622.html
25-03-2021||Gurugram||Villagers cry foul over waste dumping on Aravalli land in Pali||Residents of Pali village in Faridabad alleged that civic agencies of Faridabad and Gurugram are illegally dumping municipal solid waste on Aravalli land, in violation of court orders, near their village on Wednesday. A complaint in this regard was filed with the police on Wednesday and the residents are likely to hold a mahapanchyat on the issue on Friday.Officials of the municipal corporations of Faridabad and Gurugram said that no further waste would be dumped and that they are working towards finding a space for remediation of waste accumulated at the Bandhwari landfill.Yashpal Yadav, the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) said, “The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram sought support from us for finding an alternative land where refused derived fuel waste could be stored as they were finding it difficult to treat legacy waste at Bandhwari landfill due to lack of space. So, we provided this land near Pali crusher zone, where the waste was dumped.” “It was brought to my notice today (Thursday) that a case regarding this land, which was dismissed earlier, has been restored and after learning about the development, we have communicated to the corporation that this land has status quo. So, no further waste should be stored there and it should be stopped,” Yadav said. Dhiraj Kumar, the joint commissioner for Swachh Bharat Mission, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), said, “It is known that we need new land for remediation of waste already accumulated at Bandhwari and we are working in collaboration with MCF, but I would not be able to comment on it more as the matter is sub judice.” A complaint to the Pali police station on Wednesday states that in 1992, the MCF took over patti shamlat land (land which is for the common use of villagers with their ownership rights) from the villagers without compensating them. The villagers earlier moved the high court, which, in 2018, stated that either the land be returned to the villagers or that they must be compensated for the same. On January 6, 2020, the case was dismissed by the high court due to default, but a petition was filed in the matter after it was dismissed. Hearing the petition on January 21, 2020, the court noted, “For the reasons recorded in the application, which is accompanied by an affidavit of the counsel for the petitioner, the same is allowed. Order dated 06.01.2020 is recalled and the writ petition aforesaid is ordered to be restored to its original number. Let the main petition be listed as per roster.”Jitendra Bhadana, a Pali resident who filed the police complaint, said, “On Wednesday, officials from the corporation secretly dumped around 10-15 truckloads of household waste on Aravalli land near crusher zone in Pali village. They said that refuse-derived fuel waste is being dumped, but we saw that plastic and household waste was dumped. This has to be stopped. Else, it will soon become a dumping site like Bandhwari,” Pali residents will hold a mahapanchayat on Friday to discuss the land issue, which they say is their common land and that the matter is sub judice in the Punjab and Haryana high court. “Officials also cut trees there to make way for trucks carrying waste. Although waste is not being dumped after we raised the issue, it is a contempt of orders as the court already said that this land must either be given back to the villagers by the MCF or that villagers must be given compensation,” said Bhadana. The police, meanwhile, said that no action was taken against those who dumped the waste. Om Prakash, sub-inspector, in-charge of Pali police chowki where the complaint was filed, said, “Those dumping waste at the said land had permission from the MCF. So, no action was taken against them. We have further not received any communication from the corporation to stop dumping of waste.” The National Green Tribunal (NGT), while hearing a case on clearing of legacy waste from Bandhwari landfill site, on March 9 said that it was giving a last opportunity to authorities for ensuring meaningful action on the ground. Calling the treatment of legacy waste “insignificant”, the court also said that only 2% of the 3.3 million tonnes of legacy waste was remediated at the Bandhwari landfill site in over one year, indicating “that seriousness of the concerned authorities is lacking.” The Bandhwari landfill receives around 2,000 tonnes of waste every day from both Gurugram and Faridabad. Municipal solid waste from both these cities is being dumped at the landfill since 2015. As per a report by the Central Pollution Control Board submitted to the NGT in September 2020, the height of the dumpsite increased to 36 metres from 27 metres (as recorded by CPCB in February 2020) and the total waste dumped stood at 3.1 million tonnes, approximately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/villagers-cry-foul-over-waste-dumping-on-aravalli-land-in-pali-101616695884094.html
25-03-2021||Gurugram||Protesting farmers at Jaisinghpur Khera call for day-long Bharat bandh on Friday||Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur near Jaisinghpur Khera at the Haryana-Rajasthan border will be observing Bharat bandh on Friday, on the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). Protesting farmers said that through the 12-hour bandh, they wanted to let the government know that farmers will neither give up nor retreat until the central three farm laws are rolled back. Traffic on the National Highway 48 is likely to be affected due to the blockade that will be in place between 6am till 6pm.Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the centre in September last year. According to the protesting farmers, the new laws might leave them at the mercy of private corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops.Sanjay Madhav, a member of the SKM — the umbrella body of farmers’ unions protesting at the national Capital’s borders— and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that while farmers had earlier called for bandhs for three to six hours, the day-long bandh on Friday is intended to scale up the agitation. “We will be closing the slip road and other key stretches at the protest site. Markets, stations, all public places will remain shut on Friday. We will ensure that there is a complete blockade on NH48 where we are camping, besides other places where farmers are in numbers,” said Madhav. He said that farmers’ groups had plans on escalating the movement in the coming weeks. “The government is under the impression that farmers will retreat if it stops engaging with them. They are underestimating the will of farmers. Farmers from different parts of the country are on the road for over four months now and the government is least concerned. The bandh will make the government realise that it cannot ignore the legitimate demands of farmers,” said Madhav. Naveen Sohlot, a farmer from Bawal, said that protesting farmers will ensure that various public markets at Rewari and Shahjahanpur remain closed as part of the bandh. “We will ensure that Bawal city remains shut on Friday. The Bawal market will not be open for business. Similarly, farmer groups in Shahjahanpur and Rewari will implement similar measures in their areas,” said Sohlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/protesting-farmers-at-jaisinghpur-khera-call-for-day-long-bharat-bandh-on-friday-101616695824099.html
25-03-2021||Other||Fast-track court begins trial five years after Akhlaq’s murder||Greater Noida: A fast-track court on Thursday started the trial in the murder of Mohammad Akhlaq five years after he was allegedly lynched by a mob over suspicion of storing beef in his house in Dadri’s Bisada village. Akhlaq’s son Danish, then 22, was seriously injured while trying to save his father.The victim’s family could not appear before the court on Thursday, the first day for the trial, after the charges were framed against the suspects on February 25 this year for the September 28, 2015, incident.The matter is being heard in the court of Dr Anil Kumar Singh, additional district judge, Fast Track Court – 1.“The charges were framed against the suspects recently. The defence lawyers moved discharge applications but they were rejected by the court. Now, the trial has begun in this case. The victim’s kin and witnesses are required to testify in the court for evidence,” said Yusuf Saifi, counsel for Akhlaq’s family. Saifi added that his clients did not receive the court summon for appearance. “They may attend the next hearing on April 14, once they receive summons,” he said. Akhlaq’s daughter Shaishta, son Danish, and wife Ikraman, are among the key witnesses in this case. Of the 18 suspects, two persons have died and three suspects were juveniles at the time of the incident. The court has framed charges against the 13 adult suspects. The accused who were minors at the time of Akhlaq’s killing will be tried by the Juvenile Justice Board , said Saifi. The government has given security to Akhlaq’s elder son Sartaj and brother Jaan Mohammad.Akhlaq was beaten to death and his son severely assaulted on September 29 by a mob in his village which accused him of eating beef. The mob -- which gathered following a public announcement from a nearby temple -- attacked Akhlaq and his son, Danish, even as family members kept screaming that the meat was not ’beef’. Later, a report by a veterinary officer with the Uttar Pradesh government revealed that the meat found in Akhlaq’s house was not beef. “The suspects have denied the charges. The court will begin the trial now,” said Ram Saran Nagar, counsel for the accused Hariom and Bhim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fasttrack-court-begins-trial-five-years-after-akhlaq-s-murder-101616695704142.html
25-03-2021||Noida||Supreme Court directs a comprehensive traffic management plan for Kaushambi||The Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday ordered Ghaziabad district to prepare a comprehensive traffic management plan for Kaushambi within three weeks. It directed the formation of a committee of nine officers to prepare the plan.Kaushambi highrises are located next to heavy traffic areas, two interstate bus terminals -- Delhi’s Anand Vihar and one in Kaushambi itself -- and the Ghazipur landfill site. These factors played a role in increasing pollution in the area, especially during winters when winds are calm. The court said the committee will comprise the Ghaziabad’s district magistrate and police chief, Ghaziabad development authority chairperson, commissioners from the city’s municipality, the East Delhi municipal corporation and the Meerut division, chairperson of the UP state road transport corporation, a nominee of the Delhi Police commissioner, and the Delhi government transport secretary. Ghaziabad district magistrate will act be the nodal officer, the court said.“Experience shows that a direction by the court to the law enforcement machinery may result in some action, even high-handed action for a few days, until the position is restored to the original status which becomes the new “normal”. Hence, a comprehensive traffic management plan has to be drawn up to deal with the situation. This will be in addition to the directions issued by the NGT (national green tribunal) and will not detract from them or from the supervision by the NGT,” a three-judge bench said in its order.The court was hearing a petition from the Kaushambi residents’ welfare association (KARWA) against pollution.On Wednesday when different issues were presented, the court decided to take up the problem of traffic management in the first instance. The court observed that to resolve the traffic issues, a “unified approach” is required from officials in Delhi and UP.“After filing a number of petitions since 2015 and directions issued by the NGT, we moved Supreme Court. With the court’s directions, we expect that measures will be taken up by concerned authorities,” said VK Mittal, president of KARWA.The court also elaborated that the traffic plan would also cover all incidental aspects including arrangements for regulating traffic and earmarking adequate land for parking of public service vehicles.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond on the issue.“During the course of hearing, we maintained that none of the industrial units in Ghaziabad were using pet coke or furnace oil as fuel. We will abide by all directions of the court,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/supreme-court-directs-a-comprehensive-traffic-management-plan-for-kaushambi-101616695224151.html
25-03-2021||Noida||Residents seek action after garbage set afire in Sector 63||Noida: Residents of Bahlolpur village have demanded strict action against dumping of solid waste on the roadside at Sector 63, after unidentified miscreants set fire to a pile of trash lying near the Hanuman Mandir on Wednesday. According to residents, the blaze burnt some trees in the premises and produced a lot of smoke, affecting the people in the village nearby.Residents said that while the Noida authority collects solid waste from Bahlolpur village and other residential areas in the neighbourhood, illegal garbage dumping continues along the road connecting Sector 63 and Parthala circle. They added that the roadside, which was supposed to be maintained as a green belt, had several pits where scrap dealers and factories located nearby allegedly dumpe waste and later set it afire.“In August last year, a massive plantation drive was undertaken on the same road, which already had a few trees. However, there is no trace of the saplings now. Even the trees are half-burnt due to continual dumping and burning of garbage. We have been complaining for months but no action has been taken so far,” said Sonu Yadav, vice-president of Bahlolpur Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 63.He added residents had to call fire tenders to douse the blaze on Wednesday.“Smoke from the fire not only choked people living in nearby houses but also damaged green cover in the area. What was supposed to be a green belt has now turned into a spot that reeks of garbage. None of the saplings that were planted in August last year have survived,” said Paramveer Sing, president of Bahlolpur RWA.In the past, the health department of the Noida authority has advocated for more awareness to control such fires.When contacted, officials at the Noida authority said they will look into the matter.“We inspect the area to ensure that solid waste is not dumped anywhere, but these days people tend to set afire dried up leaves. However, we are not aware of the recent incident but will get the spots checked and if there had been illegal dumping, remove it,” said IP Singh, officer on special duty, health, Noida authority.Officials of the horticulture department of the authority, meanwhile, claimed that the saplings were in good condition.“We have been maintaining all roadside saplings in the area, however, if there had been any incident or report of the plants being damaged, we will look into it,” said Mahendra Prakash, deputy director, horticulture department, Noida authority.Noida generates around 700 tonnes of domestic waste daily. The door-to-door garbage collection service run by the authority covers 1,40,000 apartments across 220 high-rise buildings, about 98 RWAs having 40,000 houses and about 70 small and big villages within the city, said officials. After collection, the garbage goes to 21 different ‘transfer stations’ of the authority where waste is segregated manually by ragpickers and later sent to the main storage facility at Sector 145. However, the menace of roadside dumping of waste still persists in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-seek-action-after-garbage-set-afire-in-sector-63-101616695165300.html
25-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic body starts to clean 11 untreated drains||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has begun cleaning the water in 11 major untreated drains before it discharged into the Hindon river.“In first phase, we are physically cleaning the drain at Pratap Vihar. We have built check dams at different locations that will help improve the dissolved oxygen (DO) levels by getting the water to mix with the air. We will also mechanically pump in 100 litres of oxygen per minute with the help of machines,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.The civic body has deployed several teams that will visit every section of the drains and remove debris in them with the help of earthmovers.Twocheck dams have been built atPratap Vihar with more likely to come up based on requirement, and 10 pumps will inject air at each drain. The authority will also deploy algae into the drain water, which have the ability to convert carbon dioxide into oxygen but also is a major food source for aquatic life.The city discharges almost 286 million liters a day (MLD) of sewage into the Hindon, which eventually joins the Yamuna. The untreated water reduced the river’s DO leve to less than 2 milligram per litre (mg/l) of water and made aquatic life almost impossible. But the civic body hopes that its efforts will help the DO level rise to between 5 to 8mg/l.The 11 drains identified under the project are the ones located at Arthala, City Forest, Dasna, Hindon Vihar, Karhera, Kaila Bhatta, Nandgram, Pratap VIhar, Rahul Vihar, Indirapuram and Brij Vihar besides their sub drains.The project will cover all drains in the next three months, officials said.UP pollution control board (UPPCB) statistics showed annual average DO levels in the river Hindon at 1.67mg/l in Karhera, 1.25mg/l in Mohan Nagar and 0.38mg/l in Chijarsi in Ghaziabad.For the purpose of implementation and monitoring, the corporation has also formed an environment cell that includes officials and experts roped in specifically for the project. To filter waste from entering the river, the drain outlets will also be covered with iron grilles.“We have decided to use different methods which have been identified in consultation with experts and renowned institutes. We will introduce diatoms (a type of algae) that we will culture in our laboratories into the 11 drains. We will also introduce other micro-organisms collected from upper regions of the river. These will help increase DO levels,” said Dr Umar Saifi, an environmental planner roped in by the corporation for the project.A floating islandBut too much algae can be a problem too as it would be a sign that the water is rich in nutrients that plants take up and cover the entire waterbody, blocking its flow.In an effort to achieve the dual objective of removing pollutants and enhancing life, the drains will also have floating islands -- natural or artificial surfaces that will have water-based plants.According to Dr Umar, the roots of the plant will be underwater and take up the nutrients. This way it takes out excess nutrients.“This will help reduce odour in drains and also act as habitat for aquatic life. We are also planning small ponds near drains that will get treated water,” he said.Experts said that the processes taken up by the corporation will help in increasing the DO levels in the river.“The processes taken up for cleaning of drains will work up to a certain level but the water in drains should be devoid of any chemicals, pesticides or any industrial waste. Otherwise, it will kill micro-organisms. The revival of Hindon and its tributaries is pending for long, and it needs collective efforts by all districts in western UP,” said river activist Dr Chandravir Singh, retired scientist from a state pollution board.Singh filed several petitions with the National Green Tribunal regarding the polluted state of river Hindon and also its effect on groundwater in villages of western Uttar Pradesh.“If the processes give better results, they should be implemented in upstream districts too. The monthly data released by UPPCB also indicates that the river is faring poorly on various parameters like DO and others,” said Vikrant Sharma, a city-based environmentalist and member of ‘Hindon Jal Biradiri.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-body-starts-to-clean-11-untreated-drains-101616695104099.html
25-03-2021||Noida||Pollution level spikes in Hindon, finds UPPCB report||Noida: The pollution levels in river Hindon have worsened in January as compared to December last year, as per the latest report of the state pollution body released on Thursday. The river continues being rated under category ‘E’, making it unfit for drinking, bathing or propagation of aquatic life despite conventional treatment and disinfection, the report said.According to environmentalists, the poor state of Hindon is due to illegal discharge of untreated effluents in the river by the industries and several unauthorised residential colonies built at its floodplains in Ghaziabad and Noida.While the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) report does not mention the data for industrial effluents like amount of hard metals -- mercury, chromium iron, arsenic, cadmium, lead, etc. -- the UPPCB has tested water on basic parameters and found the pollution levels very high. UPPCB analysis of the samples collected from downstream of Kulesra in Noida, for January 2021, found the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) levels to be 45 milligrams per litre (mg/l) against 30mg/l in December last year, which is 15 times the permissible limits of up to 3 mg/l. Similarly, the total coliform has been detected to be 28,00,000 most probable number (MPN)/100 ml (against 14,00,000 in December), which is about 5,600 times higher than the maximum allowed levels of 500 MPN/100 ml. The faecal coliform was found to be 22,00,000 MPN/100ml (11,00,000 in December) which is about 880 times the max permissible levels of 2,500 MPN/100 ml, the UPPCB report said. The higher levels of the total coliform shows that high volume of sewage is flowing through the river.The report also said that dissolved oxygen level for the river was nil against the minimum requirement of 5mg/l. Dissolved oxygen level is the life of a river, which being nil means that the river is virtually dead with water unfit for any consumption. UPPCB officials said they are ensuring that the industrial effluents are under check, while the current status of the river is based on several factors, including illegal residential areas discharging the untreated effluents.“There could be many factors behind the pollution in the river such as the total flow, status of its source and the districts it passes through. In Noida, we have ensured that the industrial effluents are kept under check and we also inspect the industries to see if their effluent treatment plants are functioning. It’s the untapped sewage that needs to be checked,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida.According to Akash Vashishtha, a Ghaziabad-based environmentalist who in 2015 took the matter of pollution in Hindon to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the current state of the river is a clear indication that no orders or judgments of the NGT are being complied with. “In the 2017 judgement by NGT, there were common direction and principles for rejuvenation and revival of Ganga as well as Hindon being a tributary of Yamuna. However, the current state of the river is itself a clear violation of the NGT’s order,” said Vashishtha.He further points out that the river fails to meet even bathing water quality norms while no wildlife or fisheries can thrive in it. “More and more illegal constructions are being facilitated by government agencies on Hindon floodplains in Ghaziabad and Noida, which discharge their sewage directly into the river. It is pertinent to say here that the UPPCB has tested only the basic river parameters and has not tested the industrial effluents at all,” Vashishtha added. Hindon comes from Saharanpur and enters Greater Noida from Chijarsi border after passing through Meerut, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, and Ghaziabad. Throughout its 50km of length across Gautam Budh Nagar district, it disappears in almost equally polluted Yamuna at Momnathal in Tilwara village of Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pollution-level-spikes-in-hindon-finds-uppcb-report-101616695044630.html
25-03-2021||Noida||Sunder Bhati, 11 others convicted in Harendra Pradhan murder case||Greater Noida: The district and sessions court at Surajpur on Thursday convicted Sunder Bhati and his 11 accomplices for the murder of 35-year-old Harendra Pradhan alias Harendra Nagar of Dadopur village, Dankaur, in 2015.Pradhan and his gunner, 46-year-old Bhoodev Sharma, were shot dead in a marriage function on February 8, 2015 in Niyana village in Greater Noida by armed assailants. One of the suspects, Manoj (identified by single name), has been acquitted for want of evidence. The quantum of punishment in this case will be delivered Friday.Bhati and his accomplices were undergoing trial in the court of Dr Anil Kumar Singh, additional district judge, Surajpur. “The court has convicted 12 persons, including Sunder Bhati, while one suspect has been acquitted,” Brhamjeet Bhati, district government counsel (DGC criminal) Gautam Budh Nagar, said.Pradhan was murdered while he was on a visit to a neighbouring village to attend the wedding of the daughter of his friend Prakash Bhati, at a venue located under the Site V police in Greater Noida. His security guard, Sharma, was accompanying him. When they were about to get into their car the criminals sprayed bullets on Pradhan and Sharma, killing both of them. Sharma also opened fire in self defence during which one of the assailants was killed, later identified as Jatan Khatri, an alleged sharpshooter of the Bhati gang.The case had been pursued by Pradhan’s younger brother Ravindra Nagar. He had filed a complaint against Sunder Bhati and his gang members under Section 302 (murder), Section 147 (rioting), Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) at the Site V police station.Ravindra’s advocate Lalit Mohan Gupta said that this is the first case in which Sunder Bhati has been convicted. “In several other cases in which he has been accused, Bhati was acquitted due to lack of evidence as witnesses did not testify against him due to fear. In this case, the court had strong evidence and they were convicted,” he said.Police sources said that Sunder Bhati is presently lodged at the Sonbhadra district jail. Pradhan’s widow Bevan Nagar, on February 9, 2021, had filed a fresh complaint alleging Bhati gang members had been pressurising Ravindra to withdraw the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sunder-bhati-11-others-convicted-in-harendra-pradhan-murder-case-101616695044097.html
25-03-2021||Noida||2 involved in vehicle thefts for 20 yrs held||Noida: Two members of a gang involved in vehicle thefts for over 20 years were nabbed by Noida’s sector-24 police from the washroom of a compressed natural gas (CNG) refilling station in sector-53 on Thursday morning. The suspects were identified as Mustaqim and Iqbal, natives of Bulandshahr and Meerut respectively. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail. Police said a search was on to trace two more members of the gang who were on the run. Police said one of the suspects on the run was a scrap dealer who was planning to stand for the elections for the post of panchayat pradhan (headman) in Meerut. Police have identified four of his properties bought with the money obtained by selling the stolen vehicles. Police have recovered five cars --- two Santros, a WagonR, an Alto, and an i10-- along with two keys (used to break into vehicles), three car engines, tools used for thefts and a country-made pistol from the arrested suspects. “The group mostly targeted small vehicles. We have CCTV footage of the suspects stealing parked vehicles from 24 different locations n Noida and Central Noida. They mostly committed the thefts during daytime. Mustaqim confessed that he felt the parked vehicles told him to take them away,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), zone 1. According to police, the gang stole 20 to 25 vehicles per month on an average from Noida, Ghaziabad, Hapur and Delhi. The ACP said the gang had stolen a car from sector-37 last week. Mustaqim used the profits from the thefts to help his wife win an election for the position of a block chief in Bulandshahr. “The vehicle models older than 2008 were stripped and the parts sold, for which they fetched ₹30,000-40,000. In case of newer models, they changed the engine and chassis numbers, procured fake registration certificates and then sold the vehicles for ₹70,000-80,000,” said Verma. The Noida police have identified dozens of cases against the suspects. The police teams from nearby districts will also question them. The call details of the suspects have been obtained as evidence of their involvement in the vehicle thefts. This is the second such case of vehicle thefts to be busted in less than a month in Noida. Three members of a gang were nabbed on March 2 from whom the Noida police recovered four vehicles, several keys and number plates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-involved-in-vehicle-thefts-for-20-yrs-held-101616694984061.html
25-03-2021||Gurugram||Residential sales back on track in first quarter, state realty reports||Sale of residential houses in the first quarter of 2021 has shown significant recovery in terms of volume, according to the latest reports released by two real estate consultancies that pegged the recovery between almost 90% of the sales during the same period last year to a 29% increase, before the pandemic affected the sector.As per the reports released by private consultancies JLL and Anarock, the maximum sales were recorded in the mid-segment and affordable categories, while the prices of properties increased by 1-2%.“Housing affordability will potentially remain extremely favourable throughout 2021. If the current sops and incentives continue, we will see sustained vibrancy in the upcoming quarters as well and end-users will drive maximum demand,” said Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock property consultants. While the JLL report pegged the recovery in this quarter at 90% of the sales last year, the Anarock report stated an increase of 29% from the sales in the first quarter of 2020.City-based developers also indicated that sales had witnessed a spurt, particularly in completed projects, wherein a majority of the buyers were end-users. The low interest rates offered on bank loans and availability of finished houses have boosted sales, they said. However, they said that property tax in the state, coupled with high circle rates, need to be rationalised to give further impetus to the market.The report released by JLL on Thursday stated that residential sales in the first quarter of 2021 showed a recovery of more than 90% of the volume witnessed in the first quarter of 2020 in the top seven markets of Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Pune, Bengaluru, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Delhi-NCR. MMR accounted for maximum residential sales, with 23%, followed by Delhi NCR, which accounted for 21% of the total sales across the country.The JLL report stated that 25,583 units were sold across the top seven markets, compared to 27, 451 units sold between January and March last year.“The sustained growth in sales presents clear signs of demand and buyer confidence coming back to the market. This has been on the back of historically low home loan interest rates, stagnant residential prices, lucrative payment plans and freebies from developers and government incentives, such as the reduction of the stamp duty in some states,” said Samantak Das, chief economist and head of research, JLL.The report released by Anarock on Wednesday was also bullish on housing sales in the first three months of 2021. Besides stating a 29% increase in sales, a 51% increase was recorded in new launches compared to the same period last year. It stated that 58,290 houses were sold in the top seven cities compared this year to 45,200 houses sold in the first quarter of last year.The mid-segment housing saw the maximum new launches in the quarter with a 43% overall share, with the affordable housing segment accounting for 30%, the report said.Praveen Jain, a city-based developer and vice-chairman of the National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco), said that the sale of houses witnessed a spurt but there was a need to reduce taxes and that the recent hike in stamp duty, particularly, should be rolled back. “Under-construction projects, which were witnessing almost no sales, are also being sought by buyers, who are looking to invest their money or want possession a few years later. The market, however, is being driven by end-users,” said Jain.Another developer said that apart from rationalising taxes, the authorities must also make the registration of properties easier. “The new registration process takes a lot of time and needs to be streamlined on an urgent basis, particularly in new Gurugram, where the issue of property IDs has slowed down everything,” said Kamaljit Singh, vice-president, Bestech Developers.The Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM), which has the majority of developing sectors in its jurisdiction, said that a nodal officer was appointed on Thursday to resolve the issue of property IDs. Munish Sharma, the municipal commissioner of MCM said that they would resolve the issue on a priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residential-sales-back-on-track-in-first-quarter-state-realty-reports-101616694925407.html
25-03-2021||Noida||Jewar airport: 767 more plots allotted to farmers||GREATER NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Thursday allotted residential plots in Jewar Bangar village to 767 farmers whose land was acquired for the Noida International Airport project in Jewar. It was the second round of plot allotments to the affected farmers who are from Nagla Chhitar village, officials said, adding that the plots were allotted via lucky draw.On March 6, 238 plots were allotted under first round of allotment to farmers of Nagla Ganeshi village.“We have allotted the plots so that the farmers build their houses at an airport township in Jewar Bangar,” said Balram Singh, additional district magistrate, GB Nagar.The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) is developing the township and providing basic facilities like road, water, sewage, and power connections under the “Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013”. Yeida is investing ₹350 crore on development of the well-planned township for farmers, the officials said.“Today, 767 eligible farmers got plots in Jewar Bangar. The remaining farmers will also get their plots soon in the next allotment round,” said Shailendra Bhatia, officer on special duty, Yeida.A total of 8,971 farmer families have given either their agricultural land or houses for the airport. Of them, 3,627 families will be displaced, the officials said, adding that each farmer/family will get a plot having size 50% of their existing house. Plot sizes ranging from 50 to 500 square metres are being allotted based on the land acquired for the project from each family, they said.“We are requesting farmers to vacate houses and shift into the new place as soon as possible as the work has to start at the site by mid-2021, and good part is that the farmers are also supporting us,” said Bhatia.Yeida said that the developmental work on township will be completed in the next two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jewar-airport-767-more-plots-allotted-to-farmers-101616694924544.html
25-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Random RT-PCR tests to be conducted in border areas||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has started random testing and decided to conduct RT-PCR tests in the border areas having more caseload to assess the trend of the surge in Covid-19 cases. A team of health officials randomly tested 205 people in the Ashok Nagar and Botanical Garden areas on Thursday. None of them tested positive for the virus. District magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar Suhas LY said the administration has adapted a micro-containment strategy to control the spread of the viral infection in the worst-affected areas of the district. “We have started random testing to assess the spread of the infection following a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the district. Estimating the actual prevalence of Covid-19 in a population can help in issuing further advisories to employers and organisations, where a large number of people work and commute between G B Nagar and the nearby areas. Though no one tested positive during the random rapid antigen testing on Thursday, we’ll continue this operation at two different locations every day for a week,” he said. The district magistrate further said since the positivity rate in rapid antigen tests was mostly negligible, a decision has been taken to conduct reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests in the critical pockets. “It’ll give us the exact picture of the infection spread and help us in keeping a record of the case positivity in the district,” he said. Echoing similar views, Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of Gautam Budh Nagar (CMO), said district health officials have been continuously testing at least 3,500 people per day, right from the first day that the infection was detected in India . “Despite a sudden surge in the adjoining states, the situation in Gautam Budh Nagar is still under control. Even the vaccination rate of the district is second in the state. Of the total 65,048 beneficiaries targeted for March, 60,587 (93.14%) people above 60 years and those between 45 and 59 years with comorbidities have been inoculated in the third phase of the vaccination drive month till March 25. This indicates that we will cover more beneficiaries than the target set for this month,” said Ohri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-random-rt-pcr-tests-to-be-conducted-in-border-areas-101616694924058.html
25-03-2021||Other||RWAs ban Holi celebrations, restrict entry of visitors||Residents’ welfare associations across the city, taking a cue from home minister Anil Vij’s announcement of a ban on Holi celebrations in public spaces, issued advisories disallowing celebrations on condominium premises and prohibiting entry of visitors on the day of the festival.The district administration, however, has not issued any guidelines for the festival yet as they await standard operating procedure (SOP) from the state administration. “SOPs are likely to be issued by the state for Holi celebrations. Based on that, orders will be issued,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner. Home minister Anil Vij, who is also the health minister, took to Twitter on Wednesday to announce a ban on celebrations in the open and gatherings due to the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the state. Residents across the city expressed concern as 256 new cases were detected on Thursday in Gurugram, taking the active case count to 1,339, while the number of active cases in the state crossed 6,700. “The Holi party planning started almost two weeks ago. Initially, the plan was to hold a rain dance party, DJ night and dinner for residents. Given the announcement by the home minister, all plans were cancelled on Wednesday night. Holika dehan on March 28 has also been scaled down. Not more than 50 people will be allowed, while other residents can watch the ceremony through Zoom Live,” AK Singh, president and chief executive officer of Enviro that looks after facilities management of Vatika township. He said that a circular was issued to all residents stating that no visitors will be allowed in the society on Holi. “Unless there is an emergency or senior citizens are coming to meet their children, visitors’ entry has been prohibited,” said Singh. Similarly, Ridgewood Estate RWA also restricted the entry of visitors. “People are being encouraged to invite a limited number of visitors, not more than five. If visitors come in large numbers, they won’t be allowed to enter. Advisory has been issued that parents should not send their kids to the park for playing Holi. Instead, they should celebrate it inside their homes with dry colours,” said Gurpreet Singh, president, Ridgewood Estate RWA in DLF Phase-4, adding Holika dehan on March 28 will be a low-key event. Members of the Qutub Enclave RWA said that the Holi milan get-together, which is held every year at the community centre, has been cancelled. “There will be no celebration in public spaces. Security guards and RWA staff will check if any rules are being violated. Residents have been told to limit visitors,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson. Rahul Singla, director, Mapsko, the developer of Casa Bella in Sector 82, said, “We have requested the RWA and residents to abide by social distancing norms and avoid large gatherings in case they celebrate Holi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rwas-ban-holi-celebrations-restrict-entry-of-visitors-101616694864606.html
25-03-2021||Gurugram||256 new Covid cases, highest daily spike since Dec 13||The uptick in Covid-19 cases continued on Thursday with at least 256 new cases being reported -- the highest single-day jump in the month of March so far and also the highest since December 13 when 275 cases were reported. With the health department expecting a further spike in new cases after Holi (Monday), it has decided to step up testing to more than 5,000 a day. The health department on Thursday conducted 5,275 Covid-19 tests -- the last time the department had conducted these many tests was in December. “This will be further increased as cases are expected to climb further in the next few days. Overall testing has been increased with the mass antigen testing planned in different parts of the city to check for the prevalence of infection,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Of the 5,275 tests, at least 524 were rapid antigen tests that were done at various camps in densely populated areas of the city. The daily positivity rate — proportion of samples testing positive among the total tested — also climbed to nearly 6% on Thursday. On March 22, the positivity rate was 3%, which increased to 5% on March 23 and 4.5% on March 24. The positivity rate has been escalating as testing has been increased, officials said. If the positivity rate remains below the 5% mark consistently for two weeks, experts believe that it is indicative of the Covid spread being under controlTo control the positivity rate, increased testing is required to identify cases and isolate them. Data shows that in the past seven days, more than 29,000 tests were done, as compared to 23, 895 tests done in the week before that. According to the district health bulletin, Gurugram, in the past one year has conducted over 910,528 tests after two waves of Covid-19. In December 2020, due to a dramatic increase in cases, almost 6,000 to 10,000 tests conducted daily. On December 13, a total of 275 Covid cases were reported in a single day, the highest daily spike before this Thursday’s.Due to resurgence of the infection, the active case count has now reached 1,339, while the total count is 61, 458, according to the district health bulletin. Among the active cases, nearly 93% are home isolated and at least 90 having moderate to severe illness are undergoing treatment in private hospitals. The death count in the district remains at 362.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/256-new-covid-cases-highest-daily-spike-since-dec-13-101616694864005.html
25-03-2021||Noida||Focused testing for Covid-19 reveals low positivity in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Focused testing to detect the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in the Ghaziabad district reveals that the positivity is about 0.23% (45 positive cases from a total of 19,615) in the samples taken from March 13 to 23. Officials said that the spread of virus is limited to some pockets of the district and that the severity of the disease is low at present, with most cases turning out to be asymptomatic.The drive, initiated on orders of the Uttar Pradesh government, will go up to March 27 during which samples will be taken up for random testing covering high case load areas, construction sites, street vendors, schools and colleges, domestic travellers, pan and cigarette shops, bus stands, sweets shops, liquor shops, malls, markets and also at shops selling Holi-related items, among others. Official records of the health department indicate that 7,187 RT-PCR tests resulted in 41 of the positive cases while 12,428 rapid antigen tests yielded only four positive cases during the drive up to March 23. “Focused testing is taken up randomly for different groups in order to assess the spread of the disease. The positivity right now is low, like it was during a similar testing taken up before and after Diwali festival last year. There has been a minor rise in the number of cases recently as compared to last month and this could also be due to people commuting to nearby states,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to repeated calls for his response. During the pre-Diwali focused testing, the health department, from October 29 to November 12 last year, had conducted 20,852 tests which resulted in 139 positive cases ( about0.65%). Back then, auto-drivers, beauticians and staff of malls, sweet shops, etc, were tested. Likewise, about 21,801 overall tests were conducted post-Diwali, from November 19 to November 30 last year, and these resulted in 257 positive cases (about 1%). The groups tested during the period included observation homes, urban slums and jails among others.“To check the spread of the virus, we have also expedited contact tracing and working on strategies for tracing, testing and treatment. During the last 14 days (March 10 to March 23) we have identified an average of about 27 contacts per patient. A majority of positive cases are asymptomatic,” said an officer from the district health department, requesting anonymity. The experts said that all precautions and Covid-19 protocols must be observed and more so during the upcoming festival of Holi. “It is time that contact tracing is taken up on priority and 30 contacts or more should be traced for a positive patient. This will be of great help in controlling Covid-19. The disease in patients at present is not so severe and patients are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. The official records indicate that from March 1 last year to March 23 this year, the district recorded a total of 27,073 positive cases and the health department completed contact tracing of 26,983 (about 99.66%) of positive cases. The figures reveal that a total of 499,984 contacts of the 26,983 positive cases were identified at an average of about 18.52 contacts per patient. The UP chief secretary in his recent directions on March 23 had asked to trace 25-30 contacts per positive case within 48 hours and to get them tested at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/focused-testing-for-covid-19-reveals-low-positivity-in-ghaziabad-101616694744093.html
25-03-2021||Other||Mobiles found in Fatehgarh jail, jailer shifted, 3 warders suspended||Three mobile phones were recovered from the barracks of inmates in the Fatehgarh District Jail during a surprise inspection, on Wednesday.A specific tip-off about the presence of objectionable material inside the jail premises resulted in the checking drive being launched, said senior jail officials of prison headquarters, in Lucknow, on Thursday.The officials said the jailer Girija Shanker Yadav was immediately transferred and disciplinary action has been initiated by director general (DG), prisons, Anand Kumar. They said that Unnao District Jail jailer Akhilesh Kumar has replaced Yadav as the new jailer of Fatehgarh District Jail.Besides, three warders – Viresh Singh, Jai Prakash Yadav and Sanjiv Kumar – were suspended, finding them responsible for allowing mobile phones inside the barracks and a show cause notice has been issued to deputy jailer Jitendra Kumar in the same matter, they added.A senior prison official said the special task force of the prison department constituted by the DG, prisons, carried out a comprehensive search using deep-search metal detectors and found three small mobile phones hidden in pits in three different barracks.He said that the raid was led by PK Shukla, senior jail superintendent, Central Jail Fatehgarh.He said that the DG has ordered further departmental action against the trio while the jailer has been transferred to Sampurnanand Jail Institute in Lucknow after finding negligence in the entire matter. He added that an enquiry has been initiated against him and disciplinary action could be initiated if he is found guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mobiles-found-in-fatehgarh-jail-jailer-shifted-3-warders-suspended-101616694504022.html
25-03-2021||Lucknow||SGPGI, Transport dept joint initiative - Wish to donate organ? Give consent on DL application now||: To bridge the gap between organ recipients and donors, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) and transport department have taken an initiative of making a response mandatory by applicants in the declaration related to ‘organ donor’ option available in driving licence application form in Uttar Pradesh.The step, officials believe, will promote organ donation in the state.Director Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences professor Radha Krishna Dhiman said,” The country accounts for about 4.5 lakh road traffic accidents per annum, in which 1.5 lakh people die every year. These people die an untimely death and can be potential organ donors but are left uninitiated due to lack of documented proof of consent of the deceased. In order to ensure the documented proof of consent and to boost the deceased organ donor pool in Uttar Pradesh this initiative is being taken, he said.”“I am thankful to the transport department which welcomed the initiative and proposed the idea of making a response mandatory by applicants in the declaration related to ‘organ donor’ option available in driving licence application form in Uttar Pradesh. Earlier, I have mooted the idea of pledging of organ donation on driving licence in Chandigarh which became the second UT in the country to do so,” he said.Transport commissioner, Dheeraj Sahu and additional transport commissioner Devendra Kumar, immediately gave nod to the concept of making a response mandatory by applicants in the declaration related to ‘Organ Donor’ option available in Driving License application form in Uttar Pradesh.Thereafter appropriate government orders have been issued to ensure that from now on for every applicant, through suitable modifications in online portal for application, it would be made mandatory for the applicant to exercise their option of being willing to donate organs in the event of death, upon their free will.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sgpgi-transport-dept-joint-initiative-wish-to-donate-organ-give-consent-on-dl-application-now-101616694263996.html
25-03-2021||Lucknow||Holi in police station for possible trouble-makers in Bareilly zone||The Bareilly zone police have come up with an interesting idea to maintain peace on Holi day – they will “invite” people named in disputes to celebrate the festival at police stations of their respective areas to rule out the possibility of any law and order problem. Additional director general (ADG) of police (Bareilly zone) Avinash Chandra said “people named in disputes, who can cause law and order problem, will have to celebrate Holi at police stations.” The ADG has directed all police stations of Bareilly zone, which includes Bareilly, Rampur, Pilibhit, Badaun, Shahajahnpur, Moradabad, Sambhal, Bijnor and Amroha districts, to make arrangements for gulal and gujias and sweets for the “guests”. “It has been observed, over the years, that most of the law and order problems on Holi are caused because of disputes. We want to avoid it this time by calling members of both parties to the police station on the festival where they can meet each other in presence of police officials. The duration for which they will be asked to stay at the police station has been left to the discretion of local police officials,” Chandra said. Acting on the orders, the district police chiefs in the zone have asked all police stations to make a list of individuals who are known to have long standing disputes in their areas. The police will then inform such people to report at the police station on Holi day to celebrate the festival there itself. While the exercise of collecting names is still on, it is expected that close to 500 people will be called to the police stations in the zone on Holi.Beside this initiative, local police are also in touch with political and religious leaders to ensure peaceful festivities. Meetings of peace committees were also conducted recently at police stations across the state. The police in the region have taken similar steps in the past also to ensure peace during festivals. In some districts, police issued pink cards to people who were known to cause trouble during festivals, warning them against disturbing law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/holi-in-police-station-for-possible-trouble-makers-in-bareilly-zone-101616694144027.html
25-03-2021||Lucknow||UP students till Class 8 to be promoted without exams||The state basic education department has decided to promote all 1.8 crore students of Classes 1 to 8 without exams, as the state government has ordered closure of schools from March 24 to 31. This is for the second consecutive year that students have been promoted without exams.A letter to the principals of all government and private schools has been sent by the primary education department directing them to promote students of Class 1 to 8 to the next class. Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, basic education, said that the new session of Classes 1 to 8 will begin from April 1.However, he said that a performance-based assessment of students will be done in April end on the basis of last year’s school syllabus. “But no student will be denied promotion to the next level under the Right to Education Act,” he said.A decision on holding offline or online classes will be taken shortly after assessing the second surge of Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-students-till-class-8-to-be-promoted-without-exams-101616693964008.html
25-03-2021||Lucknow||Dead tigress’ four cubs found in PTR||Ten days after a tigress was found dead in the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), the staff managed to rescue her four cubs which were sent to Lucknow Zoo for further care. The four cubs are healthy.A tigress carcass was found in Mala range of PTR on March 14. Forest officials realised that she was the mother of four cubs who are missing. While the carcass was sent for a post-mortem investigation, PTR officials launched a hunt to locate the four missing cubs.The team placed 25 cameras equipped with motion sensors in the area and placed two artificial water sources to ensure that the cubs get water on time, and easily. Special pads were also placed to take the imprint of the paws of the cubs. The team monitored each of these measures round the clock.“We got an imprint of a cub’s paw on Tuesday after which we concentrated the search and recovered the cubs safely. The cubs were examined by our medical experts who concluded that they were only a few months old and healthy. The orphaned cubs were sent to Lucknow zoo for further care,” said Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director, PTR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dead-tigress-four-cubs-found-in-ptr-101616693843975.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Over 34,000 people vaccinated against coronavirus in Delhi on Thursday||Over 34,000 beneficiaries received shots of Covid-19 vaccine in the national capital by 6 pm on Thursday and none of them has reported any adverse event so far, officials said.In the 45-59 years age bracket, 3,384 beneficiaries received the shots, while 19,781 senior citizens also got their first jabs by 6 pm, an official said.The second dose of vaccine was given to 7,122 people, he said, adding 2,800 frontline workers and 1,702 healthcare workers got their first shots.A total of 34,789 people were vaccinated across the city and no case of minor AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) was recorded by 6 pm, officials said.Vaccination centres in the city have been operating from 9 am to 9 pm since Monday.Last week, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the number of vaccination centres will be doubled to 1,000 from about 500 at present spanning both government and private facilities.He had announced that the number of daily inoculations in Delhi will be augmented from 30,000-40,000 to 1.25 lakh.Delhi reported 1,515 coronavirus cases on Wednesday, the highest in over three months, while five more people succumbed to the disease.This is the highest number of cases since December 16 when 1,547 people tested positive for the virus, according to official data. The city had recorded 1,254 cases on Wednesday and 1,101 cases on Tuesday -- the first time since December 24 that the number of cases crossed the 1,000 mark.Amid a rise in coronavirus cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority had on Tuesday ordered that there will be no public celebrations in the national capital during upcoming festivals such Holi and Navratri.Chief Secretary Vijay Dev directed authorities to ensure strict compliance of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-34-000-people-vaccinated-against-coronavirus-in-delhi-on-thursday-101616692951916.html
25-03-2021||Other||Pak delegation on Indus treaty leaves; says meeting a success||Amritsar A seven-member delegation of Pakistan’s Commission on Indus Waters Treaty (IWT), which had arrived in India on March 23 (Tuesday), for two-day talks returned to their country via the Attari-Wagah border on Thursday. The delegation held talks with the Indian team led by Indus Water Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Saxena in New Delhi, after two-and-a-half years, with the last meeting held at Lahore in August 2018.On Thursday, Pakistan’s Indus Water Commissioner Syed Mohammad Mehr Ali Shah paid obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar before going back. Terming the two-day meeting of the Permanent Indus Commission, held in New Delhi on Tuesday and Wednesday, as a success, Shah said options for such bilateral meetings should always remain open.Pakistan had raised objections to the designs of Pakal Dul and Lower Kalnai hydropower projects in Jammu and Kashmir; India had said that the projects were fully compliant with the treaty. “Our meeting is proof of the implementation of the Indus Water treaty. The treaty is being implemented and our ways of communication are open,” Shah told reporters at the Golden TempleHe added, “We are trying to resolve issues and objections related to the treaty via bilateral talks. We hope that the dialogue related to the treaty will continue, and our potential problems will be solved.”Arun Pal, Punjab Police’s protocol officer at the Attari border, said the delegation returned to Pakistan about 1.30pm. The IWT, signed in 1960, mandates the two commissioners to meet at least once a year, alternately in India and Pakistan. Last year’s meeting to be held in New Delhi in March was cancelled, a first, in view of the coronavirus pandemic, and the impact of India’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019.The IWT also stipulates that the water of the eastern rivers—Sutlej, Beas and Ravi—is allocated to India for unrestricted use. The waters of western rivers—Indus, Jhelum and Chenab—has been assigned largely to Pakistan. As per the treaty, India has been given the right to generate hydroelectricity through run-of-the-river projects on western rivers, subject to specific criteria for design and operation. The treaty also gives rights to Pakistan to raise objections on the design of Indian hydroelectric projects on western rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pak-delegation-on-indus-treaty-leaves-says-meeting-a-success-101616692884863.html
25-03-2021||Other||More private hospitals resuming Covid treatment in Lucknow||Private hospitals are resuming the treatment of Covid patients in the state capital in line with government directives due to a rise in coronavirus infection cases. The Era Medical College became the latest to join the list on Thursday with the admission of about a dozen Covid patients.Covid wards are also active at the Mayo, Chandan and Vidya Atharv Hospitals in the city. While Charak Hospital will start the Covid facility from April 10, Prasad Hospital, Integral, Vivekananda Polyclinic and TS Mishra Hospital will do so from April 1.This was decided in a meeting that the district administration held with the private hospitals on Thursday to review the facilities at these hospitals. The hospitals were also asked to motivate the treated Covid patients to donate plasma.About a week ago, the Era Medical College administration was asked to keep the infrastructure and the staff ready in accordance with the protocol of a level-3 (L-3) Covid hospital.The medical college had admitted Covid patients on a total of 420 beds in 2020. When the number of coronavirus cases went down, it was allowed to run non-Covid facilities in a full-fledged manner. But the college was told that if required, they would have to run Covid services again.Nevertheless, the college will run non-Covid facilities also. The Covid facility, along with its entry, has been kept separate from the non-Covid facilities on the campus.“We had treated over 3,000 Covid patients till now and we are prepared once again,” said Dr MMA Faridi, principal of the college.He said, “Covid is not new for us. We have trained doctors and other staff and we aim to treat all patients coming here.”“Private hospitals have played a key role in the management of Covid patients and with the cases rising, private sector hospitals are ready to cooperate,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/more-private-hospitals-resuming-covid-treatment-in-lucknow-101616692523901.html
25-03-2021||Other||Alleged harassment of nuns: SP Railway rushes to Jhansi for formal probe||Superintendent of police (Railway, Lucknow) Somitra Yadav rushed to Jhansi to start a formal inquiry into the alleged harassment of two nuns and two young postulants taken off the train by the railway police after some people supposedly associated with Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarathi Parishad (ABVP) suspected the young women were being taken for forced conversion.Yadav would look into the incident in entirety and submit his report to the inspector general (Railway) Satyendra Kumar Singh. The inquiry was given to SP (Railway, Lucknow) as no one has been posted as SP (Railway) in Jhansi.Singh said the inquiry would deal with the all the aspects of the case, including the mental trauma caused to the nuns and the postulants. The inquiry was ordered hours after Union home minister Amit Shah assured at a public rally in election-bound Kerala that strong action would be taken against those who harassed the nuns. The issue snowballed into a major controversy after Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took the nuns’ case up at a time the BJP was reaching out to the Christian community, which accounts for 16% of the electorate in Kerala.The nuns and postulants of the Sacred Hearts Congregation, New Delhi, were traveling by Utkal Express on March 19. The two young women accompanying the nuns were returning to their native place Rourkela in Odisha after completing their course at the centre.ABVP leaders also travelling on the train suspected that the young girls were being taken for conversion. A leader identified, according to inspector (GRP Jhansi) Sunil Singh, as Ajay Tiwari informed the Railway Protection Force (RPF) control room. As the train reached Jhansi railway station, the RPF personnel got into the train.A video that has surfaced and went viral on social media shows the policemen allegedly threatening and misbehaving with the nuns who were also forced to show their Aadhaar cards. A GRP official said the local GRP team reached the train on getting information about the commotion.“On reaching there, it found the nuns and postulants had already been taken off the train; since the GRP is a reporting thana, the ABVP leaders gave a written complaint on which inquiry was done and accusations were found false,” he said.“At the time our men reached, 20-22 people were there and charged up. The nuns and postulants were brought to the GRP station at 8pm. On being asked, the young women said they were Christians by birth,” he said, adding that then the officials of St Jude’s Church Jhansi also showed their baptism certificates to police officials.The nuns and the postulants remained in the police station for three hours before they were released in the custody of church officials. They spent the night in Jhansi before leaving for Rourkela the next day on March 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alleged-harassment-of-nuns-sp-railway-rushes-to-jhansi-for-formal-probe-101616692403920.html
25-03-2021||Other||Police declare ₹50,000 reward on S-I’s alleged killer||The police on Thursday declared a reward of ₹50,000 on the accused in the killing sub-inspector (S-I) Prashant Kumar Yadav in an Agra village, an official said. The 35-year-old policeman was shot dead on Wednesday when he tried to resolve a dispute between two brothers.“Reward of ₹50,000 has been declared by the ADG/IG Range (Agra) A Satish Ganesh on the accused Vishwanath Singh who continues to be absconding. Twelve teams have been constituted to nab the accused. These teams are led by superintendent of police (West) and are working in coordination,” said Agra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babloo Kumar. Floral tributes were paid to the S-I’s mortal remains at the police lines in Agra on Thursday. Additional director general (Agra zone) Rajeev Krishna, ADG/IG (Agra range) A Satish Ganesh, SSP (Agra) Babloo Kumar, SP (City) Rohan Pramod Botre and district magistrate Prabhu N Singh were present on the occasion.Senior police officials lent their shoulders to the bier. The body was taken to the ancestral village of the sub-inspector in Bulandshahr district for the last rites. Minister of state GS Dharmesh and Etmadpur MLA Ram Pratap Singh Chauhan of the BJP were also there and handed over a cheque for ₹50 lakh, the compensation declared by chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the next of kin of the S-I. The chief minister had also announced a government job to a dependent and that a road would be named after the sub-inspector, according to state government officials.Yadav had joined police force in 2015. He belonged to Chatari village in Bulandshahr district of western UP.The sub-inspector was shot dead when he arrived to resolve a dispute between two brothers at Naharra village under the Khandoli police station limits in Agra district on Wednesday, officials said.“The sub-inspector had reached to resolve a dispute between two brothers over potato crop after information about the same was received at the police station. The accused brother is absconding after the incident,” ADG (Agra Zone) Rajeev Krishna had said after the incident.Giving details, the senior police official had also said, “There was a dispute over potato crop between brothers Shivnath (Singh) and Vishwanath (Singh). Sub-inspector Prashant Kumar Yadav had reached the field along with constable Chandrasen to resolve the dispute. The S-I chased the accused Vishwanath, who fired at him which proved fatal.” Vishwanath has no criminal record. He used a country made pistol in the crime, according to the police.The constable tried to nab Vishwanath, but he fled after brushing him aside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-declare-rs-50-000-reward-on-s-i-s-alleged-killer-101616692283890.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||35,952 fresh Covid cases in Maharashtra; Mumbai records spike of 5,505||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded as many as 35,952 fresh coronavirus (Covid-19) cases, breaching the 35,000-mark for the first time ever since March last year. With this, the state's total infection tally went up to 26,00,833 while the toll reached 53,796 with 111 fresh deaths, according to the state health department. The state has added over one lakh cases in the last four days.Mumbai, too, reported its highest-ever spike of 5,504 new infections, breaking its Wednesday's record of 5,185 fresh infections.Meanwhile, Aurangabad reported 1,380 cases while 958 cases were detected in Nanded district. Nagpur city and Nagpur district added 2,656 and 1,014 cases, respectively.These numbers came in the backdrop of speculation over whether a lockdown is required to be put in place in more districts of the state. While Nagpur, Nanded, Beed and Parbhani districts are under strict restrictions in view of the rising cases, state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar will hold a meeting to review the situation in Pune district. Pawar is also the guardian minister of the district. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Thursday, Pune city reported 3,340 new cases while as many as 1,340 cases were reported in other areas of the district.“I am meeting public representatives and officials in Pune tomorrow to review the Covid situation there. We all know that cases are continuously rising in Pune. However, there is a difference of opinion among public representatives on a complete lockdown,” said Pawar in Mumbai on Thursday afternoon.The state saw 20,444 patients being discharged from hospitals as its recovery count increased to 22,83,037. As many as 1,53,447 coronavirus tests were carried out on Thursday, taking the total to 1,88,78,754, the health ministry said.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/35952-fresh-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-mumbai-records-spike-of-5505-101616690912472.html
25-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka BJP core committee reconstituted with 13 members, 3 special invitees||The BJP has reconstituted the 13 member core committee of the party's Karnataka state unit on Thursday.As per the release issued by BJP national General Secretary Arun Singh, the 13 member include state unit President Nalin Kumar Kateel, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Union Ministers Pralhad Joahi and D V Sadanada Gowda, Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol, C N Ashwath Narayan and Laxman Savadi.It also includes senior Ministers Jagadish Shettar, K S Eshwarappa, R Ashoka and B Sriramulu, along with state vice president Nirmal Kumar Surana and state general secretary B P Arun Kumar.Arun Singh, who is also the nation general secretary in- charge of the state along with another national general secretary and MLA C T Ravi and national vice president and co-incharge of the state D K Aruna have been named as special invitees for the core committee meetings.The core committee has been asked to meet at least once in a month.Meanwhile, about 60 BJP legislators met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday in what was seen as a show of strength and support for his administration, amid reports of growing resentment within, following open expression of displeasure by senior MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal."MLAs had come to meet me and discuss issues in their constituency, MLA Renukacharya had sought for such a meeting.Couple of days ago 25 MLAs met me, today about 60 of them met me," Yediyurappa said after the meeting.Noting that the discussion was regarding issues in their constituencies and working towards winning the upcoming by- elections, he said, "we have unanimously decided to work together unitedly. I thank them."Thanking Yediyurappa for funds allocated to developmental activities in their constituencies, Renukacharya, who is also CM's political secretary said, "MLAs told him (Yediyurappa) that they are with him, you continue as Chief Minister and keep up the good work of the government."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-bjp-core-committee-reconstituted-with-13-members-3-special-invitees-101616690032960.html
25-03-2021||Pune||SPPU announces first slot of exam timetable for first semester||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) examination department on Thursday declared the timetable for some of its departments for the forthcoming first semester examinations. The online exams will begin from April 10. The varsity’s exam department declared the timetable for faculty of humanities that includes the Law department, faculty of interdisciplinary studies comprising courses like physical education department for the Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) and Master of Education (M.Ed) courses exam timetable. The other courses for which the timetable has been published are Bachelor of Physical Education (B.PEd), Bachelor of Architecture, Masters in Arts (Mass communication and journalism) and certificate and diploma courses under the Law department. There are around 5,700 subjects for the first semester and 6.25 lakh students are expected to appear for these exams. The detailed timetable of the exams will be declared phase wise, as per the departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-announces-first-slot-of-exam-timetable-for-first-semester-101616689583696.html
25-03-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to help migrant workers set up own businesses||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to introduce the Chief Minister’s Pravasi Rozgar Yojana in the state to provide livelihood and social security to lakhs of migrant workers. Under the scheme, the government would provide employment and self-employment opportunities to the migrant workers, between 18 years and 59 years of age, in their own towns, villages and residential areas, officials said. The migrant workers will be able to start their own enterprises by contributing only 5% of the total cost under the scheme, the officials said, adding that the financial help would be given based on the academic qualification of the applicant. “The data of migrant workers is already there with the employment directorate. Only those who have passed at least class 8 will be eligible for applying for self-employment offers under the scheme. Passing class 10 (high school) will be mandatory for projects exceeding ₹10 lakh. However, the academic qualification rider won’t apply to those migrant workers who will not apply for bank loans,” the official said. “Under the scheme, the academically qualified migrant workers would be able to set up their units worth up to ₹50 lakh. Of the total amount, 70% of the project cost can be availed from banks, while 25% will be borne by the state government in the form of a grant,” the officials said.“Through this scheme, the government will facilitate setting up of self-employment units for all the workers who are skilled. Someone could be a skilled electrician or a mechanic, or plumber, tailor, driver, among other things. If they want to start their own thing, the government will facilitate them,” an official said. “These projects will be financed through banks. Labourers and workers will have to submit a 5% contribution of their own. Such workers will also be a part of the scheme who decide to borrow money from their personal sources rather than from the banks. A margin money grant of 25% will be provided by the state government under this scheme. In this way, the project will be set up by providing loans from banks at 70% of the project cost. Interest will be payable only on the loan amount,” the official said.Under the scheme, the beneficiaries could also purchase light commercial vehicles for goods transportation.HOW TO APPLYThere will be an online system of application. After dispatch of application forms under the scheme, the workers will be imparted 10-day skill training through the Skill Development Mission, Entrepreneurship Development Institute, ITI and training institutes of the state and the Centre.“The margin money will be made available by the department on the lines of Mukhyamantri Yuva Swarozgar Yojana after sanction of loans and disbursement of first instalment by banks,” an official said. “The margin money amount will be deposited in the bank and will be adjusted in the beneficiary’s account after successful operation of the unit for one year. The bank will only charge interest on the loan amount,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-to-help-migrant-workers-set-up-own-businesses-101616688983763.html
25-03-2021||Patna||LJP seeks ‘immediate explanation’ from MLA who backed JDU nominee for deputy speaker||Embarrassed by its lone MLA who voted in favour of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate for the post of deputy speaker in Bihar assembly, Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) has sought an explanation from Raj Kumar Singh on why he voted for the JD(U) candidate. LJP’s national secretary-general Abdul Khaliq served a letter to Singh, an MLA from Matihani constituency in Begusarai district. Singh has been asked to explain the reasons that prompted him to vote for the JD(U) candidate. “The party has learnt that you have voted in favour of JD(U) candidate Maheshwar Hazari during the election held for the post of Bihar legislative assembly’s deputy speaker on March 24 without consulting the party in this regard,” Khaliq said in the letter. “Such an act is not expected of you. Taking the matter seriously, the party directs you to give your ‘explanation’ immediately in this regard,” the letter further stated without specifying any time-frame. JD(U) candidate Maheshwar Hazari was elected as the deputy speakers in an election boycotted by the opposition on the last day of the budget session of Bihar assembly on Wednesday. Talking to the media, Singh said that he merely followed the party’s directive given during the election held for the post of Speaker in November 2020. “I had sought direction from the party leadership during the speaker’s election and I was told that since we are part of the NDA, we have to vote for the ruling coalition. I just followed the same directive and voted in favour of the NDA nominee for the deputy speaker’s post. I was not aware if the party’s policy has suddenly changed,” Singh said. Singh, after the voting, had praised the chief minister while extending his greetings to Hazari upon his victory. LJP’s lone MLA’s siding with the NDA candidate has come as a huge embarrassment to the party which had been at the loggerheads with the JD(U) ever since the Bihar assembly polls in November 2020. The LJP had fielded 143 candidates during the assembly polls, which caused huge damage to JD(U) on many seats. This is not the first when an LJP MLA Singh tried to be friendly with the JD(U). A month back, he sparked speculations of joining the JD(U) following his meeting with the chief minister and a state minister. The LJP’s lone MLC, Nutan Singh and wife of BJP minister Neeraj Kumar Singh also quit the party and joined the BJP, last month. Chirag Paswan-led LJP, of late, had witnessed heavy defection with over 200 party leaders and office-bearers joining the JD(U) last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ljp-seeks-immediate-explanation-from-mla-who-backed-jdu-nominee-for-deputy-speaker-101616688024217.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro intensifies drive to ensure Covid-19 norms are followed||In view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Metro has decided to intensify its drive to ensure commuters maintain social distancing and wear masks inside trains and on station premises, the transporter said on Thursday.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) took to Twitter to inform people about it, and said over 300 commuters were issued challans on Wednesday for violating Covid-19 norms."To ensure our travel guidelines are being followed, Delhi Metro's Flying Squads penalised 318 commuters on 24 March 2021 for not wearing a face mask properly & following social distancing. Let us all follow the protocols & politely counsel others to do the same," it tweeted.As per the existing Covid-19 safety protocol, it is mandatory for all passengers to enter station premises after thermal screening, hand sanitisation and with a face mask on. Following social distancing norms on metro premises is also a must throughout the journey period, the DMRC said in a statement.As part of intensified measures to contain the Covid-19 spread, entry at stations will be regulated based on social distancing on the premises, especially at major stations like Rajiv Chowk, Barakhamba Road, Central Secretariat, Patel Chowk, ITO etc., during morning and evening peak hours, it said.While waiting in queues, passengers will be strictly required to wait on the marked social distancing circles or stripes. If it is found that distancing is not being followed, entry gates will be closed at those stations until distancing is ensured, the DMRC said.Inside the trains, the number of flying squads and the frequency of checking is being increased to ensure that Covid safety protocol is strictly adhered to, and offenders will be penalized on the spot, the statement said.The DMRC also directed its officials posted at stations to intensify inspection and ensure that all travel protocols are strictly complied to by both the Metro staff and the passengers, it said.On Tuesday, the flying squads penalised 234 commuters for such violations, the DMRC said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-intensifies-drive-to-ensure-covid-19-norms-are-followed-101616687724579.html
25-03-2021||Ranchi||Stolen ancient sculptures of Gautam Buddha recovered, five held||The two ancient sculptures of Gautam Buddha stolen on Saturday night from the excavation site of Archeological Survey of India (ASI) in Hazaribag have been recovered from Ranchi, police said on Thursday.Police have also arrested five persons, identified as Prem Shankar Singh, 40, Naresh Rai, 50, Kumar Sujeet Singh alias Anku, 46, Yatish Kumar,47 and Sanjay Agarwal, 49. “After they came to know that ancient sculptures were unearthed during the excavation in Hazaribag, they hatched a conspiracy to steal and sell them in market. They have admitted their crime,” said Hazaribag superintendent of police (SP) Karthik S.The ASI along with a team has been carrying out an excavation in foothills of Juljul hill at Sadar block of Hazaribag district. The team has so far unearthed a complete shrine with a central and two subsidiary shrines, from two metres below the surface and a small Buddha Vihar like structure. The team also discovered around a dozen of sculptures, which are expectedly of tenth century, from the small Buddha Vihar site. On Saturday night, two ancient sculptures of Gautam Buddha were stolen in presence of security personnel and labourers working at the site. Hazaribag police immediately set up a special investigation team (SIT) led by Sadar SDPO Mahesh Prajapati. The SIT conducted series of raids and search operations to find the sculptures. Police said they first arrested Kumar Sujeet Singh on a tip off. After Singh admitting his crime, police arrested Sanjay Agarwal, who then revealed that the sculptures were kept at home of one Yatish Kumar in Ranchi. They came to know about the ancient sculptures unearthed during excavation through newspapers on March 3. Then they chalked plan to steal them, as they are very costly in international market. As per their plan, they committed the crime on March 20, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/stolen-ancient-sculptures-of-gautam-buddha-recovered-five-held-101616686703573.html
25-03-2021||Ranchi||Covid on rise 20 out of 24 districts record +ve cases||While state capital has been the epicenter since beginning in terms of positive cases, the pandemic has again started making its presence felt across the state.Much to the worry of the authorities, 20 of the 24 districts reported positive cases on Wednesday, and only three districts are now left with zero active cases in the state.On Wednesday, as many as 194 Covid-19 cases were detected in the state. Of them, 93 were from Ranchi alone. It was the highest single-day spike in Ranchi in 74 days. Earlier on January 9, altogether 125 Covid cases were detected on a single day. While corona infection rate across the state remained 1.72 %, it was 4.72% in Ranchi, the epicenter, as per the covid bulletin released by the health department. Health secretary K.K.Soan said that in wake of the rise in cases, direction has been given to send all those returning to Jharkhand from foreign countries for Covid-19 test within 24 hours and those returning from Mumbai and Kerala within 72 hours.Apart from this, direction has also been given to send positive samples of those coming from foreign countries for genome sequencing to Institute of Life Science, Bhubaneswar. A health department official said that direction has also been received for sending 5% of the positive samples of RT-PCR laboratory to Bhubaneswar.District civil surgeon Dr V.B.Prasad confirmed the directive saying that work of surveillance, testing, contact tracing of persons travelling from other countries and high burden and high positivity states are being done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid-on-rise-20-out-of-24-districts-record-ve-cases-101616686643519.html
25-03-2021||Ranchi||Madhupur by-election: Minister Hassan files nomination as JMM candidate||State’s sports and tourism minister Hafizul Hassan, son of former minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari who died last year, filed his nomination as JMM candidate on Thursday for Madhupur assembly by-election going to held on April 17.Rural development minister Alamgir Alam and other Congress selected representatives from Santhal Paragana, state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta, besides the chief minister were present at the election rally to support their candidate in Madhupur on Thursday. Addressing the rally, CM Soren appealed the voters to support Hassan as it would be a real tribute to the late JMM leader Haji Hussain Ansari. “Hassan is filling nomination today but we are missing one person the most, Haji Saheb. He was our torch bearer for long. Many people and political parties would come here and share different claims and stories. But the only way we can give real tribute to Haji Saheb is by ensuring victory in the election,” said Soren.The chief minister reminded the voters how the alliance has won by-elections in Bermo and Dumka last year and would continue the streak. Meanwhile, March 30 is the last day for filing nomination for the bypoll. The counting of votes and results will be announced on May 2. The main Opposition BJP is yet to announce its candidate for the by-election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/madhupur-by-election-minister-hassan-files-nomination-as-jmm-candidate-101616686523634.html
25-03-2021||Patna||After outcry, top officials defend new police Bill||Following chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s statement that the top brass of the state administration and police should clear misunderstandings about the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, which triggered a huge row in the State Legislative Assembly and outside, additional chief secretary Chaitanya Prasad, DGP SK Singhal and DG (Bihar Military Police RS Bhatti on Thursday defended the new legislation.“The BMP Act, 1892, has been changed into the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, after 129 years as it was needed in view of the state’s development and requirement of protecting important installations like Darbhanga airport and Mahabodhi Temple. On the lines of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), now State Industrial Security Force (SISF) will be deployed, with adequate powers to take anyone in custody or carry out search on suspicion without warrant,” Prasad said at the press conference also attended by Singhal and Bhatti.The DGP said that after a suspect is taken into custody, he/she will have to be handed over to the local police station for further investigation. “The officer detaining anyone will have to give in writing the reason for detention. The step is for the safety of the people. This will help in improving internal security,” he said.The officials said states like UP, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra had also made separate laws to remove the word “military”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/after-outcry-top-officials-defend-new-police-bill-101616686225309.html
25-03-2021||Other||LJP seeks reply from its lone MLA who backed JD(U) nominee as dy speaker||PATNAAn embarrassed LJP has sought an explanation from its lone MLA Raj Kumar Singh, who on Wednesday voted in favour of the NDA candidate for the post of deputy speaker in the Bihar assembly, Maheshwar Hazari of the JD(U). The notice, issued by LJP’s national secretary general Abdul Khaliq on Thursday, reads: “The party has learnt that you have voted in favour of JD (U) candidate Maheshwar Hazari during the election held for the post of Bihar Legislative Assembly’s deputy speaker on March 24 without consulting the party in this regard.”“Such an act is not expected from you. Taking the matter seriously, the party directs you to give your ‘explanation’ immediately in this regard,” the letter further says, without specifying any deadline.The election for deputy speaker was boycotted by the Opposition.Talking to media persons, Singh, who is MLA from Matihani in Begusarai, said he merely followed the party’s directive given during the election held for the post of Speaker in November 2020. “I had sought direction from the party leadership during speaker’s election and was told that since we are part of the NDA, so we have to vote for the ruling coalition. I just followed the same directive and voted in favour of the NDA nominee for deputy speaker’s post. I was not aware if the party’s policy has suddenly changed,” he said.After the voting, Singh had also praised chief minister Nitish Kumar and extended his greetings to Hazari upon his victory.Its lone MLA siding with the NDA candidate has come as a huge embarrassment to the LJP, which had been at the loggerheads with Nitish Kumar since the Bihar Assembly polls in November 2020. LJP had fielded 143 candidates, which damaged JD (U) on many seats. LJP MLA’s move is not entirely unexpected. A month back, he had met the chief minister. LJP’s lone MLC, Nutan Singh, who happens to be wife of BJP minister Neeraj Kumar Singh, also quit the party and joined the BJP last month. The Chirag Paswan-led LJP, of late, has witnessed heavy defections, with over 200 party leaders and office-bearers joining the JD (U) last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ljp-seeks-reply-from-its-lone-mla-who-backed-jd-u-nominee-as-dy-speaker-101616686224613.html
25-03-2021||Patna||Speaker seeks report on ‘indecency’ with MLAs||Bihar Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Thursday asked the additional chief secretary (home) and director general of police (DGP) SK Singhal to identify the police officials who resorted to indecent behaviour with the legislators and submit a report in this regard so that action could be taken against them.With many video clips and pictures of Opposition leaders being dragged and beaten up inside the Assembly premises on March 23 by the police going viral on social media, the Speaker, who was himself held hostage in his chamber at that point of time by the Opposition, took a serious view of it and rang up the top brass of the administration, who were present in the House that day, to seek a report about the alleged manhandling of legislators.The Speaker said it was the responsibility of all members to uphold the dignity of the House and nobody could be given the liberty to cross the “Lakshman rekha”.“I have also called for the video footage of that day for a thorough review of the behaviour of the members by the ethics committee for action,” he said.Sources in the Assembly secretariat said the Speaker was hurt that despite the House running well throughout the Budget session, the second last day came as a big letdown. “Had he been allowed to go to the Assembly, the situation could have been different and the deplorable scenes could have been averted. He appealed to the Opposition leaders to let him move out of his chamber, but it was not allowed and what unfolded thereafter was not acceptable,” he said.Earlier, when asked if action would be taken against policemen manhandling legislators, as seen in viral video, additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad on Thursday said the police acted with full restraint.“The Legislative Assembly premises is under the control of the Speaker. The police went there to extend support after direction in this regard. Any inquiry can be done only on the order of the Speaker,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/speaker-seeks-report-on-indecency-with-mlas-101616686163495.html
25-03-2021||Patna||RJD, allies call for Bihar bandh today||The Rashtriya Janata Dal and Left parties have called for Bihar Bandh (shutdown) on March 26 against alleged assault on legislators during protests against the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, inside the state Assembly on Tuesday. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday said the shutdown had been called against the autocratic attitude of chief minister Nitish Kumar and the way police were allowed entry into the Assembly to evict legislators protesting against the Bill. “The state police have become Janata Dal (United) police. The police were deployed inside Assembly to get a Bill passed which would give them unbridled powers,” he said at a press conference. Yadav also hit out at the CM for trying to justify the police action inside the Assembly by reasoning that police were called because of the chaos created by Opposition members. “Doesn’t the Opposition have the right to protest inside the House over a bill or any issue. That does not mean police would be called to evict MLAs and drag out even women legislators. I have footage of how the police and others behaved on that day inside the Assembly,. All democratic values and ethics were thrown to the wind,” said Yadav. Highlighting precedents of laying siege to the Speaker’s chamber, Yadav said, “In 1974, socialists had occupied speaker’s chair and conducted the proceedings during Congress regime but police force was not called inside the Assembly.“Not only this, Karpoori Thakur as CM had referred a bill to select committee after stiff protest from opposition in 1978,” Tejashwi said.In 1986, when Nitish Kumar was himself a member of the House, Karpoori Thakur had sat on dharna for three consecutive days in the Assembly, the 31-year-old son of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjd-allies-call-for-bihar-bandh-today-101616686164078.html
25-03-2021||Other||6,426 fresh cases, 20 deaths in district on Thursday||PUNE Pune district reported a major spike with 6,426 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours, as per the state health department, on Thursday. In Pune district, there are a total of 4,94,393 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 4,35,859 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,294 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 50,240 active cases in Pune district. Twenty deaths were reported in the district, with four in Pune rural and 16 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). No death was reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.PMC has so far reported 2,55,049 Covid cases and 4,690 deaths till Thursday. Whereas PCMC has reported 1,24,594 cases so far and a total of 1,361 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 1,14,750 total cases so far and 2,194 deaths due to Covid. As per the state Health department, 20,444 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 22,83,037. The recovery rate in the state is 87.78%.Across Maharashtra, 35,952 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 111 Covid-19 deaths were reported. The Case fatality rate in the state is 2.07%.Currently 13,62,899 people are in home quarantine and 13,770 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6426-fresh-cases-20-deaths-in-district-on-thursday-101616685923577.html
25-03-2021||Other||PMC launches helpline number to aid with vaccination queries||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will start a helpline number for its vaccination drive from March 25. The helpline number will help beneficiaries in understanding various procedures involved, ahead of April 1. From April 1, beneficiaries above the age of 45 will be vaccinated. Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, said on Thursday that this helpline number intends to sort the issues faced by beneficiaries.“Different kinds of information regarding vaccination will be given through the helpline number. Beneficiaries can get more information about registering, vaccination centres and other details,” said Agarwal.She also added that at present there are 110 vaccination centres in PMC.“Vaccination for 45 years and above will start from April 1. At that time 400 more staffers from PMC will be involved in the process so that more and more beneficiaries can be vaccinated,” said Agarwal.She further added that five zones will have government hospitals that will be functional 24x7 for vaccination.“During the night curfew, healthcare workers and frontline workers can get vaccinated. During the day, the general public can get vaccination by selecting a site, and by on-spot vaccination as well,” said Agarwal.She further urged the general public to avoid any crowding at vaccination centres, as beneficiaries should take prior appointments.“At present we are vaccinating 20,000 beneficiaries, but we want to increase it to 50,000 in the coming days. For that it is important that beneficiaries book an appointment to avoid crowding,” said AgarwalTalking about the vaccine doses, Dr Kalpana Baliwant, assistant health chief with the PMC, said that there are enough vaccines with the PMC.“There are more than 33,000 doses of vaccination with the PMC,” said Baliwant.Vaccination helpline number- 02025502114||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-launches-helpline-number-to-aid-with-vaccination-queries-101616685623475.html
25-03-2021||Other||PMC war room inundated with calls for bed availability in pvt hosps||The 24-year-old grandson of a corona patient visited the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) war room assigned to allocate the beds for Covid patients, in the PMC new building. He wanted to admit his Covid-positive grandmother to hospital and had visited to enquire about the availability of beds in private hospitals. “We want to admit her in a private hospital, but we are not getting a bed. I came here to get some information first-hand regarding the availability of beds in private hospitals,” the grandson said. As Covid patients have been increasing, the PMC helpline number which allocates beds has been flooded with calls of patient relatives to enquire about, and secure beds. The war room which is operational 24/7, allocates beds to Covid patients in PMC/government hospitals. If a patient wants to get admitted to a private hospital, based on data from the Pune Division dashboard, the patient is guided to a private hospital based on the availability of the beds. “This war room is active 24/7 and we work in three shifts. We are getting 500-600 calls on average, a day, for beds. We can only guide them about the availability of beds in private hospitals. Depending on the number available on the dashboard we suggest a hospital. Patients go to a private hospital and then get to know that a bed is not available there. Then they call us again,” said an official working in the war room. “PMC has been talking to private hospitals to make more and more beds available. Two days back we held a meeting with them. Last year there were 3,600 beds available in private hospitals for Covid patients. Currently, the number is 2,000. So we still have the margin of 1,600 to increase the capacity. Meanwhile, we have started the Jumbo facility and restarting more Covid care centres for isolation. There will be no scarcity of beds,” said Muralidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune. On Thursday evening the dashboard showed the availability of 271 total vacant beds in PMC limits at private hospitals. The numbers on the dashboard is subject to data filled by the hospitals themselves. “Our war-room team allocates beds and guides patients based on the numbers of the ‘live’ dashboard. If we get to know that a particular hospital is not updating the dashboard, they receive notice”, said Dr Sanjeev Vavre, assistant health officer PMC. PMC helpline to find a bed in a government or private hospital 020- 2550 2110||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-war-room-inundated-with-calls-for-bed-availability-in-pvt-hosps-101616685443389.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ward-wise distribution of Covid-19 containment zones||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in its Thursday evening update, informed that the total number of active Covid-19 containment zones in the city is now 40, one more from last evening's tally. Overall, the trend shows that of the 457 active sealed buildings in the city, the majority are under wards K/W, D, and M/W, closely followed by wards F/S, E, P/N, and S.The number of released containment zones is 2,721, while 64,763 sealed buildings have been released till now.K/W ward, consisting of Andheri West, Jogeshwari West, and Vile Parle West, has the maximum number of sealed buildings - 114. The most number of containment zones - slums and chawls - is present under the S ward, with Bhandup, Powai, Kanjurmarh, Vikhroli, and Nahur.K/East ward, with Andheri East, Jogeshwari East, and Vile Parle East, is next in ranking in terms of containment zones - 6. The ward has 11 sealed buildings, according to the BMC.Ward L, with Sakinaka, Chandivali, Asalpha, and Kurla, has the third-highest number of active containment zones, and three sealed buildings.Ward R/North, with Dahisar, has three containment zones, with 11 sealed buildings.Ward M/West, covering Chembur, Sindhi Society, Chheda Nagar and Tilak Nagar, has three active containment zones and the third-highest number of sealed buildings - 53.Ward E - the areas of Byculla, Madanpura, Agripada, Nagpada, Dockyard Road, Reay Road, Chichpokli - also has three containment zones and 30 sealed buildings.Ward D, with Grant Road, Walkeshwar, Malabar Hill, Breach Candy to Haji Ali, has the second-highest number of sealed buildings in the city - 64, and three containment zones.Wards G/N, D, C, and A each have two active containment zones while Wards H/W, H/E, F/S, and B have one zone each.The detailed ward-wise map for containment zones - slums and chawls, sealed buildings, and sealed floors can be found here.The Mumbai civic body on Thursday said it had completed administering 10 lakh doses of the COVID-19 vaccine and the aim now was to increase the target to one lakh per day.The total number of positive Covid-19 cases in Mumbai is 3,74,611. 3,31,322 patients have been discharged till now, while 11,606 have died, of who 10,056 were above 50 years of age. The number of active cases in the city is presently at 30,760, according to BMC's records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ward-wise-distribution-of-covid-19-containment-zones-101616682093920.html
25-03-2021||Other||‘Carpenter admits to killing second wife, her sons in 2016’: Panipat police||A day after his arrest from Bhadohi, Uttar Pradesh, Ehsan Saifi (50) admitted to killing his 35-year-old second wife, her two teenage sons in November 2016, claimed Panipat police. As per the police, after killing them, Saifi had buried them inside his house. The accused belongs to Jagaheri village of Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh.According to the police, the skeletons of his deceased wife Najneen, who hailed from Mumbai and her two sons, Sohail (14) and Sabir (15), were recovered during the digging of a house in Shiv Nagar locality of Panipat city on March 23. While Sohail was her biological child, Sabir was adopted. The police claimed that Saifi married her with help of an online matrimonial website in 2016, although he was already married to a woman and had three children with her in Bhadohi. Saifi worked as a carpenter in Gurugram and later he moved to Panipat.A few months after his second marriage, in November 2016, Najneen learnt about her husband’s marriage and his three children. She would object whenever he would go to visit them in Bhadohi. It was then when Saifi decided to kill her, said Satish Vats, Panipat deputy superintendent of police.The DSP said that Saifi told the police that he laced their milk with some intoxicants or sleeping pills and all three were found dead the next morning. Later, he buried their bodies inside the room and fled a few months later after selling the house to a local man named Pawan Kumar, Vats added.The police have registered an FIR under Sections 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Saifi for a triple murder. The DSP said that Saifi was produced in the court in Panipat and the court has sent him to 10 days police remand for further interrogation. The possibility of the involvement of more people cannot be ruled out. As per the postmortem examination report by the PGIMS Rohtak, the deceased woman aged around 35 years when she was killed while the boys were in their teenage. Vats added that the police were also trying to get details of the family members of the deceased from Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/carpenter-admits-to-killing-second-wife-her-sons-in-2016-panipat-police-101616685144222.html
25-03-2021||Pune||23-year-old duped of ₹95.5k by online stock trading company||PUNE: Officials of a stock trading firm based in Indore were booked by the Pune police for cheating and duping a 23-year-old man from Pune for ₹95,500 in November 2020.The transaction happened between October 17, 2020 and November 5, 2020 through online transfer, according to the police.“We had received the complaint and asked them (trading firm) to appear, but they failed to do so. So, we registered a case against the company,” said police sub-inspector (PSI) Sunil Gajanan Thopate of Chandannagar police station who is investigating the case.The complainant in the case was identified as Mukesh Somvanshi, a customer care service executive at a private company, according to the police.“He had invested ₹50,000 as initial investment and fee for starting a demat account and he was told that he will get ₹5,500 per month. The total amount of money he is owed since then (along with the initial investment) comes to ₹95,500,” said Thopate.Somvanshi was in touch with a person who identified himself as Ashish and had promised monthly returns to the complainant. The complainant paid the initial amount through an online transfer, according to his complaint. However, as the returns were not paid to him even once, he started asking for his money back but met with no response, according to his complaint.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Chandannagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/23yearold-duped-of-rs-95-5k-by-online-stock-trading-company-101616683524676.html
25-03-2021||Kolkata||Nimtita railway station blast: Incriminating documents seized in raids, says NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday conducted searches at three locations in West Bengal and Jharkhand in connection with the Nimtita railway station bomb blast case and seized several 'incriminating documents' and 'electronic items'. "During the searches conducted by NIA in the case, several incriminating documents and electronic items have been seized. Further investigation in the case in underway," a release issued by the agency read.On the night of February 17, a blast at Nimtita railway station, located in West Bengal's Murshidabad district, injured 27 people including Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers and minister Jakir Hossain. On March 2, the Union home ministry  ordered an NIA investigation into the blast following which the agency registered a case under the Explosives Act, and Indian Penal Code’s Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 307 (attempt to murder), and 326 (grievous hurt).After the incident, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused TMC's opponents of carrying out a conspiracy to force Hossain to leave the party and said the blast was a part of it. As part of the investigation, the agency also conducted searches at the premises of Biyon Sk and Mohammudin SK in Murshidabad and accused Shahidul Islam at Jharkhand's West Singhbhum in Majhgaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/nimtita-railway-station-blast-case-nia-raids-3-locations-in-bengal-jharkhand-101616683068127.html
25-03-2021||Other||Boiler blast: Case registered against IFFCO management||The Phulpur police have lodged a case of unintentional murder against the management of Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) in connection with the Tuesday’s blast in the steam boiler of the firm’s Phulpur plant that led to death of two workers and injuries to 16 others. The investigations will include the report of an external enquiry committee formed to probe the causes of mishap following which further action will be taken, police officials said. The kin of the dead and injured workers had blamed the management of negligence and also staged a protest with the bodies of deceased workers. Later, they had withdrawn protests after being assured of compensation and job to the next of kin of dead workers. However, they didn’t lodge any complaint against the IFFCO management.SP (trans-Ganga) Dhawal Jaiswal said on the complaint of IFFCO police outpost in charge Shravan Kumar, an FIR was lodged on Wednesday night against the management under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). IFFCO had constituted an internal committee for investigations while an external probe team formed by the district administration will also be visiting the plant for enquiry. Police too will investigate the incident on its level and will also consider reports of all probe teams for further action, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boiler-blast-case-registered-against-iffco-management-101616683103257.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 1,515 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths in last 24 hours, active cases breach 5,000 mark||Delhi, on Thursday, reported over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases for the third straight day with 1,515 cases and five related deaths, according to a bulletin from the health department. With this, the capital city’s tally reached 652,742 cases and the death toll went up to 10,978.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 25th March 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/ysMdDo1X3vAs much as 1,254 cases were reported on Wednesday preceded by 1,101 cases on Tuesday, before which the city had last reported over 1,000 cases on December 24, 2020 (1,063 cases).Meanwhile, active caseload went past the 5,000-mark after increasing by 607 cases in the last 24 hours and currently stands at 5,497, data from the bulletin showed. Also, 903 patients recovered on the day, taking the total recoveries to 636,237, data from the bulletin showed.Also read | Mumbai: Ward-wise distribution of Covid-19 containment zonesDaily infections in Delhi continue to increase similar to the trend in many states in the country. On Thursday, 53,476 new Covid-19 cases and 251 deaths were reported across the country. The ministry also identified that along with Delhi, cases have been increasing in nine other states. These are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan.According to data from the Delhi government’s bulletin, 89,836 samples were tested for the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours and so far, 14,146,299 samples have been tested in the capital. With this, Delhi’s tests per million count stand at 744,542 and the cumulative positivity rate, considering total tests and total confirmed cases, is currently at 4.61 per cent. Also, the case fatality rate was reported as 1.68 per cent.Also read | Covid-19: Top 15 districts with highest active coronavirus casesThe government also imposed 100 more containment zones in the last 24 hours and as much as 1,076 are currently in effect in the city. Also, 2,871 patients are under home isolation, according to the bulletin.Covid-19 vaccination drive in Delhi has completed administering over a million vaccine doses (1,094,429 doses to be exact) as of 7am in the day, of which 874,509 beneficiaries have received their first dose and 219,920 have received their second, data shared by the Union health ministry showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-1-515-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-in-last-24-hours-active-cases-breach-5-000-mark-101616682465156.html
25-03-2021||Other||IFFCO blast: Boiler was functioning sans NOC; DM recommends safety audit||Initial probe into the March 23 blast at the Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Limited’s (IFFCO) Phulpur unit indicates that the steam boiler was functioning sans the mandatory no objection certificate (NOC) after maintenance prompting the district administration to recommend a safety audit of the plant. Two workers had died while 16 others were injured when the steam boiler number 4 of the plant exploded.“An inquiry committee led by ADM (finance) has submitted its report and I am writing to the department of fertilizer recommending that a safety audit of the IFFCO plant be conducted on priority,” said district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami. In all, three teams that includes experts of plant management and that of district administration, are investigating the incident.A team carried out inspection on Wednesday and Thursday and questioned the engineer, employees maintaining the boiler and examined the maintenance report. It was found that the boiler was running without a no objection certificate (NOC) after maintenance, said a top district administrative official aware of the development. Deputy director (factory) Abhay Chandra Gupta and other officials too conducted their probe on Thursday. Gupta said the report will be prepared after examining the entire factory.“It seems like that the maintenance of the boiler was not up to mark and it was running without procuring NOC from the authorities concerned which is a serious offence. We would be completing our inspection and submitting our report to the administration and a complaint would be lodged at the court of the CJM,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iffco-blast-boiler-was-functioning-sans-noc-dm-recommends-safety-audit-101616682863197.html
25-03-2021||Other||Inspector, 3 other cops booked for molestation, extortion||LUCKNOW Former inspector of Vikas Nagar police station, Dheeraj Shukla, and three other cops were booked for allegedly molesting a 40-year-old woman after barging into her house and demanding money after threatening to book her husband in a fake case, said senior police officials on Thursday.An FIR was lodged with the Vikas Nagar police station on Tuesday on the direction of the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court and further probe was on in the case. The FIR was registered nearly 10 months after the alleged incident in June 2020. In the mean time, the inspector was transferred from Lucknow to some other district, said officials. In her complaint, the woman had alleged that Dheeraj Shukla, along with three other policemen, barged into her house in Sector K, Aliganj on June 2, 2020 and took her husband into custody. The woman stated that Shukla threatened to frame her husband in a case and demanded ₹50,000 to spare him, said a police official. He said the woman mentioned that Shukla even forcibly took away ₹20,000 kept in her house and asked to pay the remaining ₹30,000 in 24 hours. The woman also stated that Shukla again visited her house on June 7, 2020 and tried to molest her. The complaint read that Shukla threatened her with dire consequences and she could not lodge a complaint due to fear as at that time the inspector had already sent her 20-year-old son to jail by framing him in a case of Gangster Act, he added. The woman reportedly approached the CJM court in the matter after her complaint was allegedly not attended by the city police.Inspector of Vikas Nagar police station, Anil Singh, said the FIR was lodged under IPC sections 452 (criminal house trespass after preparation to hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (attempts to contact such woman to foster personal interaction repeatedly despite a clear indication of disinterest) and 384 (demanding extortion in the matter). He said the police were probing the matter and crosschecking the genuineness of the woman’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inspector-3-other-cops-booked-for-molestation-extortion-101616682743230.html
25-03-2021||Other||Pocso court awards death penalty to three in gang-rape, murder case||LUCKNOW A Pocso court in Bulandshahr handed over death penalty to three youths accused of kidnapping, gang-raping and murdering a 17-year-old girl. Rajesh Parashar, additional district and sessions judge (Pocso Act) Bulandshahr, on Wednesday, awarded death sentence to the three accused. The three culprits - Dilshad, Zulfikar and Israel - had abducted the Class 12 student on January 2, 2018, from near her residence. The trio gang-raped the girl in a moving car and thereafter killed her and dumped the body in Dadri canal. Forty-eight hours after the incident, the cops recovered the body. All three were arrested on January 10 with the help of CCTV footage recovered from the Dadri toll plaza. After 104 hearings and testimony of 14 witnesses, the court awarded death sentence to all three. The court also imposed a fine of ₹2.10 lakh on the culprits. Parents of the girl were also present in the court when the verdict was pronounced. Death sentence for rape, murder accused In another case of rape and murder, additional sessions judge (Pocso court), Jaunpur, Ravi Kumar Yadav, on March 8 awarded death penalty to a rape and murder convict. Bal Govind had kidnapped an 11-year-old girl, raped and killed her by disfiguring her face with acid. After nearly seven months of trial, the court awarded death sentence to Bal Govind. As the culprits in both cases may challenge the court order in high court, legal experts feel that the judiciary must deliver speedy judgment in these cases to ensure justice to victims. “Speedy justice in such cases of heinous crime proves to be a deterrent for others. Death penalties awarded by the two Pocso courts will act as a deterrent for such criminals,” said IB Singh, senior advocate, Lucknow high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pocso-court-awards-death-penalty-to-three-in-gang-rape-murder-case-101616682503205.html
25-03-2021||Pune||Multiple ATMs of private bank “jackpotted”, over ₹30 lakh cash withdrawn in Pune||PUNE: Multiple bank machines were targeted by a duo who remotely withdrew money from the ATMs without leaving a trace of the transactions. The police suspect a theft of over ₹30 lakh in all the cases.While only one case has been registered, the incident was reported from ATMs at least three other locations, including Deccan, Vimannagar and Gultekdi area between March 14 and March 20.One of the four incidents was at the ATM kiosk of a bank located at Fergusson College road in Shivajinagar. The theft happened within 25-30minutes between 7:35pm and 8pm.“They were both wearing masks and caps to cover their faces. This is new to us and we have reported it to the cybercrime cell. There is no trace of these transactions. In fact, the man withdrew cash from the ATM, and the woman entered after he left,” said police inspector (crime) V Goud of Shivajinagar police station. The man installed something at the back of the ATM, withdrew ₹1,00,000 around 7:30pm and left. Later, the woman visited the ATM and made multiple transactions (more than 20) of ₹10,000 each and withdrew a total of ₹4,00,000, according to a complaint lodged by an assistant manager at the Shivajinagar branch of the bank.“The head office of the bank contacted the local branch that a suspicious activity has been reported from these locations. Meanwhile, the accused removed the device and left from the kiosk,” said Goud.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Shivajingaar police station.“This is a case of ATM jackpotting. It is rare is India but is reported in foreign countries. A kind of trojan is installed at the ATM machines using USB. It provides remote access. Once the software is installed, you can access it remotely. This is a possible explanation for what may have happened,” said Rizwan Shaikh, a cybersecurity expert and chief technology officer at Prestine InfoSolutions Pvt Ltd.“ATMs running on Windows XP are more vulnerable to this attack. Windows OS (operating system) should be updated to newer versions. In India, a considerably large amount of ATMs are running on Windows XP. It is high time that these ATMs’ OS are updated. Also, communication between cash dispenser and ATM core software should be encrypted,” reads a part of a skeletal report on ATM jackpotting published by a government agency called National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Center (NCIIPC) which is run by the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO). The NTRO was formed in 2004 and is under the ambit of the National Security Advisor to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), according to its website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/multiple-atms-of-private-bank-jackpotted-over-rs-30-lakh-cash-withdrawn-in-pune-101616682263225.html
25-03-2021||Other||Ajit Pawar to decide on lockdown at Covid review meet on Friday; public officials divided over necessity||PUNE Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar will hold a meeting with officials from district administration and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday, to review the Covid situation in Pune. With the number of new Covid cases refusing to slow down, Pawar will interact with officials, along with public representatives, to take a call on additional curbs in the city and rural parts of the district. Pawar, who is also guardian minister of Pune district, along with health minister Rajesh Tope, on Thursday evening, met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at his official residence “Varsha”, to discuss the situation in Pune and other parts of Maharashtra, and possible curbs. “I am meeting public representatives and officials in Pune tomorrow to review the Covid situation there. We all know that cases are continuously rising in Pune. However, there is difference of opinion among public representatives on a complete lockdown,” said Pawar in Mumbai on Thursday afternoon. Earlier this week, Tope, during his visit to Pune, warned if the Covid tally doesn’t stop rising, then as a last resort the city could be locked down. Multiple districts in Maharashtra, including Nagpur, Amravati, Beed and Nanded have faced a lockdown due to a sharp spike in numbers during second week of March. On Wednesday, Pune district reported a major spike with 6,754 fresh Covid positive cases, the highest tally since the beginning of pandemic last year. With the daily caseload crossing the 5000-mark over the past one week, Pune is reporting the highest number of cases across country, with daily positivity rate above 25 per cent. When asked about possibility of lockdown, Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol resisted the idea saying it is not a reasonable option when there are alternatives. “The cases are increasing, but most of the patients are in home isolation. We are working on increasing bed capacity. TCS-Prayas report had also indicated that a lockdown is not the solution. We can implement current restrictions with more efficiency. If need be more restrictions could be imposed. We are working on increasing the health infrastructure. We are also working on increasing vaccination. A complete lockdown is not appropriate. but we can think of a partial lockdown,” Mohol said. Earlier, on Wednesday, when asked about the possibility of the lockdown in Pune, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh had said that important issues would be discussed in the Covid review meeting on Friday. “The Covid review meeting is scheduled on Friday. Elected representatives and officials will be present at the meeting. We will take a review of the Covid situation and will discuss it,” Rajesh Deshmukh had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ajit-pawar-to-decide-on-lockdown-at-covid-review-meet-on-friday-public-officials-divided-over-necessity-101616681844554.html
25-03-2021||Other||MSBSHSE wants teachers vaccinated on priority ahead of HSC, SSC board exams||PUNE The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), has sent a letter to the state government requesting that teachers be vaccinated on priority, ahead of the board examinations scheduled in April and May. As per the board, there are 0.4 million teachers in the state and 10,000 teachers in Pune city.Dinkar Patil, chairman of MSBSHSE, “This letter aims at getting all teachers and staff at the board vaccinated as a priority. It will be helpful in smoothly conducting the examination. Many teachers have got vaccinated so far. Many will get the vaccine post April 1 as well,” said Patil.He added that those teachers who are above the age of 45 years will get vaccinated after April 1.“The letter aims at including other teachers who will be involved in the examination. The Class 10 and Class 12 exams will be conducted in the same school from where the students are enrolled,” said Patil.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune district Mukhyadhyapak Sangh (headmaster’s association) said that there 20,000 teachers in Pune district.“To conduct the examination smoothly, we will need all the human resources available. And hence, it is important to ensure that the teachers are vaccinated so that they are not at risk and the students are safe too,” said Gaikwad.He added that the examination is a big challenge during Covid.“Teachers are standing together to address this challenge. In order to do that smoothly, teachers should be given vaccination on priority,” said Gaikwad.Earlier, state education minister, Varsha Gaikwad announced that the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and Senior Secondary Certificate (SSC) exams will be conducted in the offline mode.The minister had issued a list of standard operating procedures (SOP) highlighting that students should carry water bottles and sanitisers with them to the centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msbshse-wants-teachers-vaccinated-on-priority-ahead-of-hsc-ssc-board-exams-101616681303093.html
25-03-2021||Other||SPPU students protest “high” online exam fees||PUNE The first semester examinations of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will start from April 11, and students have started filling their examination forms online. Students are once again furious about examination fees being taken by the university, as it is allegedly charging fees as per offline exams, when the exams are going to be held online.Students have started an online protest on social media and demanded a reduction in the exam fees immediately. “We students are eagerly waiting for the first semester exams to happen. Now the issue is about high examination fees as per the offline exams. From every student, ₹1000 to ₹1,500 exam fees is being charged by the university as per the course. For most students from rural areas, whose parents have suffered financially, it is not possible to pay the fees. Our demand is that fees for online exams should be reduced immediately,” said Kamlakar Shete, a post-graduate student. “Last year, a similar issue was raised and the state higher education ministry had appointed a committee to decide on exam fees. The higher education minister should interfere in this matter and resolve it before the examination starts,” he added. “The first semester examination will be held online this year and currently students are applying online for the exams. The exam fees are as per rules set by the state government. There are 5,500 subjects for the first semester and 6.25 lakh students are expected to appear for these exams. So far, 5.84 lakh students have filled up the online examination forms for the exams,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-students-protest-high-online-exam-fees-101616680283001.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy skies bring maximum temperature down in Delhi||Partly cloudy skies over Delhi on Thursday brought the maximum temperature down to 29.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, the India Meteorological Department said.  The minimum temperature settled at 17.5 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year, it said.The mercury is predicted to rise to 38 degrees Celsius by Monday amid clear skies.Delhi had recorded a maximum of 34.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, 29.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, 33.6 degrees Celsius on Monday and 35.2 degrees Celsius on Sunday.The air quality in the national capital improved further in the "moderate" category due to favourable wind speed. The 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 148, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. It was 175 on Wednesday.An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe, while an AQI above 500 falls in the severe plus category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-skies-bring-maximum-temperature-down-in-delhi-101616679698305.html
25-03-2021||Other||Calling out myth, taboo shrouding epilepsy||Award-winning author Preeti Singh has come up with her fourth book ‘Of Epilepsy Butterflies: Flying Beyond Stigmas’, which seeks to initiate an open conversation about the tabooed medical condition.The book was due for a physical launch on the occasion of Epilepsy Awareness Day, also known as Purple Day, on Friday. However, the event got cancelled after a government order in the wake of increasing coronavirus cases in Punjab.The book, which was launched virtually in November 2020, is an anthology of testimonies, fictional stories, and poems penned by patients’ care-givers, providing gestalt understanding of the condition, which is still stigmatised.A patient herself, Singh, has been suffering epileptic seizures since the age of two after being dropped by a nurse.“How many people know that epilepsy is vernacularly called mirgi? Patients more often than not hide their condition fearing that nobody will marry them or hire them if their illness is disclosed. This is a far-cry from how cancer and diabetes patients are treated. One in every 26 people have the disease but very few confess to having the condition,” she says.The book, as its title suggests, urges patients to come out of the shell they have burrowed in after being unfairly snubbed by the society.Singh, practices what she preaches. She had walked out of a 14-year marriage along with her daughter. “I wanted to live life on my own terms,” she says.Singh has interviewed eight epileptic warriors, including an army officer and a Marathi actor, about their struggles.While researching for the book, she diligently and painstakingly verified the authenticity of each interviewee to weed of those merely seeking the spotlight.Her fictional stories also include romances. Each story deals with some aspect of the disease, the effect of alcohol, disco-lights and overdose to raise awareness while also engaging the readers in the plot.It also includes a chapter penned by her daughter describing Singh’s personal growth over the years.Singh also writes about the challenges she faced, including almost being raped while having a seizure.Singh has a helpline number 9872340169 and an email id preetisingh71@gmail.com to counsel fellow patients. She also runs a Facebook page: ‘Epilepsy Champs of Chandigarh’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/calling-out-myth-taboo-shrouding-epilepsy-101616679083557.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: BMC increases daily test numbers and vaccine quota as cases spike||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to increase their daily number of Covid-19 tests to 60,000 tests, the civic authorities said in a press release on Thursday as the number of daily infections in the city is on a steady rise.“Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai has resolved to take up testing to more than 60,000 per day in coming weeks,” said the press release tweeted by BMC.BMC on March 20 had decided to conduct 47,000 random RT-PCR tests per day in crowded places in the wake of the rising number of cases in the capital city. As per BMC’s press statement, a total of 5365 people had tested positive for Covid-19 during yesterday’s random testing. The positivity rate of Mumbai now stands at 12 per cent, with the per cent of asymptomatic cases being pegged at 84%.Citing vaccination as the “ultimate remedy” for Covid-19, BMC said that the number of daily vaccinations in Mumbai has been raised to 1 lakh.“We have completed 10 lakh vaccinations today and have resolved to increase vaccinations to 1 lakh per day in Mumbai,” stated the civic body.BMC has also decided to increase the number of available beds in Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) to 21,000 from the present 13,773, within the next 15 days. Some 5,140 beds in Mumbai’s DCHC are currently lying vacant.“Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai has decided to gear up the total availability of DCHC/DCH Covid beds in Mumbai from 13,773 (out of which 5,140 are vacant) to 21,000 Covid beds in the next 15 days,” it said.This has been done based on the assumption that over the course of time cases under the jurisdiction of BMC will increase to 10,000 per day, of which 15% will be symptomatic thus requiring beds for a period of 14 days, as per the guidelines laid down by ICMR.The civic authority assured citizens that the current situation is nothing to be worried over as the mortality rate remains as low as 0.3%, and urged all Mumbaikars to exercise caution and maintain Covid appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-bmc-increases-daily-test-numbers-and-vaccine-quota-as-cases-spike-101616678611657.html
25-03-2021||Pune||Pune registers five incidents of thrashing MSEDCL staff||Pune: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has filed police complaints against five consumers in Pune city for physically abusing their officials during the power supply disconnection drive launched from February 1 this year. According to MSEDCL officials, the five incidents registered in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad include Kothrud, Rasta peth, Bundgarden area and Bhosari (two incidents) areas. Over 30 such complaints have been lodged in western Maharashtra region, including seven in Pune district. The power supply utility has launched the drive especially against consumers who have not paid bills since April 2020 despite sending many reminders. The firm’s facility of paying bills in 12-month instalments also received poor response from subscribers forcing it to initiate the disconnection drive. The drive was stopped after former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis raised the issue in the assembly in the first week of March. During the drive, defaulters thrashed MSEDCL employees. MSEDCL has filed police complaints against 82 culprits over 30 incidents in the Western Maharashtra region comprising Pune, Satara, Solapur, Kolhapur and Sangli districts. According to the power supply utility, police filed complaints against 82 persons under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) 353, 504, 506, 332. Till date, 54 people have been arrested. Ankush Nale, regional director, MSEDCL (western Maharashtra region) said, “We are appealing to people to cooperate with MSEDCL officials and employees and pay the outstanding and stop manhandling the staff on duty.” The cases District Incidents Police complaints Pune 07 16 Kolhapur 06 34 Sangli 03 05 Solapur 07 13 Satara 07 14 Total 30 82||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-registers-five-incidents-of-thrashing-msedcl-staff-101616678902959.html
25-03-2021||Other||Maha-Metro begins tunnelling under Mutha river||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) has started its tunnel work beneath the Mutha river near Shivajinagar, for the Pune metro project. This will be a 1.6 kilometre underground tunnel from Agriculture college, to Shivajinagar, via the civil court and Budhwar peth.After completing the tunnel, Pune will be the fourth city after Kolkata, Chennai and Mumbai, where an underground Metro line crosses a river.Atul Gadgil, Maha-Metro director, said, “We just entered the river bed of the Mutha river. The total width of the river bed is 90 metres and of that, water is flowing along a 30-35 metre stretch. The remaining part of the river bed is dry. We will reach below the water in the coming two-three days. We are 18 metres beneath ground level.”He added, “From the Swargate side, we have completed more than 100 metres of tunnelling work so far. We have a lot of work to do in the Mandai area.”Gadgil says that the rail level below the surface of the Mutha river is 28 metres, the lowest point on the metro route. “The tunnel will be six metres below the lowest point of the river. After that, there is a seven-metre ridge of the tunnel.”The Pune metro has an underground stretch measuring 5.019km on its PCMC to Swargate corridor. There are five underground stations. Of these five stations, there are three stations where Maha-Metro is erecting multi-modal hubs.The city, as per plan, has three metro corridors being developed by Maha-Metro. It will cover a total distance of 31km.Besides Pune, the Kolkata metro crosses the Hooghly river where the tunnel has been dug 33 metres below the river bed. In Mumbai, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) completed one of the twin tunnels passing under the city’s Mithi river. The two tunnels, one of which is complete, are almost 12.5m below Mithi river. Chennai has an operational line under water with the proposed Metro line passing 20 metres under the Adyar river and Chepet lake, while travelling between Madhavaram and Sholinganallur.Underground stations Rail level below surfaceShivajinagar 16 metresCivil Court 28 metresBudhwar peth 25 metresMandai 20 metresSwargate 22 metres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mahametro-begins-tunnelling-under-mutha-river-101616677342842.html
25-03-2021||Pune||Activists, nature lovers object to PMC’s AI trees proposal worth ₹88 lakh||PUNE Nature lovers and activists have raised objections against the proposal of installing three artificial trees at the cost of ₹88 lakh at the Balasaheb Thackeray Garden, Dahanukar Colony, Kothrud.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol had proposed the plan, wherein three artificial trees would be set up in an attempt to create awareness about the environment and the depleting green cover in the city.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to install three artificial intelligence (AI) fibre trees which would cost around ₹88 lakh.According to Shrinivas Kandul, electrical department, PMC, who is overseeing the tender process, said, “The trees will be made of fibre and via a sound and light show will spread awareness about preservation and protection of green cover.”The residents and environmentalists have written to PMC and demanded to scrap the plan and save taxpayers money in this time of a Covid pandemic and fund shortage.“We demand PMC comply with the Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 1975, Rules 2009, Schedule I for plantation of native trees in Pune,” said Vivek Velankar, activist, who along with at least 20 environment lovers have signed the objection letter.Sushma Date, a member of Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samitee, called the plan illogical. “On one hand PMC is cutting trees mindlessly all over the city and on the other hand it wants to install a sound and light show to lecture us on how to conserve nature,” she said.“Spreading awareness among people is fine, but what’s the use if the population is not even provided with a single trash can to throw garbage. Cutting trees and erecting artificial ones to teach awareness is just plain ironic. I think we should use that money to start sustainable living initiatives and environmental friendliness classes for the PMC officials, who are the main culprit of the environmental blunder of our tekdis (hills),” said Siddharth Kulkarni, a resident of Kothrud.“Going forward, we need AI, we need everything that science provides, but not at the cost of destroying natural beauty. The same money can be used for tree plantation projects and maintaining the already existing trees, and protecting them, “said Asira Lele, environment lover and member of the Save Vetal Tekdi.“In 88 lakh, PMC can invest in German machines that do a superb job of re-plantation of an entire tree - with absolutely no harm to the tree itself,” said Lele.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/activists-nature-lovers-object-to-pmc-s-ai-trees-proposal-worth-rs-88-lakh-101616676742783.html
25-03-2021||Pune||Godman promises to find why farmer’s cows weren’t producing milk, dupes him of lakhs||A self-proclaimed godman was booked on Wednesday night by Pune rural police for duping a farmer of ₹12 lakh under the guise of providing a solution to his burst drip irrigation pipelines and determine why his cows were not producing milk. The Maharashtra anti-black magic act was invoked against the godman at Walchandnagar police station. Members from the Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (ANiS) - an organisation dedicated to fighting superstition in India, particularly in Maharashtra - claim that several others also approached them with similar complaints against the man.The complainant, Dadasaheb Tamhane (45), a farmer from Aasu village in Phaltan region of Satara district, lodged a complaint against the godman who was identified as Uttam Lakshman Bhagwat.“He kept telling us that a family member will suffer physical harm if we do not pay him so he could perform pooja for us,” said Tamhane.The man also allegedly told the victim that they should not reveal anything about the pooja process to anyone if he wanted it to be successful. “The godman had offered to find the person who had damaged the pipelines of drip irrigation in the complainant’s farm. He then told him that someone had performed black magic to damage his farm. The farmer believed him and agreed to get a pooja done,” said Nandini Jadhav, Pune district head, ANiS.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(2) of Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 was registered at Walchandnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/godman-promises-to-find-why-farmer-s-cows-weren-t-producing-milk-dupes-him-of-lakhs-101616676503353.html
25-03-2021||Pune||Standing dead trees pose threat to Pune-Mumbai highway commuters||Pune: The standing dead trees lining the Dehu-Nigdi stretch of old Pune-Mumbai highway on both sides poses serious risk to commuters. The residents and those using the stretch on a regular basis have requested the authorities to remove at least fifty such dry trees that are posing risk of falling on heavy trucks and other vehicles that ply on the high-speed corridor.Dehu road has reported two cases of fatal accidents of tree branches falling on two-wheeler riders leading to their deaths in 2020. The incidents have been brought to the notice of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) which supervises, controls and manages the highway by commuters and residents. The residents have also written to the Pune district collector seeking his intervention in the matter.According to Dehu road resident Sagar Dhere, most of the trees had dried up during the past two years. “We have brought it to the notice of the district collector and MSRDC authorities seeking immediate removal of these trees as it is a threat to the lives of commuters and mostly two-wheeler riders.” Mohan Deshmukh, a commuter, said, “We had a tough time last rainy season when a huge branch fell on our car with three occupants. Fortunately, it landed on the bonnet. The authorities should remove these dead trees and take steps to plant saplings.”Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We will inform the MSRDC authorities and those incharge for highway maintenance to comply with the commuter demand and make highway safe for commuting.” The residents have also petitioned the highway police authorities seeking their assistance in addressing the issue.MSRDC officials confirmed that there are many trees on the roadsides that may fall during inclement weather posing a serious threat to human life. Uprooting of these trees will be taken up after necessary clearances are obtained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/standing-dead-trees-pose-threat-to-pune-mumbai-highway-commuters-101616676442746.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||BJP leaders meet Delhi L-G against excise policy||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday submitted a memorandum to lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal against the Delhi government’s new excise policy. It has objected to the government’s decision to lower the drinking age and to privatise 500 government-run liquor shops.A delegation led by Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, met the L-G and demanded that the policy be stayed.Also Read | Modi insecure about Kejriwal, BJP wants NCT Bill to stem his popularity: SisodiaGupta said that the proposal to privatise liquor shops smacks of corruption. “Before the 1980s liquor trade in Delhi was in the hands of private traders and after regular complaints of sale of spurious liquor etc, the then Delhi government took over the liquor trade and opened government shops, which have served Delhi for the last around 40 years…. The very fact that in one go 500 liquor shops licenses are being offered to private liquor traders smacks of a possible nefarious deal between the Delhi government and liquor lobby and this needs to stalled,” said the memorandum.The BJP has objected to the government’s decision to ensure equitable distribution of vends in the city. The BJP said that as per the proposal, there will be at least three liquor vends in each municipal ward. “This is likely to disturb peace and law and order in many residential colonies. Women’s organisations and RWAs [Residents Welfare Associations] are already protesting against this decision. It is strange that instead of working for equal distribution of water, the government is trying to ensure equal distribution of liquor,” said Gupta.Bidhuri called the decision to lower the drinking age from 25 to 21 unwanted and said it should be stalled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-leaders-meet-delhi-l-g-against-excise-policy-101616675664003.html
25-03-2021||Indore||Two-day lockdown may be imposed in Indore on Holi due to rising Covid-19 cases||In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, the state government is considering imposing a two-day lockdown in the city on Holi.This was discussed in a meeting chaired by Madhya Pradesh Cabinet Minister Tulsi Silawat with divisional officers on Thursday.In the meeting, it was discussed that besides Sunday, a lockdown of two days would be observed on Holi.Speaking to reporters after the meeting Silawat said, "This matter will also be discussed with the people and the proposal will be sent to the government after which a decision will be taken. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh has already said that in Indore festivals of all religions should be celebrated at home."Madhya Pradesh is among the ten states displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, informed the Union Health Ministry on Thursday.The state reported 1,712 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the ministry said.Meanwhile, India has reported 53,476 new cases and 251 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/twoday-lockdown-may-be-imposed-in-indore-on-holi-due-to-rising-covid-19-cases-101616671147998.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Modi insecure about Kejriwal, BJP wants NCT Bill to stem his popularity: Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is insecure about the rise of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre brought the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to stop the spread of his popularity and governance model across the country. Sisodia’s criticism of the Central government came a day after the GNCTD (amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed in the Rajya Sabha amid protests from the Opposition. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Sisodia said the BJP is indulging in negative politics and alleged that the saffron party’s model is that of “theft and cheating”. “PM Modi is insecure about the rise of Kejriwal. Across India, the demand for Kejriwal’s model of governance is increasing, which can be seen in the recent panchayat and municipality elections that took place in several BJP-ruled states in the country. Kejriwal has a vision of development which is now posing a challenge to the BJP. But Kejriwal is a fighter. He will fight back,” he said. Also Read | What’s the need for an elected govt?: Kharge after NCT bill gets nodSisodia said the Delhi government is in touch with legal experts to decide on the future course of action. Till then, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) plans to politically attack the BJP through protests. “Gradually, Kejriwal is being seen as an alternative to Prime Minister Modi. People are saying that if Kejriwal keeps working this way then one day he stands a chance to become PM. Unlike the BJP, Kejriwal does not believe in tokenism. From free water and electricity to bus rides for women, the chief minister has shown the country how Kejriwal’s model of development works. The BJP is bringing this law to stop Kejriwal from gaining popularity. It is meant to stop Delhi’s and the country’s development,” he said.According to the bill, “government” in the national capital would mean the “Lieutenant Governor” (L-G) in the context of any decision taken by the administration. It also states that all executive actions taken by the Cabinet or individually by the ministers will have to go through the L-G. Sisodia alleged the Centre is also stopping the government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme. He likened the Prime Minister to the father of the nation. “The PM’s position is like that of the father. He should facilitate states to excel and do better for their people. Instead, they are doing negative politics. This should not be done as it does not suit you,” he said.On Wednesday night after the Bill was passed in the Rajya Sabha, Kejriwal took to Twitter and said: “RS passes GNCTD amendment Bill. Sad day for Indian democracy. We will continue our struggle to restore power back to people. Whatever be the obstacles, we will continue doing good work. Work will neither stop nor slow down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/modi-insecure-about-kejriwal-bjp-wants-nct-bill-to-stem-his-popularity-sisodia-101616674523323.html
25-03-2021||Other||Against all odds, transgender persons to join police force in Chhattisgarh||Tanushri Sahu’s brother and father were furious when she applied for recruitment as a Chhattisgarh police constable and mentioned she is a transgender person in the application form in December 2017, saying her name was everywhere in media and people were laughing at them. She did not give up. Sahu’s persistence paid off when she was among 13 transgender persons recruited this month as constables following an examination a year back.“No one in my family came to my rescue that day. My brother and father beat me just for applying and mentioning my gender,” said Sahu, 23. “I was in a pool of blood for hours in my room. I then called my friends, who admitted me to a hospital... Since then, I never returned home,” said Sahu. Sahu added her ordeal started when she applied for this job in 2017. “Things got worse after I declared myself a transgender person. But after my brother hit me, I decided to focus on the exam and show the world that I can be successful. They have thrown me out of the house and never acknowledged me.” Sahu said she started living with her partner, who played an important role in motivating her.Also Read | Chhattisgarh bars Holi Milan events in Raipur, quarantine must for outsidersHer partner, with whom Sahu has been in a relationship for eight years, said she would wake up early in the morning to prepare for the exam. “She is the one who worked hard. I always stood by her. Now I am very happy.”Sahu said she has deleted the phone numbers of her family members. “I have heard that they know about my selection, but they did not call me...”The story of Shimaya Patel, 26, another transgender person selected as a constable, mirrors that of Sahu. Patel, too, had to leave home in 2017 because her brother and father thought her sister was unable to get married because of her.“ I started living alone and started working as a maid...[my employers]...never understood transgender person. They used to laugh at me and used to keep me away from the kitchen. In 2018, when I went for work for a store, the owner called me at midnight and harassed me,” said Patel. “I begged, danced, and did all menial jobs to survive over these three years... But I never gave up”Patel said she called her ailing mother, who blessed her. She added the attitude of her neighbours also changed after her selection. “A person who had bullied me when I was in school came to meet me and appreciated me. He also regrets what he had said to me.”Krishi Tandi, 22, another constable, said people who would ridicule her and pass comments called and congratulated her. “There is a radical change in the peoples’ behaviour in my locality.”Patel said her father was a rickshaw-puller and her mother a maid. “I lost them within a year. My sister and brother never supported me. I worked as a sweeper and prepared for this exam,” Tandi.Sonia Jangel, another recruit, said her family was not supportive due to social pressure. “They are still not 100% with me but deep down they admire my effort... My mother was the happiest person when she learned about my selection.”Vidhya Rajput, an activist, thanked the Chhattisgarh government for recruiting transgender people in the police force. “This will sensitise people...”DM Awasthi, the state police chief, said the recruitment of transgender people is a moment of pride for them. “I personally congratulate the transgender people who got selected.”In 2014, the Supreme Court upheld the right of transgender persons to self-identify their gender and directed states to uphold this without mandating any form of bodily transition like surgery or hormonal therapy.In 2017, the Chhattisgarh police made transgender people eligible for recruitments.Earlier, only two transgender persons were recruited in police forces in India — one in Tamil Nadu, another in Rajasthan. The Bihar government has also decided to recruit transgender people to the police force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/against-all-odds-transgender-persons-to-join-police-force-in-chhattisgarh-101616673983352.html
25-03-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies: Blooming tabebuias and drooping jacarandas||Have you seen ‘Wild Karnataka’, the film? It just won the national award, even though as one naturalist, rather snarkily, said, “It should have been called Wild Kabini—not Karnataka.”That’s the thing you see. Not many people know this but Bengaluru is a city of nature lovers, tree huggers and flower peckers (the bird, not the human). They hike to Rangaswamy Betta, Savandurga, Nandi Hills and many of the rocky outcrops that are part of the Precambrian Deccan Plateau upon which Bengaluru sits. At 3,000 feet, Bengaluru is as high as Caracas and shares its temperate climate. Its citizens take the natural bounty available to them almost for granted.Calling Bengaluru an IT city is both true and a disservice to the state that it is the capital of. Subsumed by the startups and tech businesses that have made Bengaluru famous, Karnataka abounds in wildlife. Beyond the Bandipur, Kabini and Nagarhole national parks, which are justly famous for their tigers, leopards and elephants, there are the Kali Tiger Reserve and Kudremukh peak. The magnificent Western Ghats traverse this state. Botanical artist Nirupa Rao illustrates the trees of the Western Ghats in her book by the same name. Wildlife filmmakers like Amoghavarsha and Sandesh Kadur chase frogs, tigers, wild dogs and the wild Kali river all in one film. Shaaz Jung has immortalised the black panther in his photographs and Rohini Nilekani sings its paeans in her writing. So please, don’t call Bengaluru just an IT City. Walk through its avenue trees and change your mind.Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: Of hostage negotiators in city marketsThis month, the tabebuias are blooming everywhere, pink-faced and blushing in their beauty. Jacarandas—plump and violet—droop over the streets and fall to the ground. As the short summer wanes, gulmohars will flower. Fragrant millingtonias that look like long jasmine buds will attract barbets and orioles, mynas and busy sunbirds that will dip their beaks into bud. The flowering trees of Bengaluru are the subject of TP Issar’s books and naturalist Karthik’s excellent journal that you can read at wildwanderer.com.Several folks contributed to the flowering trees of Bengaluru ranging from a dynamic forest officer SG Neginhal, who worked with former chief minister Gundu Rao to increase the number of trees in the city. But if I had to pick, I would pick a German and a Sultan for changing the landscape of the city. In 1760, Hyder Ali, who was generally “rough and tough” to use a Bengaluru phrase, was so enamoured by the Mughal gardens that he set aside 40 acres to create a park called Lalbagh. His son, Tipu Sultan, added 30 more acres. The British tripled it.Today, Lalbagh sprawls over 240 acres in Jayanagar. The routine is that you walk or jog in the morning and repair to a darshini or MTR for a filter coffee and thindi (tiffin) after. Every second Sunday, a birdwatchers’ group gets together in the morning to spot flycatchers and shrikes. Ecoedu.com regularly organises educational walks that focus on the countless creepers and other quirky plants that make their home in Lalbagh. But the thrill of Lalbagh for geologists is that just beyond its main entrance lies a three-billion-year-old Peninsular Gneiss, one of the oldest in the world.It was a German horticulturist who took Hyder Ali’s vision to near-poetic heights. Handpicked by Maharajah Krishnaraja Wodeyar to landscape the palace gardens, Gustav Hermann Krumbiegel left his stamp all over Bengaluru. It was Krumbiegel’s idea to flank the boulevards with sequentially flowering trees: red silk cotton in January, pongams in February, pink tabebuias and purple jacarandas in March, Cassia javanica in April, scarlet gulmohar in May, pink bauhinias in June, rain tree in July, Colvillea racemosa in August, golden cassia in September, Amherstia in October and November, and fragrant white millingtonia in December. Then there are the Nagalinga flowers, which enshrine what looks like a Shivalinga, that flower through the year.For me, the pleasure of Bengaluru is its trees. Upright and noble, they offer shade without discrimination. They allow you to pause and ponder under their life-giving arms. And, they are the lifeline of what will now become the catchphrase, Wild Karnataka.This state advertises itself as “One State Many Worlds.” It isn’t nearly as catchy at Kerala’s “God’s Own Country,” but probably more accurate. Where else can you go white-water rafting on the Kali river, or climb Kudremukh peak, or visit the place where coffee originated (Baba Budangiri). Bengaluru is a hub, not just for IT but for many worlds, as it were.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-blooming-tabebuias-and-drooping-jacarandas-101616673503448.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Supreme Court orders status quo on Delhi water supply||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered status quo on the supply of water to Delhi by Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB). A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde passed the order while agreeing to hear a petition filed by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) against BBMB and the Punjab government’s move to close two gates of Bhakra Nangal for repairs. The repairs will curtail 25% of the water supply to Delhi.Looking into the urgency of the case as it concerns water to the national capital, the bench agreed to hear the petition on Friday while issuing a notice to BBMB and Punjab.“Since it is a matter of fundamental right to water, we will not entertain any technical objections and if required, we may appoint a commissioner to visit the spot.”Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for DJB, informed the court that the top officers of the agency visited the site. He added they requested BBMB to postpone the repairs to July and August as the demand for water peaks in April.Also Read | ‘Kejriwal can be an alternative to PM Modi’: Sisodia on NCT Amendment Bill“If the repairs are integral to the water channel; we would not stop them,” the bench said.Singhvi said the repairs can be carried out later as well. He added DJB wrote six letters to BBMB, but without any response. He requested the court to ensure the gates are not closed till Friday.The DJB also told the court Haryana too had reduced the supply of water to Delhi.The court said it will consider the matter on Friday and asked Haryana’s lawyer to take instructions. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, who appeared for Haryana, said there was no urgency as full supply was being maintained to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supreme-court-orders-status-quo-on-delhi-water-supply-101616673203379.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Made a scapegoat, Sachin Vaze tells judge; stays in NIA custody till April 3||Sachin Vaze, the Mumbai Police assistant inspector who is the prime accused in the Antilia explosives case, will remain in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) till April 3, a Mumbai court ordered on Thursday.Vaze had asked the judge to reject the NIA’s request seeking his custody for 15 more days, insisting that he was innocent and had been framed. “I have been made a scapegoat in this entire incident and have nothing to do with the crime,” Vaze said.Vaze, a controversial police officer who had resigned from service to join the Shiv Sena before being allowed to rejoin the force last year, was arrested on March 13 in connection with the security scare on February 25 after a green Scorpio was found parked outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence.The vehicle contained a bag with 20 loose sticks of gelatin (with no detonator or timer) and a threat letter addressed to Ambani.Also Read: Govt to set up panel to probe allegations in Vaze-Deshmukh rowThe NIA took over the probe into the explosives case on March 9. Vaze was arrested four days later. On Wednesday, the NIA has also invoked the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against him which allows the federal agency to seek his custody for a maximum of 30 days, not 14.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh who represented the NIA at Thursday’s hearing to decide on his custody said the NIA had seized 62 bullets from his house which he had not been able to account for. Also, Singh said Vaze was issued 30 bullets by his department but the NIA was able to find only five of them from his house.Singh also told the judge that Vaze, during the time that he was tasked to investigate the discovery of explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, had allegedly collected and destroyed CCTV footage of several places and used a fake identity card.Further, the federal agency also said it has collected forensic evidence such as burnt clothes, traces and samples from the five cars seized by the agency. These have been sent for forensic analysis and DNA profiling.Vaze refuted the NIA’s accusations in court.“I was the investigating officer for one-and-a-half days and I did what was required to investigate the case... Not only me, all crime branch officers and Mumbai police did (what was required), Vaze told the court.“But suddenly something changed and when I went to NIA on March 13, I was put under arrest by NIA officials,” Vaze claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/made-a-scapegoat-sachin-vaze-tells-judge-stays-in-nia-custody-till-april-3-101616672490412.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Ambani bomb scare case: NIA seeks Sachin Vaze’s custody for another 15 days||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday sought suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze’s custody for fifteen more days. Vaze was produced before a special NIA court on the expiry of his custody .The agency arrested Vaze on March 13 in connection with Ambani security scare case. On Wednesday, it invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against Vaze. Under the act, the agency can seek custody of the accused for up to 30 days, which, otherwise is restricted to a maximum of 14 days only.While seeking Vaze’s further custody, additional solicitor general Anil Singh argued that the NIA recovered 62 live bullets, which are unaccounted for, from the police official’s residence in Thane during search. Also, Singh said, that Vaze was issued 30 bullets by his department but only five of those were recovered. He argued that the agency needed to investigate further why Vaze had such a large number of bullets which were unaccounted for while most of the ones issued to him were missing.Also Read | Vaze the mastermind, will seek his custody, says Maha ATS chiefThe agency also informed the court that while he was investigating the case, Vaze allegedly collected and destroyed CCTV footage of several places and he was also found to be using a fake identity card.Further, the agency claimed that it has collected several forensic evidences, such as burnt clothes, traces and samples from the five cars seized in the case and those have been sent for forensic analysis and DNA profiling.The agency also said that during his custody, Vaze has not cooperated with the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-bomb-scare-case-nia-seeks-sachin-vaze-s-custody-for-another-15-days-101616671043142.html
25-03-2021||Pune||Godman dupes Pune farmer of ₹12 lakh by promising to find why his cows were not producing milk||PUNE: A self-proclaimed godman was booked late on Wednesday night by Pune rural police for duping a farmer of ₹12 lakh under the guise of providing a solution to his burst drip irrigation pipelines and determine why his cows were not producing milk. The Maharashtra anti-black magic act was invoked against the godman at Walchandnagar police station. Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti members claim that multiple other people have also approached them with similar complaints against the man.The godman was identified as Uttam Lakshman Bhagwat, a resident of Gholapwadi in Walchandnagar area near Indapur in Pune district, while the complainant was identified as Dadasaheb Tamhane (45), a farmer in Aasu village in Phaltan region of Satara district.Along with Tamhane, there are six others who have lodged their complaints against Bhagwat in the case, according to members of ANiS, an organisation started by slain rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar. The transaction happened between Tamhane and Bhagwat through multiple online transfers between April 15, 2015 and February 20, 2016.Tamhane was first introduced to the “godman” by his friend in April 2015 when the drip irrigation system on his farm was destroyed by someone in an overnight attack, according to his complaint.“He kept telling us that a family member will suffer physical harm if we do not pay him so he could perform puja for us,” said Tamhane.The man also allegedly told the victim that they should not reveal anything about the puja rituals to anyone if he wanted it to be successful. “The godman has offered to find the person who had damaged the pipelines of drip irrigation in the complainant’s farm. He then told him that someone had performed black magic in order to damage his farm. The farmer believed him and agreed to get a puja done,” said Nandini Jadhav, Pune district head of ANiS.When asked why the case was registered five years after the incident, Jadhav claimed that the people in the village in Satara are scared of the man and refuse to file a complaint even though he has duped scores of them.“There are six other people who have each lost multiple lakhs. It is an open secret in this village that he has duped scores of people over multiple years. We have more and more complainants approaching us. The police were not registering a case before. I hope, with this FIR, more people will come forward,” said Jadhav.“This is the first registered case against him. One other complaint of cheating of ₹4 lakh in the past, before lockdown. But some outside financial settlement was done, from what I have learnt. Yesterday (Wednesday) we got the evidence and now we have a case against him. He has fled from his house, but my team will find him soon,” said police inspector Dilip Pawar of Walchandnagar police station.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(2) of Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 was registered at Walchandnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/godman-dupes-pune-farmer-of-rs-12-lakh-by-promising-to-find-why-his-cows-were-not-producing-milk-101616670982972.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||With stakes high, Himachal CM takes charge of BJP’s Mandi campaign||The elections to the four municipal corporations in Himachal Pradesh on April 7 are being seen as precursor to the assembly elections due next year as they will reflect the public mood in the hill state. After its victory in the two byelections in Pacchad and Dharamshala and in the recent panchayat elections, the BJP is looking to continue its victory march, while the Congress is grappling with factionalism. Though crucial for both the parties, the stakes are higher for chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, which is why he has taken charge of the local body elections along with BJP top brass to ensure victory of his party’s MC candidates on his home turf of Mandi. Thakur flew to Mandi from Shimla on Wednesday evening and held a series of meetings with party workers. The elections to the Mandi Municipal Corporation are being held for the first time but the saffron party is facing rebellion in almost half a dozen wards of the total 15. Pressure points in Mandi BJP leaders are trying to pacify voters of the rural areas that have been merged with the municipal corporation this time. The rural people, most of whom have farmlands, are opposed to the merger, while building owners resent the taxes that will be imposed on them by the municipal corporation. The BJP is also facing embarrassment with Mandi legislator and former minister Anil Sharma, who has refused to campaign. Sharma was side-lined by the party after his son Ashray contested the last Lok Sabha elections from Mandi on the Congress ticket. Sharma, who held the power portfolio in the Jai Ram Thakur ministry, was forced to give up his cabinet berth ahead of the general election. He had been lying low and maintaining a distance from the chief minister ever since. However, during the recent budget session, Sharma’s anger was visible when he cornered his own government over issues related to development in Mandi. Sharma, along with son Ashray and father Sukh Ram, had switched to the BJP ahead of the 2017 assembly elections. A three-time MLA from Mandi and a former Rajya Sabha member, Sharma had served as minister of state in the Virbhadra Singh ministry from 1993 to 1996 and had resigned from the council of ministers after Sukh Ram was arrested in the telecom scam. He later joined the Himachal Vikas Congress floated by Sukh Ram after his expulsion from the Congress in 1997. This time, Anil’s son Ashray, who is the Congress general secretary, is actively campaigning for the party. Word of caution for Anil Sharma The BJP has entrusted the responsibility of the Mandi campaign to Sharma’s rival and jal shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur. Sharma was not included in any of the panels constituted by the party for deciding on candidates for the municipal corporation elections. State BJP chief Suresh Kashyap warned Sharma of action if he worked against the interest of the party. In reply to a question during a press conference in Mandi, Kashyap said: “The party will definitely take action against Sharma.” He, however, downplayed the dissidence after local leaders at the forefront of the party were denied the party ticket for the MC elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-stakes-high-himachal-cm-takes-charge-of-bjp-s-mandi-campaign-101616670142919.html
25-03-2021||Other||Kerala nun harassment case: Investigating officer picked for probe||A superintendent-rank officer will conduct an inquiry into the alleged harassment of Kerala nuns on a Jhansi-bound train, inspector general (railways) Satyendra Kumar Singh said on Thursday.Officials said Somitra Yadav, the Lucknow-based investigating officer, has rushed to Jhansi for the probe. The probe was ordered after the church media commission said Bajrang Dal men confronted the nuns when they were on their way from Delhi to Odisha on the train on March 19 for Easter celebrations. The church said the nuns were verbally abused and the men tried to attack them after accusing them of taking the postulants accompanying them for religious conversion.Union home minister Amit Shah, who was in poll-bound Kerala on Wednesday, assured action over the harassment. The assurance came after Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that such incidents tarnish the image of the nation. Kerala goes to the polls on April 6.Singh said the inquiry would deal with all the aspects of the case, including the mental trauma caused to the nuns and the postulants.Also Read | Kerala church activist threatens nuns over Franco Mulakkal case, arrestedGovernment railway police (GRP) inspector (Jhansi) Sunil Singh said one Ajay Tiwari informed them about the alleged conversion and a group of Railway Protection Force personnel got onto the train at Jhansi. A video purportedly showing the nuns being threatened and forced to prove their identity went viral on social media.GRP officials said their local team got on to the train after getting information about the commotion on board. “On reaching there, it found the nuns and postulants had been taken off the train....” said an official. “...the nuns and postulants were brought to a GRP station at 8 pm...[the postulants said] they were Christians by birth,” he said. Their baptism certificates were also produced before police officers.The nuns and the postulants remained in the police station for three hours before they were released. They spent the night in Jhansi before leaving for Odisha the next day on March 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-nun-harassment-case-investigating-officer-picked-for-probe-101616669968164.html
25-03-2021||Pune||Taste of life: In a dog fight for a puran-poli||The year was 1862, and the month probably March. A feast was organised by one Mr Vidwans who lived in Sadashiv peth, on the completion of some religious rituals by his wife. Fifty-one priests and 21 couples were the guests of honour. There were a hundred other guests who were invited for the feast which was to follow the puja in the morning. The venue was the narrow lane in front of Mr Vidwans’ house. Puran-poli (flatbread stuffed with a sweet filling made from skinned split bengal gram, jaggery, cardamom and nutmeg) was served to the guests. One could imagine the guests relishing hot puran-polis drenched in homemade ghee. The feast went on till late afternoon after which the lane went silent. Leaf plates, half eaten puran-polis and other leftovers were strewn all over. A few men and children were now busy rummaging through the heaps of plates. They belonged to the so-called “lower castes” and were allowed to gather the leftover food after the feasts were over.That night, Mr Vidwans was woken up by the incessant barking of dogs. Assuming there was a thief trying to break in, he went out to take a look and was surprised to find a terrified woman trying to pick a puran-poli from a heap of leaf plates. She already had one in her hand. The dogs, wanting to have a bite as well, were trying to chase her out.Tattered copies of “Jnanaprakash” from the archives of the Savitribai Phule Pune University tell us about a mini scandal that broke after the woman was found competing with dogs for a puran-poli. Though the newspaper does not reveal her identity, it mentions that she was an “upper caste” widow who lived with her in-laws nearby. She had heard the men of the house talk about the feast and had sneaked out in the night to have the leftovers.She was not supposed to be seen outside her home in the night. She was not supposed to be anywhere near the feast. Her presence was considered a bad omen. And yet, there she was.She was 18. And hungry. She had not eaten for two days.Widows in colonial India were routinely subjected to several dehumanising practices. They were forced to tonsure. They were allowed to cook in some households, but had to use a separate stove and utensils for cooking their own food.The easiest and most brutal way of controlling someone is through food, by restricting what they can or cannot eat. Widows in India were hit where it hurt the most.They were to eat only once a day. They were allowed to have some puffed rice and milk for dinner. They would sit on the floor in the kitchen for their meals, with their faces towards the wall. There was a long list of don’ts: No meat, no onion and garlic, no spices, no red lentils.Some widows were not allowed to eat salt. Cucumbers and bananas were out of question too, because of their phallic shapes. These were also considered “heaty” foods that would ignite their passions. Passion was not allowed in the husks of womanhood that widows were supposed to be.Widows often had to rely on other women of the household to satiate their hunger. Women of the family ate after men finished their meal. They had to manage with leftovers most of the time. Their meals rarely comprised vegetables. The skin of different vegetables like pointed gourd, bottle gourd and ridge gourd were roasted with sesame seeds and peanuts and eaten with rice. Women were bound to consume everything, since the best was always kept aside for men. But, widows were often denied that privilege too.Adherence to these practices persisted even after the Hindu Widows’ Remarriage Act of 1856, which reversed the hateful convention of forbidding widows from remarrying, and the British outlawing of sati, the horrifically theatrical practice of making a widow self-immolate on her husband’s funeral pyre. The stigmas around widowhood did not die with these formal, legal mandates. They still flourished in private. Even as these reforms were taking shape in colonial Maharashtra, women were still collateral damage.A small debate ensued after Mr Vidwans apprehended the woman with a puran-poli in her hand. The orthodox were quick to point out that the liberals were behind such outrageous acts and, that widows had to be controlled with more diligence. A few wrote about the ill practices surrounding religious feasts. No one spoke about the woman’s hunger.There are only a few issues of the newspaper in the archives and they do not mention the woman with a puran-poli again.I just hope she could eat the puran-poli that night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-in-a-dog-fight-for-a-puranpoli-101616669002917.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress chief objects to Raut's comment on Pawar, approaches CM||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Thursday raised objection to Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut's statement that a non-Congress leader like Sharad Pawar should head the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) coalition and said that he has requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to intervene."Sanjay Raut is a Shiv Sena MP. Shiv Sena isn't a UPA member. He hasn't become an NCP MP. We have told the CM that such statements are wrong and that he should tell him so. The CM has said he'll discuss it," Patole told news agency ANI.Also Read: Anil Deshmukh writes to Uddhav Thackeray to probe corruption charges against himFurther, commenting on the strength of the Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance, he said, "There will be no problem. Ye Fevicol ka mazboot jod hai [the alliance is very strong]. The govt will go on for 5 years. They (BJP) may level as many false allegations as they want, it won't affect the govt. They're trying to malign Maharashtra, people of the state won't forgive them."Watch: Congress responds to Sanjay Raut’s ‘make Pawar UPA chief’ demandEarlier, dismissing speculations that Congress leaders are upset over demands that the NCP chief should head the UPA, Sena MP Raut said, “In fact, we get such suggestions from the Congress that UPA should be strengthened. It can be Sonia Gandhi’s stand as well. Sonia Gandhi has led the UPA resolutely for a long time. But she has been unwell and there are [political] developments happening in the country. At such a time, several regional parties have demanded that UPA should be headed by a person outside the Congress. UPA, currently, is in a handicapped state.”Adding that regional parties which are not under the umbrella of the NDA or the UPA should be taken under the UPA, he said, “There is no question of how many MPs are backing Pawar saheb. Almost all [political] parties besides the BJP have demanded that UPA should be reconstituted and there should be a change in UPA leadership. It is not just our demand."(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cong-chief-objects-to-raut-s-comment-on-pawar-approaches-cm-101616667437173.html
25-03-2021||Bhopal||Munawar Faruqui case: Co-accused comedian takes to working as labourer to make ends meet||Bringing smiles to the faces of people was his passion and watching hundreds of people gather to attend his programme was among his reasons to live. An incident turned his life upside down and forced 25-year-old Nalin Yadav to quit his passion as a stand-up comedian and work as a labourer. Yadav is co-accused in a case of famous stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. He was arrested along with five others including Faruqui and he spent 57 days in Indore jail. The arrest took place on January 1, Faruqui, the comedian from Gujarat, was arrested by police along with four others on the complaint filed by Eklavya Singh Gaud, son of BJP MP, for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by making indecent remarks against Hindu deities during his comic show in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. These 57 days changed his life to an extent that a comedy star of the city is now working as a labourer in an industrial area in Pithampur of Dhar district to earn ₹200 per day. “In my childhood, friends and neighbours used to say that I have a very good sense of humour and I have the talent to make people laugh. I took these words very seriously and decided to become a comedian. I didn’t feel bad when I used to receive appreciation of one or two people on my jokes but now after doing hard work, today I am left with nothing but to do petty jobs to make ends meet,” said Yadav who has been doing comedy show for the past 5-6 years in Indore. Yadav said, “I lost my father a few years ago and mother four months ago but my friends, relatives and neighbours showered immense love on me and my 17-year-old brother Akash. We never felt alone.” “Even when I was in jail, I didn’t feel felt bad and depressed because of the support of people and four friends - Prakhar Vyas, Edwin, Sadaqat Pathan - and a minor, who used to support me in organizing the comedy shows,” said Yadav. Yadav thought when he would come out of jail, people would sympathise with him and support him, instead, many broke all ties with him and his brother. “In the past 25 days, hardly anyone called me to know my condition. Neighbours saw me as if I am a dreaded criminal or some obscene person. A few friends, who really helped my brother with collecting money for my bail, don’t want to support me anymore,” he added. “After coming out of jail, I contacted some café owners in Indore where I used to perform as a comedian and earn money but nobody is even ready to talk to me. They requested me not to call them because they don’t want anyone to know that they are associated with me in any manner. Now, I have lost hopes. Three days a week, I spend convincing people that I didn’t do anything wrong and four days I work as a labourer at an industry. My younger brother is also doing a private job to restart life,” said Yadav. People asked me to upload the video on the whole incident but I don’t want to take advantage of a situation that only took things away from me, he added. Recalling January 1, when Yadav was arrested with five others, he said, “My whole hard work went in vain because a few people got confused and lodged a ‘fake’ ‘complaint without any proof. On that day, I gave an opening performance of five minutes for Faruqui and when he came upon the stage, people created ruckus and attacked us. Many people ran away from the venue but we five chose to stand by Faruqui to keep the tradition of comedy show alive in the city and to save the honour of the city.” “When we were taken to the police station, we thought that we were the victims but late in the night, we came to know that we were the accused and will be sent to jail,” he added. He said, “I don’t know whether I will continue in this city or not. But I am afraid of losing my confidence, facing people and having doubt on my words that spread smiles on the faces of people for five years”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/munawar-faruqui-case-co-accused-comedian-takes-to-working-as-labourer-to-make-ends-meet-101616666662841.html
25-03-2021||Patna||Day after police files FIR over assembly ruckus, Tejashwi Yadav says 'not scared of batons'||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Thursday slammed the Nitish Kumar-led government in Bihar over the Special Armed Police Bill, 2021. Asserting that the protests against the bill will continue, Yadav said "they will not be scared of batons" referring to the chaos in state assembly two days earlier."Bihar Police has become Janta Dal-United's and Nitish Kumar's Police. Officers and the chief minister should realise that we aren't Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) that will be scared of batons," news agency ANI quoted Yadav as saying. "Nitish Kumar will have to take back the black law or amend it," he added.On March 23, the state assembly passed a Special Armed Police Bill, 2021 while the opposition staged a walkout. The bill sparked major chaos in the assembly as police in heavy riot gears were seen evicting the lawmakers. Marshals were also called to the premises to prevent the agitated legislators from getting physical with those in the treasury benches.As the opposition is targeting the state government over calling police to the assembly, state chief minister Nitish Kumar has defended it saying, "It's in Speaker's hands that he can take any help to control the situation. Everyone knows how the Speaker's chamber was gheraoed and what was done in front of his Chair in the House."Meanwhile, state police registered a First Information Report (FIR) RJD leaders including Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav, and other unnamed party workers on Wednesday, news agency ANI reported.The Bihar Special Armed Police Bill seeks to give more teeth to the state police and if enacted successfully it will change the military police to special armed forces that can be deployed to secure industrial units in the lines of the Central Industrial Security Force. The opposition has criticised the bill saying that it gives police to arrest anyone without a warrant. However, the state government has termed it as "need of the hour."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/day-after-police-files-fir-over-assembly-ruckus-tejashwi-yadav-says-not-scared-of-batons-101616666368420.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh moves Bombay HC, seeks CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday moved the Bombay High Court in a criminal PIL seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the alleged corruption charges against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh.Singh, who was shunted out as Mumbai Police Commissioner in the wake of the Antilia bomb scare case, has also challenged the government's order transferring him from the post.The ex-Mumbai top cop met a setback for his case yesterday, when the Supreme Court refused to entertain his plea on the same and asked him to approach the Bombay High Court instead. The top court had said that the allegations and counter-allegations between Singh and Deshmukh are "serious" but the case should be heard by the High Court first.The Mahavikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, led by the Shiv Sena, the NCP, and the Congress, has been facing turmoil after Singh alleged that the state's home minister gave a target to cops to collect ₹100 crore every month.In his petition to the Supreme Court yesterday, Singh had claimed that the Maharashtra home minister "pressurised" him to probe the role of certain BJP leaders and to "somehow implicate" them in the case of the death of MP Mohan Delkar.Noting that the High Court is competent enough to deal with this issue, the top court had pointed out that the concerned parties were "quite hunky-dory" in the past but were now making allegations against each other after a fallout.Singh had reportedly written a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray claiming Deshmukh's involvement in severe "malpractices". The Maharashtra home minister, for his part, refuted all the allegations made against him by former Mumbai top cop. Deshmukh said that the police officer made these false allegations to save himself from legal action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-moves-bombay-hc-seeks-cbi-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-101616663713394.html
25-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM meets Assamese delegation, discusses community's welfare issues||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday met a delegation of the Assamese community here and discussed with them various issues related to their welfare.The delegation met the chief minister to seek regularisation of a piece of land in Bengaluru where an Assamese 'naamghar' (prayer hall) was set up and the allotment of another piece of land to the community."Met the delegation of Assamese community & discussed various issues pertaining to the welfare of community in Karnataka. Our brothers & sisters of Assam are partners in development of our State & my Govt is committed to safeguard their interests," the chief minister said in a tweet.Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal thanked his Karnataka counterpart for meeting the delegation."Thank you @BSYBJP ji for engaging with the Assamese community. Your support will motivate our community to add more value and warmth to Karnataka and we will together move forward with PM Shri @narendramodi ji's mantra of Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat," Sonowal quote tweeted Yediyurappa's post.In a statement, general secretary of the Sreemanta Sankardeva Cultural Society, Bengaluru, Rajeeb Barman said the delegation met the Karnataka chief minister to request him to regularise the existing (5,000 square feet) land, where the 'naamghar' is located and allotment of an additional adjacent piece of land.The chief minister assured the delegation to follow up the mater, Barman said.Barman extended gratitude to Assam chief minister and Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region Jitendra Singh for initiating the discussion with the Karnataka government and expediting the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-meets-assamese-delegation-discusses-community-s-welfare-issues-101616663911918.html
25-03-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand rape accused tries to slit his throat fearing arrest||A rape accused tried to take his life by slitting his throat fearing arrest by police. The incident took place in Barkela village under Chaibasa muffasil police station (PS) in West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand on Wednesday, the police said on Thursday.Sonaram Gope, in his late twenties, had been absconding since a case (No: 161/20) on charges of raping a minor girl was lodged against him in Chaibasa muffasil PS in November last year.“Rape accused Sonaram Gope tried to slit his throat after locking himself in a room in his house in Naxal-hit Barkela village under Chaibasa muffasil PS when a police team reached the village with the dakua (village head). Police rescued him by breaking open the door of the room and rushed him to Chaibasa Sadar Hospital (CSH). He was then taken to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH) in Jamshedpur and was later referred to Ranchi RIMS,” Dilip Xalxo, Chaibasa (Sadar) sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), said.The SDPO said Sonaram was wanted under POCSO Act for raping a minor girl in November last year and had been absconding for the past four months.“The court has also issued an attachment warrant against him. But he was dodging the police all this while. On a tip-off, the police team went to arrest him on Wednesday. The area is highly sensitive because of the presence of Naxals and he was exploiting this. He is, however, out of danger now according to the doctors,” added Xalxo.On the other hand, Sonaram accused the police of entrapping him in a fake rape case. “I was being harassed by the police continuously. I am not involved in any rape case, including the case that has been lodged against me. The police have trapped me in a fake case. I was so panicked that I decided to take my life when I saw the police in the village to arrest me,” Sonaram alleged.SDPO Xalxo said no rape accused admit their crime. “Does any accused say that he has raped, murdered or stolen things when they are arrested? However, we have all the records and evidence against Sonaram,” asserted Xalxo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-rape-accused-tries-to-slit-his-throat-fearing-arrest-101616663782747.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi man poisons wife, her family with thallium||The Delhi Police have arrested a resident of south Delhi’s Greater Kailash for allegedly administering thallium to his wife and her family. Police said the man had poisoned his in-laws’ dinner on January 31 this year, which killed his mother-in-law and sister-in-law and left his wife comatose. The man’s father-in-law and the household help also had to undergo treatment. Senior officers said that police recovered a small glass bottle with thallium from the arrested man’s house. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said on March 22, Inderpuri police station was informed that a woman named Anita Devi Sharma died at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital; thallium was detected in her blood and urine samples. The woman had been under treatment for over a month. Also Read | Man assaulted, forced to chant slogans in Khajuri Khas; one held“Since thallium is a poisonous substance, efforts to trace the source of thallium administered to the woman were made. During preliminary enquiry it was found that the woman’s older daughter Divya, married to one Varun Arora, who lived in Greater Kailash Part-1, was is also admitted in the ICU ward of the same hospital with thallium poisoning. She is on ventilator support,” the DCP said. Goel said further probe revealed that Divya’s younger sister Priyanka also died of thallium poisoning while undergoing a treatment at BL Kapoor Hospital on February 15. “We also found that Anita’s husband Devender Mohan Sharma also showed symptoms of thallium poisoning. A maid who was working in the couple’s house had also been treated at RML Hospital for similar symptoms. We realised that the family was possibly poisoned with thallium at the same time,” she said. The bodies of the two women were shifted to RML Hospital and a detailed autopsy was conducted by a board of doctors. A forensic and crime team also reached the couple’s house to carry out a detailed inspection. Goel said, during initial questionings, it was found that Divya’s husband Varun Arora had visited the Sharma family on January and cooked them fish. He served the fish to the entire family except his Divya’s twins. “Since the chain of events was triggered after the dinner, Arora was detained for questioning. When he was confronted with facts, Arora admitted to have procured thallium and administered it to his mother-in-law Anita, wife Divya, father-in-law Devender Mohan and Priyanka, his sister-in-law. He revealed that he had poisoned them to take revenge as they had been allegedly repeatedly humiliating him,” the officer said. Arora told the police that after his father’s death last year, his wife Divya had conceived. “He believed that his father was being reincarnated as his son. However, Divya developed some complications and aborted the child on the advice of her parents and sister, against Arora’s wishes. “He also said that since he was not doing any job, his in-laws used to repeatedly taunt him,” the DCP said.The DCP said at Arora’s instance, the thallium used in the murders was recovered from his house in Greater Kailash. “We have also recovered his mobile phone that he had used to procure the thallium,” she said. During Arora’s interrogation, police found that he had searched the Internet on “how to make someone very sick”. “That is how he got the idea of using thallium. When our teams searched his laptop, we found his search history was deleted. So far we did not find any evidence of him having got the idea from Saddam Hussain,” Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-poisons-wife-her-family-with-thallium-101616662942938.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||'Have sought time from governor to discuss issues': Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leaders of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government have sought appointment from Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to discuss the “current issues” in the state. The governor, however, is out of town they will make an appointment when he’s back, he added.The leaders are expected to discuss issues, including extortion claims levelled against state home minister Anil Deshmukh by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh, and the corruption allegations by the opposition in police transfers.The plan to meet the governor comes a day after a delegation of opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis met the governor. They submitted a memorandum to Koshyari requesting him to send a report on the current situation in Maharashtra to President Ram Nath Kovind.The deputy chief minister also said that Thackeray has sought a report on the illegal phone tapping issue, adding that chief secretary Sitaram Kunte is likely to send it in today itself.“Phone tapping can be done only after getting permission from the additional chief secretary (ACS), home and Kunte was working as ACS, home when phones were tapped, hence he is also aware of the facts," Pawar said.This comes after former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis accused the government of not taking action on a report by former DGP Subodh Jaiswal about corruption in transfers of police personnel.The report on records of phone tapping by former Commissioner of State Intelligence and IPS officer Rashmi Shukla is based on intercepted phone calls of six people. It has names of senior politicians, middlemen, and police officers, who as the report claims were middlemen who helped police officials seek postings of their choice, and brought up names of politicians such as Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, and home minister Anil Deshmukh, in their alleged conversations.The NCP countered Fadnavis’ remarks alleging that Shukla illegally tapped the phones of police officials and politicians in Maharashtra.The drama in the state gradually unfolded after Singh, who was recently removed from his post, wrote to Thackeray alleging Deshmukh contacted now suspended police officer Sachin Vaze to extort ₹100 crore a month from restaurants and bars in Mumbai. Vaze has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case.Following the letter, Fadnavis said that this is not the first time corruption charges have been levelled against the state home minister and cited the phone tapping report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-sought-time-from-governor-to-discuss-issues-maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-101616661774243.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Criminal dead, another injured in gunfight with police near Delhi’s GTB hospital||An alleged criminal died and another was injured in an exchange of fire with the police in their bid to help a prisoner escape from custody near GTB Hospital in east Delhi around Thursday noon. The prisoner, Kuldeep, who was being taken to the hospital from Mandoli jail for a check-up, managed to escape, said the police. Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar said that personnel from third battalion of Delhi Armed Police were escorting Kuldeep to the hospital when the gunfight took place. “We have learnt that some persons tried to help Kuldeep escape from the police custody. The police team escorting him tried to prevent the escape. Firing took place and one of the suspects died. Kuldeep fled with other attackers,” said the joint CP.Also Read | Man who fired, injured police constable arrested after shootout in GhazipurLater, Delhi Police issued a statement which said, “One high risk accused, Kuldeep aka Fajja, was brought to GTB Hospital for treatment in OPD. On the way on hospital premises, outside the building, five persons in a Scorpio car and on a motorcycle, fired at the police party of 3rd Battalion in an attempt to release the accused from police custody. Police personnel retaliated immediately...one assailant has died and another is injured and in police custody. The remaining assailants escaped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/criminal-dead-another-injured-in-gunfight-with-police-near-delhi-s-gtbhospital-101616662402673.html
25-03-2021||Jaipur||ACB team at his doorstep, Rajasthan official burns ₹15-20 lakh: Cop||A tehsildar in Rajasthan confined himself in his residence and burnt currency notes worth ₹15-20 lakh to save himself from the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) that had caught his associate minutes earlier, a senior official of the state’s anti-graft agency said.The incident took place in Sirohi district, 400 km from state capital Jaipur, late on Wednesday evening after revenue inspector Parvat Singh was arrested for allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹1 lakh. The revenue inspector is alleged to have told investigators that he was acting on behalf of the area tehsildar Kalpesh Kumar Jain.Also Read: 3 army personnel killed as vehicle overturns, catches fire in RajasthanWhen the ACB team reached Jain’s residence in Pindwara along with Parvat Singh, he shut all the doors to prevent the team from entering his house and started burning the currency notes on the gas stove in the kitchen, said ACB director general BL Soni.The ACB team finally managed to enter the house with the help of local police who used a gas cutter. They found what remained of the burnt currency notes in the kitchen. Officials said the team was able to find ₹1.5 lakh during a search of the house.Soni said Parvat Singh and Kalpesh Kumar Jain have been arrested. He said the revenue inspector had demanded ₹5 lakh to sign off on a contract to remove the bark of the gooseberry trees and had called the contractor to a location on the highway in Swaroopganj near his office.Singh had worked under tehsildar Kalpesh Jain in Sirohi before his transfer to Swaroopganj. He, however, continued to take a bribe for the tehsildar even after his transfer to Swaroopganj, said additional director general of police, ACB, Dinesh MN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/tehsildar-burns-rs-15-20-lakhs-on-gas-stove-on-finding-acb-outside-house-101616661442981.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||There’s no need for Anil Deshmukh to resign, says Shiv Sena||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said there is no need for state home minister Anil Deshmukh to resign even as the latter faces charges of running an extortion racket. Raut accused the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of playing “dirty politics” over the matter and added they do not want to fall prey to it. Therefore, no resignation was sought as it would set a wrong precedent, added Raut.Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh made the allegations against Deshmukh in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday and plunged the state’s Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government into a crisis. Singh accused Deshmukh of “corrupt malpractices” for instructing police officers to “carry out official assignments and collection schemes including financial transactions”, as well as setting targets for them “to collect money” from establishments such as hookah bars and restaurants.Deshmukh, a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, has denied the allegations.Also Read | Congress not upset over demand that Pawar should head UPA: Sanjay RautRaut reiterated that a retired high court judge could probe the matter. He dismissed doubts whether an impartial probe is possible with Deshmukh still occupying the post. “There is no such tradition [of resigning]. Who said there cannot be an impartial probe till one is on the post? If a retired high court judge probes, there is no need to resign,” said Raut. “There are doubts on several aspects of that letter… There are doubts whether Param Bir Singh wrote the letter, or someone wrote it and he signed it.” He said the “issue has ended for them”.Raut questioned whether BJP-ruled states have taken action against any minister without a probe. “From day one, the home minister asked for a probe. The chief minister said a probe should be done. Only the opposition did not want a probe and wanted Deshmukh to resign before a probe.”BJP leader Pravin Darekar said Raut is speaking like an NCP spokesman. “When [Shiv Sena minister] Sanjay Rathod faced allegations [of alleged links to a woman’s death], that time Raut did not say that there is no need for resignation before a probe. He seems to have forgotten to defend Shiv Sena leaders and workers but is defending an NCP minister.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/theres-no-need-for-deshmukh-to-resign-says-sena-101616660902375.html
25-03-2021||Bhopal||MP government plans to bring law to ease tree felling on private land||Madhya Pradesh state government is coming up with a new tree plantation promotion law which will allow felling of trees on private forest land and degraded forest of about 10 lakh hectares without any permission from the government, said an official. The law, experts said, could harm the state’s frail green cover and movement of wildlife animals.In Madhya Pradesh, 10 lakh hectares of forest area is under private ownership and 4 lakh hectares belong to standing forest while 6 lakh hectares belong to the degraded forest. The state’s total forest cover is 94,689 sq km.Under the new law, the state government is going to relax the norms for cutting trees on private land and motivate plantation for doing timber and minor forest produce business, the official said.The new law would also allow people to transport and do business of timber with private people without obtaining permission of the forest department, said an officer of the MP Forest department. The law aims to remove red-tapism and allow people, especially farmers, to plant trees to generate extra sources of income, another forest department official said. The forest department has sent the draft of the bill to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and once approved by the CM, it would be put before the cabinet for its nod, another official said.As of now, MP has two rules to allow people to cut trees on their private land. According to the MP Land Revenue Code 1959 section 240 and 241, a farmer needs to obtain the permission of the tehsildar /sub-divisional magistrate before cutting down a tree. Under the Lok Vaniki Act 2002, farmers need to take permission of divisional forest officer to plant plantations and cut trees on the area of more than 10 hectares of land. MP’s principal chief conservator of forest, Rajesh Shrivastava, said, “This new law will change the life of farmers. It will help those farmers who don’t want to do farming but want to do timber or minor forest produce business and also to farmers who want to do farming with timber business.” However, experts feel that it will affect the green cover of the state and can also spoil the corridor between national parks.Retired forest officer and environmentalist, PN Saxena, said, “This will be a very good law for farmers, but my concern is that of orange areas that are claimed by forest and revenue departments and is used by farmers.”“There is no clear demarcation of forest land and degraded forest areas owned by farmers so how will the forest department ensure that legality of timber which is being sold or transported by farmers? Similarly, if farmers concentrate more on felling than plantation, how will the government ensure the green cover?” he asked.Retired principal chief conservator of forest, wildlife, SK Mandol, said, “This is good that MP government wants to motivate timber business, which is a lucrative one, but there are chances of deforestation of private forests, which are being used as a corridor by tigers and other wild animals between Kanha, Satpura, Pench and Bandhavgarh tiger reserves to travel from one place to another, and it will have an adverse effect on wildlife. The state government should consider this while finalizing the draft.”Wildlife activist and advocate Anshuman Singh said, “In 2019, I filed a petition when the MP forest department de-notified about 60 species of plant and allow farmers to cut and sell these species in an open market. MP High Court stayed that order of forest department to save ecology. Now, they are coming up with a new law. This will be disastrous to give a free hand to farmers for cutting of trees. Forest department principal secretary Ashok Varnwal said, “The new law might increase felling of trees initially but in long term, it will definitely increase the green cover. Who doesn’t want to earn money easily? The people will themselves plant trees in the rotation to earn money and unlike farming, plantation for timber doesn’t need much care after some months. Why only timber, they can use their land to grow medicinal plants and minor forest produce which are in demand nowadays.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-government-plans-to-bring-law-to-ease-tree-felling-on-private-land-101616659403954.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Congress not upset over demand that Pawar should head UPA: Sanjay Raut||Amid speculations that the Congress leaders are upset over demands that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar should head the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), Sena leader Sanjay Raut dismissed the speculations saying that many Congress leaders want to strengthen the UPA.NCP MP Supriya Sule met Congress president and UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi on Thursday morning. There were speculations that the meeting took place to discuss the Congress leadership’s unhappiness about the demand. However, Raut dismissed that rumour.Also Read | Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut says Sharad Pawar should lead UPAThe Congress leadership is not upset over the demand that Sharad Pawar should head UPA, Raut said. “In fact, we get such suggestions from the Congress that UPA should be strengthened. It can be Sonia Gandhi’s stand as well. Sonia Gandhi has led UPA resolutely for a long time. But she has been unwell and there are [political] developments happening in the country. At such a time, several regional parties have demanded that UPA should be headed by a person outside the Congress. UPA, currently, is in a handicapped state,” the Sena’s chief spokesperson said.He added that several regional parties who are not a part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance or UPA should be taken under the aegis of the UPA. “There is no question of how many MPs are backing Pawar saheb. Almost all [political] parties besides the BJP have demanded that UPA should be reconstituted and there should be a change in UPA leadership. It is not just our demand,” he said.Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole said, “UPA constituents have decided who should head UPA. I had asked the chief minister two days ago if he (Sanjay Raut) is the spokesperson of Sharad Pawar. Our only suggestion is that they should not discuss things that are not related to them... Shiv Sena is not a member of UPA, they should know this. One who is not a member [of UPA] must not enter into this discussion. There is no question of being upset over it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-not-upset-over-demand-that-pawar-should-head-upa-sanjay-raut-101616659402394.html
25-03-2021||Lucknow||151-ft high Lakshman statue to be built in Lucknow, says mayor; location unclear||A 151-foot-high statue of Lakshman, the younger brother of Lord Ram, would be installed in the state capital Lucknow, the city’s municipal corporation’s executive committee decided at its meeting late on Tuesday.“The executive committee unanimously passed the proposal for setting up a statue of Lord Lakshman, who established the city of Lucknow,” Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said. “The executive committee has earmarked ₹1 crore for the construction of the statue. However, when the need arises, we will not hesitate in giving more money for the project,” she added.Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said artists from Rajasthan, Lucknow and other states were being contacted for the work. “Everything will be finalised soon,” he said, adding that the corporation had reached out to a sculptor from Rajasthan for the project.“We are working on the theme of the statue. The LMC (Lucknow Municipal Corporation) will also construct a gallery which will portray all the facts of Lord Lakshman, his story, his sacrifice, his devotion towards Lord Ram, his ethics, his simplicity etc. Not only that, we will also have a daily light and sound show about his life at the location where the statue would be installed. The aim is to display our culture and heritage,” said Bhatia.But the corporation hasn’t taken a call on the location of the statue.When the municipal corporation cleared a similar proposal in 2018, it had voted to install the statue at a crossing out of one of the city’s oldest and most prominent mosques, Teele Wali Masjid. The plan met with stiff opposition from clerics and historians, who linked the move to the 2019 general elections. It didn’t move forward.Sanyukta Bhatia, who had also piloted the aborted 2018 proposal, said the site would be finalised after fresh discussions with municipal corporators. This time, she said, a “collective decision” would be taken.The opposition to the 2018 plan came against the backdrop of a claim by veteran BJP leader Lalji Tandon in his book that Teele Wali Masjid, the city’s biggest Sunni mosque built during Mughal emperor Aurangzeb, was constructed over Lakshman Teela, a raised platform named after Lord Ram’s brother.Tandon, who died last year, said in his 2018 book that Lucknow was originally called “Laxmanavati, then Laxmanpur and after that Lakhnavati, before finally being named Lucknow”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/151ft-high-lakshman-statue-to-be-built-in-lucknow-says-mayor-location-unclear-101616656822250.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||3 army personnel killed as vehicle overturns, catches fire in Rajasthan||Three Indian Army personnel from a unit in Bathinda military station were burnt to death and five others were injured when their official vehicle overturned and caught fire in Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar district early on Thursday. Police said the accident took place near Gopalsar, 150 km from the Sriganganagar district headquarters. Station house officer (SHO) Vikram Tiwari said havildar Dev Kumar, havildar SK Shukla and subedar Mamger died on the spot. Five other jawans were rushed to the military hospital in Suratgarh, where their condition is stated to be out of danger. According to preliminary investigation, the army Gypsy overturned and caught fire after the driver lost control. “It was either due to the glare of the headlight from a vehicle headed in the opposite direction or after the vehicle was hit by an animal. Soon after the Gypsy overturned, it caught fire and the three personnel trapped inside died on the spot,” the SHO said. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the mishap. In a tweet, he said, “I’m saddened to learn of an accident at Suratgarh in Sriganganagar, where three army members lost their lives and five were injured. My condolences to the bereaved families. May they can gain strength in these difficult times. Praying for the speedy recovery of the injured.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-army-personnel-killed-as-vehicle-overturns-catches-fire-in-rajasthan-101616656762158.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: ‘Cannot go backwards Mumbai’, tweets BMC after city records highest single-day spike||The BrihanMumbai Corporation (BMC) cautioned the people of the city on Thursday, after a huge spike in its number of Covid-19 cases. Mumbai recorded 5,185 new cases of the infection on Wednesday, its highest ever. Comparing Mumbai's Covid-19 numbers with January, the BMC expressed concern."From 236 to 5185! January saw the least number of new cases in the city since the pandemic - 236. March witnessed the highest. We cannot go backwards Mumbai, we cannot drop our guards now. Follow all Covid-19 prevention norms. Stay safe," it tweeted.From 236 to 5185!January saw the least number of new cases in the city since the pandemic - 236. March witnessed the highest.We cannot go backwards Mumbai, we cannot drop our guards now.Follow all COVID-19 prevention norms. Stay safe.#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/V4pMtga1JvMumbai has been witnessing an upsurge in the daily tally of cases in the past few weeks. The capital city of Maharashtra - the worst-affected state - has been reporting over 3,000 cases everyday for some time now. On Tuesday, the city reported 3,512 new cases - an eight per cent increase over Monday’s 3262, which marked a slight fall from the 3,775 new cases recorded on Sunday. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Mumbai is pegged at 0.79 per cent with an overall recovery rate of 90 per cent, tweeted BMC on March 24.As of 6 pm on March 24 the city had a total of 39 containment zones and 432 sealed buildings. 22, 472 high risk individuals have been traced in the last 24 hours, and 542 high risk contacts have been put up in CCC1 covid care centers, which are located in hotels, newly constructed buildings, lodges etc, according to the BMC Covid-19 update.Civic authorities have attributed the recent upsurge to the increased number of tests being conducted daily. BMC has started to randomly test people in crowded places like malls, beaches, railway stations et al, which led to 33,553 additional tests being conducted in the last two days. Holi celebrations have also been curtailed in the city to prevent any further rise in cases. The civic body requested all citizens to follow all Covid-19 prevention norms and stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-cannot-go-backwards-mumbai-tweets-bmc-after-city-records-highest-single-day-spike-101616655928562.html
25-03-2021||Jaipur||3 soldiers killed, 5 injured as vehicle overturns during training in Rajasthan||Three soldiers were killed and five injured when their vehicle overturned during a training task and caught fire in Ganganagar district of Rajasthan. The incident took place on Wednesday night near Gopalsar village—the driver had lost control over the vehicle, police said. Vikram Tiwari, station house officer of Rajiasar police station, told HT that the Gypsy carrying the army personnel suddenly overturned near RD 330 of Indira Gandhi Canal and the vehicle caught fire. Three soldiers were burnt alive, while five others were rushed to the Military Hospital in Suratgarh, he said. Also Read | ‘Army’s criteria arbitrary’: SC allows permanent commission to women officersArmy spokesperson Lt Col Amitabh Sharma told HT that the driver probably lost control of the vehicle, which toppled, and added that a requisite inquiry was in process. The incident took place around 3am on Thursday near Gopalsar village and the locals were the first ones to reach the spot. They helped the jawans out of the damaged vehicle and admitted them to the Suratgarh government hospital. They were later referred to Military Hospital. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed his grief over the incident. “Saddened to learn of an accident in Suratgarh, Sri Ganganagar in which three army soldiers has lost lives and five are injured. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. May they find strength in this difficult time. Prayers for speedy recovery of those injured,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/3-soldiers-killed-5-injured-as-vehicle-overturns-during-training-in-rajasthan-101616656042435.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal first in country in TB elimination campaign||Himachal Pradesh has achieved the first rank in the country among states with a population of more than 50 lakh, in the tuberculosis elimination programme. State health secretary Amitabh Awasthi said in Shimla on Thursday that according to the sustainable development goals, it is aimed to wipe out tuberculosis by 2030. “But the nation is committed to ending TB by 2025 and Himachal Pradesh has set itself a goal ahead of the national deadline,” he said. Five districts of HP shortlisted for efforts The national-level programme was organised at Ambedkar Bhawan, Delhi. This year, the Government of India started sub national certification of states and districts for the elimination of TB and five districts from Himachal Pradesh, namely Una, Hamirpur, Kangra, Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur had applied. This survey was conducted in February and the results were compiled and declared on the occasion of World TB day on Wednesday. The Government of India also ranks the states in terms of interventions under the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme. The award was conferred in Delhi by Union minister for health and family welfare, Dr Harsh Vardhan and the minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwani Choubey. The award was received on behalf of Himachal Pradesh by Dr Nipun Jindal, mission director, National Health Mission, Himachal Pradesh, and Dr Gopal Beri, state TB officer. Lahaul and Spiti district wins silver medal Lahaul and Spiti district earned the silver medal for efforts and Kinnaur, Hamirpur, Una and Kangra got the bronze medal, Awasthi said. The state has taken several steps to eliminate TB earlier such as the expansion of the diagnostic net, frontline response, treatment adherence, community participation and commitment of stakeholders, he said. Awasthi said the implementation has been strengthened and supplemented by the state’s Mukhya Mantri Kshay Rog Nivaran Yojana, which includes budgetary provisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-first-in-country-in-tb-elimination-campaign-101616655502064.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||15 injured as PRTC bus falls into drain in Faridkot||At least 15 passengers were injured when a Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) bus fell into a drain after breaching a barrier near Golewala village, 14 km from Faridkot, on Thursday morning. Police said the accident occurred around 6.30am when one of the tyres of the bus burst and the driver lost control of the vehicle. The bus, which was going from Faridkot to Ferozepur, had more than 15 passengers on board. Assistant sub-inspector Gurmej Singh said: “The injured were rushed to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. Twelve of them were discharged after first aid, while three have been admitted with serious injuries. Most of the passengers on board were government employees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-injured-as-prtc-bus-falls-into-drain-in-faridkot-101616653701836.html
25-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Tehsildar burns ₹20 lakh as ACB visits over bribery allegations||A tehsildar locked himself inside his residence and allegedly burnt currency notes worth ₹15-20 lakh after the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) caught a revenue inspector while taking a bribe of ₹1 lakh on his behalf, officials said.The incident occurred in Sirohi district on Wednesday night.A team apprehended Revenue Inspector Parvat Singh while taking a bribe of ₹1 lakh from a man on behalf of the Tehsidar Kalpesh Kumar Jain for awarding him a contract, DG (ACB) BL Soni said.When the ACB team reached Jain's residence along with Singh, he locked all the doors to prevent the team from entering inside and started burning currency notes, the official said.The ACB team somehow managed to enter the house with the help of local police and found the burnt notes in the kitchen. ₹1.5 lakh in cash was also recovered, Soni said.Both Parvat Singh and Kalpesh Kumar Jain have been arrested, Soni added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-tehsildar-burns-rs-20-lakh-as-acb-visits-over-bribery-allegations-101616653184682.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Why no uniformity in no-mask fines: Bombay HC to Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court sought to know from the Maharashtra government as to why the amount of fine for not wearing face masks as per Covid-19 protocols was not uniform across the state. A public interest litigation (PIL) informed the court that the fine amount ranged from ₹100-1,000 in different parts of the state and was causing a financial strain on citizens already affected by the lockdown. The PIL also sought directions to formulate a policy to print special masks with a specific sign or symbol for hearing and speech-impaired persons and for proper utilisation of funds collected from offenders.On Wednesday, a division bench of justices SP Deshmukh and Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by Lokshahiwadi Balasaheb Sarode Smriti Prabodhan Upakram through advocate Asim Sarode, was informed that while the state government had made it compulsory to wear masks to control he spread of Covid-19, the amount of fines for not wearing one differed and there was no uniformity in the amount collected as fine.Also Read | Maharashtra, Mumbai see a record 31,855 and 5,190 new Covid-19 cases“High amounts collected as fine have become a burden on common people who are already in duress due to lockdown,” stated the PIL, submitting that the fine ranged from ₹100-1,000 and hence sought directions to the government to have a uniform, affordable fine and provide free masks to persons from whom such fines were recovered. The PIL also questioned as to whether members of the same family travelling in a vehicle were supposed to use masks as there were many instances fines were forcefully collected from people travelling in their own vehicles.The PIL sought details of the total amount of fine collected by authorities across the state and details on how and where the amount was being utilised.Counsel for the government Priyabhushan Kakade sought time to respond to the concerns raised in the PIL and submitted that the replies would be given in a week, which was accepted by the bench and the hearing was adjourned to next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-no-uniformity-in-no-mask-fines-bombay-hc-to-maharashtra-govt-101616649503032.html
25-03-2021||Jaipur||3 soldiers die, 5 injured after vehicle overturns, catches fire in Rajasthan||Three soldiers were killed and another five injured on Thursday when the Army vehicle they were travelling in overturned and caught fire in Rajasthan's Ganganagar district, police said.The accident occurred in Rajiyasar area in the early hours of Thursday, they said."The Gypsy overturned and caught fire. Five injured soldiers managed to come out of the vehicle but three were trapped inside it and died," Station House Officer (SHO) Vikram Tiwari said.The injured are being treated at a hospital, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/3-soldiers-die-5-injured-after-vehicle-overturns-catches-fire-in-rajasthan-101616649228708.html
25-03-2021||Dehradun||Negative Covid test report mandatory to attend Kumbh Mela: Uttarakhand govt||With Covid cases surging again in Uttarakhand, the state government on Wednesday made it mandatory for devotees to bring a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours for attending the forthcoming Kumbh Mela in Haridwar.Covid-19 cases continued to rise again in Uttarakhand with 200 infections reported on Wednesday out of which the maximum were detected in Haridwar which is in the final stages of preparations to host the Kumbh Mela starting from April 1.Haridwar reported the highest number with 71 cases, Dehradun 63, Nainital 22 Udham Singh Nagar 14, Pauri, Rudraparayag and Tehri eight each, Pithoragarh five and Almora one, a Covid-19 control room bulletin here said.Meanwhile, it has been made mandatory once again to bring a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours for devotees gathering in Haridwar for the forthcoming congregation.Chief Secretary Om Prakash said the Uttarakhand High Court has issued clear directives in this regard.The High Court has said it will be mandatory to bring a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours or a vaccination report for attending the Kumbh.Soon after taking over as Chief Minister, Tirath Singh Rawat had said it was not compulsory to bring a negative RT-PCR test report for devotees gathering for the Kumbh. It is a religious event that comes once in 12 years and devotees can attend it freely, he had said.However, he later ordered strict compliance with the guidelines issued by the Centre in view of the surging positive cases.Lying low for a few months, the Covid cases in Uttarakhand are showing a rising trend of late.However, no fresh Covid-19 cases were detected on Wednesday in Bageshwar, Chamoli, Champawat and Uttarkashi districts. There were no Covid casualties in the state either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/negative-covid-test-report-mandatory-to-attend-kumbh-mela-uttarakhand-govt-101616648276404.html
25-03-2021||Other||Goa budget promises pilgrimage scheme, loans for tourism sector||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday promised regularisation of unauthorised residential houses, loans for the tourism sector, a pilgrimage scheme for senior citizens, support for those involved in traditional occupations, and a mining corporation as he presented a budge over ₹25,000 crore.He said he aims to reach out to each resident of the state, where elections are due next year. “My government will sign an MOU [memorandum of understanding] with Mineral Exploration Corporation Ltd (MECL) for carrying out mapping of the mineral resources in...Goa and identify potential mining sites,” Sawant said. He also promised to liberalise quarrying of minor minerals like sand and stone.“...to promote ease of doing business and to ensure a seamless process for grant of quarrying leases for minor minerals, my government shall bring amendments to the Goa Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1985. My Government also shall expedite the grant permits for traditional sand mining,” Sawant said.Also Read | Goa CM rules out making Covid test mandatory on arrivalSawant promised to introduce a Tourism Trade Support Scheme wherein all registered category hotels and travel and tour operators will be provided with an interest subvention on working loans up to ₹25 lakh.“...[It] would benefit more than 2,000 hotels and more than 1,000 tour and travel operators.”He promised to reduce the burden on chartered flights by bearing a part of parking and landing fees at Dabolim International Airport. Sawant also pledged to reduce the infrastructure tax on new constructions to 30% for six months to promote the sector.Opposition leader Digambar Kamat criticised the budget, saying there is nothing to boost the economy and help the marginalised sector in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-budget-promises-pilgrimage-scheme-loans-for-tourism-sector-101616645481332.html
25-03-2021||Other||After 3 days, vehicular movement on Kashmir highway restored partially||Vehicular movement on the 278km-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway—the only all-weather surface link that connects Kashmir Valley with the outside world—was restored partially on Thursday, said Senior Superintendent of Police (traffic), national highway, JS Johar.The highway was blocked since Monday due to multiple landslides triggered by rains.On Tuesday, landslides at Cafeteria Morh, Digdol, Panthial, Shaban Bass, Seri and Marog had blocked the highway in Ramban district.“Men and machinery have been pressed into service to clear the debris from affected stretches,” Johar added. Also Read | Heavy rain continues in Kashmir for third day, Jammu-Srinagar road remains shutAround 300 vehicles were stranded on the highway between Nashri and Chanderkote since Monday night.However traffic and NHAI authorities worked overnight and the majority of the stranded vehicles in Ramban were cleared.Mughal Road, the alternate route connecting Kashmir with Jammu, was closed for traffic in December and is expected to be reopened on completion of the snow clearance operation in the first week of April. The road connects Shopian in south Kashmir with Rajouri in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-3-days-vehicular-movement-on-kashmir-highway-restored-partially-101616645001439.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses US-based woman’s plea for daughters’ custody||The Bombay high court on Wednesday refused to grant custody of two minor girls to their US-based mother as they wanted to continue to stay with their father in India.“The daughters clearly expressed their desire before us to continue to stay with their father in India, despite the fact that they have lived for substantial part of their lives in the USA,” said the bench of justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale.The bench added that although the desire of the daughters cannot be the deciding factor, it was relevant as both the girls were nearing the age of majority --one of whom is nearing 18, and the other is above 15. Their US-based mother had moved the high court last year for their custody, contending that her estranged husband had brought them to India for a two-week trip in August 2019, but did not return to the US thereafter, in complete breach of consent shared-custody order of US court.Also Read | Bombay HC refuses woman’s petition to withdraw workplace harassment caseShe pointed out that on her plea, a US court granted sole custody of both their daughters to her and also initiated contempt of court proceedings against her estranged husband. It was argued on her behalf that her husband, by his conduct, had demonstrated that he had scant respect for the rule of law and therefore, continuing the daughters in his custody cannot be considered in the best interest of the girls.The high court, however, rejected the argument. Apart from the apprehension and desire of the daughters, the judges also took into consideration the fact that the girls were studying in India and there were no doubts over the financial capacity of their father to take care of their requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-us-based-woman-s-plea-for-daughters-custody-101616643262531.html
25-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka proposes fines for establishments violating Covid- 19 safety protocols||The Karnataka government proposed imposing strict fines on establishments like hotels, departmental stores and organisers of public events as well as other places that host large gatherings but fail to enforce safety protocols. According to the late night order issued by the state government on Wednesday, a fine of ₹5,000-10,000 has been proposed on all establishments that do not enforce Covid-19-appropriate safety protocols such as wearing of masks and maintaining physical distancing.“The owners of the establishment will be responsible for: a) ensuring compulsory wearing of masks and social distancing; b) enforcing restrictions on the number of persons to be allowed,” according to the order. The government has limited the number of wedding attendees to 500 in open spaces and 200 in closed areas, the number has to be between 50 and 100 in birthday parties and funerals, depending on whether they are held in enclosed or open spaces. The government has restricted the number of attendees to 500 at religious and political events.Also Read | Maharashtra, Mumbai see a record 31,855 and 5,190 new Covid-19 casesKarnataka has seen a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases since the beginning of March, reporting over 2,298 cases on Wednesday. Its active case count is 12,461. The state government is enforcing stricter rules in order to not relapse into a lockdown and further cripple its already fledgling economy, according to experts. Bengaluru, the state’s capital, has seen a sharp spike in infections and is currently among the top 10 worst-impacted districts in the country. India’s IT capital reported 1,398 new cases on Wednesday that takes its total number of active cases to 11,520. The situation is getting worse in other parts of Karnataka such as Kalaburagi, Bidar, Dakshina Kannada, Tunakuru and Mysuru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-proposes-fines-for-establishments-violating-covid-19-safety-protocols-101616643261404.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Rajya Sabha clears NCT Bill amid uproar: All you need to know||Parliament on Wednesday cleared amendments effectively handing over executive powers to the lieutenant governor (L-G) from the Delhi legislative assembly. Here is all you need to know about the amendments and why they triggered angry protests and a walkout by opposition parties:• The National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, cleared with an 83-45 vote in Rajya Sabha, says that “government” in Delhi will now refer to the L-G in the context of all laws passed.• The opinion of the L-G will be mandatory before any executive action is taken.• The bill was approved by Lok Sabha on Monday.• The Upper House cleared it following several hours of heated debate, followed by a division of votes demanded by the Opposition. Also Read | Sad day, says Kejriwal as NCT bill is approved• The Biju Janata Dal, YSR Congress, and Samajwadi Party opposed the bill but walked out in protest. • The Congress walked out after the division of votes.• Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was a “sad day for Indian democracy”.• He said they will continue to struggle to restore power back to the people.• Opposition parties, including the Congress, said the proposed legislation was unconstitutional and demanded it be referred to a select committee for scrutiny.• The government said the amendments have been brought to ensure that the Delhi government functions properly.• The bill that “before taking any executive action... the opinion of Lieutenant Governor... shall be obtained on all such matters as may be specified, by a general or special order”, and that the “legislative assembly shall not make any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration or conduct inquiries”.• Opposing the bill, Aam Aadmi Party member Sanjay Singh said the BJP government at the Centre has brought the bill as the party lost the Delhi assembly elections twice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rajya-sabha-clears-nct-bill-amid-uproar-all-you-need-to-know-101616641941167.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra, Mumbai see a record 31,855 and 5,190 new Covid-19 cases||Mumbai reported its highest single-day spike of 5,190 Covid-19 cases, also its first in excess of 5,000, on Wednesday, as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) increased the number of daily tests. Also, former Covid-19 hotspot, Dharavi, recorded 62 infections, its highest single-day jump in ten months. Civic officials attributed the increase to more tests — 40,400 samples were tested on Wednesday, up from around 23,000 samples on Tuesday. The BMC has started randomly testing citizens inside malls and other public places. Due to this decision, in the past two days, 33,553 additional tests have been conducted.Mumbai has breached its previous highest single-day caseload of 3,779 infections on March 21.Also Read | ‘Double mutant’ variant of Sars-CoV-2 found: All you need to know about itMaharashtra, too, on Wednesday, recorded its highest one-day spike of 31,855 infections, the highest since the outbreak of the virus.A total of 95 more Covid-19 deaths were recorded in Maharashtra, taking the toll to 53,684. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, Director, Medical Education and Research, said, “Unlike other states which are testing only patients with symptoms, we are testing all. This is bound to increase our numbers,” said Lahane.A complete lockdown has been ordered in Nanded and Beed district from March 26 till April 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mumbai-see-a-record-31-855-and-5-190-new-covid-19-cases-101616641101149.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic diverted||Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders continued to be blocked on Thursday as farmers protested at these sites, demanding the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws. The Ghazipur border, which connects Uttar Pradesh with Delhi, was opened partially, and vehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad was allowed on the stretch.“Ghazipur NH-24 upper side towards Ghaziabad is open for vehicular movement. Chilla border between Noida and Delhi is open on both sides,” a traffic police officer said. The Delhi traffic police have diverted vehicles that may possibly lead to congestion in parts of the city during the peak hours. Also Read | Haryana govt should lodge FIR against Khattar for digging NHs to prevent movement of farmers: TikaitOfficers of the Delhi traffic police said that vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternative border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, so these routes may see traffic congestion.Apart from the Ghazipur, other borders, namely Singhu, and Tikri, are closed. “The following borders are closed for traffic movement — Piyau Maniyari, Singhu border, Harewali, Mangeshpur and Tikri border,” said a traffic police officer.Traffic police officers also said that Auchandi border is opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad are open throughout. The traffic officers advised commuters to use different routes as traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Rohtak Road, NH-44 and Outer Ring Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101616640561029.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt proposes annual licence for party venues to serve liquor||The Delhi government has proposed introducing a new annual licence system allowing banquet halls, farmhouses, motels and other such party venues to serve liquor at events, like it is done in hotels.The government report on the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021, has also recommended doubling the one-time P10 licence to ₹10,000 for hosting in-house parties — a permit which is extensively applied for by the general public to serve alcohol in private parties hosted at home or any other non-licenced premise.The report, seen by HT, talks about starting a new liquor licence specifically for banquet halls, farmhouses, party lawns and other such venues, the fee for which will depend on the carpet area of the premise. For venues having a carpet area of up to 5,000 square feet, the annual liquor license fee will be ₹5 lakh, ₹10 lakh for those above 5,000 sqft and up to 15,000 sqft and ₹15 lakh for places having more than 15,000 sqft area.“No separate P10 license will be required at any event being conducted at these venues once the yearly licence is acquired. The area will be calculated basis the entire usable carpet area, which is leased out for events and gatherings. In case of venues with multiple floors, the carpet area of each floor will be calculated,” read the report, prepared by a group of ministers, headed by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.It further stated that venues that conduct multiple events will have to take this mandatory licence in order to serve liquor on their premises.Delhi has around 300 banquet halls, and most of them have multiple halls within their premises taking the total number of halls to over 1,000.But the government has also not completely done away with P10 licence as people who are organising a relatively smaller party of, say, about 50-100 people, may not want to book a banquet hall or such formal set up.“For an in-house party or any function in any community centre, the P-10 fee will be applicable at Rs.10,000/- irrespective of the number of guests. To serve liquor in banquet halls, party places, farmhouses, wedding/ party/event venues, the one-time P-10E licence fee will be ₹50,000/- per event, if the said venue does not hold a regular annual licence,” the report said.At present, P10 licence can be obtained on payment of Rs. 5,000/- to serve liquor in any party, function, marriage and so on at non-licenced premises, anywhere in Delhi, excluding public parks. The existing P10 licence fee for motels, banquet halls and farmhouses is ₹15,000 per event.Ramesh Dang, president of Community Welfare Banquet Association of Delhi said the move is in favour of owners of such venues. But he said it could turn out to be an expensive proposition for the general public or the hosts of the parties.“Even though they have increased the P10 license fee by at least 233%, the move is still favourable for us. This is because all banquet halls, farmhouses and other such party venue owners will shift to the annual licence system as it is a cheaper and more hassle-free option. It will allow us to charge for alcohol and the service provided to serve it — which means the cost of alcohol will be relatively more expensive at our venues, just like it is charged in hotels. The cost will be higher than the MRP of the bottles at our venues not only because of the service provided, but also because we will have to recover the annual licence fee paid to the government,” he said.Mandeep Singh, the owner of Bel-La Monde hotels private limited, which also owns several farmhouses and banquet halls, said the process will now be tension free for party hosts.“Many banquet halls or venue owners at present ask the hosts to themselves arrange the P10 licence and get their liquor bottles from retail stores at MRP. This licence is available online or can also be taken from an authorised liquor store from where the bottles are being procured. Most people are unaware of the procedure and used to feel hassled by the unnecessary paperwork. So, now those who are willing to pay slightly more, can just pay us and get the entire liquor part of the party or event taken care of by us,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-proposes-annual-licence-for-party-venues-to-serve-liquor-101616629369104.html
25-03-2021||Bangalore||10-year-old lynched over suspicion of stealing snacks in Karnataka||A 10-year-old boy succumbed to his injuries seven days after he was beaten up by four people for allegedly stealing snacks from a grocery store in Uppanashi in Karnataka’s Haveri district, police said on Wednesday.According to the police and the boy's family members, the boy was allegedly held captive on March 16 for several hours, beaten up by the owners of the shop, and released only after his mother pleaded with them. Later that night, when the boy’s condition worsened, he was rushed to a hospital in Haveri, from where the doctors referred him to Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi, where he died on Tuesday.The post-mortem examination report is still awaited, a KIMS spokesperson said. A second official at the hospital said on condition of anonymity said that boy developed a fever while undergoing treatment, and died due to brain haemorrhage. What led to this will only be found in the post-mortem report, he added.A case of murder, wrongful restraint, and assault, was registered on Tuesday against four people -- shopkeeper Pavan Karishettar, his mother Basavannevva Karishettar, his uncle Kumar Haveri, and his maternal grandfather Shivarudrappa Haveri. They are all absconding, police said.In a video shot at the hospital before this death, the boy named the four people, and recounted what happened during his alleged captivity. He said that he was first locked up in a room. After a while, the old woman (Basavannevva) in the house took him out of the room and made him sit outside. “An old man came and hit me twice. He asked me not to move from there. Then, the shopkeeper came and took me to the backyard, where two others joined. They hit me on my legs, neck, and legs. Pawan made me bend down and hit me with a stone,” he said.The statement has been recorded by the police.According to the police complaint lodged on March 17by the boy’s father, Nagayya Hiremath, their son was sent to the store to buy some groceries. When he did not return home for over two hours, Hiremath went to the store. He found that the boy was in the shopkeepers’ custody, and was being beaten on the suspicion of the theft. He requested the shopkeeper to release the boy, but Pavan Karishettar told Hiremath that he wanted to teach him a lesson. At around 3pm, the boy’s mother went to the shop and pleaded with him, but the owners first asked her to come back at 5pm. Only after she fought and pleaded with the shopkeepers, did they release the boy, the complaint said.Rani Hiremath, a relative of the boy’s family, said that police did not register an FIR on March 17. She said they just took a written statement from the boy’s father.When asked about this particular complaint, SP Devaraju said he would “look into the allegation”.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), there were 94 instances involving the murder of children, and 107 children were killed in 2019. Sabhiya Saldana, a Bengaluru-based child rights activists said that the police not filing an FIR on the day of the incident was a matter of concern. “Filing an FIR only after the child has died means the police did not take assault seriously,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/10yearold-lynched-over-suspicion-of-stealing-snacks-in-karnataka-101616619298656.html
25-03-2021||Other||266 infections in HP; first case detected in Lahaul-Spiti in 2 months||Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday recorded 266 infections, the highest single day spike this year, taking the state’s tally to 61,301 while the death toll mounted to 1,014 after two more patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 63 were reported in Kangra, 47 in Solan, 43 in Una, 40 in Hamirpur, 29 in Sirmaur, 16 in Bilaspur, 15 in Shimla, 10 in Mandi, two in Chamba and one in Lahaul-Spiti. In Kangra, three students and a mid-day meal worker were among the 63 people who tested positive. The active cases have climbed to 1,654 while recoveries have reached 58,615 after 65 people recuperated.The tribal Lahul-Spiti district reported its first case after two months. The district was declared Covid-free on January 31. Lahul-Spiti grabbed the headlines when sudden tourists influx following opening of the Rohtang Tunnel by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 3, 2020 led to sudden spike in cases.Meanwhile, Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 10,727 cases, followed by Mandi with 10,392 cases, and Kangra with 9,073 cases. Solan has 7,119 cases, Kullu 4,502, Sirmaur 3,796, Una 3,692, Hamirpur 3,242, Bilaspur 3,113, Chamba 2,992, Kinnaur 1,394, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,259.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/266-infections-in-hp-first-case-detected-in-lahaul-spiti-in-2-months-101616618838946.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Parking to cost more at Chandigarh’s 57 lots by March end||The municipal corporation has decided to roll out parking charges on hourly basis at 57 parking lots across the city by the end of March.The parking fee for the first four hours – ₹5 for two-wheelers and ₹10 for four-wheelers – has not been changed. However, these will be doubled post four hours. The charges will be further doubled if vehicles are kept parked beyond 12 hours. Entry for pick and drop in the first 10 minutes will entail no fee.Parking lots in the city have been divided into two zones: 32 in Zone 1 and 57 in Zone 2. The civic body had auctioned both zones for around ₹10 crore annually. Lots equipped with smart facilities In October last year, MC had directed parking contractors to offer smart facilities at all 89 parking lots within one month. New parking charges were contingent on that. However, despite multiple deadlines, the contractors failed to fulfil the requirement.“Now, the contractor of parking lots in Zone 2 has installed the smart features. A committee has inspected and substantiated this. The contractor will be authorised to charge on hourly basis after the final approval from the MC commissioner,” said SK Jain, additional commissioner, MC.The smart features include e-payment, HD night-vision CCTV cameras at exit/entry points, and smart card-based daily and monthly passes, besides LED display of real-time occupancy at entry points and online booking of parking space through app.“MC has floated the tender for the app’s development. While MC will award the contract, the parking contractor will pay for it,” said Jain.The app will allow online booking of parking space and provide updates related to the lots. It is expected to be ready in a month’s time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parking-to-cost-more-at-chandigarh-s-57-lots-by-march-end-101616618720041.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||MC polls: BJP, Cong face rebellion in Palampur, Dharamshala||The BJP and Congress are caught on a sticky wicket in Palampur and Dharamshala ahead of the municipal corporation elections after some of their leaders, who were denied a ticket, decided to contest independently. In Palampur, Sanjeev Soni, a former BJP block party president, filed nomination papers as an Independent. The disgruntled leader said he started his political career with the BJP in 1990 and had also been the pradhan of a local panchayat but he had been overlooked. “My wife has also served as the village pradhan. However, the party gave the ticket to someone else. This is a ploy to ruin my career!” he alleged.Soni said he had urged the party to reconsider its decision but did not get any response. “Thus, I have decided to contest as an Independent. If the party continues to ignore its dedicated workers, how will it win the civic body polls,” he said.In Dharamshala too, a party leader and outgoing BJP councillor has filed nomination papers as an Independent. The BJP had replaced the sitting councillor from Sidhpur ward Sarv Chand with a fresh face. Chand termed the decision ‘an injustice’ and cited the work he had done for the party.Industries minister Bikram Thakur, who is BJP in-charge of elections in the Palampur municipal corporation, said there was no revolt in the party. “Its an internal matter and will be resolved through dialogue,” he said. Dharamshala convener Chander Bhushan Nag said if anybody contests the election against the authorised candidate, it will be viewed as indiscipline.Meanwhile, the Congress is also facing a rebellion in the McLeodganj ward where the outgoing councillor Maya Devi is contesting as an Independent after being denied a ticket.Former Dharamshala MLA and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma said everyone had the right to raise their voice. “If anyone is dissatisfied, the issue will be resolved through dialogue. The situation will be clear after the withdrawal of nominations,” he said.319 candidates in fray for 64 wards
25-03-2021||Delhi||Teachers back on Covid duty in Delhi as cases spike||With Covid-19 cases spiking once again in the national capital, teachers of government and municipal schools are back on pandemic-related duty, causing several schools to raise concerns over the deployment of teachers for non-teaching work at a time when practical exams of board classes have begun and the evaluation process of the other classes is underway.On Wednesday, Delhi reported 1,254 cases of Covid-19 — the highest single-day spike since December 18 last year.In January, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had directed chief secretary Vijay Dev to issue an order to reduce the number of government schoolteachers deployed on Covid-19 duty to ensure that teachers are re-engaged in academic work, following which a large number of teachers was released from pandemic related work.With cases increasing again, teachers, as well as other government employees, have been asked to undertake a door-to-door mobilisation for the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive. For instance, in Shahdara district, around 124 teachers have been asked to join the survey work on Sunday. Similarly, teachers from different districts have been assigned duties at the airport in the past few days.For instance, as many as 100 teachers of the east municipal body-run schools were deployed at the Delhi airport on Covid duty last week.The deployment has not gone down well with schools, however. A principal of a government school in old Delhi said their only physical education teacher has been called back on Covid-19 work on Tuesday. “We have our class 12 physical education practical exam on Friday. How will we do that without our internal examiner? Besides, at least seven teachers who were busy uploading internal marks of students on to the directorate of education (DoE)’s portal have been assigned survey work and duty at the airport,” the principal said, without wishing to be named.Ajay Veer Singh, general secretary of government schoolteachers’ association, said, “The government should not allow the district administrations to deploy teachers on Covid-19 duty at such a crucial time -- the academic session is ending and students need teachers the most right now.”The principal of another government school in Jhilmil Colony said their only IT professional had been deployed at the airport last week. “Our staff are completely dependent on the IT person for uploading student marks and preparing results. The government has already asked schools to declare results up to class 8 by March 31. How will we finish the work in such a situation?” the principal said, also on condition of anonymity.Similar concerns were raised by heads of municipal schools. A principal of the East Delhi municipal body in Gandhi Nagar said, “The result of the classes where teachers are on duty is not prepared yet. Another teacher will have to finish the work of his/her class first and then complete the work of others. So, half the students will be getting their results soon while the other half will have to wait a while.”A senior official at the Delhi government’s education department, requesting anonymity, said, “The government will ensure that teachers of important subjects and those teaching board classes are not deployed on Covid-19 duty.”Similarly, officials of the east municipal corporation’s education department said that they will look into problems caused by the deployment in their schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/teachers-back-on-covid-duty-in-delhi-as-cases-spike-101616617256578.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Fruit growers from Valley, HP, U’khand demand repeal of farm laws||Hill States’ Horticulture Forum, a joint collective of horticulturists from Himachal, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir, and the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a conglomerate of 14 farmers’ organisations, on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to the Prime Minister through the governor demanding repeal of the three contentious farm laws. The delegation included Harish Chauhan, Kuldeep Singh Tanwar, Sanjay Chauhan, Satywan Pundir, Rajendra Chauhan, Govind Chatranta, Sushil Chauhan, Rajesh Negi, Om Chauhan, Vinod, and Sandeep Chauhan. Syunkt Kisan Morcha convener Harish Chauhan said the farmers in the state were going through a terrible crisis due to small landholdings. “Special provisions need to be made for Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal where the apple economy contributes ₹45,000 crore to the state GDP. Another farm leader, Sanjay Chauhan, said, “If the government does not intervene in time, it will be difficult to save horticulture in the state.” Himachal Kisan Sabha Himachal president Kuldeep Tanwar said there is an urgent need to ensure minimum support price (MSP) for fruits, vegetables and grain. “We have demanded that the government declare apple a special product and impose 100% import duty on the apple imported through the south Asian free trade area (SAFTA) and all other countries,” Tanwar said. “The MSP of apple should be ₹50 per kg and the government should also declare MSP for all fruits and vegetables,” said Tanwar, adding that the Food Corporation of India (FCI) should procure maize, wheat and pulses from the hill states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fruit-growers-from-valley-hp-u-khand-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws-101616618360031.html
25-03-2021||Other||CBI court awards five-year jail to agri ministry officer in 2016 graft case||The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Panchkula, on Wednesday awarded five-year imprisonment to Rajeev Kumar Gupta, an agriculture ministry accounts officer, convicted of seeking ₹55,000 in bribe from an advocate of the Punjab and Haryana high court in 2016.Held guilty under Sections 7, 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, Gupta was awarded two sentences of five and four years each, which will run concurrently. He will also pay ₹1 lakh as fine. Gupta had sought the bribe from complainant, Ranjana Shahi, for clearing her legal fees amounting to ₹25 lakh for representing the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare.Stating that the convict did not deserve leniency, the court observed that corrupt government officials forced counsels, who defend the government in court, to run from pillar to post to get their lawful dues released. As per CBI, in 2016, Gupta was posted as a senior accounts officer with the Pay and Account Office (Plant Protection and Miscellaneous) of the Union ministry of agriculture in Haryana’s Faridabad.Shahi, a resident of Sector 40, Chandigarh, was a senior panel counsel for the Union of India in the high court and had been representing the ministry of agriculture’s department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers’ welfare, Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage. For this, around ₹25 lakh on account of legal fees had to be disbursed to her.Despite a sanction order by the government, Gupta did not clear her fees and demanded a bribe of ₹60,000 (8% of the sanctioned amount of ₹6.8 lakh).On May 21, 2016, a trap was laid and Gupta was caught red-handed while accepting illegal gratification of ₹55,000 from the complainant. Following this, an FIR was registered by CBI Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-court-awards-five-year-jail-to-agri-ministry-officer-in-2016-graft-case-101616618359008.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Dispute over fee: DPS Srinagar ‘bars’ Class-2 student from attending online classes||Parents of a student studying at Delhi Public School (DPS), Srinagar, filed a complaint with the Jammu and Kashmir education department on Tuesday after the school allegedly barred the Class-2 student from attending online classes over pending utility and transportation charges pertaining to the lockdown period. The student’s father, Wajahat Waseem, said, “For around 20 months since August 2019 when restrictions were imposed in Kashmir after abrogation of Article 370 and due to the Covid lockdown my daughter has not been to school. However, I still paid the monthly fee during the curfew and lockdown period amounting to ₹56,400,” Waseem said.The pending dues amount to of ₹24,000, which includes annual charges that the UT government has barred schools from charging during the lockdown period. “The pending sum includes transportation charges, a service that they did not provide and annual charges such as heating charges. When our child did not attend school, how are these charges justified? This is unscrupulous exploitation on part of the school,” he said.Normal offline classes have started in DPS Srinagar for students from Class 5 onwards. Lower classes attend online teaching sessions. On Tuesday, Waseem and his wife Nuzhat Wajahat wrote to director school education, Kashmir, complaining that the school had violated provisions of Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, which is applicable post abrogation of Article 370 and also different circulars of the UT administration.They requested the director to direct the school management to restore his daughter’s online classes and stop them from ‘exploiting’ parents. “The management should also be directed to refund our admission fee amounting to ₹1,10,000 so that we are able to admit our daughter in another educational institution,” the parents wrote in the complaint. Waseem claimed that he had not been paid for seven months. “Right to Education is a fundamental right. How can DPS Srinagar bar a child from attending online classes? The government is still undecided on transportation charges and charging annual charges has been totally banned,” he said.Calls to the vice-principal and member of the school managing committee Shafaq Afshan did not elicit any response. HT contacted the administration section of the school on its landline number where an office bearer, after hearing about the issue, urged this reporter to call after five minutes. They did not pick up the phone thereafter. Director school education Mohammad Younis Malik said they will ascertain the facts of the case. “We will be issuing a notice to the school, accordingly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dispute-over-fee-dps-srinagar-bars-class-2-student-from-attending-online-classes-101616618060437.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Library closed, Panjab University students start indefinite strike||The students and research scholars at Panjab University (PU) started an indefinite strike on Wednesday demanding the reopening of the AC Joshi library.Pressing for their demands, dozens of varsity students assembled outside the library on Wednesday morning, raised slogans against the administration and demanded immediate reopening of the library.The protest comes a day after PU decided to close all the departmental libraries and the AC Joshi library till March 31 in the wake of the recent surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. The UT administration has already closed schools and colleges in the city till March 31.The students have said that they will not call off their strike till the library is not opened. They also erected tents in front of the library.The students in their statement said that the PU administration was trying to intimidate research scholars by pressuring their respective guides. “It has become the new normal: whenever students raise their democratic demands, PU authorities first call the police and scholars’ guides. We condemn this intimidating behaviour,” students said.Later in the day, a meeting was also held between student representatives and varsity officials, but without any outcome. Mukul, a student who is also protesting, said, “We requested the varsity officials to accept our demand but they denied. We will continue our protest till our demand is not met.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-library-closed-panjab-university-students-start-indefinite-strike-101616617878960.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||IGNCA starts shifting to make way for Central Vista revamp||Officials of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Art (IGNCA) have started shifting their campus to Janpath Hotel, which will be their temporary home for at least three years, as the Central Vista redevelopment project takes shape.Once the Central Vista project is ready, the national centre for art will move into a new campus near Jamnagar House.Indira Gandhi National Centre for Art is one of the many government buildings which will be demolished to make way for 10 new, state-of-the-art office complexes proposed as part of the Centre’s ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project. The approximately ₹15,000 crore project includes construction of a new Parliament building, common central secretariat, and new residences for the vice President and the Prime Minister. While the Parliament building will be completed next year, the entire project is looking at 2024 completion.Sachidanand Joshi, member secretary of IGNCA, said, “We have started shifting out of IGNCA. Some of our divisions have already moved to our new office. We estimate that the entire shifting process will take at least two months. By the third week of April, we will physically shift everything to Janpath Hotel and by mid-May we plan to wind-up everything here.”On Wednesday, HT noted that at the arts and culture centre, work was progressing at a rapid pace to shift artefacts, paintings, collection of rare manuscripts, microfilms, the library of rare books and reference material, archives to the new five-storeyed building at Janpath hotel. The corridors of the spacious centre were spotted stacked with cardboard, wooden and aluminium boxes, that had historical material neatly packed in them.Joshi said that they have been planning for the shifting process for the past six-eight months. “We have planned the process in two steps: long and short term. There is stuff which we don’t need on a day-to-day basis. We are packing all the archival material in boxes that will be stored safely in the new building. The rest is our daily routine stuff. Some divisions have already shifted and are in the process of settling down. We have planned the shifting process keeping in mind that we will be shifting again to our new centre (Jamnagar house) in a few years.”Set up in 1985, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Art is spread over 25 acre along the Central Vista. The centre has been developed on a design provided by American architect late Ralph Lerner, who was a professor at Princeton University. His design was selected in an international competition in which the government received 194 entries from architects from 37 countries, as per information available on IGNCA’s website.The centre has been actively involved in organising exhibitions, performances, conferences, lectures. It also offers short-term and other courses in art and culture, which currently are being held online. Joshi said that they will resume regular activities from the new centre in June.Joshi said that the space at Janpath hotel is more or less same as on the current campus. “There is an amphitheatre with a seating capacity of 400 and an auditorium with space for 160 people. There is space for galleries. There are more organised spaces there which we can convert into galleries. CPWD has refurbished the place as per our requirements,” said Joshi.IGNCA officials said that the entire campus will be handed over to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) by June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ignca-starts-shifting-to-make-way-for-central-vista-revamp-101616617246735.html
25-03-2021||Other||Six years on, PUDA fails to provide road connectivity to Gateway City||Around 400 allottees have been provided possession of plots in Punjab Urban Development Authority’s (PUDA) township Gateway City in Sectors 118 and 119, but even after six years, there is no connectivity in one of the pockets that has around 100 plots.The allottees have even alleged there are no basic amenities like sewerage system, that there are high-tension wires and a dump yard near the site.It was in 2014 that PUDA had floated the scheme for the township offering plots ranging from 150 to 500 square yards at a reserve price of ₹21,000 per square yard.150-ft road connecting airport was promisedThe brochure had promised a 150-foot connecting road from the Airport road to the township. Six years on, however, PUDA has failed to acquire the land for the said road.An allotee, Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh (retd), said that even after a full payment of the plot, GMADA has provided us with the connecting road to our township, especially in the pocket having a number of 600 series. Even, others, who are constructing the plots are using the road of TDI city and revenue road, he said.Another allottee, Dr BS Lakha, said, “It is unfortunate that we could not construct the houses due to a lack of connectivity. Even in the state consumer forum, the authority in their reply had stated that they were supposed to get clearance from the irrigation department, which they hadn’t before allotting the plots.”PUDA had acquired the land for the said project under the provisions of the Land Owners Become Partners in Development Policy. This project, Gateway City, was the maiden project under the banner of GMADA/PUDA in the district. A private developer, EMAAR, holding land had entered into a collaboration agreement with GMADA/PUDA in the revenue sharing model in the ratio of 80:20 respectively to sell the unsellable land.‘Will acquire land soon’When contacted, chief engineer of GMADA Davinder Singh said, “We are in the process of acquiring land for the road and hopefully it will be done soon.” Regarding other issues, he said, “We will be sorting them out too.”Other major issues, which the allottees are facing include lack of sewerage connectivity, loose high-tension wires in the vicinity, slum dwellers settled around the plots, location of plots near the bed of Patiala Ki Rao river and sewage treatment plants, and the presence of a scrap dump yard nearby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-years-on-puda-fails-to-provide-road-connectivity-to-gateway-city-101616617758861.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Cong protests against rising inflation, fuel prices, unemployment in Jammu||Congress workers staged a protest against increasing inflation, fuel prices, unemployment, property tax, and anarchy in Bishnah on Wednesday. Jammu and Kashmir’s Congress vice-president Raman Bhalla accused the government of deliberately increasing the prices of petrol and diesel. He demanded that the Central reduce its excise duties on petroleum products. “The Modi government has completely failed in keeping its promises to the people of India. The need of the hour is for different parties to set aside their differences and come together to change this government,” the former minister said. Bhalla said that on one hand, the government was increasing taxes as well as the prices of petroleum products and gas that had made the life of the low-income group miserable and on the other unemployment was increasing but the government failed to devise an effective economic plan for solution of the core issues. Bhalla slammed the government for changing the focus of the budget from welfare of the people to elections. “The pandemic has affected the income of the common man but the government is increasing excise duty and central GST,” he said, adding that the government had reduced fund allocation for rural local bodies and fertiliser subsidy. The Congress leader urged the government to speed up the COVID-19 vaccination drive, saying that at the current pace, it would take 18 years to achieve 100 % vaccination in the country.“We decry the politics of hate and divide, as Congress believes the all-time relevant slogan of Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Buddhist unity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-protests-against-rising-inflation-fuel-prices-unemployment-in-jammu-101616617578959.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, J&K reports 1,010 fresh cases in a week||Jammu and Kashmir is witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases with 1,010 infections being reported from the Union Territory in the last week. .Doctors and health experts say warning standard operating procedures (SoPs) could cause an increase infections Most cases have been reported from Kashmir, Srinagar in particular. From March 17 to 23, Kashmir has detected 807 new cases while 203 tested positive in Jammu.Government Medical College social and preventive medicine head of department and Srinagar nodal officer Dr Saleem Khan said it looks like a second-wave phenomenon. “People should not take any chances and follow all SoPs.”Another senior doctor at Government Medical College, Baramulla, said people are increasingly reporting to the outpatient department with Covid-like symptoms. “For some time, the graph of covid-19 patients had declined to a large extent.Now, we have started getting new cases again.” As many as 5,15,163 people have received their first dose while 1,23,952 people have also received their second shot. At present, the vaccination drive is taking place at 817 centres. Officials say around 81% frontline workers have been inoculated. Dr Saleem-ur-Rehman, director general family welfare, MCH and immunisation, said that more than six lakh people have received the vaccinated J&K. “In coming days, more people will be vaccinated which will help to curb the spread of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-surge-j-k-reports-1-010-fresh-cases-in-a-week-101616617218867.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||I’m gutsier than most, says 105-year-old after getting Covid vaccine in Chandigarh||“I have more guts than most people who are hesitant to take the vaccine shot,” said 105-year-old SK Bhalla, believed to be one of the oldest persons to receive the jab in the city.Bhalla was among 30 residents of the Senior Citizen Home in Sector 15 who got inoculated on Tuesday evening. The department of social welfare had organised a special camp at the Sector-22 civil hospital for the home’s seniors, who are all above 70 years of age.Bhalla, who lost his four children to a road accident, said the coronavirus had impacted his small world unpleasantly.Since the centenarian has low hearing, he said, “When everyone around me puts on a mask, it gets difficult for me to understand what they are saying, I want all of us to be mask-free and vaccination may take us back to normalcy.”Bhalla said that back in 1941 in Lahore, an epidemic of Kala Azar had gripped the city and the British were only giving vaccines to families who were ready to join the army to fight in the World War.“All of us received the vaccine and it was a proud moment for us,” said Bhalla.Vaccine hesitancy in the city remains a major challenge for the authorities. Despite the availability of resources, the response among the targeted population remains low. The city has the capacity to inoculate 7,000 persons a day, but the numbers remain less than 3,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/im-gutsier-than-most-says-105-year-old-after-getting-covid-vaccine-inchandigarh-101616617098819.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Centre expresses concern over Chandigarh’s coronavirus surge||The Union health ministry on Wednesday listed Chandigarh among eight states and union territories that have caused an exponential increase in the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country, on a day when the city reported 249 fresh infections, the highest this year.While reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the country, the Union health ministry highlighted Maharashtra and Punjab as areas of “grave concern”, with Mohali figuring among the districts with the second-highest active cases in the state.Others figuring on the ministry’s list were Tamil Nadu, which is reporting 2,000 cases daily, Gujarat with around 1,700 cases daily, and Madhya Pradesh and Chattisgarh with nearly 1,500 each. Similarly, Karnataka is reporting 1,400 cases. Speaking at a press briefing, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Chandigarh was also an area of concern as the daily number of cases that had decreased below 100 had shown resurgence at a fast pace.471% spike in active cases this monthIn the last 24 days, UT has added 3,360 cases in its Covid tally, pushing the number of active cases from 381 on March 1 to 2,178 on March 24 – a jump of 471%. The city’s weekly positivity rate has also soared to 10%, which is the second-highest in the country after Maharashtra (21.4%). The national average stands at 4.1%.The total case tally stands at 25,130, while 365 fatalities have been reported.Last week, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan had said the rise in cases in the Chandigarh tricity area was worrisome.“The more transmissible variant of the virus has been found in Punjab and there is a possibility that the same variant is causing infection spread in Chandigarh, as there is a huge movement of people between the city and Punjab,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, UT.In a meeting with UT authorities last week, the Centre had directed them to increase the ratio of RT-PCR testing, following which the private labs were roped in due to limited facility at government centres. Dr Kang said the contact tracing exercise had been strengthened and they were trying to test every contact through the RT-PCR testing method.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-expresses-concern-over-chandigarh-s-coronavirus-surge-101616616858791.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Thrashing of juveniles: National SC Commission chief asks Sangrur police to submit report on arrest of accused in 2 days||National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) chairman Vijay Sampla on Wednesday met the juveniles, including Dalit boy, who were thrashed and forced to walk for kilometers with their hands tied behind their backs by the village sarpanch and others in Sangrur district for allegedly stealing ₹250 from a samadh (tomb). Sampla asked senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vivek Sheel Soni to submit a report on the arrest of the accused in the next two days. “Though the families delayed filing of complaint amid some pressure, the police registered a case immediately. All relevant sections were included in the FIR,” said Sampla. Accompanied by Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir and Soni, Sampla talked to the families of the Dalit boy and two other victims (all aged 13) belonging to backward class. The family of fourth victim in the case, a non-Dalit, has chosen not to pursue the case. A case was registered against sarpanch Gurnam Singh, also a Dalit, and three others under sections of Indian Penal Code, Juvenile Justice Act and the SC/ST Act at the Dhuri police station on March 14. A video of the incident had surfaced on social media. “The government gives ₹2 lakh compensation to a Dalit victim’s family in such case. The family of the boy has been given 25% ( ₹50,000) of the amount and the rest will be provided as per law,” he added. SSP Soni said, “Necessary action was taken in the case as per the law.” A group of residents, including women, of Bhasaur village gathered at the local government primary school, claiming that an unnecessary “caste colour’ was given to the case as it was their panchayat members who rescued the boys from the neighboring village. “The village was united but some people made mountain out of a molehill to get panchayat membership,” said Sukhwinder, the mother of one of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thrashing-of-juveniles-national-sc-commission-chief-asks-sangrur-police-to-submit-report-on-arrest-of-accused-in-2-days-101616616804911.html
25-03-2021||Other||Jalandhar MC’s new statue of Bhagat Singh kicks up row||The Jalandhar municipal corporation has replaced the old statue of martyr Bhagat Singh with another sculpture that does not resemble the freedom fighter. Congress MLA from Jalandhar north, Bawa Henry, and mayor Jagdish Raja had installed the new statue on Monday at the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk on the eve of 90th death anniversary of the freedom fighter. The statue cost ₹5 lakh, records show. The BJP and the SAD have slammed the Congress government in the state and accused it of disrespecting martyrs. Senior BJP leader and former cabinet minister Manorajan Kalia on Wednesday wrote a letter to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, demanding a probe into the matter. “In the name of beautification, the bust statue of Shaheed Bhagat Singh has been replaced by a 5-feet statue at a crossing named after him. The new statue of does not resemble photographs of the martyr available in public domain,” the letter says.He added that it was also surprising that in the plaque announcing the installation, the name of the martyr had been relegated to the bottom with a font size smaller than the names of other local leaders. Kalia adds in his communication, “It is therefore requested that an inquiry may kindly be ordered to be instituted to fix the responsibility of municipal corporation officers and the recovery of public money that has been given wasted by giving approval to the freshly-installed statue be made from the guilty officer.”SAD legislator from Adampur, Pawan Kumar Tinu, added that this was a major blunder and the statue even showed the martyr raising his left hand, instead of right as was the case in all other sculptures of the martyr. “The Punjab government should take strict action against the erring officials. The Congress party has disrespect a national hero.” Jalandhar mayor Jagdish Raja told HT over phone that he agreed that the statue did not resemble Bhagat Singh. “We will replace the statue,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jalandhar-mc-s-new-statue-of-bhagat-singh-kicks-up-row-101616616798799.html
25-03-2021||Other||Coming up, a film city at Haryana’s Pinjore||As per a roadmap released by the Haryana government on Wednesday for the development of Panchkula district, a film city will be developed at HMT Pinjore on 50-60 acres of land.Principal secretary, town and country planning department, AK Singh during the review meeting on Wednesday directed officials to expedite projects being implemented for the purpose of development of the district as an ecological and eco-friendly “centre of excellence”.Singh said that the road proposed from Punjab to Chandigarh International Airport will soon be finished. He said that work will also be done to upgrade Ramgarh-Mubarakpur-Derabassi road on NH-73. Apart from this, the road from Morni-Raipur Rani on NH-73 and from Chandimandir T-Junction to Morni road on NH-73 will also be widened.Instead of concrete structures, emphasis will be laid on temporary and nature-friendly construction in terms of tourism. Possibility of paragliding in Thapli forest will also be explored along with camping and trekking.To promote medical tourism, 7-10 sites will be identified for building hospitals. Possibilities of increasing cooperation from PGIMER, Chandigarh, to provide medical facilities on the lines of Medanta, Gurugram, will also be explored. Similarly, work will also be done towards setting up institutes like Education City. Options for running the IT Park at Sector-22 at full capacity will also be explored. In addition, Barwala will be developed as an industrial township.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/coming-up-a-film-city-at-haryana-s-pinjore-101616616738751.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder to inaugurate new-look Amritsar district admn complex today||Lingering on for the last seven years, Punjab’s first-of-its-kind district administrative complex with a heritage look inspired by Sikh architecture will be virtually inaugurated by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday. The foundation stone of the project, aimed at providing all the facilities under one roof, missed several deadlines, was laid by the then deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal in 2013 at an estimated cost of ₹74 crore. The project cost was revised from time to time as its completion got delayed due to lack of funds.“The complex has two wings — civil and police. Nearly ₹93 crore were spent on it. The building is not fully complete yet. While civil wing has been completed, work on the police wing will be over by June,” said deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira. The building design was prepared by the department of architecture of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) on the pattern of the architecture of historic Khalsa College. So, this building has been given heritage look.The civil wing contains the offices of departments of education, revenue, excise and taxation, district attorney, labour, animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries, employment, and information and public relations besides the DC’s.These offices currently run from old buildings which are in dilapidated condition.Two basements have been constructed in the five-storey building for parking of vehicles and the complex has two entrances — one for the public and the other for ‘VIPs’. Besides, the building has two elevators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-to-inaugurate-new-look-amritsar-district-admn-complex-today-101616616502835.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||J&K records 195 cases, highest count after January 2||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 195 fresh coronavirus infections, the highest daily count after January 2, taking the total cases to 1,29,031 while the death toll stood at 1,983 with no fresh fatalities.Officials said as many as 146 positive cases, including 25 travellers had been reported from Kashmir division while 49 cases were reported from Jammu division.Since March 17, Jammu and Kashmir has reported over 100 fresh cases daily with a major portion of them in Kashmir valley. This year’s highest daily counts in J&K were reported on January 1 (256 cases) and January 2 (244 cases). With the discharge of 92 more patients from different hospitals, the number of recoveries have reached 1, 25,535, taking the recovery rate to 97.29%. Active cases in the UT have reached 1,513, for the first time after January 13. The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 58.30 lakh. Kashmir division has 1,156 active cases, of which 731 are in Srinagar while there are 357 active cases in Jammu division. A total of 1,251 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 732 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 77 more people tested positive including 23 travellers, while 29 more cases were reported in Baramulla and 16 in Budgam. In Jammu division, 35 cases were recorded in Jammu district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-records-195-cases-highest-count-after-january-2-101616616498800.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mask norms: Chandigarh Beopar Mandal asks cops not to issue fines inside shops||Even as the Chandigarh administration has directed the police to impose fines on those not wearing masks in public places, including markets, the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has urged the police not to come inside their shops to issue the challans stating that it would affect their businesses.A delegation of the CBM met with UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal regarding this on Wednesday and also submitted a memorandum.CBM police coordination committee chairman Kamaljit Singh Panchhi said, “A challan was issued to a Sector 11 shopkeeper who was alone in his shops and had his mask down. We ask that in such situations fines be avoided. We ensure that customers only enter the shop wearing a mask and after sanitising their hands. So, police should let shopkeepers enforce the Covid rules inside shops.”Such challans have also been issued in other markets, including sectors 18 and 28. This has come as bad news for shopkeepers who are already beginning to report a decline in footfall across various markets ever since the Covid cases started to rise.Subhash Narang, CBM senior vice-president and head of Sector 22-B market welfare association said that a decline in the number of customers is noticeable now and has fallen down by around 50% in the past week. In Sector 46, market body president Balwinder Singh said, “While the footfall is down by around 20-30% here, the administration’s message is getting through. We seldom find anyone not wearing a mask in the market now.”In the cramped market of Sadar Bazaar, Sector 19, as well, the numbers have started dropping. Market body president Narinder Singh said, “Shopkeepers are following all rules to the book as we don’t want things to get worse. Another lockdown-like situation will force us to give up on our businesses.”Meanwhile, Panchhi, who is also the president of Chandigarh Traders’ Association in Sector 17, said that the footfall has not been affected much in Sector 17 and crowds can still be seen in the market, especially in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mask-norms-chandigarh-beopar-mandal-asks-cops-not-to-issue-fines-inside-shops-101616615898524.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Of ₹35 crore, only ₹1.25 lakh arrears recovered by Chandigarh DC office: Audit||Of the ₹35.14 crore to be recovered as land revenue arrears, the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office has retrieved ₹1.25 lakh, states the latest audit report of the director general of audit (DGA), Chandigarh, for 2018-2019.The DGA had conducted an audit of the DRA (debt recovery agent) branch of the Chandigarh DC office.Under Section 64 (2) of the Land Revenue Act and Rule 57 (ii) of the Punjab Land Revenue Rules applicable to Chandigarh, authorities are required to affect recovery of district consumer forums, courts of UT Chandigarh as well as courts/consumer forums and collectors of other states and miscellaneous recoveries of other departments as arrear of land revenue by the collector.“During test check of records of DRA branch for the year 2018-2019, it was noticed that an amount of ₹35.14 crore of 169 cases declared as land revenue was recoverable for 2018-2019. But, only ₹1.25 lakh in two cases was recovered,” states the report.During the scrutiny, it was also noticed that office did not prepare any reports/returns (quarterly, six monthly and annually) to bring the notice of higher authority to speed up the action of pending recovery.“Further details/records of amounts recovered as well as pending recoverable amount were not available with the tehsildar (revenue) branch working under the DC office,” states the report.On this, the department stated that the reports/returns would be made in the future and shown in the next audit. The final outcome will be awaited in audit.The audit report was procured by city-based RTI activist RK Garg.“This is a serious issue and such cases of inaction breed both contempt and corruption at the cost of public money. This should be looked into by higher officials,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/of-35-crore-only-1-25-lakh-arrears-recovered-by-chandigarh-dc-office-audit-101616615721575.html
25-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC House approves ₹1,064 crore budget unanimously||Amid uproar over the relief of ₹8 crore being given to the advertising contractor among issues concerning the residents, the General House of MC on Wednesday unanimously approved the annual budget of ₹1,064.85 crore for 2021-22. The budget was approved without detailed discussion. As per the budget proposal, 55.46% amount will be used for development, 42.26% on establishment and 2.28% on miscellaneous expenditure.The members of the House raised objections over the relief being given to the outdoor advertising contractor and sought explanation on why the income under the head of advertisement fee has been reduced from ₹23 crore to ₹15 crore . The councillors from the BJP, the Lok Insaaf Party, and the SAD claimed this was allegedly being done to benefit the contractor. The House also demanded that MC should increase the salary of contractual sewermen. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The relief has been given to the advertising contractor as per the guidelines issued by the state government due to the losses suffered by contractor during pandemic. The copies of proposed budget were delivered to the councillors few days back. The MC has already floated tenders for development works worth ₹175 crore. The doubts of the councillors regarding advertisement fee, sale of properties among others were cleared, following which the House has approved the budget unanimously. No new tax has been imposed on the public.”SAD seeks inquiry into substandard road constructionRaising hue and cry over inaction in the matter wherein a number of road samples collected from different parts of city failed quality test, leader of opposition Harbhajan Singh Dang sought strict action against the contractor and the officials concerned. LIP councillor Harvinder Kaler also demanded an inquiry into whether the payment has been stopped by the officials, especially in Zone C, or not. Mayor Sandhu said inquiries were being conducted in each and every case.BJP councillors put placards around necksRaising objections over multiple issues, BJP councillors hung placards around their necks. Councillor Yashpal Chaudhary also demanded that MC should not allow the contractor to further sublet the solid waste management work as it hits the quality.Cong, SAD councillors at loggerheadsCongress councillor Pallavi Vinayak and SAD councillor Sarabjeet Laddi came at loggerheads over the permission being given for setting up a fuel station in the former’s ward. While Laddi claimed that the objections were raised only against the pumps being installed by SAD leaders, Pallavi said the station was being built illegally. Mayor Sandhu has formed a committee to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-house-approves-rs-1-064-crore-budget-unanimously-101616615720561.html
25-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana residents unhappy with MC’s move to shut rose garden for 4 hours in noon||The unanticipated decision of the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) to keep the doors of Nehru Rose Garden shut for four hours — 11am to 3pm — has left many residents disappointed. The residents have demanded that the MC should keep the garden open for visitors from 5am to 10 pm as it used to be earlier. There are many who come to spend leisure time in the afternoon and have to face dejection when they are not allowed inside. The garden, which is among the prominent parks of the city, is the favourite haunt for walkers and workout enthusiasts. One of the residents of Maya Nagar, Suraj said, “The MC does not allow any of the management committees to close the gates of the public parks, but the civic body itself is shutting down the garden for four hours. This is among the favourite places of children as swings have also been installed in the garden besides the open playing area. During winters, elderly go for a walk on sunny days there.” A resident of Ghumar Mandi area, Babanpreet Singh, said, “At times, it looks embarrassing when we enter the park with children and couples are sitting at different points, especially during the afternoon. This move might reduce their numbers, but the MC should not restrict the entry of visitors to the park. Rakh Bagh remains open for the entire day. The rose garden should also be open as everyone visits the park as per their convenience and such restrictions give a harrowing time to the visitors.” Meanwhile, MC officials said it was a precautionary measure taken in the view of Covid-19 situation and the civic body also takes up cleanliness drive in the garden during these hours. MC junior engineer Kirpal Singh said, “The decision to keep the garden shut for four hours was made last year by the higher authorities due to the pandemic. As machinery is also used for maintenance, the garden is closed to avoid any mishap. We have not received any official complaint or objection in this regard from the residents.”Mini Rose Garden all set for an upgrade To give a new look to the mini rose garden situated in Kidwai Nagar (old city), MC started a project for its renovation and refurbishment on Wednesday. The project worth ₹3.48 crore will be taken up under the smart city mission and is likely to end within a year.MC will take up different works, including softscaping, setting up of a musical fountain, cafeteria, badminton court, pergolas, canopy, and open gym among other works.However, many Congress leaders and supporters gathered for inauguration of the project were seen without masks. MLA Surinder Dawar, however, said they had asked the workers to follow the guidelines. “We continuously appealed everyone to follow the Covid safety norms and guidelines,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-residents-unhappy-with-mc-s-move-to-shut-rose-garden-for-4-hours-in-noon-101616615719467.html
25-03-2021||Other||School in-charge, two others lose battle to virus in Ludhiana||Covid-19 on Wednesday claimed the lives of three more persons, including a school in-charge, while 311 people tested positive for the disease in Ludhiana. It is for the fifth consecutive day when the district logged more than 300 daily cases. Rajinder Kaur, in-charge of government high school in Samrala’s Sihala, was undergoing treatment at a local hospital where she died in the morning.Among the other victims were a 60-year-old man from Shimlapuri and 76-year-old man from Jagraon. District education officer (secondary) Harjit Singh said, “I am deeply saddened to lose one of our officials to Covid-19.”The new patients included 15 students and three teachers.The teachers are from Sacred Heart Convent School, BRS Nagar, government high school, Daad, and government senior secondary school, Ladhowal. While five students belong to CMC nursing college, three each are from government senior secondary school, Ladhowal, and All Saints College of Physiotherapy, two from Lala Sarkara Mal school, Khanna, and one each from Nankana Sahib School, Samrala, and Baba Jaswant College. 6,600 get Covid vaccine in Ludhiana, highest in a dayOn Wednesday, total 6,600 people showed up for vaccination at various government and private health facilities in Ludhiana.The vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 this year. Since then, 27,269 healthcare workers have received the first shot and 16,259 the second dose. Over 21,244 frontline workers have also got the first dose, while 4,134 have been immunised with the second dose as well. As many as 35,621 senior citizens have turned up for the vaccine since March 1, while the number of inoculated residents, aged between 45 and 59 and having comorbidities, is 17,347.‘Mobile teams to be deployed from April 1’To scale up the vaccination drive, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma has directed the health department to set up mobile teams for administering Covid jabs at the doorsteps of beneficiaries with special focus on covering labourers in factories, villagers and people of residential societies, from April 1.DC Sharma asked the department to prepare a schedule of the mobile teams targeting the migrant workforce. He asked the health officials to encourage the people for vaccination through intensive awareness drive. The pandemic has already claimed four lives on March 23, two on March 22, eight on March 21 and two on March 20. On March 20, 329 cases were reported, followed by 330 infections on March 21, while 341 cases were reported on March 22 and another 364 on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/school-in-charge-two-others-lose-battle-to-virus-in-ludhiana-101616615662804.html
25-03-2021||Other||A cool contest to ensure that Ludhiana cops put on their best behaviour||Don’t be surprised if cops greet you with a smile on their faces during your visit to a police station in the city. The wind of change is expected to blow as the Ludhiana police are set to launch a contest to choose the best police station. “Stations will be judged on 25 parameters, including good behaviour, and there will also be a provision of negative marking of 20 points,” said police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal. The assessment will be done by a team of police officials and reputed residents of the city having no links with the police department.There are 29 police stations, 30 police posts and 12 other units in Ludhiana.Commissioner Agrawal said, “The idea to organise such contests was floated by DGP Dinkar Gupta. The top-ranked police station will get a reward amount of ₹3 lakh, followed by ₹1 lakh prize money to the second ranked station while the one on the third spot will get ₹50,000, besides certificates. Among the police posts, the reward will be 1 lakh, ₹50,000 and ₹25,000 for the top-three spots.”Similar prizes will be given to top-three police units like women cell, cyber cell, and economic offence unit. The police chief said even the office management of gazetted officers will be evaluated based on their capacity to supervise their units. They will also be ranked on the basis of their performance and disposal capabilities. Five broad parametersAgrawal said there will be five broad parameters to select the top performing and poorly performing police stations — location and access to station, community orientation and public facilities, welfare of police personnel, crime prevention and police station management, transparency and accountability. “Each of these has been further divided into five sub-parameters. Each sub-parameter will have maximum four marks. These include whether there are signboards to guide public to the police station, beat map, crime chart and crime prevention tips written on flex boards, or if the police station building has been painted well, has greenery, and general cleanliness.Infra, public dealing to be evaluatedEvaluation will also include the condition of visitors’ room, help desk, reception, toilet and water facilities, besides investigating officer’s work stations, progress of arrest of POs, recoveries under the NDPS Act, percentage of complaints disposed of within three months, maintenance of record room, condition of lock-ups, disposal of rape and Pocso cases within 30 days after the arrest of the accused.” Agrawal said.“If any court passes an order regarding poor working of a police station, four marks will be deducted. Similarly, four marks will be lost if there is a law and order problem which could not be controlled by the police station concerned and a senior officer has to intervene. If more than 10% complaints are pending for more than three months, there will be a deduction of four marks. In case any employee is suspended for misconduct or caught for corruption, marks will be deducted as well,” he added.He said police stations have been given two months’ time to prepare for the contest. Results will come out in the first week of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-cool-contest-to-ensure-that-ludhiana-cops-put-on-their-best-behaviour-101616615661881.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Karnataka police book Tikait for ‘lay siege to Bengaluru’ call||The Karnataka police have booked Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Rakesh Tikait for making a provocative statement during a mahapanchayat in Shivamogga, asking the farming community to lay siege to Bengaluru with tractors, just like it was done in Delhi, to protest against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre. “Yes, a case has been filed against Rakesh Tikait at the Kote police station,” said a Shivamogga district police official who did not want to be named. He said the case has been filed under section 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot—if rioting be committed—if not committed) of the IPC. “You have to make a Delhi in Bengaluru… and surround the city from all directions,” Tikait had said during the March 20 event. The organisers of the event, however, flayed the police and stated that the act is against the principles of democracy. “The BJP is bent upon suppressing the voices against the Centre,” they alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnataka-police-book-tikait-for-lay-siege-to-bengaluru-call-101616615660791.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC vacates stay, trial court to hear arguments in conspiracy case||The Delhi high court has lifted the stay on the trial case for conspiracy the north-east Delhi riots, paving the way for a city court to commence arguments on framing of charges against several accused, including student activist Umar Khalid, suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, and others.Earlier, in November 2020, the high court stayed the trial after the police challenged an order by the trial court to supply hard copies of the 17,500-page charge sheet to all 15 accused. The HC, however, allowed the trial court to hear any application being filed in the case.On March 23, Justice Suresh Kait vacated the stay on the trial after the police, represented by Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad told the court that complete hard copy of the charge sheet is ready and the accused may collect it from the Karkardooma court on March 25, when the case is next listed for hearing.The court said, “In view of above, no further order is required to be passed and the same is, accordingly, disposed of with pending application…. Accordingly, interim order is vacated”.Delhi police’s special cell had challenged the legality and validity of September 21 and October 21 orders by additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat, directing the police to supply physical copy of the charge sheet.On October 9, the trial court judge directed the police to file fresh copies of the charge sheet after being told that the police “have inadvertently” put a document in it which contained the details of some of the protected witnesses and its copies were supplied to the accused booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.The judge directed the police to file fresh copies of the charge sheet, redacting the details of the protected witnesses and supply it to the persons charge-sheeted in the case and their counsel.On October 21, the investigating officer told the court that he has submitted 16 new pen drives containing the redacted version of the charge sheet and accompanying documents in terms of the earlier order.However, the court directed the accused and their counsel to be provided with both the hard and soft copies of the fresh charge sheet.The judge also said that the court was not impressed with the submission of the investigating officer who had sought 15 days time for the sanction for funds from the Delhi government for taking out the hard copies for every accused. The judge directed the police to supply the documents at the earliest.Challenging these orders in the high court, the city police contended that the mandate of law under section 207 of CrPC is to provide “copy” of each of the report/ statements/ document subject to reasonable exception. It said that law does not specify supply of “hard copy” or “soft copy” nor does it draw any distinction between “hard copy” or “soft copy”.Till date, the city police has filed three charge sheets, including two supplementary charge sheets, against several accused —former JNU student Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, Gulfisha Khatoon, former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, Shafa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, activist Khalid Saifi, Shadab Ahmed, Tasleem Ahmed, Salim Malik, Mohd Salim Khan and Athar Khan.-- for allegedly being part of a larger conspiracy in the riots that broke out in February 2020 in various localities of north-east Delhi.Meanwhile, a Delhi court on Wednesday directed the police to ensure safety and security of Umar Khalid while bringing him for the proceedings in a case related to the riots.Chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar directed the Tihar Jail superintendent, DCP (Deputy commissioner of police) and DAP (Delhi Armed Police) to ensure safety and security of Khalid while bringing him to the court and taking him back to the prison.Khalid had moved an application seeking directions for his security during his physical production in the court for the remand proceedings.He was arrested in October last year in the case of violence in Khajuri Khas area. Suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain is also an accused in the case. He was also arrested in September, 2020, under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in another case related to a conspiracy in the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-hc-vacates-stay-trial-court-to-hear-arguments-in-conspiracy-case-101616610643435.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze-Anil Deshmukh row: MVA to form panel to probe allegations||Even though an official announcement was not made on Wednesday, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has decided to form a judicial commission to look into the allegations levelled against state home minister Anil Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The commission will be headed by a retired judge, whose name is yet to be decided, said a senior MVA minister. The official announcement of the judicial commission is likely to be made on Thursday. The decision was taken in a meeting of senior ministers held at Varsha, official residence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, late on Wednesday evening. On March 24, HT had reported that the state is likely to declare a judicial commission into the allegations. Senior ministers Ajit Pawar, Jayant Patil, Anil Deshmukh, Dilip Walse Patil, Balasaheb Thorat, Nawab Malik, Jitendra Awhad and Dadaji Bhuse were present for the meeting which lasted for over two hours. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni was also called for the meeting to discuss various aspects of the probe, the minister said. In an eight-page letter, Singh on March 20 accused Deshmukh of giving Sachin Vaze, a controversial police officer arrested in the Antilia bomb scare case, a target to collect ₹100-crore a month from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours and also several other allegations. Singh brought up the charges through a letter three days after being transferred from his post to Commandant General of Home Guards, Maharashtra, on March 17. He also challenged his transfer in the Supreme Court who has asked him to approach the Bombay high court on Wednesday. The commission is likely to be formed under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, in which the commission will have powers to summon anyone for deposition, seek documents and conduct hearings. Deshmukh is also facing allegations of corruption levelled by leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis who sought a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into alleged corruption in IPS postings. On Tuesday, he said then director general of police (DGP) Subodh Jaiswal had submitted a comprehensive report on the alleged racket to the state on August 25, 2020. Fadnavis said the commissioner of intelligence Rashmi Shukla had intercepted some suspicious calls after they received information about a racket of brokers in the IPS transfers. The issue was discussed at length in the state cabinet meeting held in the three-hour long meeting during the day on Wednesday. The home minister reportedly clarified no corruption had taken place in the transfer of senior police officials and the allegations leveled by former Mumbai police commissioner too were wrong. Deshmukh reportedly told his cabinet colleagues that 90% of the transfers mentioned in the report submitted by Shukla did not take place. “The people referred to in the report as middlemen have no involvement in the transfers,” he reportedly told the cabinet. He said Shukla’s act led to breach of trust between officers and also defamed the top IPS officers who have been named in the report. He said that the officers should sue her for defamation. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reportedly expressed concerns over the entire episode and resolved to take a stern stand against the officials acting against the interest of the government. “We failed to recognize some officials in the bureaucracy. This is very dangerous and needs to be tackled with iron hands,” Thackeray is said to have told his cabinet colleagues during the cabinet meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-anil-deshmukh-row-mva-to-form-panel-to-probe-allegations-101616615480180.html
25-03-2021||Other||Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway: Will make up for delay in land acquisition in Punjab, says NHAI||Patiala Facing flak for its failure to begin land acquisition process in Punjab for the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has said that the delay was manageable. The land acquisition process was to be completed by December 2020, and faces further trouble with farmers from 12 districts of the state starting a protest against the NHAI on Wednesday, demanding a halt to land acquisition till the Centre repealed the three farm bills. Farmers also want NHAI to come up with a better offer for the land. The Centre has said that the project must be completed by 2023.NHAI project director Santosh Kumar Arya said, “The project has been delayed due to hitches in the land acquisition process. The delay, however, is manageable as we are working upon a resolution. We are holding talks with the farmers through representatives of Punjab state government at district levels.”He added that the compensation reward has not been finalised as yet. “We expect to complete the land acquisition process in 3-4 months. We are coordinating with the state government,” he added.The ongoing protest over three farm laws and the dissatisfaction of farmers over compensation offered have been major roadblocks. Meanwhile, protesting farmers gathered at the Bhakra canal at Passiana village in Patiala on Wednesday and started their protest for coming five days. The expected total cost of the expressway project is ₹35,000 crore, of which, the NHAI will spend ₹10,000 crore on land acquisition for a 300km stretch in Punjab. Harmanpreet Singh Jeji, coordinator of Delhi Katra Expressway Kisan Sangharh Committee (DKEKSC), who is sitting at protest in Patiala, said over 200 villages in Patiala, Sangrur, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur and Pathankot have already passed a resolution not to give land for the project.“The farmers are being offered peanuts for selling their land. The NHAI has offered ₹9.67 lakh per acre compensation, which was later revised to ₹18 lakh. However, after the state government implemented the method multiplication factor for land acquisition, many farmers were offered ₹55 lakh,” he claimed.In January, aiming to break the deadlock over the issue and low prices offered being offered in the acquisition process, the state government had notified new multiplication factors (with which market value is to be multiplied) under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, but the issue remains unresolved issue so far.As per the detailed project report, the project will promote religious tourism as the road will connect two important holy cities—Katra-Vaishno Devi and Amritsar— before it teaches Delhi. Though the expressway will reduce the distance between Delhi and Katra by just 40-km, it will reduce the travel time from the present 11 hours to around six hours. The travel time from Delhi to Amritsar will be around four hours.The Expressway will also provide shortest connectivity to important Sikh shrines at Dera Baba Nanak, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib and Tarn Taran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhiamritsarkatra-expressway-will-make-up-for-delay-in-land-acquisition-in-punjab-says-nhai-101616615478670.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Kishor meets first-time Punjab Cong MLAs, takes their first-hand feedback||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s principal adviser and political strategist Prashant Kishor on Wednesday met the first-time MLAs of the Congress here for their “first-hand feedback” on the ground realities and implementation of poll promises ahead of the 2022 state polls. The poll consultant, who was the brain behind the Congress’ 2017 campaign that saw the party score a resounding victory with a near two-thirds majority, met the party legislators for the stocktaking exercise at the chief minister’s official residence here. Kishor had called 37 first-timers for interaction and most of them showed up. The legislators met him in groups of three, sharing their views about the public perception of the state government’s image, implementation of election promises, and development works undertaken in their constituencies or regions, according to several first-timers spoken to by this newspaper after the meetings. Priorities listed, concerns voiced Besides listing jobs, power tariff and relaxation to traders and shopkeepers for the lockdown period, incomplete development works and pending promises as the priority areas that the government needs to focus on in the remaining few months, some MLAs also spoke their mind about the bureaucracy calling the shots. “The government has done several things, but these were done through officials and elected representatives have not been involved. I told him that this needs to be rectified and messaging should be right for maximum political mileage,” one of the MLAs said on condition of anonymity. Similarly, a legislator from Doaba spoke about the need to give more push to development works in his region which, according to him, was not given adequate representation in the state cabinet and, therefore, did not get adequate attention. Another suggestion from an MLA from Majha region was that ministers should sit in their offices, meet the elected representatives more often and give more time to public to redress their grievances. CM’s aide lends ‘attentive ear’ Kishor, who meet the first-timers alone, gave 25 to 30 minutes to each group, lending an attentive ear. Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha said it was an “introductory” meeting and no discussion took place on the strategy for state elections. “I told him about a hospital being set up and police station being constructed in my area and other achievements, but there is a need to speed up development works. He also told me that we will keep meeting,” he said, expressing satisfaction with their interaction. The CM’s adviser could not be contacted. The political strategist, who was inducted by the chief minister in his office on March 1, started working last week and has already held meetings with the chief secretary, top aides of the chief minister, and administrative secretaries and other officials of key departments, including the publicity arm of the state government. Kishor, who was adviser to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar earlier, also worked as poll strategist with Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress in the ongoing state polls in West Bengal. In the past, he has worked with the YSR Congress, the AAP and the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kishor-meets-first-time-punjab-cong-mlas-takes-their-first-hand-feedback-101616615239571.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||BMC crackdown on property tax defaulters||In order to meet its property tax collection target of ₹5,200 crore for the ongoing financial year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) initiated action against eight property tax defaulters in the city by sealing of two ongoing construction sites and also disconnecting water supply lines in housing societies. The BMC has collected around ₹4,100 crore, as of Wednesday against the target of ₹5,200 crore.Further, the BMC’s standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav, on Wednesday gave directions to the BMC’s assessment and collection department to not levy penalty of two per cent on outstanding property tax amounts in case of clearing their arrears by March 31, 2021.In a statement issued on Wednesday, the BMC said, in K West ward covering Andheri, four water connection lines were disconnected from a housing society in Versova as the society defaulted in tax payments amounting to Rs87.24 lakh. Meanwhile, in Malad west water connection of a real estate firm was disconnected owing to Rs2.65-crore arrears.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-crackdown-on-property-tax-defaulters-101616615177958.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Severed head found in train; rest of the body on the tracks||Severed head of an unidentified man was found by the Kalyan government railway police (GRP) in the wee hours of Wednesday. The remaining body was found along the tracks near Vithalwadi. The GRP received a call about a severed head spotted in one of the local trains at the Ambernath car shed. The GRP found blood on the door of the compartment. Another team was formed to look for the remaining body. ACP Sunil Patil said, “Around 50m away from the spot where we found the body, there is an electric pole, where we found blood and hair of the deceased. Prima facie, we assume that the deceased who was travelling in the last local train towards Ambernath was on the footboard and hit the pole when the train was speeding. We are checking CCTV footage and identification of the body is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-severed-head-found-in-train-rest-of-the-body-on-the-tracks-101616615057971.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM opposes DBT for farmers, writes to defer scheme for a year||Strongly opposing the Direct Bank Transfer (DBT) scheme for farmers, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he had written a letter to the Prime Minister seeking early resolution of the matter in view of the upcoming rabi season.The CM, who has also sought time from PM Narendra Modi for a meeting on the issue, sought his personal indulgence to issue appropriate directions to the ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution, Government of India, to defer the implementation of the scheme for at least one year.The arhtiyas (commission agents) and farmers have long-standing relations, he pointed out, questioning the need to change the system when it was working very well. Around 50% farmers give their land on contract, so how will those who till the land get their money under DBT, the CM said at a media event.In his letter, Amarinder drew the PM’s attention to the ministry’s directions, asking the Punjab government to ensure direct payment to farmers along with online submission of the details of land owners/ cultivators. Pointing to the age-old relationship that Punjab has between the arhtiyas, who are licensees under the Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act, 1961, and farmers, he noted that for the past many decades, the state procurement agencies and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) have been procuring foodgrains for the central pool.The farmers have never complained of non-receipt of payment of the MSP, and the state government is ensuring online payment to farmers, albeit through these arhtiyas, he added. Further, said the CM, the land ownership and tenancy issues may give rise to various avoidable legal complications, especially during the ongoing farmers’ agitation. This, he said, “may also cause avoidable unrest and anguish among the farmers.” He further noted that bringing the software in line with the proposed directions shall take considerable time.‘My experience is my biggest strength’ Ruling out any threat from the other major political parties in the next assembly elections, the CM said he believed that his experience of governing the state and also in the army will help him handle the challenges of the state beyond 2022. The CM trashed the C-voter survey that gave the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) a lead in the 2022 Assembly polls, as a “paid job” of Arvind Kejriwal. The AAP leader has a huge media budget he can use to buy such surveys, he said, adding that Kejriwal’s party poses no risk to the Congress in Punjab. “This same company had predicted 100 seats for AAP in 2016/17 and everyone knows how many they ultimately got”, he said adding that Kejriwal and his party would meet the same fate in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-opposes-dbt-for-farmers-writes-to-defer-scheme-for-a-year-101616614942198.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Complete lockdown in Nanded and Beed||The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra continued to rise as the state recorded 31,855 cases on Wednesday, marking the highest single-day spike since the start of the outbreak last year. Ninety-five deaths were recorded in the state taking the total number of deaths to 53,684. On Wednesday, 1,40,844 citizens were tested in Maharashtra. There are currently 2,47, 299 active cases of Covid-19 in the state. With 49,036 active cases, Pune tops the list followed by Nagpur (34,016 active cases). Mumbai (29,395 active cases) and Thane (24,567 active cases) occupy third and fourth positions respectively. Tatyarao Lahane, director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), attributed the higher caseload to increased testing in the state. “Unlike other states, which are testing only patients with symptoms, we are testing everyone. This is bound to increase our numbers,” said Lahane, who emphasised the need for the public to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. To curb the spread of the infection, complete lockdowns have been ordered in Nanded and Beed district from March 26 till April 4. On Wednesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan described the situation in Maharashtra and Punjab to be of grave concern. The Union ministry said that of the 10 districts in India that have shown huge surges in Covid-19 cases, nine are in Maharashtra (Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nanded, Jalgaon and Akola). The tenth is Bengaluru (urban) in Karnataka. Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said it was imperative that adequate precautions be taken to prevent the further spread of Covid-19 among communities. “The history of pandemics, whether it’s measles or influenza, has shown that there are several waves before it finally stabilises down. In the meantime, the government should ban all religious and political gatherings,” said Shaikh. He applauded the state government’s decision to curtailed Shab-E-Barat and Holi celebrations this year. While the daily caseload has been increasing since early March, Maharashtra has also witnessed a rise in the number of deaths from Covid-19 of late. In the past six days, 546 people have died due to Covid-19. Dr Amin Kaba, former secretary of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics, said the government should work towards speeding up vaccinations. “The government needs to undertake mass vaccinations and it cannot do this only through government and private hospitals. They need to allow private clinics to carry out vaccinations,” said Kaba. He said that even though the virus would mutate, vaccination would help check the rate of transmission. It is possible to contract Covid-19 even after getting both shots of the vaccine. However, being vaccinated helps protect against severe infection and transmission by reducing the viral load.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/complete-lockdown-in-nanded-and-beed-101616614941130.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Rashmi Shukla “breached the trust”, responds Maharashtra govt||Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad on Wednesday said that the former state Commissioner of Intelligence Rashmi Shukla did not have permission to intercept phones calls to collect intelligence that formed the basis of the report on the alleged money for transfer scam in the state police department.The minister who spoke to reporters after the state cabinet meeting during which the report came up for discussion, said that the ministers were “furious” at what they saw was an attempt to “defame” the police department and as “a conspiracy” against the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “Legal action needs to be taken against those involved in this entire episode,” he said, adding that Shukla “breached the trust of seniors”.Shukla, currently on central deputation, put together a report that names senior politicians, middlemen and police officers, who allegedly sought transfers and postings of their liking, after intercepting the phone calls of six middlemen from June 2020 onwards.Shukla, an additional director general with the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) who recently took additional temporary charge of southern sector, did not respond to calls or messages.“The then Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sitaram Kunte [current chief secretary, Maharashtra] has confirmed that he never gave the permission for the tapping of the phone numbers mentioned in the report. When asked about the insubordination, Shukla had told chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh a few months ago that it was a mistake committed by her. She had even apologised in writing and the letter is with the government,” Awhad told reporters after emerging from the three-hour long state cabinet meeting on Wednesday.He clarified that Shukla had used pre-existing permissions provided for intercepting calls on other phone numbers but had not sought new permission for the numbers of the six middlemen mentioned in the report dated August 25, 2020.“Shukla had taken permission for some other numbers to intercept, but the numbers mentioned in the report were intercepted. The officer did not follow the norms. State cabinet ministers were furious when the facts were discussed in today’s meeting. Legal action needs to be taken against those involved in this entire episode as it has brought infamy not only the police department but also to the state. This is a betrayal by the officer. The report submitted by Shukla was used politically two months after Shukla apologised,” Awhad said.In a press conference held in Mumbai on Tuesday, leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had said Shukla submitted the report to the then Director General of Police Subodh Kumar Jaiswal on August 25, 2020, who in turn forwarded the report to Kunte the following day.Fadnavis said that Shukla had “sought proper permissions from then additional chief secretary-home and intercepted phone calls of several police officials and politician”.However, NCP spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik refuted the claim and said on Tuesday that Shukla had intercepted calls illegally.Awhad reiterated on Wednesday that most of the transfers of the officers mentioned in the report did not take place. “The people referred to in the report as middlemen are insignificant and cannot have an involvement in the transfers,” he said.He said that Shukla’s act led to the breach of trust between officers and also defamed the top IPS officers who have been named in the report.“It needs to be probed about the permission given for the tapping of the phones and actual interception done,” Awhad said, alleging that the phones of several leaders were under surveillance during the formation of the MVA government.Jitendra Awhad later tweeted in Marathi, “There are ireful reactions in the police force, especially among the junior-senior officers who have been named in the report. Some of them are going to sue Shukla for defamation while a few have decided to make a complaint against her to the government.”HT has seen a copy of the report, which named the police officials and the middlemen who helped them seek postings of their choice. It also mentioned the names of politicians such as NCP chief Sharad Pawar, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and home minister Anil Deshmukh, as they came up in the alleged conversations.The report did not state that the middlemen spoke to these leaders directly. It contended that one middleman is an assistant in the home minister’s office.The report did not state that any direct transfer of money to these politicians took place. It did, however, refer to “monetary exchange” between police officers and middlemen acting in close connection with politicians.The report names police officers who were in touch with six middlemen for transfers to desired posts.In the summary to the report, Shukla wrote: “The aforesaid brokers were in close contacts and embroiled in these negotiations with several influential and the police officers ranging from inspectors to several high-ranking officers are in contact with such undesirable individuals. The information obtained and evidence collected is highly incriminating and gravely implicates a number of individuals engaged in this activity.”Malik, however, said on Tuesday that the transfer of policemen was a procedural affair and did not occur as mentioned in the report.Speaking to reporters in New Delhi on Tuesday, Shiv Sena Member of Parliament Sanjay Raut said, “They (the officials) may have prepared some reports with good intentions. The chief minister will decide what is to be done of these papers.”A delegation of BJP politicians, including Fadnavis met Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday, urging him to seek a “status report” from state chief secretary on the law and order situation.“Extortion is exposed...there is a transfer racket.. state officials are being threatened... all this is worrisome, but the chief minister remains silent. We requested the governor to seek a detailed report from the government as the CM is not taking any action,” Fadnavis said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reportedly expressed the concerns over the entire episode during the cabinet meeting, a senior minister said on condition of anonymity. The CM has not spoken publicly about the report as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rashmi-shukla-breached-the-trust-responds-maharashtra-govt-101616614939791.html
25-03-2021||Other||Punjab CM digitally transfers 11,000 teachers under new policy||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday digitally ordered mass general transfers of school teachers through the online portal of the education department in line with the Teachers Transfer Policy, 2019. With the touch of a button, the CM cleared the transfer of 10,099 teachers and volunteers to the station of their choice, purely on merit basis. School education minister Vijay Inder Singla was present on the occasion.The government had received 35,386 online applications from teachers and volunteers, of which 15,481 were found ineligible, as they did no meet the prescribed parameters of the policy. The remaining 19,905 were found eligible for transfer. For the first time, computer teachers and categories of education volunteers were also brought into the ambit of the Teachers Transfer Policy. The CM said the unique teachers transfer policy has been instrumental in successfully achieving the goal of quality education through filling of vacant posts. He disclosed that the state government would soon enact the Teachers Transfer Act, in place of the existing system of notifications that the school education department issues. The CM lauded the school education department for sprucing up infrastructure and improving the quality of education in government schools. Under the online system, over 50% transfer applications have been approved with complete transparency to date, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-digitally-transfers-11-000-teachers-under-new-policy-101616614938655.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports over 5K Covid-19 cases||For the first time since the outbreak of Covid-19, the city recorded more than 5,000 cases of Covid-19 in a single day. On Wednesday, Mumbai had 5,190 new cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day caseload recorded so far. Six deaths were reported taking the death toll to 11,610 deaths. Civic officials have pointed to ramped up testing — there were 40,400 tests conducted on Wednesday compared to 23,000 on Tuesday — to explain the spike. Until February 10, Mumbai was reporting between 200 and 400 new cases of Covid-19 per day. This increased to 1,000 new cases daily in early March. Wednesday’s caseload crossed the previous single-day highest of 3,779 cases, recorded on March 21. Mumbai has been reporting over 3,000 new cases every day since March 21. The city’s recovery rate is 88% with 3,32,713 recoveries and the mortality rate is 3.09%. There are 29,395 active cases in Mumbai. Dharavi also recorded a 10-month high on Wednesday, with 62 new cases of Covid-19, which is the most cases it has reported in a day since May 2020. Since April 1, 2020, when the first case of Covid-19 was detected in the area, Dharavi has recorded 4,531 cases of Covid-19. Of these, 237 cases are currently active and 3,977 people have been discharged. Assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar, who looks after Dharavi, said, “The daily caseload has been increasing across the city and due to this, Dharavi is also witnessing a spike. As we are increasing testing, more high-risk contacts are detected. We are also testing citizens randomly due to which more cases are getting detected.” As part of its efforts to break the chain of Covid transmission, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started conducting rapid antigen tests on randomly-selected citizens in public places, including malls. In the last two days, 33,553 additional tests were conducted. On Wednesday, the civic body conducted 40,400 tests, of which 21,000 were rapid antigen tests. Overall, in the past year, the city has reported 3,74,641 cases and conducted 3.7 million tests. Mumbai’s overall Covid positivity rate is 9.75%. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “We are not suggesting everything should be shut down again, but citizens need to ensure they head out only for economic reasons. Unwanted visits outside the house should be avoided for now. We also need to understand that Covid-appropriate behaviour has to be maintained even post vaccination. The cases may also go up to 6,000 or 8,000 in a day if we test aggressively. It is a good thing to test more and detect more if we want to curb the spread.” Earlier this week, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had said the city can handle 6,000 cases per day. “Logically, we can predict that the number of cases per day will double as the number of tests done per day is doubled,” Chahal had said on Monday while emphasizing that there was no need to panic as most of the cases in Mumbai are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. BMC’s data shows that between February 22 and March 22, as the number of cases spiked in the city, most were come from age group of 30 to 39 years, which has 8,400 cases. The second-most affected age group is of 40 to 49 years, which has over 7,600 cases. Those between 50 to 59 years have 7,500 cases and 6,899 cases are from the age group of 20 to 29 years. The lowest surge — 2,500 cases — is in the age group of 0 to 19 years. There are over 5,100 cases in the age group of over 90 years. Cumulatively, the highest number of cases are from the age group of 50 to 59 years, which has over 69,000 cases. Ten thousand of total 11,592 deaths from Covid-19 have been reported from the age group of those above 50 years. Assistant municipal commissioner Prashant Gaikwad said, “We are witnessing cases being reported across all age groups. However, above 80 years of age and in children, the cases are much higher. In all the remaining age groups, the spread is almost similar.” Speaking of the random tests being conducted in public places, like Chowpatty, Gaikwad said, “The aim is to detect the maximum number of citizens who are positive but roaming out in the open.” Those selected for testing must pay for the test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-over-5k-covid-19-cases-101616614878635.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Man assaulted, forced to chant slogans in Khajuri Khas; one held||A man was allegedly kicked, punched, and forced to chant “Hindustan Zindabad” and “Pakistan Murdabad” slogans in north-east Delhi’s Khajuri Khas by a person who is an accused in the riots that took place in 2020, police said on Wednesday.A video of the incident, which allegedly happened on Tuesday, was widely circulated on social media after which police registered a case and arrested the attacker on Wednesday. Police identified the attacker, purportedly caught on camera, as Ajay Goswami, a resident of Old Garhi village and a dairy trader, said Sanjay Kumar Sain, deputy commissioner of police (north-east).The officer said Goswami is an accused in the 2020 north-east Delhi riots, but clarified that his alleged involvement in the riots has no connection to the latest alleged assault. Police did not immediately share details on Goswami’s nature of involvement in the riots or the current status of that case.Unwilling to identify the victim, Sain said victim too has a criminal record and was allegedly involved in a murder and robbery case. Another police officer, who asked not to be identified, said the victim is a Muslim man. “On Tuesday, the man was allegedly trying to enter Goswami’s dairy, purportedly with the an intention to steal, when he was caught,” said the officer.Police, however, have not registered any case of theft or attempted theft against the victim.In any case, the DCP said Goswami beat up the victim while another accused, Deepak, recorded the video on his mobile phone. The video, which was widely shared on social media, showed Goswami allegedly punching the victim in the abdomen, kicking him in the face and other parts of the body, and throwing him around.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video.As he beat the victim, he also kept asking him to chant ”Hindustan Zinadabad” and ”Pakistan Murdabad” slogans, which the victim repeatedly did while pleading for an end to the assault, the video purportedly showed.Once the video landed on the internet and was brought to the police’s notice, the police took cognizance of it and began probing its origin. The victim and assailants were eventually identified by Wednesday after which Goswami was arrested. Deepak is yet to be arrested.A case of voluntarily causing hurt and wrongful restraint has been registered at Khajuri Khas police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-assaulted-forced-to-chant-slogans-in-khajuri-khas-one-held-101616610624458.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress seeks probe into govt officials with links to BJP, RSS||Maharashtra Congress leaders met chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday and demanded a probe into government officials who were Bharatiya Janata Party (BP) or Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sympathisers and were employed during the previous Devendra Fadnavis government in Maharashtra. The party has also demanded a probe into the allegations levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh as well as allegations of scam in police transfers, in a bid to derail opposition BJP’s attempts to defame the three-party coalition government.The Congress delegation led by state chief Nana Patole met the CM and demanded strong collective measures to control the damage attempted at by the BJP. The party said the truth should come to the fore at the earliest to avoid the bad name arising out of the ongoing controversy. The team reportedly also demanded action against Singh and former commissioner of intelligence Rashmi Shukla for insubordination and violation of All India Services Rules.“We are of the opinion that there was no need of resignation of the home minister unless an inquiry is conducted in the allegations levelled by Singh. The state government should immediately appoint a probe committee of a retired or serving judge of high court. We believe that Singh was acting on the behest of the BJP and was part of the smear campaign by the opposition. But at the same time, the truth should be brought to light to avoid further damage to the image of MVA government. The government should immediately take action against him and other officials,” said a party leader who was part of the delegation.The Congress has also hit out at the BJP and said the opposition party should first give details about appointment of RSS workers in the government during Fadnavis’s tenure. “The BJP misused the bureaucracy using its power in Centre for their political gain. There were many BJP-RSS sympathisers in the state government during Fadnavis government. What benefits did the RSS and BJP get from them needs to be investigated, and we have made a demand for the same to the CM,” Patole said.Former CM and current leader of Opposition in legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis had attacked the Congress on Wednesday by raising questions over the silence maintained by the ruling party. “I am surprised to see that the Congress has maintained complete mum even amid the political crisis in the state. Is it because they have been getting their share in the corruption?” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-seeks-probe-into-govt-officials-with-links-to-bjp-rss-101616614818533.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Amid pandemic, more employees prefer a hybrid model, says survey||A recent survey has found a majority of employees prefer a hybrid working model, which allows people to divide their hours between working remotely and from the office. Conducted by Paperspace India, a collective of designers and architects, the survey reported that 56% of its respondents preferred the hybrid model. Launched today, Paperspace India is an affiliate of Paperspace Asia. For their survey, Paperspace India spoke to 610 employees and employers across the country. The findings include the observation that 63% felt returning to the office is critical for their career advancement. With reference to the hybrid working model, respondents said they felt comfortable spending an average of 2.6 days a week in the office. Male employees said they preferred to go into office 3.3 days on average while female employees opted for two days. With the lockdown being relaxed, many companies have asked employees to resume going to office on alternate days or two to three times a week. Kulin Kapadia, managing director, Paperspace India, said, “The natural experiment forced on the world by the coronavirus has led to organisations reimagining the future of work. Indian corporates are looking for hybrid solutions that not only help bring their employees back to offices, but also optimize real estate costs.” The survey also found that 60% of employees would like to return to the office only if all safety protocols are in place. While 78% voiced concerns about their health after returning to the office, 41% were worried about how safe would it be to travel to office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-pandemic-more-employees-prefer-a-hybrid-model-says-survey-101616614757920.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Mutations make coronavirus infectious: Experts||The Central government confirmed on Wednesday that a “double mutation” of the virus that causes Covid-19 has been found in Maharashtra. Experts believe it is responsible for the 17% spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. They have observed that the variant in Maharashtra appears to be more transmissible, but less virulent.In mid-February, the positivity rate in Amravati and Yavatmal reached 50% and 32% and genome sequencing showed the presence of two mutations (E484Q and N440K). The state sent 900 samples — 223 from Mumbai — from Covid hot spots and of travellers and families for analysis. While studying them, a new variant was found.In a statement on Wednesday, the Centre said, “The analysis of samples from Maharashtra has revealed that compared to December 2020, there has been an increase in the fraction of samples with the E484Q and L452R mutations...these mutations have been found in about 15-20% of samples and don’t match any previously categorised variants of concerns.”E484Q and L452R have been categorised as escape mutations. Epidemiologist Dr Lancelot Pinto said escape mutations make the virus more infectious. “Variants are expected to evolve when a highly transmissible virus moves rapidly through a host population. Such new variants of the coronavirus could have escape mutations which help the virus evade the body’s immune system, thereby conferring the virus with a survival advantage. Escape mutations in the spike protein could result in infections among individuals who had existing antibodies to earlier strains of the virus,” said Dr Pinto. Epidemiologists believe the mutation has contributed to the spike in Maharashtra’s caseload. “An analysis of the trend of the infection spread in the state had indicated a mutation months ago. Like mutation trends in other countries like the UK and South Africa, it was spreading faster and patients from same families were contracting the infection,” said Dr Subhash Salunke, state advisor for Covid-19.Dr Rahul Pandit, part of the state’s Covid task force, said the mutated viruses are more contagious but most patients are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. “Unlike the first strain, this one is less virulent. But we have to wait and watch. We are also concerned that there is a possibility that it can turn more deadly and the severity may increase,” he said. Dr Pandit also said it may be possible for recovered patients to be reinfected by the new strains. Experts say it is too soon to know how effective Covishield and Covaxin are against the mutations. “The Astra Zeneca vaccine had a lower efficacy among individuals infected with the South African variant. Whether the vaccine will be effective against infections with the newer variants needs to be studied, first with in-vitro experiments in the lab, and then in clinical trials to assess efficacy among subjects who receive the vaccine,” Dr Pinto said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mutations-make-coronavirus-infectious-experts-101616614698561.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Money-laundering case: ₹3.85 crore unaccounted income in Khaira’s accounts, ED tells HC||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that in 12-odd years, ₹4.86 crore were deposited in Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s bank accounts but the declared income to the income tax department stood at ₹99 lakh. It also said that during this period, ₹84 lakh was deposited in cash in Khaira’s accounts. These claims have been made by the ED in response to a petition filed by Khaira against the central agency’s raids of March 9 on his properties and some persons associated with him in connection with a 2015 Fazilka drug smuggling case. Khaira was elected to the state assembly in 2017 on a ticket of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Two years ago, he quit AAP and formed Punjab Ekta Party (PEP). The ED says Khaira declared to the income tax department for the period 2008-09 to 2019-20 an aggregate income of ₹99.07 lakh. However, total deposits in his five accounts, have tallied to ₹4.86 crore of which ₹84 lakh has been deposited in cash. Deposits made by Khaira in his bank account are not commensurate with the income declared, ED says in its 81-page report to high court. The case has now been adjourned to April 1 after taking on record the ED’s affidavit.The ED further claims that examination of accounts of Khaira and his family -- his wife Jatinder Kaur and son Mehtab Singh Khaira – have received ₹64 lakh from his son-in-law Inderveer Singh Johal, Simmer Khaira and a firm in which his son-in-law is a director.Documents containing cash transactions in foreign currency and suspicious property documents and electronic devices were seized from the record from the premises of Khaira and his associates on March 9. Cash transaction worth ₹4.5 crore and suspicious transactions in foreign currency are of US dollar 1.19 lakh were found, it claims. These unexplained cash transaction as well as property details recovered during the probe need to be explained by him, the ED says justifying why he was summoned by it on March 17.It has asserted that plea is not maintenable as at this stage he has not been made as accused and there is also no violation of his fundamental and legal rights.It further said that unlocking of phone does not violate his right in any manner and state has every right to collect such evidence as part of the criminal proceedings. “Money laundering is a standalone offence. A person who has not committed a scheduled offence could be prosecuted for an offence of money laundering and Enforcement Directorate won’t wait for prosecution to establish a scheduled offense,” it said adding that even if a person is acquitted in a scheduled offence he could still be prosecuted under money laundering law.Quoting Punjab Police probe, it says one Gurdev Singh convicted by the trial court used to provide funds and vehicles to Khaira for his election campaign and would make logistics arrangements from the proceeds of crime generated from smuggling and dealing in heroin. Thereby implying that proceeds of crime were used to finance election of Khaira in return Khaira would provide protection to him, it claims. Nine persons were convicted in October 2017 in the case by a trial court and sentenced them to imprisonment, ranging from three to 20 years, for trans-border heroin smuggling. The court had summoned Khaira as “additional accused” through same order. Two months later, Supreme Court had stayed the summons to him. Khaira has moved the high court seeking quashing of the investigation launched by the ED under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. He had also sought quashing of the ED’s summons for March 17. Khaira, who is Punjab Ekta Party president and Bholath MLA had alleged that he was targeted since he was supporting farmers protest.It also claims that after 2015 FIR when Gurdev Singh was on the run between February 2015 and March 2015, he was in contact of Khaira through Gurdev’s UK based sister Charanjit Kaur and Joga Singh, personal security officer of Khaira. The case is merely not only about proceedings of crime generated but also financing the narcotics smuggling, acquisition of arms and to provide safe passage to other criminals, it says. Khaira, however, said: “It’s cock and bull story by the ED. The agency went through my bank accounts of 12 years and added my agricultural limit worth ₹3 crores in my income. I have answer to each and every allegations of the agency. The central agency is after me for my legitimate income of 12 years, but it doesn’t have the guts to ask anything to Badals and Captain who looted the state for several years,” said Khaira.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moneylaundering-case-3-85-crore-unaccounted-income-in-khaira-s-accounts-ed-tells-hc-101616614578441.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Temperature crosses 38°C third time this month||The maximum daytime temperature in the city touched 38.1 degrees Celsius (C) on Wednesday, as per the India Meteorological Department’s automatic weather station in Santacruz. This marks the third day this month that Mumbai’s maximum temperature cross the 38-degree mark, after touching 38.1°C on March 4 and 38.2°C on March 5. The maximum daytime temperature in March last year was 37.5°C (on March 17).Wednesday’s maximum temperature was above the normal mark by just over 5 degrees, and up from the previous day’s daytime high of 35.3°C. IMD officials attributed the sudden uptick in mercury to hot, dry land breezes originating from the east and north-east of Mumbai.“The temperature of the city is heavily influenced by the balance of sea and land breezes. Hot, dry winds in the middle level, and lower level winds blowing from the east, caused delayed setting of sea breeze which tends to have a cooling effect in the latter part of the day. As a result, daytime temperatures across Mumbai rose during the day,” said an IMD official.Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 35.4°C on Wednesday, up from 33°C the day prior. As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city (based on projected data for the AWS in Santacruz), the maximum temperature is expected to drop to between 35°C and 36°C over the next week, while the minimum temperature is expected to remain at a steady 24°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-temperature-crosses-38-c-third-time-this-month-101616614518497.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Amid rising Covid cases, MU decides to continue with online exam||Bringing relief to students and colleges, the University of Mumbai on Tuesday announced that the impending semester exams will be held online in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.In a circular issued on Tuesday, Vinod Patil, director, board of examination and evaluations of MU, said that summer semester exams will be conducted online through the same guidelines issued earlier for the autumn semester exams last year.The exams for semester I to IV for both regular and repeater students will be held between April 15 and May 5. The exams for semester VI for regular and repeater students will be conducted from May 6 to 21 and semester V repeater exams from May 24 to June 2. A separate circular will be issued to announce the dates of the remaining exams.All theory exams are to be conducted online. An online test of 50 marks should be taken for degree and post-graduate examinations of traditional students (arts, commerce and science) in which 50 multiple choice questions (MCQ) should be given. Students will be given an hour to complete the examination. For vocational education courses, an online theory test will be conducted for a total of 80 marks – of which 40 marks will be for MCQs and the other 40 for descriptive answers. For inter-disciplinary courses, that exam will be of a total of 60 marks of which 30 will be for MCQs and 30 for online descriptive exam.This has brought clarity to students as well as colleges for preparing for the exams. “Given that cases are rising, it was expected that exams will be held online. As we have already conducted two exams, we are well prepared for it,” said Kishore Peshori, principal, MMK College Bandra.“With the number of cases rising rapidly, we were wary of taking our final exams in person. That seemed risky,” said Akshata Pawar, final year B Sc Botany student at Sathaye College in Vile Parle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-rising-covid-cases-mu-decides-to-continue-with-online-exam-101616614459563.html
25-03-2021||Other||Recovery of human skeletons in Panipat house: Ex-owner held from UP’s Bhadohi||Hours after recovery of three human skeletons from a house in Panipat’s Shiv Nagar area, the local police have arrested the former owner of the house from Bhadohi in Uttar Pradesh.However, the police have not revealed any more details about the accused or the deceased yet.Officials associated with the investigation said that Ehsan Saifi, who belongs to Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, used to live in the said house about three years ago and had sold it to one Pawan Kumar of Panipat.“Police teams reached Badhoi last night and Saifi was taken into custody after interrogation. He is being brought to Panipat for further interrogation,” said Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Sahshank Kumar Sawan.He said it is learnt that the skeletons are of a woman and her teenage boy and daughter, but more details cannot be revealed at the moment.Police said that they trio are not relatives of the accused and the matter requires further investigation.Police had registered an FIR under Sections 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unknown accused for triple murder and are collecting further details of the previous owners of the single-room house.According to police, Adesh Kumar, who had taken the house on rent two years ago, said that for the past couple of months he spotted insects coming out of the floor and he took up the issue with current owner Pawan Kumar.On Tuesday, Pawan had sent labourers for digging of the floor for renovation and they found three human skeletons buried under the cemented floor.Police also recovered a salwar-kameez, a trouser and a jacket near the skeletons.Pawan, who works at a cooperative sugar mill had purchased the house from Saifi about two-and-a-half-years-ago. Saifi had lived in the house for one year before this.Forensic experts said they have sent the skeletons for postmortem to ascertain the gender, age, identities and cause of death of the deceased trio with the help of DNA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/recovery-of-human-skeletons-in-panipat-house-ex-owner-held-from-up-s-bhadohi-101616614458446.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Leopard collared in SGNP travelled to Tungareshwar and back’||Researchers have successfully traced the journey of a leopard from Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai to Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWLS) in Thane district, using radio-collars or radio-telemetry this month. The leopard, officially known as L93 and nicknamed Maharaja, was fitted with a radio-collar on February 23 as part of a two-year-long study by SGNP administration and Wildlife Conservation Society, which commenced in June last year. One of the aims of this study, researchers explained at a press conference on Wednesday, is to understand the movement of the leopards across urban and forest landscapes, and to identify movement corridors between the protected areas of SGNP and TWLS.In case of L93, the animal was found to use a “chicken-neck” corridor connecting the two forests, just ahead of Nangla forest block of SGNP. The animal, researchers explained, has been seen frequently in the northern, Yeoor range of the national park and was likely to have been crossing roads while roaming about the area.The animal, as evidenced by GPS data and camera trap photos, navigated his way across two linear intrusions that cut across this corridor —Chinchoti-Bhiwandi Road and an existing railway line that runs parallel to it. “We found that the animal crossed this path four times during his journey from SGNP to TWLS and back. While he only crossed the road at a single location, the railway tracks were traversed at multiple spots,” said Nikit Surve, wildlife biologist and one of the researchers of the study.This is the third time in nearly a decade that the movement of a leopard across SGNP and TWLS has been documented, and the second time using radio-collars. Radio-collar allows scientists to triangulate the GPS location of the animal in real time. The first such instance was that of a leopard named Ajoba, whose 125km journey from Malshej Ghat to SGNP in 2010 has been widely cited in press reports. At the time, Ajoba had entered SGNP through Vasai Creek. A male leopard, L59, was later photographed in 2017 crossing high-traffic barriers such Ghodbunder Road, Vasai Creek and Diva-Kaman railway line to get to TWLS. It was found dead at Kaman-Bhiwandi Road in January 2018.As per preliminary results from Phase-1 of the radio-telemetry study, researchers said L93’s journey to TWLS traversed a total of 62 km in six days. About 8 km was covered during the day time, while the remaining 54 km was covered during the night. Researchers also found the remains of a chicken killed by L93, and were able to identify areas where he sleeps and rests.Pugmarks of a female leopard were also found close to that of L93. Researchers said more data needs to be acquired before inferences can be made about their companionship. L93 spent a total of seven days in TWLS during his first visit, venturing up to the highest point of the sanctuary. The second time, stayed for only about 30 minutes before returning to SGNP. The particular location he used to cross over into TWLS,Forest department officials and researchers pointed out that the particular area chosen by L93 to cross over into Tungareshwar is about to undergo a rapid urban transformation, with three major infra projects set to come up in the area. These include the MMRDA’s Virar-Alibaug multimodal corridor, the High Speed Rail Corporation’s Diva-Panvel bullet train line, and Delhi-Mumbai dedicated freight corridor.“Of these, the latter two have already been given forest and wildlife clearance, while the multi-modal corridor’s clearances are being processed. The project proponents have agreed to jointly build a 1-km long, 30-metre wide overpass for animals across this corridor between SGNP and TWLS,” said G Mallikarjuna, CCF, SGNP. This mitigating measure had been proposed by a State Wildlife Board sub-committee in January last year, and is awaiting a green light from the board, officials said. Sunil Limaye, addition principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), SGNP, said, “These preliminary findings reinforce the importance of this chicken-neck between TWLS and SGNP. They also justify the need to create safe passage for these animals between these protected areas, which may be affected due to upcoming development projects. Wildlife clearances for these projects include strict conditions that mitigating measures be put in place first.”Researchers also shared information about another female leopard, three-year-old L115 (nicknamed Savitri), who is seen to be using the southern, Tulsi range of SGNP, often crossing into Thane subdivision. Notably, on March 17, L115 began waking up around 7:30pm and completed a circular route around Tulsi Lake, travelling about 4.5 kms in 11 hours. Phase-2 of the study, which will involve tracking another three leopards with radio-collars, is set to begin toward the end of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/leopard-collared-in-sgnp-travelled-to-tungareshwar-and-back-101616614398762.html
25-03-2021||Other||No 50% quota for women among civic body office-bearers in Punjab||A sub-committee of the Punjab government led by Congress party chief Sunil Jakhar has decided that a proposal to give 50% reservation to women councillors among office-bearers of civic bodies was not practical. It has decided to go by the existing formula under which women and scheduled castes get 5% reservation, with another 2% quota for backward classes. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had mooted the proposal on women reservation. Committee members comprising cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Aruna Chaudhary and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Youth Congress president Barinder Singh Dhillon and Jakhar were unanimous in taking the decision. “It would not have been practically possible, as it requires changes in the Punjab Municipal Act 1911 that governs the functioning of the civic bodies in Punjab, including the elections of office-bearers,” said a member of the committee.Ahead of the 2017 state polls, the Congress manifesto had promised 50% reservation for women in civic bodies and village panchayats. In the polls held for civic bodies on February 14 this year, 2,302 wards went for polls out, of which 1,151 women were elected, with wards reserved for them.The committee members also reached a conclusion that bringing women into the forefront, at the grassroots level, especially in an election year would not be politically beneficially.Elections for office-bearers of urban local civic bodies are expected to take place in the first week of April. The local bodies department is expected to receive the gazette notification of results from state election department soon, after which it will give a 14-day notice to elect office-bearers and for civic bodies to make arrangements.ANOTHER COMMITTEE TO DECIDE ALL HEADSAnother committee of the Pradesh Congress Committee is expected to take a call on the names to head all civic bodies. Of eight municipal corporations it has been decided to have a mayor belonging to the SCs for Hoshiarpur. Mohali municipal corporation has been kept for a general candidate as in the past, it has had mayors from the SCs. A cabinet minister is eyeing the top post in Mohali for his brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-50-quota-for-women-among-civic-body-office-bearers-in-punjab-101616614344478.html
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: Trial against Saini, Umranangal to start from April 2||Two months after the special investigation team (SIT), probing 2015 police firing incidents, filed a chargesheet against former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal, in the FIR registered in 2015 in connection with the Behbal Kalan firing incident, the court of judicial magistrate (first class), Faridkot, Suresh Kumar on Wednesday committed the chargesheet to the sessions court. The trial against Saini and Umranangal will start in the Faridkot district and sessions court from April 2. However, the main chargesheet against the other co-accused, which was already committed, is pending in the sessions court for consideration of framing charges. Now, the sessions court will listen the arguments against all the accused, including Saini and Umranangal.During hearing, heavy police force was deployed at the Faridkot judicial complex on Wednesday. Saini skipped the hearing, while Umranangal appeared before the court. An application for exemption from the personal appearance of Saini was filed, which was allowed by the court. The court also directed Saini’s counsel to ensure his presence in the sessions court on the fixed date.“The offense under Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC are exclusively triable by the court of sessions. The main challan against other co-accused is pending in the court of sessions. Therefore, the present case is committed to the court of sessions judge, Faridkot, Sumeet Malhotra for April 2 and accused persons are directed to appear before the court on said date at sharp 10am so that arguments on charge against all the accused can be heard together,” said JMIC Suresh Kumar. The SIT is yet to file a supplementary chargesheet against inspector Gurdeep Singh Pandher, who is also an accused in the case. Following an application of Pandher, the Punjab and Haryana high court has directed SIT not to file chargesheet against him till further order. On September 10, 2020, the SIT told a Faridkot court that Saini and Umranangal were the main conspirators in the Behbal Kalan firing incident. On September 28, SIT nominated Saini and Umranangal as accused in the FIR registered at Bajakhana police station in connection with Behbal Kalan firing case.On January 15, SIT filed a supplementary chargesheet under sections 302, 307, 218, 201, 166-A, 120-B, 34, 194, 195, 109 of IPC in Behbal Kalan firing case naming Saini and Umranangal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-firing-trial-against-saini-umranangal-to-start-from-april-2-101616614343044.html
25-03-2021||Other||‘Ensure environmental restoration, clean drinking water, air near Panipat refinery’||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a joint committee to monitor remedial actions for environment restoration and propose action plan to provide safe drinking water and clean air to residents of villages near the Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat’s refinery in a time-bound manner.In a hearing via video conferencing, the bench, headed by NGT chairperson justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, ordered, “We find it appropriate to direct a joint committee comprising the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the Haryana Pollution Control Board and Panipat district magistrate to monitor further remedial action.”“These include restoration of groundwater quality, supply of safe drinking water to the affected people, development of green belts, rainwater harvesting, medical checkups of residents, trapping of volatile organic compounds, installation of online continuous effluent monitoring system, and development of necessary systems to prevent discharge of untreated waste,” the bench added.As per the orders, the Haryana Pollution Control Board will be the nodal agency for coordination and compliance of the action plan as per the schedule and the committee will meet at least once a month till execution of the said action plan.“A quarterly progress report may be furnished by the committee to chief secretary, Haryana, and chairman of the CPCB. Even a monthly progress report has to be put up on the website of the Panipat district magistrate,” further read the order.The orders are based on findings of a committee set up to assess damage to the environment and public health by air and water pollution caused by the Panipat refinery after residents of villages in its vicinity, led by Singhpura Sithna village sarpanch Satpal Singh, had taken up the issue with the NGT in 2018.They had alleged that the refinery is polluting the air and water in its vicinity.Following the compliant, the NGT had formed a joint team for ground-level inspection to assess damage to environment and human health.In its report, the committee had found many environmental violations including samples from the effluent treatment plant (ETP) of the unit being non-compliant, ambient air quality exceeding the norms, VOCs resulting in eye irritation, untreated effluents being discharged into the green belt areas, untreated effluents being stored in open storage lagoon without VOC recovery system, and the groundwater samples not complying with the norms.In May 2019, on recommendations of the first assessment report of the joint committee, the NGT had directed the oil company to deposit ₹17.31 crore to the CPCB as interim compensation for restoration of environment.Then again in July 2020, the NGT had directed the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) officials to deposit a sum of ₹25 crore as interim compensation for restoration of environment.Reacting over the orders, HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan said, “Since the HSPCB has been made the nodal agency, we will follow all steps for compliance of the orders as per schedule with the help of other members of the joint committee.”In its reply to the NGT on March 18, the IOCL had claimed that they have complied with most issues raised by the joint committee and steps were taken to stop illegal discharge into the Thirana drain and work to cover all open sources of VOC emission will be completed by May 21 this year.Vivek Narain, general manager (A&W) Panipat refinery, said, “We have duly received the final orders of the NGT and are studying it. The NGT has considered the report submitted by the joint committee in the order and not levied any further compensation upon the IOCL.“The IOCL is committed to protection of environment. All directives suggested by the NGT will be complied by,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ensure-environmental-restoration-clean-drinking-water-air-near-panipat-refinery-101616614341833.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt drops name of ration delivery scheme, Centre points out flaw||The Delhi Cabinet headed by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday approved the removal of the name ‘Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana’ from its ambitious doorstep delivery of a ration scheme after objections by the Union food and consumers affairs ministry.However, the Centre hinted that it may not be enough to launch the scheme on March 25. The ministry on Wednesday said that prima facie the scheme appears to “dilute” the National Food Security Act (NFSA).In a letter to the Delhi administration on Friday, the Union ministry principally raised two objections to the scheme -- the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA); and that any change in the delivery mechanism in the NFSA can only be done through a Parliament amendment.In a statement issued by the government on Wednesday, the chief minister’s office said: “The original name of the scheme, Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana, which was expected to be rolled out on March 25, will not have any name due to the obstruction by the Centre. Under the new scheme, wheat flour atta, rice, and sugar will be delivered to homes in packed bags.”However, DJ Narain, spokesperson for the Union ministry of food and public distribution, said dropping the name has nothing to do with the essential parameters of NFSA.“No reply (on the letter dated March 19) from the Delhi government has been received by the Ministry so far. We are still awaiting clarity from the Delhi government on several grey areas. From their order, prima facie it seems that many aspects of the NFSA act are either being diluted or slipping into uncertain zones,” he said.The spokesperson further asked if the additional price of milling and packaging will be recovered from consumers.“To ensure fair and foolproof transparent delivery, biometrics are needed of the fair price shop owner and the beneficiaries. Delhi remains only one of the four states in India which is still not doing it. The other three states --- Chhattisgarh, Assam and West Bengal had valid infrastructure and Aadhaar seeding issues. But Delhi has no infrastructure problem and was one of the first states/UTs to have 100% Aadhaar seeding, yet biometric system has not been implemented in the national Capital,” said Narain.On Saturday, Kejriwal said the scheme, after its name being removed, will be sent to the Central government for its approval.“This scheme will have no name. The central government sends the ration which gets distributed through the ration shops and now we will send the ration to the homes of the individuals. We do not want any kind of credit for this scheme and that is why the name of the scheme will be removed,” he said at a press conference.The home delivery system of ration will be optional for beneficiaries, government officials sad. “The file is being sent to the Central government now,” the official added. In its letter to the Delhi food commissioner on Friday, the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said the Delhi government is free to launch the scheme “without mixing the elements of the NFSA foodgrains”.The scheme was to be launched on March 25 from 100 households in Shahdara district’s Seemapuri area. On Saturday, Kejriwal said the scheme was planned with the intention to remove loopholes in the system and address the difficulties faced by people in getting their monthly quota of ration.Delhi has around 7.2 million ration beneficiaries, according to government data.The distribution of ration is currently managed by a network of 2,000-odd fair price shops. “At present, people can get ration only by going to a fair price shop. They have to stand in long queues or wait for shops to open as many open only for 2-3 days a month which is illegal. Then there is the problem of pilferage, adulteration and corruption. So, the doorstep delivery programme was aimed at addressing these systemic problems,” the chief minister said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-drops-name-of-ration-delivery-scheme-centre-says-it-still-dilutes-food-act-101616610613383.html
25-03-2021||Mumbai||Delkar death: Dadra collector seeks relief from high court||Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) collector Sandeep Kumar Singh has informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the FIR registered by Mumbai Police in connection with death of MP Mohan Delkar was baseless, false and contrary to the provisions of law and hence sought quashing of the FIR and pending hearing of the petition, interim relief of no coercive steps against him. After Delkar, a 58-year-old seven-term MP from the Union Territory of DNH was found dead in a room in a south Mumbai hotel on February 22, his son, Abhinav, lodged a complaint on March 9 with the Mumbai Police. The FIR named several persons, including Singh, on charges of abetment to suicide and provisions of Atrocities Act. The FIR alleged that Delkar was pressured by the said persons since a year and the DNH administration was continuously harassing him to gain control over the SSR College of Pharmacy and Management owned by Delkar so as to prevent him from contesting further elections. The bench of justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale, while accepting the statement of the state of no coercive action against Singh, posted hearing of the petition on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delkar-death-dadra-collector-seeks-relief-from-high-court-101616614278450.html
25-03-2021||Other||Haryana govt should lodge FIR against Khattar for digging NHs to prevent movement of farmers: Tikait||Making a direct attack on Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar over the recently-passed Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property During Disturbance of Public Order Bill, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday said that the Haryana government should lodge an FIR against Khattar for digging up national highways to prevent the movement of protesting farmers towards Delhi.Speaking at a mahapanchayat in Meham, Tikait said that the Haryana chief minister has damaged public property by digging up roads and putting boulders on them so, the government should recover damage claims from him.“If the Haryana government wants to implement this Bill, first it should register a case against Khattar for damaging the public property. Secondly, it should recover the losses from him,” Tikait said.The BKU leader urged people to observe ‘Bharat Bandh’ on March 26.“This protest is a battle of ideology. The government has failed to hold talks with our delegation in the last two months. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that farmers can sell their produce anywhere. We will prove him right by selling the crop outside state assemblies, the Parliament and offices of deputy commissioners,” Tikait said.“If the farmers can enter Delhi to take part in the parade, they can definitely reach outside the Parliament to sell their crop. People of BJP know that the PM has destroyed their party and that they have lost relevance on the ground level,” he added.Slamming the Union government over central agencies’ raids at Opposition leaders’ premises, Tikait said, “The BJP government is targeting people who are standing in support of farmers in the ongoing stir and conducting raids at their premises.”“Government is making attempts to muzzle the voice of Opposition and farmers. They had conducted I-T raids on premises of the Meham MLA’s home but he had voted against BJP in the Haryana assembly during trust vote. The BJP government can ask central agencies to target those standing in favour of farmers but they cannot suppress the voices of farmers,” Tikait added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-govt-should-lodge-fir-against-khattar-for-digging-nhs-to-prevent-movement-of-farmers-tikait-101616614218547.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||HC stays AAP MLA Somnath Bharti’s conviction, jail term; grants him bail||The Delhi high court on Wednesday suspended the two-year jail term awarded to AAP MLA Somnath Bharti in a case of assault on AIIMS security staff in 2016, and granted him bail in the case.Justice Suresh Kait, while staying Bharti’s conviction in the case, also sought response of the Delhi government on his plea challenging his conviction and the sentence.Bharti, an Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Malviya Nagar, was taken into custody and sent to prison on Tuesday after pronouncement of the verdict by a trial court.In his plea before the high court a day later, Bharti sought setting aside of the trial court’s order and acquittal from all charges.On Tuesday, the court had upheld January verdict by a magistrate that convicted Bharti for unlawful assembly. The court though had set aside Bharti’s conviction under section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence of a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) with a JCB machine.In his plea, Bharti has said that there is no evidence and the judgment of March 23 of the Special Judge has been passed relying upon conjectures and surmises based upon the totally false and fabricated story of the prosecution foisting erroneously the guilt upon the petitioner.“That the prosecution has miserably failed to prove guilt of the petitioner beyond reasonable doubt to substantiate the charges…That there is no iota of evidence which can be attributed to the petitioner in the instant case attracting ingredients of offence u/s 3 of The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 and u/s 147 IPC r/w sec149 IPC,” the plea read.“Further, the case of the prosecution is full of improvements, embellishments, contradictions and is unworthy of reliance and will fall like a pack of cards just by the stroke of the sheer hand of providence by this court,” the plea added.The matter will now be heard on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-stays-aap-mla-somnath-bharti-s-conviction-jail-term-grants-him-bail-101616610607334.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Lockdown brought to fore the humane face of policing||On the first anniversary of the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Delhi Police on Wednesday said it has, so far, lost 34 personnel to the viral infection, while 7,733 personnel were infected. Even so, the force did its best to bring relief to people amid the pandemic -- it distributed over 12 million food packets to the needy, while 997 pregnant women were shifted to various hospitals in police vehicles during the lockdown.In a statement issued on Wednesday, the city police mentioned how they helped people by issuing movement passes, delivering food, ration and other essentials, apart from taking care of senior citizens, migrants and stray animals.Terming 2020 a “challenging year”, the Delhi Police said the lockdown brought about a paradigm shift in policing while putting a humane face on the law enforcing mechanism. After the nationwide lockdown was announced beginning March 24, police were among the first responders to the Covid-19 pandemic and were called the “Corona Warriors,” along with health care personnel and sanitation workers, the statement read.“So far, Delhi Police has lost 34 of its own -- they died while discharging their duties during the pandemic. A total of 7,733 personnel were infected, while 7,688 personnel have recovered, so far,” said city police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.While enforcing the lockdown in Delhi, Biswal said the focus of the force was to ensure that there was no panic among the people. The force also ensured that migrants had a regular supply of food, medicines, and other essentials during the months of restriction. All 15 police districts organised food networks through community kitchens.Apart from the food distribution, the police also started a helpline to address grievances of the public and to tackle emergency situations such as providing relief measures to the hungry, shelter to the stranded and aid to the helpless. The patrolling vans doubled up as ambulances for ailing and serious patients, thousands of whom were safely transported to and from hospitals.“A total of 997 women in labour were transferred to hospitals in PCR vans while nine babies were delivered in vans with the help of our personnel. In one such case, constable Dayaveer of Ashok Vihar police helped a pregnant woman shift to a hospital where he helped her deliver the child. The family named the child Dayaveer, after the policeman,” said Biswal, adding that several recovered personnel became plasma donors for those who were seriously infected.The city police said they issued movement passes to many whose family members were stranded at different locations outside the city and also to those who wanted to attend funerals of their loved ones in other states. “We were also monitoring emergencies flagged on social media and addressing them as quickly as possible. Medicines were made available to patients at their doorstep while issues of senior citizens were also taken care of,” said Biswal.According to Biswal, as a mass movement of migrant labourers towards their home towns in other states was one of the biggest challenges before the force -- these workers were persuaded by the police to stay at their homes or in shelters homes.“As migrants were already in distress, the police were briefed to be extra polite with them. Supplies of food, water and other essentials were distributed to them with the help of the civil administration, NGOs and civil society. When the lockdown was gradually eased, proper arrangements were made for them to reach their home towns,” added Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-brought-to-fore-the-humane-face-of-policing-101616610604382.html
25-03-2021||Other||Yediyurappa allocates additional funds to backward classes to deflect criticism||Bengaluru The BS Yediyurappa-led government on Wednesday allocated an additional ₹300 crore for the Ambedkar Development Corporation and the Adi Jambhava Corporation to help ease the pressure on himself over allegations of prioritising some caste groups over the others. The chief minister had come under sharp criticism for announcing ₹500 crore each for the dominant and politically influential communities like Vokkaligas and Lingayats in the state budget. The decision to allocate huge funds for Vokkaligas and Lingayats was seen as a move to get the backing of caste groups ahead of the 2023 assembly elections. The allocations for Vokkaligas, analysts said, is part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) strategy to reach out to the dominant community in southern Karnataka or Old Mysuru region where it has little electoral representation. The Vokkaligas are also known to support former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular). It would be crucial for the BJP to make inroads into this region if it wishes to return to power in 2023 on it’s own. He has also entertained reservation-related requests from dominant communities like Valmikis, Kurubas, Panchamasali (a subsect of Lingayats) and Vokkaligas among others to not be seen as only helping groups that back him and expand his support base.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yediyurappa-allocates-additional-funds-to-backward-classes-to-deflect-criticism-101616613017766.html
25-03-2021||Other||Assembly adjourned after ruckus over Jarkiholi case||Bengaluru: The Karnataka Assembly was adjourned sine die on Wednesday as the sex scandal allegedly involving BJP leader and former water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi rocked the proceedings for the third consecutive day. Faced by continued disruption, the budget session of the Assembly that began on March 4, was adjourned sine die five days ahead of the schedule of March 31.The uproar started after Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Wednesday sought an inquiry into the private lives of 225 legislators to know if they were involved in any “immoral relationships” in the past. “I am openly challenging them, all the 225 legislators… let us all face an inquiry. In your personal lives, those who do not have extra marital affairs, let it be proved, including me... let it come out. Who did what when they were chief ministers... let it come out... what they did in their personal lives. Let there be an inquiry since it’s a question of morality,” Sudhakar told reporters in Bengaluru. The minister also named former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy and Congress state chief D K Shivakumar to face the challenge “if their conscience is right”. He added that the probe would bring out the truth on all the elected representatives before the people of the state.Sudhakar said that such a probe would also reveal which of the legislators were “Eka Patni Vrata” (loyal to his wife) and “Sri Ramachandra”. The challenge, which was withdrawn by the minister later in the day, came as a response to the Congress’ demands for a court-monitored probe into the alleged sexual exploitation of a woman by former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on the pretext of providing a job. Sudhakar is among the six ministers in the B S Yediyurappa-led government who have secured an injunction from a city and sessions court against publication, broadcast and circulation of any material against them.His remarks evoked a sharp response from leaders belonging to the ruling as well as opposition party, with legislators assuring that they have “one wife and one family”. “When giving a statement, you should name the person concerned. It is wrong to say that all of them should be inquired. When one person becomes a minister or a legislator, there is some status and respect that they have… they are not like common people since they have been elected,” Narasimha Nayak (Raju Gouda), BJP legislator from Shorapur, said, adding that Sudhakar’s statement was not correct and must be withdrawn.“I have just one wife and just one family. Am happy he has taken all our names. I think there is something wrong with him,” Shivakumar said. He added that his party would discuss the remark and raise it before the House. Hitting out at Sudhakar, Kumarsawamy said such a situation would not have arisen if he and his ministerial colleagues had followed propriety.Recalling that he had once slipped in his private life, he said, I admitted that in the Assembly. Why has he (Sudhakar) brought in my name. I have said it openly.” “These things wouldn’t have come up had you behaved properly and hadn’t gone to court for an injunction. You created these problems, Kumaraswamy said.“I don’t know the context in which he made those statements but using that word is wrong,” Roopakala M (Roopa Shashidhar) of the Congress said. H D Revanna of Janata Dal (Secular) said he was willing to undergo any probe and even make a statement in a temple before the gods. In a letter to the government later, Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of opposition, said the party accepted the challenge and that the chief minister and Speaker should also be among those probed. Earlier in the day, Siddaramaiah demanded that the Jarkiholi case be supervised by the Chief Justice of Karnataka high court. “We have no faith in the Special Investigation Team (SIT),” he said. He had earlier sought the registration of a rape case against Jarkiholi as the victim, he claimed, said in a video that she was “utilized” and thus, it would amount to rape.However, in a statement released in the evening, Sudhakar said that his words should not be taken literally and that people should “understand the pain and anguish” behind them. “No one bothered when Congress deliberately tried to defame and indulge in character assassination of the six ministers. But my statement to introspect themselves has hurt people. I request them not to take the literal meaning of my statement but understand the pain and anguish behind my words,” he said. “My statement has been misinterpreted and I regret it if it has hurt anyone,” he added. Meanwhile, finance bills were passed by the Karnataka Legislative Assembly amid staunch protests over the case. The Congress, which continued to agitate for the third consecutive day, trooped into the well of the House and raised slogans against the government. The Grand Old Party also demanded the resignation of the six ministers who sought injunction from the court. Yediyurappa, whose reply on the budget discussion was continuously disrupted by the protesting legislators, condemned Congress’ conduct and said people were watching the developments and will teach them a lesson in the days to come.“As they don’t have any issue they are doing it, I condemn it. People of the state are watching you and will teach a lesson in the days to come, you can’t achieve anything from it,” he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. After the chief minister’s reply, the Speaker put the appropriation bills, supplementary estimates, and related financial bills including Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Bill 2021 that were tabled, to vote, and they were passed amid din.The Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was also passed by the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assembly-adjourned-after-ruckus-over-jarkiholi-case-101616612957789.html
25-03-2021||Other||Govt imposes curbs on political, religious events||Bengaluru As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases continue to surge in Karnataka, the state government on Wednesday said it has directed all district authorities to restrict all political and religious events for a month. “We have to take strict action now as it would be difficult to contain the surge if there are slips now,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health minister, said on Wednesday. Karnataka reported 2,298 new Covid- 19 cases in 24 hours on Tuesday, taking the total number of active cases to 16,886. The state also reported 12 fatalities taking the to to 12461, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin. Bengaluru continued to account for the majority of new cases as it reported 1,398 cases on Tuesday, taking the total active caseload to 11,520. Bengaluru reported seven fatalities on Tuesday, taking its toll to 4,563. Kalaburagi recorded 118 new cases, while Tumakuru, Udupi, Bidar and Mysuru reported 94, 79, 82 and 74 new cases, respectively, on Tuesday. Sudhakar said the state will observe decisions taken by other states on mandatory RT-PCR tests for all persons coming from other states. “We will see how things turn up in other states and then decide,” he said. However, the government remains steadfast in not announcing a lockdown—partial or otherwise. According to experts, the knowledge of Covid-19, ongoing vaccination drive and economic considerations have weighed on the decisions of chief minister B.S Yediyurappa-led state government. “The economic impact is one of the major considerations of the government,” Dr V Ravi, senior professor and head of the department of Neurovirology at NIMHANS, said. Dr Ravi is also part of the technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19 in Karnataka. Stating that last year was the state and country’s first experience on the virus, Dr Ravi added that there is better knowledge on the subject and that Karnataka was better prepared to deal with the surge. He said hospitals were better equipped and that there were enough beds with oxygen and other requirements to treat Covid-19 patients. Though Karnataka had proactively begun its treatment, testing, tracing and isolation efforts last year, it has fallen back on tracing and testing in the last few months, experts said. The government is now willing to deploy any or all measures like isolation, testing persons coming from other states and improving contact tracing, while shrugging off any suggestion to go in for a lockdown, experts said. With revenue channels from the Centre drying up, Karnataka is relying on taxes like excise and home registrations among other avenues to bring in some funds into the cash-starved and calamity-prone state. Despite losing out on two months of sales, the excise department of the state has managed to fulfill its 2020-21 target of Rs22,700 crore on Wednesday, with almost a week left to go in the financial year. An official of the excise department said the increase of taxes twice last year by 17-25% helped bring in some revenue to the state exchequer. “(I) don’t think there is anything alarming at this stage,” the official said. With a sharp surge in cases, Yediyurappa-led government has fallen back on intensifying the vaccination drive to contain the spike. Till 7.30 pm on Tuesday, Karnataka has vaccinated (first and second dose) over 28.11 lakh people. However, the government has turned a blind eye on political events and other public functions where large numbers of people gather with no safety protocols like wearing masks or maintaining social distancing, experts said. The government has intensified scrutinising weddings, late night parties and other events. Chief minister B.S Yediyurappa has specified that restrictions will be imposed on people gatherings indoors and not outdoors. This distinction will help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and other political parties to campaign for the upcoming bypolls (on April 17) and conduct meetings, analysts said.Industrialists and people in the hospitality business, meanwhile, feared that any possibility of another lockdown would cripple the economy further. “We have written a letter to Dr Harsh Vardhan (Union health minister) and the BBMP commissioner to increase vaccination and not take any harsh decisions,” PC Rao, president of the Bengaluru Hotels Association, said. He added that there was no financial help from the government during the last lockdown and another set of restrictions would cripple a sector that was just getting back on its feet. “Our business got no support from the government. We had to bear the burden of government decisions and we may just not be able to bear another lockdown,” said a member of the state wine merchants association, requesting not to be named..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-imposes-curbs-on-political-religious-events-101616612897751.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||HC orders Delhi govt to pay nearly ₹900 crore to MCDs by end of March||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the state government to release the remaining amounts due to the three civic bodies towards their Basic Tax Assignment (BTA) on the basis of revised estimates presented in the budget for the year 2021-22, within the current financial year.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said that the amount, which is nearly ₹900 crore, is one of the major and important sources of revenue for the corporations. It said that this contribution by the Delhi government to the corporations is used to meet the expenditures towards the salaries and other expenses on a day-to-day basis.“….we direct the Delhi government to release in the financial year the remaining amount due towards BTA to the three corporation on basis of revised estimates presented in budget for year 2021-22,” the court said.The corporations had sought that the amount deducted by the Delhi government in their revised estimates be released to them for release of salaries.The Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel advocate Satyakam, told the court that they have incurred a huge deficit in the revenue generation due to the pandemic and they would release the amount in April.However, the court said that the money should be released by this financial year. A detailed order is yet to be uploaded on the website of the Delhi high court.Reacting to the development, Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra, at a press conference, said that the decision of high court ordering immediate release of funds to the three municipal corporations has vindicated his party’s agitation, demanding fund release for MCDs.He said that BJP has all along said that due to its biased political attitude, the Arvind Kejriwal government has not allowed rise in MCDs funds as per 4th Delhi Finance Commission & Municipal Reforms Committees recommendations.“Apart from this, the Arvind Kejriwal government every year cuts the budget allocated funds of the three MCDs. Due to this biased politics of Arvind Kejriwal government, today over ₹13,000 crore of MCDs funds stand accumulated with it.“….the court today delivered a historic decision rejecting all pleas put up by Delhi government and ordered that they should in one week release Rs. 991 crores of pending funds of the three MCDs for this current financial year 2020-21,” he said, adding that the order has established that the Delhi government has with political bias stalled municipal funds and it is responsible for the problems of deficient public services faced by the people apart from the salary problem faced by the employees.The AAP did not respond to requests for a comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hcorders-delhi-govt-to-pay-nearly-rs-900-crore-to-mcds-by-end-of-march-101616610597413.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Man shot multiple times in Dakshinpuri, police suspect personal enmity behind murder||A 31-year-old man was killed after four unidentified men riding opened fire at him in south Delhi’s Dakshinpuri late on Tuesday night. The victim’s family members have alleged that the assailants fired more than 30 rounds and the man was shot nearly 24 times.The police too confirmed that multiple rounds were fired, but refused to give the exact count of bullet injuries that the man might have sustained, while stating that they were waiting for the autopsy report.Police identified the victim as Dalip alias Kunal, who they said had a criminal past and he was involved in seven cases of murder, kidnapping, robbery and hurt. The police suspect that Kunal may have been killed over personal enmity. His family, however, has accused a local criminal for the murder and said that the local goon had threatened his brother around two months ago. Kunal ran a meat shop at H-block in Dakshinpuri.“We have registered a case of murder and are probing it from all possible angles. Prime facie, personal enmity appears to be the reason behind Kunal’s murder,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.DCP Thakur said that the crime took place around 11.30pm outside Kunal’s meat shop and it came to their notice at about 12.45am, after a call was received from a hospital.During initial enquiry, the DCP said, it was learnt that Kunal was standing near his shop when the four men arrived on two two-wheelers and opened fire. Kunal was declared brought dead at the hospital, he said.Kunal’s brother Sunny said that his brother was with two other persons when the four men — all wearing helmets —arrived on a bike and a scooter and opened fire. “They fired 30-40 bullets. Doctors told us that my brother was shot at least 23-24 times. We were having enmity with a local gangster, who had threatened me over the phone around two months ago,” said Sunny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-shot-multiple-times-in-dakshinpuri-police-suspect-personal-enmity-behind-murder-101616610589331.html
25-03-2021||Delhi||Police probing snatching angle in CA’s murder after gold chain found missing||Eight days after a 45-year-old chartered accountant (CA) was shot dead at his under-construction building in a residential colony near the Adarsh Nagar Metro station in north-west Delhi, it has emerged that his gold chain was missing since the day of the murder.This missing chain, apart from other possible motives, has prompted the police to probe a snatching angle and are looking for a snatcher, who allegedly had committed a couple of snatchings in west Delhi, a few days before the murder of the CA, identified as Anil Aggarwal.The scooter used in the murder was also used in the other two snatchings, a police officer associated with the case said, requesting anonymity.Aggarwal’s family members also confirmed that his gold chain was not among the items that the police showed them after the autopsy. Aggarwal’s son, Aayush, as well as his brother-in-law, Mohit Goyal, said the police told them that they did not find the chain on Aggarwal’s body or at the crime scene.“We are investigating the case from all possible angles and it’s too early to reach any conclusion,” said deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani, when asked if Aggarwal’s murder has any connection with his missing gold chain.Aggarwal lived with his wife and two children on the first floor of a four-storey building in Majlis Park. The occupants of all four floors, including Aggarwal, own a property on Mahatma Gandhi Road that is less than a kilometre away from their home. A four-storey building is being constructed there and Aggarwal was murdered at the under-construction site when he had gone there with his wife to meet the labourers on March 16, the police said.A woman labourer working at the site said she was cooking food while Aggarwal and his wife were talking to another labourer, when she heard a gunshot. “By the time I rushed out there, Aggarwal lay bleeding on the floor. An unidentified man had shot him and fled on a scooter,” said the woman, who did not share her name.A case of murder and use of firearm was registered and several teams were formed to identify and nab the suspect. The investigating team scanned CCTV cameras around the crime scene and the routes that the suspect had taken. It helped them identify the scooter and its owner, who told the police that it was stolen some days ago from central Delhi. The owner also said teams from police stations in west Delhi had also contacted him regarding the use of his scooter in snatching incidents, said the officer cited above.After picking up some clues, the police teams of west and north-west districts are conducting searches at various places, including Uttar Pradesh, to nab a snatcher who could be involved in Aggarwal’s murder and the snatching incidents of west Delhi, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-probing-snatching-angle-in-ca-s-murder-after-gold-chain-found-missing-101616610585429.html
25-03-2021||Other||‘Rangbhari Ekadashi’ marks beginning of Holi celebrations in Kashi||VARANASI Amid chants of ‘Har Har Mahadev’ and hundreds of devotees hurling ‘gulal’ in the air, the traditional ‘gauna’ of Baba Kashi Vishwanath took place on the occasion of ‘Rangbhari Ekadashi’ in Varanasi on Wednesday to mark the beginning of Holi celebrations in the temple city.Piyush Tiwari, PRO of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Developmental Board and Temple, said people were urged to follow Covid protocols to keep infection away.As per tradition, Baba Kashi Vishwanath’s idol was taken to the house of the Mahant in Tedhinam area on Tuesday evening to bring Maa Gaura’s idol to the Lord’s abode (Kashi Vishwanath Temple).The ‘Gauna’ rituals began at the Mahant’s residence during ‘Brahma Muhurat’ (wee hours) on Wednesday. Eleven Vedic priests offered milk and panchgavya to the idols of Baba and Maa Gaura and performed ‘Rudrabhishek’. Thereafter, royal ‘sringar’ of the idols was done and ‘arti’ was performed. The women of Mahant’s family sang traditional marriage songs and devotees paid obeisance to Baba Vishwanath.In the noon, Padma Shri Rajeshwar Acharya inaugurated ‘Shivanjali Mahotsav’. Several artists offered musical prayers to Baba Kashi Vishwanath and Maa Gaura. This went on till 4.30pm. Devotees offered gulal, abir and colours to the deities. Thereafter, around 4.45 pm, the idols of Baba Kashi Vishwanath and Maa Gaura were placed inside the palanquin at the Mahant’s residence.Thereafter, the devotees picked up the palanquin on their shoulders and carried it to Baba Kashi Vishwanath Temple.The idol of Baba Kashi Vishwanath and Maa Gaura were placed in the sanctum sanctorum of the temple, as per tradition and special ‘pooja’ was performed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rangbhari-ekadashi-marks-beginning-of-holi-celebrations-in-kashi-101616608997539.html
25-03-2021||Pune||Pune civic body to start 24x7 Covid vaccination at five civic hospitals||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued an order on Wednesday to start round-the-clock Covid-19 vaccination at five civic hospitals from March 24. The civic body aims to increase vaccination as the city has been witnessing a drastic rise in the number of fresh Covid cases. The order states that when the night curfew is imposed only health care workers and frontline workers would be vaccinated at these centres and it would not be opened for phase two beneficiaries. The order mentions that the five 24x7 vaccination centres would be Kamala Nehru hospital in Mangalwar peth, Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada, Jayabhai Nanasaheb Sutar hospital in Kothrud, Murlidhar Pandurang Laigude at Wadgaon Dhayari and Annasaheb Magar Maternity home in Hadapsar. The order also states that these centres must put out a board which clearly mentions that vaccination would not be in place during the night curfew hours. The medical officer concerned must appoint a medical superintendent and medical officer at these centres. The state’s vaccination capacity also went up as Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) donated an air-conditioned vaccine van to the state government’s health department. The van with a capacity of 32 cubic meters can carry 30 lakh doses of vaccines at a time. This is the first such initiative in the state. The van will supply vaccines especially in Marathwada and Vidarbha. Dr Dilip Patil, state vaccination officer and deputy director of public health department said, “Any vaccine be it the currently approved Covid-19 vaccines or other vaccines under universal immunisation programmes like polio, rubella and others need to be maintained at +2-+8 degrees Celsius so that the efficacy remains intact. It is important to maintain the cold chain between vaccine suppliers and beneficiaries. Since the vaccine will be available to all people from April 1, a large number of vaccines will have to be transported. In this case, the vaccine van will be useful. Our furthest vaccination centre is at Nagpur which is about 1,000 kilometers. This truck can store the vaccine safely for days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-start-24x7-covid-vaccination-at-five-civic-hospitals-101616602037034.html
