26-03-2021||Other||Chinmayanand acquitted in sexual harassment case||Special judge (MP/MLA court) Pawan Kumar Rai on Friday acquitted former Union minister of state Swami Chinmayanand in a sexual harassment case. A woman law student had made the allegation against him in 2019 but disowned them last year. The Lucknow-based court also acquitted the law student and her colleagues of all charges of trying to extort money from the former minister. “The court has discharged Swami Chinmayanand from all charges,” said Om Singh, the lawyer who was representing Chinmayanand in court. Chinmayanand is president of the managing committee of the Swami Shukdevanand Post-Graduate College in Shahjahanpur in western UP. The woman law student was studying in this college and working in its library, drawing a salary. She had disowned her accusations before the court through her lawyer, on October 13, 2020. The law student told the court that she had levelled such allegations under pressure of anti-social elements. The sexual harassment case came to light in August 2019 when the woman went missing from Shahjahanpur. Later, she released videos alleging rape and sexual harassment by the former minister. The state government formed a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the matter on Supreme Court orders. The SIT lodged an FIR against the former minister under Section 376-C of the IPC. It also booked the law student for extortion. Chinmayanand and the law student were arrested in September 2019. In February 2020, the Allahabad high court granted bail to Chinmayanand. The woman, too, secured bail. During the trial, 33 witnesses recorded their statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chinmayanand-acquitted-in-sexual-harassment-case-101616782830185.html
26-03-2021||Noida||Wave Megacity Centre files for bankruptcy||Noida: The fate of hundreds of homebuyers, who invested in the projects of Wave Megacity Centre Private Limited, hangs in the balance as the debt-ridden realty firm has moved the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking corporate insolvency proceedings against itself. Wave Megacity Centre had launched residential and commercial projects in Noida’s sectors 25A and 32 in 2011-12 with an assurance of giving the possession from 2014 onwards. However, the company is yet to deliver units in residential towers, though it has delivered some shops in its Sector 32 project. Plagued by financial crisis for several years, the company’s condition worsened this year when the Noida authority cancelled the land allotment in February for alleged failure to clear dues to the tune of ₹2,700 crore. In its petition filed on Friday, the realty firm has asked NCLT to initiate the insolvency proceedings “due to failure of... corporate debtor (Wave Megacity Centre) to pay dues of the Noida authority for an amount of ₹1,222.64 crore”. The company said it does not have “adequate cash flow to meet its obligation to the customers and financial lenders”. The Noida authority had allotted 618,952 square metres (sqm) of land in sectors 25A and 32 for a mixed land use project to the company in March 2011. But, amid the slowdown in the real estate sector, the firm had returned 454,131.62 sqm land to the authority. On March 10 this year, the Noida authority had taken possession of 108,421.13 sqm of land (in Sector 32) of the Wave Megacity Centre after the developer allegedly failed to pay the land cost dues. In its petition, the realty firm called the action an unlawful and arbitrary decision taken by the Noida authority to seek insolvency proceedings. Rajiv Gupta, managing director for Wave Infratech, said, “We cannot comment as the matter is sub-judice. We are working for the best interest of the buyers.” As per the process now, NCLT may appoint an interim resolution professional who will take control of the Wave Megacity Centre and begin corporate insolvency proceedings. The Noida authority may also get an opportunity to put forth the issue of their financial dues before NCLT.When asked, Noida authority’s chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari said, “We are not aware of Wave Megacity Centre filing an application before NCLT. We cancelled the land allotment and sealed the land as per rules.”The group has partially developed a residential project ‘Amore’ that has about 1,500 housing units, a 43-storey commercial tower and some shops in Sector 32.  Buyers are worried a lot after getting news about the realty firm’s case before NCLT. “My father, after retirement, invested ₹1 crore to buy a 3-BHK home in Amore in 2012 with the assurance of getting possession of the house in 2016. My father died in 2020 without getting to move from a rented apartment into his own house. The latest development is a setback for us because we are paying rent and loan instalments for the last eight years,” said Anshuman Jain, a buyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/wave-megacity-centre-files-for-bankruptcy-101616781870122.html
26-03-2021||Noida||Six bovines dead at Greater Noida shelter; activists allege number higher||Noida: Six cattle died at a bovine shelter being managed by the Greater Noida authority in Jalpura village over the past few days, which, officials claim, died due to “injuries or for eating polythene”. Animal activists, however, said about 20 animals died in the last 24 hours, while dozens allegedly died in the past few days and were buried in a nearby field of a bovine shelter run by the authority, with the help of JCB machines. The issue came to light on Thursday after videos of starving and dead cattle went viral on social media. Soon after, activists and members of animal welfare organisations rushed to the spot along with fodder and medical help. “Upon our visit, we found the cattle starving to death, with no records on purchase of food, treatment records, death records, etc. We got to know that about seven cattle had died the same day while a few dead bovines were lying around. The veterinary doctors had no resources to treat more than a dozen cattle on the verge of death. We are filing a formal complaint and the officials responsible must be held accountable,” said Gauri Maulekhi, an animal activist and co-trustee of People for Animal (PFA).Officials of authority, however, denied the allegations stating that only six bovines had died due to injury or for eating polythene. The video making the rounds were old showing some of the injured bovines which were recently brought to the shelter, said the officials. “There are a total of 1,916 cattle living in our shed. We have no dearth of food or medical supplies and there are veterinary doctors to take care of the cattle. The videos which are circulating now are old and are the ones that were recorded when we brought some injured and starving bovines from an NGO’s shed. These are the cattle which are discarded by the owners and the authority is taking good care of them,” said Narendra Bhushan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority. He added the six animals which died were buried without post mortem as their death was “not suspicious”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/six-bovines-dead-at-greater-noida-shelter-activists-allege-number-higher-101616781810170.html
26-03-2021||Noida||Two arrested for celebratory firing in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Police arrested two persons on Friday for allegedly firing during a celebration with a rifle in a high-rise society in Greater Noida. The suspects were identified as Sunil, 45, and his maternal uncle Tejvir, 50, residents of Gaur Atulyam Society, which comes under the Dadri police.Nitin Kumar Singh, assistant commissioner of police, Dadri, said that Sunil had recently become a father after 15 years of marriage. “He had organised a party in his society and invited some guests Thursday night. His uncle Tejvir also attended the programme and brought his licensed rifle,” he said. There was DJ music playing and the duo allegedly opened celebratory shorts in the air, said the police.Locals shot videos of the purported incident on their mobile phones and the videos were widely shared on social networking sites.The ACP said that a case has been registered against them under the Arms Act and also under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC. “We have seized the weapon and arrested the two suspects. They will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.The police will also send a recommendation for cancellation of the weapon’s licence for the alleged violation, said officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-arrested-for-celebratory-firing-in-greater-noida-101616780911132.html
26-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Woman, infant daughter found dead inside Sector 106 home||Noida: A 26-year-old woman and her two-and-a-half years old daughter were found dead at their home on Thursday evening in a society located under the Phase 2 police jurisdiction in Sector 106. The bodies have been sent for an autopsy.The incident came to light when the police were informed about the two bodies.“It seems a relative had gone to the house where he found them both dead. The house was not locked from the inside but prima facie, there doesn’t seem to be any evidence of foul play,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.A police team from Phase 2 police station was rushed to the spot. Chander said it seems as if the mother allegedly poisoned the daughter and then took her own life.“Our forensic team has sealed the area and they are working to identify what was used for the poison. The autopsy reports will ascertain the cause and time of death,” said the DCP.Police said that the husband, who works with a private company in Sector 80, was at work when the incident took place. The family was having domestic issues, said the police. No note was recovered from the spot.Police officers said all angles are being looked into and a probe in the matter is underway. The family has not filed any complaint in the matter yet.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-woman-infant-daughter-found-dead-inside-sector-106-home-101616780850006.html
26-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Two of gang duping people on pretext of MBBS admissions nabbed||Noida: Two persons were arrested by the Noida police on Thursday night for allegedly duping people on the pretext of helping them with MBBS admissions in various universities. Fake letters and visiting cards were recovered from them, said the police.According to police officials, the matter had come to light nearly a month back, following which two suspects had been nabbed. On March 19, they were taken in police remand for eight days, during which the arrested suspects allegedly revealed the whole operation.“There are 11 people involved in the case. Based on information obtained from the duo in remand, we nabbed two more people from near the Sector 59 metro station on Thursday,” said assistant commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajneesh Verma.The suspects arrested Thursday were identified as Sunil Singh and Raj Vikram Singh, from Mahoba district. Police said that Sunil was allegedly a 50% share holder in the entire operation while Raj allegedly often pretended to be an assistant professor in order to dupe victims by taking them on campus tours. They were allegedly running an institution by the name of Guidance club, assuring admission to medical colleges for lower ranked candidates, said officers, adding that another centre was allegedly being run from Sector 63.“As many as 14 complainants have come forward from different states such as Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, etc. The gang took amounts to the tune of ₹60 lakh to help with MBBS admissions. Sunil has invested extensively in the construction of a house using this money. We are working on recovering more money from the suspects and their accomplices while their bank accounts are also being frozen,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.Police officials said that the alleged operation had been going on from Sector 62 for the past six-seven months. However, the criminal history of the suspects goes back to 2008. They said Sunil has gone to jail for a chit fund scam, ATM cloning operations and another MBBS admission scam from Ghaziabad in 2018.Gang members would allegedly also impersonate lower level staff of colleges and universities to earn the trust of their victims, said the police. A search is on for their accomplices.Police recovered 134 visiting cards, letter heads of multiple educational institutions, three stethoscopes, clothes, TVs, computers, DVR and 31 stamps of government medical colleges. The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.Noida police has also urged the public to follow set regulations for admissions and to avoid getting trapped by such criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-two-of-gang-duping-people-on-pretext-of-mbbs-admissions-nabbed-101616780730599.html
26-03-2021||Noida||Worn on wetland to clean Kondli drain to begin next week||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh irrigation department is likely to start work on the creation of a wetland next week to clean waste water of Kondli drain, one of the major sources of pollution of river Yamuna in Delhi-NCR.The development comes after the Noida authority, which is funding the project, said that it has sanctioned ₹1.5 crore for the creation of a wetland. “The fund has been sanctioned and is being transferred to the UP irrigation department,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.In February last year, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered in-situ treatment of the Kondli drain jointly by the UP irrigation department and the Noida authority. In continuation to the NGT order, the irrigation department in August had proposed to create six wetlands at different sites of the drain that cuts Noida into two parts and finally merges with the Yamuna at Sector 168.“We have already made a detailed project report for creation of wetlands to clean Kondli drain. We have also hired a private agency and awarded the work too. Once we receive the funds from the Noida authority, we will start the work immediately,” said VK Pandey, assistant engineer of UP irrigation department.It is likely that the work on the development of a wetland along the drain will start in the next week, the officials said.The irrigation department will first create one wetland, and the work on other wetlands will begin when the authority releases more funds (out of a total ₹6.5 crore approved for the entire project), said the officials.“As a pilot project, we have decided to develop the first wetland at this drain near Sector 50 to clean waste water,” said Pandey.Residents have been demanding that the drain should be cleaned as it causes pollution in many residential areas that include sectors 11, 12, 22, 23, 23, 33, 34, 35, 50, 51, 77, 78, 137 and 168, among others. The legal battle to clean the Kondli drain was initiated by Noida resident and environment activist Abhisht Gupta in NGT in November 2018. “If the water of this drain is cleaned, it will benefit ecology of Noida,” said Gupta, a resident of Sector 137. The 40-year-old and 20km long Kondli drain originates from Kondli village in Delhi and enters Noida (via Ghaziabad) near Hari Darshan police post in Sector 11. After travelling through Noida for about 17km, through sectors 11, 12, 22, 50, and 92, it empties into the Yamuna near Chak Mangrola in Sector 168.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/worn-on-wetland-to-clean-kondli-drain-to-begin-next-week-101616780729959.html
26-03-2021||Noida||GB Nagar police extern 11 criminals out of district||NOIDA: Ahead of the upcoming panchayat polls, the Gautam Budh Nagar police have expelled as many as 11 alleged criminals from the district for six months under the Goondas Act. Of 11 expelled criminals, three were involved in crimes against women, two in illegal mining and one in extortion, senior police officials said. The GB Nagar commissioner of police, Alok Singh, said it appeared that these 11 criminals are either the members of some gang or kingpins of such gangs. “On the basis of different evidences against them, they have been found habitually committing a criminal offence or attempting to commit it. Due to their repeated involvement in heinous crimes, they have been expelled from the territories of GB Nagar district, as per the provisions under various sections of the Uttar Pradesh Control of Goondas Act, 1970, which is meant for establishing peace and security in society,” he said. The district police chief further said that most of these 11 criminals were involved in cases of sexual violence, illegal mining, smuggling of narcotic substances and extortion. “Despite their repeated involvement in criminal activities, no witness could turn up for any statement against these persons fearing for their own lives or properties,” Singh said. He also said that all these criminals have been externed with immediate effect from March 23.The panchayat polls are slated to be held in May across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-police-extern-11-criminals-out-of-district-101616780611672.html
26-03-2021||Noida||GB Nagar surpasses vaccination target for March, Ghaziabad achieves 72% coverage so far||Ghaziabad: Gautam Budh Nagar has become the first district in Uttar Pradesh to surpass its Covid-19 vaccination target given for the month of March. According to figures of the Co-Win portal, the district’s vaccination coverage stood at 102.12% on March 25, while Ghaziabad achieved 71.86% coverage and managed to get eleventh spot in the state.The UP government has rolled out targets to 75 districts for the third phase of vaccination (for senior citizens and people above 45 years having comorbid conditions). The GB Nagar got a target to vaccinate 65,048 beneficiaries while Ghaziabad was given a target for vaccination of 93,480 for March. The portal figures for March 25 revealed that GB Nagar vaccinated 66,426 people, whereas Ghaziabad inoculated 67,179 beneficiaries. “We have achieved 100% of the target given for March, and we will continue with vaccination for this category in April and May as well. During the vaccination campaign, we roped in 45 private and 51 government health-care facilities. Once we receive further guidelines for the next vaccination round from April 1, we will decide about the additional health-care facilities,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer of GB Nagar. As the Centre on March 23 decided to expand the vaccination coverage for people above 45 years from April 1, the officials said that GB Nagar having population of about two millions will have about 5-6 lakh beneficiaries who would be benefitted under the drive starting April 1.  The UP government had earlier set a target of vaccinating 373,920 beneficiaries to Ghaziabad and 260,792 to GB Nagar under the category of senior citizens and people having comorbid conditions. The target to 75 districts given for March was 25% of the overall target. Overall, in UP, the vaccination coverage stood at 56.05% till March 25 with 2722725 beneficiaries getting the jabs out of the monthly target of 4858029. In Ghaziabad, the vaccination coverage has improved. The officials said that they are trying their best to achieve the target for March and will also open 30 additional primary health centres to cover additional number of estimated 6-7 lakh beneficiaries which are expected to get jabs during the drive starting April 1. “All the 30 centres will be opened up in rural areas and we expect that the vaccination drive starting April 1 will cater to a large number of beneficiaries. Each of the 30 centres will be given a daily target to vaccinate 100-150 beneficiaries. We have already received special approval for four non-empanelled private hospitals for taking up vaccination,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. With 30 more government health-care centres to come in from April 1, the tally of vaccination centres will surpass 100. At present, the district has roped in 31 private hospitals and 48 government health-care facilities for taking up the Covid-19 vaccination.Gzb 54 active 210 noida 43, active 2031032 in UP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-surpasses-vaccination-target-for-march-ghaziabad-achieves-72-coverage-so-far-101616780611108.html
26-03-2021||Noida||Surinder Koli spared in 13th Nithari case||Ghaziabad: Surinder Koli, the prime suspect in Noida’s Nithari killing cases, was acquitted by a Ghaziabad court in the thirteenth case, in which he was charged for destruction of evidence, abduction, attempted rape and murder of a 10-year-old girl. This is the first case in which Koli has been acquitted, while in the rest of the 12 cases he was awarded the death penalty by the trial court in Ghaziabad. The killings which came to light in 2006 relate to Nithari village of Noida where several women and children disappeared and skeletal remains, skulls, bones and other material were found from near the Sector 31 house of Koli’s employer Moninder Singh Pandher, a businessman. It was alleged that Koli lured the victims and would later attempt rape before murdering his victims brutally, during which he also dismembered body parts and even cooked them to eat.In the thirteenth case, a minor girl who left her house in Nithari on April 19, 2006, did not return thereafter. After a lot of search by her parents, a missing person complaint was lodged on April 27, 2006. On December 29 the same year, the police discovered skeletal remains and other items belonging to several of the Nithari victims from the backside gallery of Pandher’s house. Koli, Pandher’s domestic help, later allegedly confessed before the police that he lured the girl inside his employer’s house and murdered her after attempting rape. After the initial investigation in cases by the Uttar Pradesh police, the CBI took over the investigation on January 11, 2007 and filed 16 charge sheets in as many cases and charge sheeted Koli in all the cases for murder along with other Indian Penal Code sections. Since February 13, 2009, when the first Nithari case was decided at Ghaziabad, Koli was awarded death penalties in 12 cases but got his first acquittal in the thirteenth case decided on Friday. “The court acquitted Koli during the hearing on Friday and more details will be known when we get a copy of the order,” said JP Sharma, special public prosecutor of CBI. During the hearing on Friday, the Ghaziabad court observed in its order that although Koli was awarded death penalties in other Nithari cases, the present was “different” as there was no “sufficient evidence” on record.“There were no skulls, skeletal remains or bones of the victim girl found from the recoveries made on instance of Surinder Koli, after their DNA test and skull superimposition tests were conducted,” the court said in its order on Friday. The court also stated that in the charge sheet, it was stated that Koli, on January 13, 2007, recovered a cloth allegedly worn by the victim girl.The court order said that no witnesses, including her father, made statements that the recovered cloth matched with the clothes worn by the victim on the day of the incident. The prosecution during the course of trial produced 33 witnesses to prove their case and relied heavily on circumstantial evidence and scientific evidence. “The prosecution which brought the case was not able to prove it and the chain of circumstantial evidence was not completed. The prosecution could not prove that any of the biological remains recovered were linked to the victim girl. So, this does not prove the circumstance that Koli attempted rape or murdered the victim and later threw the body in the backside gallery,” the court added in the order. Koli has been lodged in Dasna jail since December 2006 and represents his cases himself in the trial court at Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/surinder-koli-spared-in-13th-nithari-case-101616780549841.html
26-03-2021||Noida||Aqua Line metro to start at 2pm on Holi||Noida: The Noida Metro Rail Corporation’s (NMRC) Aqua Line metro services will start from 2 pm on Holi on Monday, March 29, said officials. Besides, parking services will also be available from 2pm only. Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC, said the train services will be available at a frequency of 15 minutes. Currently, parking facility is available only at five metro stations - Noida Sector 51, Noida Sector 76, Knowledge Park - II, Alpha 1 and Delta 1. In normal days, services on the Aqua Line run from 6am to 10:45 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/aqua-line-metro-to-start-at-2pm-on-holi-101616780430458.html
26-03-2021||Noida||UP-Rera to hold lok adalat on April 10 to address grievances||Greater Noida: The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Rera) will organise a National Lok Adalat online starting on April 10 to address the disputes between home buyers and developers and reduce the pending cases. This is the first time that a lok adalat is being organised to resolve the issues faced by the real estate sector. Officials of the UP Rera will hold the lok adalats online from the Lucknow and Greater Noida offices on April 10, July 10, September 11 and December 11. According to UP Rera officials, there are around 6,500 pending cases. Around 70% of these cases are from Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna Expressway and Ghaziabad areas while the remaining are from Lucknow.Issues like parking space, flat size, flat cost escalation, interest waiver and refund of investment among other issues would be sorted out at the lok adalats, said the officials. The UP state legal service authority had asked Rera to hold the lok adalats following directions from the National Legal Service Authority headed by the Chief justice of the Supreme Court. “The homebuyers can file an application on the UP Rera’s portal and get their cases settled. The National Lok Adalat is an effort to provide speedy justice to home buyers. If this initiative runs smoothly, we can organise lok adalats next year too. We want to know how beneficial this exercise is going to be for consumers,” said Anand Shukla, legal advisor to UP Rera and nodal officer of the lok adalat. The complaints filed under sections 31 and 63 of Rera Act and the cases where a settlement is possible on the basis of reconciliation agreement will be taken up for hearing in the lok adalats.“Through the lok adalats, homebuyers will get a transparent amicable settlement and speedy disposal of their cases,” said Rajesh Kumar Tyagi, secretary of UP Rera The UP Rera will send the link for online hearing of the cases to the complainant buyer and the realtor before the first lok adalat on April 10. “We hope realtors will take this initiative seriously, join the lok adalat and solve the issues being faced by the home buyers,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension flat owners’ welfare association.The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) is hopeful of the lok adalats leaving a positive impact. “The cases pending before Rera should be solved via mutual agreement. Realtors should use this opportunity and solve disputes as it will help boost the real estate sector,” said Prashant Tiwari, president of Western UP’s wing of Credai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/uprera-to-hold-lok-adalat-on-april-10-to-address-grievances-101616780429847.html
26-03-2021||Noida||Commuters face traffic snarls as farmers block Delhi to Ghaziabad side of DME for 12 hours during Bharat bandh call||Ghaziabad: Thousands of commuters were stuck in traffic snarls at Uttar Pradesh borders on Friday as protesting farmers blocked the Delhi to Ghaziabad carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) for 12 hours during their Bharat bandh call. Traffic officials said the carriageway was opened around 6pm on Friday after which normal traffic was restored.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at UP Gate since November 28, 2020 to press for their demand of repeal of the three central farm laws and a new law on minimum support price (MSP). The commuters on DME on Friday used the Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border and also the Hindon canal road to move to Delhi. “There were massive traffic jams and snarls during peak hours as the farmers closed down the operational carriageway of the DME. I initially drove to Kaushambi but there was a massive jam there as well. So I returned to the canal road to reach my office,” said Kuldeep Saxena, a resident of Indirapuram.“In the evening, there were snarls but the expressway was operational around 6.45pm when I returned to Ghaziabad from Delhi,” he added. The residents of Kaushambi have raised concerns at the growing traffic issues since the blockade of the DME last year.“As a result of the occupation of the DME, thousands of vehicles pass through our locality and it has disturbed the lives of our residents. There is so much traffic on our internal roads that even senior citizens find it difficult to cross to the other side. It is time the authorities intervene and get the issue sorted out. There is daily peak hour chaos in Kaushambi,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi apartments’ residents’ welfare association. Farmers staged a 12-hour long sit-in during which they played drums and celebrated Holi at the expressway. They blocked the operational carriageway, and in the afternoon they threatened to block the road indefinitely demanding the release of Yudhvir Singh, the national general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), by the Gujarat police.A video was circulated by the BKU over social media in which Singh was seen holding a press conference in Gujarat when he was taken away by the police. “He was holding a press conference in Ahmedabad, Gujarat when the police arrived and took him away. Thereafter at UP Gate, we decided that the carriageway will be blocked indefinitely till he is released. However, by evening, the police in Ahmedabad released him and at UP Gate we released the expressway around 6pm,” said Dharmendra Malik, BKU’s media in-charge. Police officials of the Chandkheda police station in Ahmedabad could not be contacted despite repeated attempts on the numbers provided by the Ahmedabad city control room. The farmers during the bandh call on Friday also tried to block traffic on the Delhi-Meerut Road. “They held a symbolic protest and later handed a memorandum of their demands. The traffic was not stuck at Duhai and the protestors left after submitting the memorandum. The DME carriageway was also restored in the evening by the protesters at UP Gate,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), Ghaziabad, said that normal vehicular movement was restored at the expressway by 6pm on Friday and that the usual diversions will continue. The Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway has been blocked by the farmers as they have been camping there since December 3 last year. As a result, thousands of commuters continue to move through Kaushambi and the Hindon canal road to go to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/commuters-face-traffic-snarls-as-farmers-block-delhi-to-ghaziabad-side-of-dme-for-12-hours-during-bharat-bandh-call-101616780369862.html
26-03-2021||Other||Unnao’s additional district judge seeks voluntary retirement after attack by lawyers||A day after he was allegedly attacked by a group of lawyers in his court room on Thursday, additional district judge (Unnao) Prahlad Tandon on Friday sought voluntary retirement from judicial service on personal grounds. Tandon is also special judge (Pocso Act court).In a letter addressed to Governor Anandiben Patel, he requested for voluntary retirement from service. A copy of the letter has also been sent to the registrar general, Allahabad high court and the district judge, Unnao.After the incident, Tandon had handed over a complaint letter to the Unnao kotwali police station, naming 15 lawyers and around 150 unidentified lawyers for the attack. Lawyers across the state have condemned the attack on a senior judicial officer. Even in Unnao district court, there is resentment against lawyers who attacked the additional district judge.Justice DP Singh, former judge of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, has condemned the incident and demanded stern action against lawyers involved in in it. “The high court must take a serious note of the incident. Stern action must be taken against the lawyers involved in the attack on the additional district judge of Unnao in the court room,” said Justice DP Singh. Justice Singh has also requested the high court not to accept the resignation of the additional district judge. Gyan Singh Chauhan, senior advocate of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, too, has condemned the Unnao incident and demanded action against those responsible for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unnaos-additional-district-judge-seeks-voluntary-retirement-after-attack-by-lawyers-101616778269853.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds more than 1,500 Covid cases for 2nd straight day; tally at 654,276||Delhi on Friday recorded another single-day spike in its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally with 1,534 fresh cases and nine more fatalities. The Capital’s caseload and death toll has climbed to 654,276 and 10,987 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. More than 637,000 people have recovered from the disease so far in Delhi and active cases have now reached 6,051, the bulletin also showed.Friday's case count is the highest since the beginning of 2021 and it is the second consecutive day when daily cases breached the 1,500 mark. On Thursday, 1,515 new cases were seen.More than 85,000 (85,902 exact) tests were carried out on Friday of which 32,048 were rapid antigen while the remaining 53,044 tests were RT-PCR/TruNat/CBNAAT tests. The number of people staying in home isolation stands at 3,312 while containment zones have increased to 1,307, the bulletin added.Delhi reports 1,534 new COVID-19 cases, 971 recoveries, and 9 deaths in the last 24 hours Total cases: 6,54,276Total recoveries: 6,37,238Death toll: 10,987Active cases: 6,051 pic.twitter.com/KGhssA8NriThe recent surge in Covid-19 disease cases in Delhi since last month is being attributed to people turning complacent and not adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour, doctors and health experts told news agency ANI on Thursday adding that the coming two to three months can be challenging. The Delhi government has already banned public celebrations and gatherings ahead of festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat and Navratri. All district magistrates have been instructed by the government to ensure strict enforcement of all Covid-related norms specifically in crowded areas.The doctors and health experts cited above also told ANI that Covid-19 cases in the national capital can only come down when vaccination is opened up for more people adding that citizens will have to strictly adhere to all precautions against the disease.Delhi has so far vaccinated more than 1.13 million people, which include healthcare and frontline workers during the first phase of the inoculation drive, and people above the age of 60 and between 45-59 with specific co-morbidities under the second one. Authorities are now preparing for the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive from April where jabs will be administered to everyone above the age of 45 with or without co-morbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-more-than-1-500-covid-cases-for-2nd-straight-day-tally-at-654276-101616776126492.html
26-03-2021||Ranchi||Ranchi logs 10% Covid-19 positivity rate||State capital Ranchi reported an alarmingly high Covid-19 positivity rate at nearly 10% on Thursday in comparison to the state’s positivity rate of 2.41%, according to the state health department’s bulletin. Positivity rate is the percentage of people who test positive for the virus out of those undergoing the test. Besides, the state, after a gap of more than four months, detected over 250 cases in a single day on Thursday, when it reported 278 cases after testing 11,534 samples, registering a positivity rate of 2.41%.However, Ranchi alone reported 170 cases after testing 1,704 samples taking the district’s positivity rate to 9.97%.Ranchi has so far reported 34,247 Covid-19 cases, including 33,420 recoveries, 574 active cases and 253 deaths. With an average positivity rate of 6.47%, these cases were discovered after testing a total of 529,194 samples.Experts say the ripples of the “second wave” was now being felt in the state, especially in Ranchi.“Districts with high urban population will always have high positivity rate due to overcrowding and high frequency of interstate movement of people. That is why the average positivity rate of Ranchi remained high throughout the pandemic’s year. Same is the case with East Singhbhum with its headquarters in Jamshedpur,” said Dr Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi.He added, “We can say that the ripples of what is happening in Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and some other states is now being felt in Jharkhand. The rise in number of Covid-19 cases in these states is due to mutant virus but the same is yet to be ascertained in Jharkhand.”Dr Kumar, however, clarified that the spread of the infection will be high if there was a new variant of virus, but it will not bring about changes in terms of severity.He said, “The state is going to witness an increasing trend in growth of cases for almost a month from now. It is, therefore, important for everyone to strictly follow all preventive measures.”According to the health department’s latest weekly report, Jharkhand registered a jump of over 71% in detection of cases in between March 15-21 in comparison to the previous week during March 8-14.While 369 cases were discovered during March 8-14, 633 new cases were found in between March 15-21.Considering the steep rise in cases, the department has alerted all districts to ramp up testing and strictly implement preventive protocols. Besides, orders have been passed to spruce up bed facilities in hospitals.Following the recent state Covid-19 task force committee’s decision, Ranchi district administration has clamped prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure during the upcoming festival of Holi. It has also put a ban on religious processions, political and social rallies and other events involving huge assembly of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ranchi-logs-10-covid-19-positivity-rate-101616776289438.html
26-03-2021||Ranchi||Soren approves proposal to drop Pathalgadi cases||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday gave his nod to the proposal of the state home department to withdraw criminal cases related to Pathalgadi during the previous BJP government, besides those in connection with protests against the proposed amendments in Chhota Nagpur Tenancy Act and Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act. In its first decision after taking over the reins of the state on December 29, 2019, the Hemant Soren cabinet had decided to withdraw all cases related to Pathalgadi. Officials said 23 cases were filed across different police stations, majorly in Khunti and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts,. A statement from the chief minister’s office said, “A three-member committee was formed in the districts. The committee was chaired by the deputy commissioner and superintendent of police and public prosecutor were other members. Committees from Khunti, Saraikela-Kharsawan, Chaibasa, Dumka and Sahebganj sent their reports, based on which the government has decided to withdraw these cases,” the statement said. Pathalgadi is a traditional form of erecting rock inscriptions by tribals earmarking their village boundaries and in memory of their loved ones. However, the practise courted controversy under the previous Raghubar Das government. The then government had filed cases against Pathalgadi activists under different sections of the Indian Penal Code, including for sedition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/soren-approves-proposal-to-drop-pathalgadi-cases-101616776169399.html
26-03-2021||Patna||Land mutation set to get faster from April 1 in Bihar||Mutation of land, which means transfer of ownership of land in official records, is set to get easier and faster from April 1, when registry offices will be linked to circle offices.At present, while deeds of sale or purchase of land are registered at registry offices, the mutation is carried out at circle offices. The new system can be only used by property owners who have jamabandi documents (number allotted to raiyats in tenants’ ledger for paying rent against land holdings) in the initial phase. The jamabandi receipt is a document wherein names of persons mentioned as paying the rent are presumed to be owners of the particular land plot and having possession. “Land holders selling a plot would be asked to fill a form at the registry office after registration of any sale deed of land. The mutation process would be initiated soon after. The process of mutation would be much easier and faster after interlinking of registry and circle offices,” said Ram Surat Kumar, minister for revenue land reforms. At present, those having purchased land from its owner have to apply separately at circle offices (CO) for mutation and submit related papers of registry of land. Complaints about mutation applications pending for months and years and harassment in submission of related papers are common.The minister also said the circle officers would now have to cite a valid reason for rejecting any application of mutation at their offices so that they do not act in an arbitrary manner in disposing of the mutation related applications. “This has come into effect at all CO offices from today. All the COs have been give necessary directives,” said the minister. However, there are apprehensions that the new system of accelerating mutation is fraught with the risk of slip-ups. “It is good the mutation process is being made faster by linking registry and CO offices. But despite jamabandi as a supportive document for ownership of a plot of land for mutation purposes, there could be pending civil suits on the same land. Besides, possession of land is another aspect. So, it is necessary that the verification process is done thoroughly before mutation is done. Corruption should be also checked in the entire process,” said Arvind Kumar , a lawyer based in Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/land-mutation-set-to-get-faster-from-april-1-in-bihar-101616776109390.html
26-03-2021||Patna||Girls outsmart boys in Inter exam, 78.04% pass||Girls once again outsmarted boys by fairing better in the intermediate exam conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB), results of which were declared by the state education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Friday. Sonali Kumari of Smt Parmeshwai Devi Girls’ Uchhatar Madhuamik School (Biharsharif) and Sugandha Kumari of SN Sinha College (Aurangabad) scored 94.20% by obtaining 471 out of 500 marks and emerged as science and commerce topper respectively. Madhu Bharti of R Lal College, Khagaria and Kailash Kumar of Simultala Awasiya Vidyalaya Jamui, jointly topped in Arts stream by getting 92.60% each. A total of 22 students have figured in the top five rank holder list, out of these 13 are girls.Choudhary praised the girls’ performance. He said, “The outstanding performance of girls shows the success of government schemes and policy implemented for education of girls and women empowerment. Girls leading in all three streams has made the state proud.”“With the Board’s strict rules and regulations for conducting the examination, there is no doubt on toppers’ merit. Unlike past, multi-level verification of toppers’ copies and interview is done to eliminate any doubt on their authenticity. Toppers emerging from rural areas indicate the bridging gap of inequality in rural and urban areas,” he added. BSEB’s chairman Anand Kishor said, “We have once again conducted the Board exams and published the result before any other education Board in the country which is a significant achievement. We have set a historic record by publishing results within 21 days of evaluation, which is the fastest result in past three years. More than 71.59 lakh copies and OMR sheets were evaluated between March 5 to 19.” The overall pass percentage this year is 78.04% which is 2.40 % less than the previous year’s pass. Altogether 13,40,267 lakh students took intermediate exam at 1,473 examination centres held from February 1 to 13 across the state. Of total students, 6,96,589 students were boys and 6,43,678 girls. The overall passing percentage of girl students is 80.57% which is 4.86% higher than boys. Students of commerce stream performed the best as 94.50% of appeared students cleared the examination followed by 80.24% who passed in science stream while 79.90% cleared in Arts stream exam. Of the total examinees, 3.61 lakh students secured first division, 5.42 lakh students second division, while 1.42 lakh students third division. “BSEB is the lone board in the country to provide answer sheets and OMR sheets with pre-printed photograph and details of students along with bar code and litho code. Our IT team has also developed a customised software which process data 16 times faster,” added Kishor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/girls-outsmart-boys-in-inter-exam-78-04-pass-101616775989421.html
26-03-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar opens Nature Safari at Rajgir, first in Bihar||Chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Friday that the state government’s sustained effort to promote tourism had started showing results as more and more tourists were visiting the state.He was speaking after inaugurating the Nature Safari at Rajgir, which has the first glass skywalk in the country, besides the new ropeway.The Nature Safari, which has been developed by the department of forests, environment and climate change in over 500 hectares of land at a cost of with ₹19 crore, also has a suspension bridge, adventure park and butterfly zone.The site also has an archery range, rock climbing walls and wrestling zone, among other attractions.An eight-seater cabin car ropeway will offer tourists a more convenient and much safer journey to the Vishwa Shanti Stupa atop the Ratnagiri hills at Rajgir.“More than two crore tourists visit the state from different parts, which include more than two lakh foreign tourists, mostly to Bodh Gaya, Rajgir and Vaishali. I am sure once Covid cases come down, more tourists will come to Bihar,” said Kumar. According to Indian Tourism Statistics 2019 prepared by Ministry of Tourism, Government of India, more than 3.24 crore domestic and 1.08 lakh foreign tourists visited Bihar in 2017 while in 2018, the number of domestic tourists increased further to more than 3.36 crore and those of foreign tourists marginally to 1,08,7971. Rank wise, Bihar was placed 14 in domestic tourists visit and ninth in terms of visit by foreign tourists. Kumar said Bihar was promoting eco-tourism as well. “Many works have been done at Valmiki Nagar to develop eco-tourism while ancient remains have recently been found at Bhagalpur and Banka, which we are developing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-opens-nature-safari-at-rajgir-first-in-bihar-101616775869429.html
26-03-2021||Patna||Shutdown hits rail, road traffic in Bihar||The Bihar bandh called by RJD and Left parties on Friday, which coincided with countrywide shutdown called by the Opposition parties in protest against farm bills, remained peaceful by and large but hit normal life across the state. The RJD and Left parties had given call for statewide shutdown in protest against the alleged assault on Opposition MLAs in the Bihar Assembly earlier this week.Despite heavy police deployment on major roads and national highways, protesters blocked several state highways and Mahatma Gandhi Setu, affecting vehicular traffic and causing logjams. There were reports of protests on railway tracks at many places, leading to disruption in rail services and affecting movement of more than 16 passenger/Express and goods trains. In Patna, hundreds of RJD supporters, including some minors, stormed the railway station and bus stand carrying sticks and party flags, but they were chased away by police personnel. Vehicles, both private and public, including city buses, stayed off the roads in the state capital. Though business establishments remained shut, schools, colleges and government offices functioned as normal.According to the state police headquarters, rail and road traffic was disrupted at Gaya, Jehanabad, Saharsa, Madhepura, Begusarai, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Nalanda, Muzaffarpur, Madhubni, Bhojpur, Lakhisarai, Sheikhpura ,Nawada and Bhagalpur districts. Hundreds of passengers were stranded at railway stations, bus stations and taxi stands since morning. “There was no major untoward incident,” said Patna SSP Upendra Sharma. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the shutdown remained peaceful by and large. More than 500 RJD and CPI (ML) leaders and activists were taken into preventive custody across the state. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said he didn’t himself participate in bandh due to death of his uncle. Talking with reporters, he said RJD has also given its support to the nationwide strike called by the farmers’ unions.“Speaker is our custodian. The police used baton charge and thrashed legislators in the Assembly premises only after the instruction of Nitish Kumar. The chief minister is likely to put pressure on Speaker, but RJD has faith in him,” Yadav said.On Thursday, Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha has asked top administration and police officials to probe into manhandling of legislators in the Assembly and identify the police officers involved for suitable action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/shutdown-hits-rail-road-traffic-in-bihar-101616775629447.html
26-03-2021||Patna||Bihar effects minor hike in power tariff||The Bihar Electricity Regulatory Commission (BERC) Friday approved an average cumulative hike in power tariff by 0.63% over the existing rate for the financial year 2021-22. Effectively, it translates into 5 paise to 35 paise per unit hike in tariff for domestic urban consumers. However, those consuming more power stand to gain, with the commission reducing the per unit rate from ₹8.50 to ₹8.05 for those consuming more than 300 units in the existing category. The new rates, which exclude government subsidy, will be effective from April 1 and remain in force till March 31, 2022, or till the commission issues the next tariff order, said BERC chairman Shishir Sinha. The BERC abolished one slab — the 200-300 unit category — and restricted the domestic urban and rural tariff to three slabs, instead of existing four, the highest being 200 units and above. Those consuming up to 100 units will be charged ₹6.10 per unit against an existing rate of ₹6.05 per unit. Those consuming between 101 and 200 units will pay ₹6.95 per unit against an existing per unit rate of ₹6.85. The existing 201-300 unit slab, in which consumers pay ₹7.70 per unit, had been abolished and merged with the next slab of those consuming above 300 units, in which the regulator had reduced the per unit rate from existing ₹8.50 to ₹8.05. “This meant that those consuming between 200 and 300 units will pay more while those consuming above 300 units will pay less,” said Nanda Sharma, an independent power tariff analyst and a former employee of the BERC. “The discoms had proposed an increase in the tariff of 9.22% for 2021-22. However, keeping in view the revenue surplus and deficit situation in the aggregate revenue requirement (ARR) of 2021-22, the commission has decided to increase the tariff cumulatively by 0.63%. The commission has retained the existing fixed charge unchanged,” said Sinha. The commission has also allowed 3% rebate for prepaid smart meter consumers. It also created a new category for charging of electric vehicles in view of increasing number of electric vehicles in the state. Those charging electric vehicles at charging stations will be levied ₹7.15 per unit. Meanwhile, a senior officer of the Bihar State Power Holding Company said the state government would announce subsidy on power tariff to consumers soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-effects-minor-hike-in-power-tariff-101616774729283.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||FIR against ex-cricketer: CFSL report inconclusive, Haryana Police told HC||The Haryana Police told the Punjab and Haryana high court that the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Chandigarh, report in the case of former cricketer Yuvraj Singh, who was booked for alleged casteist remarks by the Hansi police, remained ‘inconclusive’.In a report to the HC, the Haryana Police said that the CFSL could not form any opinion regarding authenticity of the video recording supplied by the complainant as the original video was not available. The original source of recording of the device could also not be supplied to the CFSL. Response was sought in a plea filed by the former cricketer in February seeking quashing of the FIR. The FIR was registered on February 14, eight months after the ex-cricketer apologised for the “unintentional remarks” made during an Instagram live video in April 2020 during lockdown. The FIR was registered on complaint of one Rajat Kalsan, of Hansi, under Sections 153-A (promoting enmity) and 153-B (assertions prejudicial to national-integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes Prevention and Atrocities Act, 1989. Police said the investigation is at its initial stage and the offence committed by the former cricketer are cognisable in nature and non-bailable. He did not join the probe and quashing of the FIR at this stage will cause grave prejudice to the investigating agency as the offence committed by the petitioner is an offence “committed against the state.”The HC, on February 25, has already asked the police to not to take any coercive action against the former cricketer. Now the case stands adjourned for April 28.“The remark was misunderstood and was widely shared on the social media, triggering outrage,” Yuvraj had told court, adding that the live session happened in April 2020 and in June, the video started circulating with allegations that he disrespected the Dalit community as he addressed two of his colleagues as “Bhangi”.“Even after an apology, an FIR was registered against him,” the plea stated, adding that all this was done in an attempt to harm his reputation even as he had addressed his colleagues in a “friendly manner”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fir-against-ex-cricketer-cfsl-report-inconclusive-haryana-police-told-hc-101616774189919.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh property grab case: Police announce cash reward for info on 4 accused||Police have announced cash reward of ₹50,000 for information that can lead to the arrest of four accused in the Sector-37 property grab case. The absconding accused include liquor contractor Arvind Singla, 41, of Sector 33, Chandigarh; Saurabh Gupta, 37, of Sector 38; Khalendra Singh Kadyan, 33, of Sector 11; and Gurpreet Singh Mani, 33, of Phase 9, Industrial Area, Mohali. “The accused are wanted in the property grab case. Information that can help nab any of them will be awarded with ₹50,000. Identity of the informer will be kept secret,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. So far, police have arrested four men in the case – journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta, inspector Rajdeep Singh and Satpal Dagar, who is the brother of UT DSP Ram Gopal.All accused are facing charges of torturing and kidnapping 48-year-old Rahul Mehta, the only surviving heir of his family, to usurp his 338 square yards house in Sector 37 and sell it to Manish’s brother Saurabh in 2019. They are accused of holding the victim, who was facing health issues, captive in his house in April 2017, and forcibly transferring the property’s general power of attorney (GPA) in favour of Khalendra and Arvind. This authorised them to sell the property to Saurabh, while Gurpreet had acted as a witness at some point during the conspiracy.Bail pleas of two accused deferred till March 31The bail pleas of journalist Sanjeev Mahajan and co-accused Manish Gupta will come up for hearing on March 31. In his bail plea, Sanjeev has claimed that he was falsely implicated for exposing many wrongdoings of the government officials, politicians and hardcore criminals. Manish, too, has sought bail, claiming false implication only because he was the elder brother of Saurabh, who bought the property. The court has already dismissed Saurabh’s plea for anticipatory bail. He had claimed he was unaware of the dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-property-grab-case-police-announce-cash-reward-for-info-on-4-accused-101616773589819.html
26-03-2021||Pune||Two senior citizens killed in separate accidents||Two senior citizens were killed in two separate road accidents in Pune on Thursday evening. Both the cases were of hit-and-run and occurred within two hours of each other, according to the police. In one incident, Mahadev Hambir Kamble (59), a resident of Bopodi was crossing the road on foot when a dumper truck rammed into him along the Elphinston road in Bopodi. In another incident, Uttam Bhojaji Ramkhanbe (70), a resident of Wagholi was also crossing the road Gade Vasti area of Wagholi when he was run over by an unidentified vehicle. The first incident happened around 5:30pm when the deceased was walking to his mother’s house to visit her, according to a complaint lodged by his 21-year-old relative. A case under Sections 279 and 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 132(1)(c) and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act (MVA) along with Khadki police station. Assistant police inspector Prema Patil of Khadki police station is investigating the case. In the second incident, the type of vehicle could not be verified as the vehicle fled the spot immediately after the incident around 7:30pm. A case under Sections 279, 3049a, 338 of IPC and 184, 134, 119/177 of MVA was registered at the Lonikand police station in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-senior-citizens-killed-in-separate-accidents-101616772749223.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Raghav Chadha writes to L-G over land allotment to DJB for sewage treatment plants, pumping stations||Delhi Jal Board Vice Chairman Raghav Chadha on Friday wrote to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, urging him to direct the Delhi Development Authority to allot land for constructing decentralised sewage treatment plants (DSTPs) and sewage pumping stations (SPSs).The utility does not own land in areas where the DSTPs and the SPSs need to be installed. It had requested the Delhi government's Revenue department and the DDA to allot land for this purpose, Chadha wrote in the letter.Subsequently, the DDA set up a committee to prepare norms to allocate land for the DSTPs and SPSs. The panel has already finalised the norms, which are yet to be notified by the DDA, he said.DJB officials have sent several letters to the DDA in this regard in the past. However, no progress has been made in the process so far, Chadha said."Therefore, your kind and immediate intervention is sought to direct the DDA to notify the necessary norms pertaining to land allotment and installation of DSTPs and SPSs," the letter read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/raghav-chadha-writes-to-l-g-over-land-allotment-to-djb-for-sewage-treatment-plants-pumping-stations-101616771657397.html
26-03-2021||Other||Mohali to observe one-hour silence for Covid victims every Saturday||One hour of silence will be observed across Mohali district from 11am to 12pm on every Saturday in memory of those who succumbed to Covid-19.The general public has been advised not to commute on intra-district routes during this hour. Traffic police have been directed to allow traffic only on state and national highways. Sirens will be rung in the entire district to indicate the start and end of the silence hour. Management committees of religious institutions have also been requested to support the initiative.Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Ashika Jain appealed to residents to observe the silence as a token of respect for the victims and their grieving family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-to-observe-one-hour-silence-for-covid-victims-every-saturday-101616771009763.html
26-03-2021||Lucknow||Four-phase panchayat polls in UP from April 15||The three-tier panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh will be held in four phases on April 15, 19, 26 and 29, the state election commission (SEC) announced here on Friday. The counting of votes for all the phases will begin on May 2.SEC issued the poll notification along with a detailed poll programme at a hurriedly convened press conference after the state government completed the reservation exercise with regard to the allotment of posts and seats to various castes.“With the issuance of the poll notification, the code of conduct has also come into force with immediate effect barring the transfer of government personnel (engaged in poll duty) without the commission’s approval and the announcement of new government schemes and works in rural areas,” state election commissioner Manoj Kumar said.As per the notification, the polling will be conducted in four phases and 12.39 crore rural voters will exercise their franchise to elect 58, 189 village pradhans, 75,855 kshetra panchayat members, and 3,051 zila (district) panchayat members.The kshetra panchayat and zila panchayat members elected in these polls will further elect the kshetra panchayat and zila panchayat chiefs through an indirect election to be held later in May. For the first phase of polling, candidates will file their nomination papers on April 3 and 4. The nominations for the second phase will be filed on April 7 and 8 and for the third phase between April 13 and 15. Candidates can file the nomination papers for the last phase on April 17 and 18.“The counting of votes for all the phases will start on May 2 at 8 in the morning and will continue till all the votes are counted,” Kumar said. He said elections would not be held in three village panchayats in Sitapur district, one in Bahraich and nine in Gonda due to their not completing the five-year tenure for different reasons. IN FIGURESVillage panchayats: in UP 58,189Village panchayat wards: 7,32,563Kshetra panchayats: 826Kshetra panchayat wards: 75,855Zila panchayats: 75Zila panchayat posts: 3,051Polling centres: 80,762Polling booths: 2,03,050Voters: 12.39 crore PHASE-WISE DETERMINATION OF DISTRICTS Phase-1 (April 15)Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Hathras, Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Jhansi, Mahoba, Prayagraj, Rae Bareli, Hardoi, Ayodhya, Shravasti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur, Jaunpur and Bhadohi.Phase-2 (April 19)Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bijnor, Amroha, Badaun, Etah, Mainpuri, Kannauj, Etawah, Lalitpur, Chitrakoot, Pratapgarh, Lucknow, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sultanpur, Gonda, Maharajganj, Varanasi and Azamgarh.Phase-3 (April 26)Shamli, Meerut, Moradabad, Pilibhit, Kasganj, Firozabad, Auraiya, Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun, Hamirpur, Fatehpur, Unnao, Amethi, Barabanki, Balrampur, Siddharth Nagar, Deoria, Chandauli, Mirzapur and Ballia.Phase-4 (April 29)Bulandshahr, Hapur, Sambhal, Shahjahanpur, Aligarh, Mathura, Farrukhabad, Banda, Kaushambi, Sitapur, Ambedkar Nagar, Bahraich, Basti, Kushinagar, Ghazipur, Sonbhadra and Mau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fourphase-panchayat-polls-in-up-from-april-15-101616770888963.html
26-03-2021||Pune||Bharat Bandh fails to evoke any response in Pune||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha sponsored Bharat Bandh on Friday failed to evoke any response in Pune and the rest of western Maharashtra. Most commercial establishments in the city were operating normally while public transport including rail and road remained unaffected by the bandh, for which Congress party extended support. Most traders and its apex body – Maharashtra traders association – stayed away from the bandh while farmer outfits such as Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana also did not take part in the strike. Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson said, “All our scheduled trains are running on time and there is no train roko or any kind of disturbance in our train operations across the division.” Similarly, most shops and traders from Laxmi road, Tilak road, Raviwar peth, Market yard and Tulshi baug in the city were open throughout the day. At Congress Bhavan, Congress workers led by state executive chief Basavraj Patil observed tone fast and submitted memorandum to Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh demanding repealing of three farm laws. “The three laws are being opposed by farmers and the Congress party has supported this demand. The purpose of participating in Friday’s Bharat bandh was to oppose these laws,” said Patil. “We had participated on behalf of the Rashtra Seva Dal in the national strike called by farmers union. The other organizations which were with us are Janata Dal Secular, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), All India Congress party, Pathari panchayat etc. We organized demonstrations under the bridge at Gadital Chowk in Hadapsar,” said Vilas Kirote, one of the senior members of Rashtra Seva Dal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bharat-bandh-fails-to-evoke-any-response-in-pune-101616770710257.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Minimal impact in Delhi; metro, road transport unaffected||A 12-hour "Bharat Bandh" called by farmer unions protesting against three agriculture laws of the Centre had a minimal impact in Delhi on Friday with no report of disturbance in the metro and road transport services while the major markets of the city also remained open, even as police made adequate security arrangements to deal with any situation.The "Bharat Bandh" called by the farmer unions began at 6 am.The situation was normal at the New Delhi railway station. Markets at Connaught Place, Karol Bagh, Kashmiri Gate, Chandni Chowk and Sadar remained open. Shops in Khan Market were also open.Chamber Of Trade and Industry (CTI) chairman Brijesh Goyal said there was no impact of the "Bharat Bandh" on the markets and industrial areas of the national capital."Everything remained open. The traders are in support of the farmers' demands but they have been accruing losses due to the coronavirus. We appeal to the government to resolve the issue as the industrial areas at Kundli, Manesar, Sonipat, Gurgaon etc. have been affected due to the protest," he said.A senior Delhi Police officer said the situation remained peaceful in the national capital and no untoward incident was reported.Farmers camping at the Ghazipur border blocked a carriageway of National Highway-9 from Delhi to Ghaziabad in the morning, but there was not much activity by the protesters in the city.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had to briefly close the entry and exit gates of the Tikri Border, Bahadurgarh City and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh stations, but after a few minutes, the stations were opened for passengers.A farmer leader claimed that there were protests at Mayapuri and some other areas, where people peacefully staged demonstrations.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the protesting unions, claimed that various farmer organisations, trade unions, student bodies, bar associations, political parties and representatives of state governments have supported the "Bharat Bandh" call.In a statement, the SKM said the farmers at the protest sites around the national capital blocked roads and railway tracks."Many other people's organisations, along with trade unions and other associations, protested in Delhi. At Mayapuri, Kalkaji and other places, concerned citizens organised symbolic protests," the statement said.On Thursday, the SKM had said the "Bharat Bandh" would also be observed in the national capital.It had appealed to people to make its nationwide shutdown successful."All shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed under the complete Bharat Bandh. All minor and big roads and trains will be blocked."All services will remain suspended except for ambulance and other essential services. The effect of the Bharat Bandh will be observed inside Delhi as well," the SKM had said in a statement.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) on their crops.So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and the government, but the deadlock continues as both sides stick to their stands.In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-minimal-impact-in-delhi-metro-road-transport-unaffected-101616770194850.html
26-03-2021||Pune||Space reserved for amenities used for garbage dumping on Baner-Pashan link road||The proposed amenity spaces on the Baner-Pashan link road next to Star Bazaar is turning into a garbage dumping area. For the past few weeks, the garbage dump next to Star Bazaar on Baner-Pashan link road is growing in size right beside the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) board announcing it as reserved space for amenities. The Baner-Pashan Link Road Welfare Trust (BPLRWT) has been fighting for years to see it complete. “The Baner-Pashan link road has no amenity spaces of any kind and we have been fighting for one for the past five years. We have written several letters to the authorities but despite having a private builder ready to develop the amenity space, but the PMC did not do anything despite multiple reminders from BPLR,” said Ravindra Sinha, member of the Baner-Pashan Link Road Welfare Trust (BPLRWT). The plot of 1,500 square meters was to be developed as a garden but has now become a dumping ground. “Earlier, there was a sorting shed for the waste pickers nearby and it is now causing people to drop garbage onto the amenity space as it is empty,” said one of the residents from a nearby society, preferring to be anonymous. The Baner-Pashan Link Road Welfare Trust (BPLRWT) has been demanding that the sorting centre be shifted elsewhere, but now it is causing more problems with people using the empty plot as a dumping ground. “We have been writing to authorities, to corporators to build a park or a garden and the proposal is also with the PMC,but nothing has been done so far,” said Rajendra Chuttar, president of BPLRWT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/space-reserved-for-amenities-used-for-garbage-dumping-on-baner-pashan-link-road-101616769868881.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Night curfew imposed in Maharashtra from March 28||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday instructed officials to impose a statewide night curfew from Sunday, March 28, to curb rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).News agency PTI cited an official statement as saying that Thackeray also warned of stricter restrictions if the people did not observe Covid-19 safety protocol. "I do not wish to impose lockdown. But there seems a possibility of healthcare facilities falling short given the rise in the number of coronavirus patients," Thackeray was quoted as saying.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe decision was announced after the CM chaired a meeting with all divisional commissioners, collectors, superintendents of police and senior doctors of district hospitals to review the virus situation in the state.He asked officials to ensure the availability of adequate hospital beds and medicines, the statement said. The state has instructed local authorities to impose lockdowns in cases of a surge in cases.He also gave an example of Great Britain where authorities clamped a lockdown for two months after the second wave of the coronavirus disease. Maharashtra recorded 35,952 coronavirus infections on Thursday, the highest one-day rise since the pandemic began last year. The state, which is the worst affected in the country, added more than 100,000 cases in four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-19-night-curfew-imposed-in-maharashtra-from-march-28-101616769070432.html
26-03-2021||Pune||5% tax hike on new properties based ARV||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided on a five per cent hike on property tax on properties that come in the net from April 1, 2021, onwards. Therefore, there will be a hike in property tax on new properties and not applicable to those properties that have already been assessed.The PMC tax department claims it is a regular exercise, carried out after two years, however, the hike in newly assessed properties will be based on the rent calculated by the PMC. Commissioner Vikram Kumar got the go-ahead after the standing committee and the general body meeting had rejected a proposal of an 11 per cent hike in property tax. The rent is calculated based on the ready reckoner rate is the rate of immovable property based on market value and stamp duty charged as per the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958. The rate of rent will determine the property tax charge.An increase in rent, will automatically hike the Annual Rateable Value (ARV).The Annual Rateable Value (ARV) of any land or building accessible to property tax is the annual rent at which the land or building might reasonably be expected to be let-out from year to year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-hikes-five-per-cent-rent-on-new-properties-from-april-1-2021-101616769149033.html
26-03-2021||Pune||No need for President's rule in Maharashtra: Deputy CM Ajit Pawar||The situation in Maharashtra does not warrant President's rule, deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday.The report submitted by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on the phone tapping by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla as part of a probe into alleged corruption in police transfers was very clear and presents all the facts, he told reporters here."(BJP leader) Sudhir Mungantiwar and the opposition have been insisting on President's rule in the state. But there is no such situation in the state," Pawar said.The ruling MVA coalition has the support of 165 MLAs and thus enjoys majority in the Assembly, he said.BJP leaders have demanded President's rule in the aftermath of the arrest of police officer Sachin Waze in connection with the recovery of explosives-laden vehicle near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house and IPS officer Param Bir Singh's corruption allegations against state home minister Anil Deshmukh.On Kunte's report on phone tapping, Pawar said he is an upright and meritorious officer."He has submitted a report which is very clear and by reading it one can understand the facts," Pawar said.The transfers (allegedly facilitated through bribery) referred to in Shukla's letter to the then state DGP never took place, the deputy CM pointed out.On the death of ten patients at a Covid-19 hospital in Bhandup, Mumbai, Pawar said he had instructed officials to ensure such incidents do not take place again."We have already allocated funds to carry out fire safety audits of government hospitals," he said.On Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut's statement that NCP chief Sharad Pawar should lead the UPA alliance, Ajit said he does not speak on national issues."I can only speak on the issues which are state- related. I came back from the Centre in 1991 (when he was MP for a brief period) so my connections there are limited," Pawar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-need-for-president-s-rule-in-maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-101616767683657.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Holi celebrations in public banned in Panchkula||The district administration has prohibited gatherings and celebrations at public places on Holi in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.An order to this effect, issued by district magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, stated, “Gatherings in public places, grounds, parks, markets, religious places, etc., are not allowed.” All incident commanders and police personnel deputed with them will ensure enforcement of the order under the supervision of the sub-divisional magistrate concerned. Violations will invite penal action under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, besides other applicable laws, the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/holi-celebrations-in-public-banned-in-panchkula-101616768429567.html
26-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan to give ₹50 lakh ex-gratia if ration dealers, scribes die of Covid||The Rajasthan government will now give an ex-gratia amount of ₹50 lakh to the kin of ration dealers and accredited journalists if they die due to Covid-19 in the state.The Finance Department issued an order in this regard on Thursday.The personnel of police, jail and health departments, and other frontline workers were already covered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-to-give-rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-if-ration-dealers-scribes-die-of-covid-101616767260023.html
26-03-2021||Pune||‘Victor of Basantar’ Lt Gen Pinto passes away at 97||Pune Lieutenant General Walter Anthony Gustavo “WAG” Pinto, former General Officer in the Indian Army, breathed his last on the night March 25. He was 97. Gen Pinto last served as the 8th General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Central Command. As Major General, he had led the 54th Infantry Division on the western front in the Indo-Paki War of 1971, for which he was awarded the prestigious Param Vishisht Seva Medal (PVSM). His son Kevin said that the last rites would be held at AFMC mortuary on Sunday morning.He was born on July 1, 1924, at Poona, Bombay Presidency, to Alexander Pinto, who worked in the military accounts department and Helen Agnes Pinto. Alexander belonged to the Gustave Pinto branch of the Pintos of Santa Cruz, Goa, which was then part of Portuguese India. Pinto was the youngest of three children. His elder brother, Sydney Alexander, was an Indian Army officer who was commissioned in the Corps of Engineers as a Bombay Sapper. His elder sister, Phyllis Mary, served in the women’s Auxiliary Corps, India and later in Burma.Pinto completed his school education in Bengaluru, Pune and St Aloysius Senior Secondary School, Jabalpur from where he passed his senior Cambridge school leaving certificate with 4 Ds (distinctions). He attended college at Robertson College Jabalpur, where he joined D Company, 10th Nagpur Battalion, University Training Corps (UTC).After clearing the preliminary and final selection boards held at Jabalpur and Lucknow respectively, Gen Pinto joined the pre-cadet course at Datta College, Lahore in January 1943. In March 1943, he joined the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun for a six-month emergency commission training course. Pinto was commissioned into the 13th Frontier Force Rifles and had the distinction of being one of only four cadets who earned a commission in the infantry among the two hundred and more cadets committed into the armed forces at that time.Lt Gen BT Pandit (retd), Vir Chakra awardee who fought the 1971 Indo-Pak war under his leadership has fond memories of his raw courage, bravery and alertness to share. Lt Gen Pandit said, “Lt Gen Wag Pinto was a very special army commander the like of whom we may not see in a hurry. The battle of Basantar was one of the longest ground battles fought by the Indian Army under the dynamic and brave leadership of Lt Gen WAG Pinto — “The Victor of Basantar”. The Battle of Basantar was one of the biggest ground battles ever fought by the Indian Army.” “He had an impactful leadership. The fourteen days of fierce fighting, produced a mind boggling 196 gallantry awards for our soldiers and officers. This included 2 Param Vir Chakras (Late 2nd Lt Arun Khetrapal was one of them) and 9 Mahavir Chakras (Late Gen Vaidya of Operation Blue Star fame was one of them),” the war veteran said.“During the 1971 war, I was Lieutenant Colonel and Lt Gen WAG Pinto was my G-O-C as he was commanding 54 infantry Division. Under his command, we launched the offensive after December 3, crossed three strong minefields, defeated all enemy en route and from December 15 to December 17, a very decisive battle of Basantar was fought where we forced the enemy to react to our attack. By our move into the heartland, the enemy forced its reserves out which we destroyed completely in the battle which lasted for three days. This forced Pakistan to accept ceasefire. In this battle, sixty enemy tanks were destroyed,” Lt Gen Pandit said.Lauding his humble qualities, Lt Gen Pandit described the late General as a very aggressive person on the battlefield who was always with the troops ahead and not in the headquarters. “Under his leadership, the troops did extremely well. He lived a full life and was oriented till the end. He had a fine sense of humour and stood for the nation, the army and the people of the country,” he said. The late General had penned his war exploits in memoirs in a short, crisp book “Bash on Regardless”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/victor-of-basantar-lt-gen-pinto-passes-away-at-97-101616765068642.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Cong stages protests against farm laws in Maha; warns of intensifying agitation||The Congress on Friday staged protests in parts of Maharashtra against the Centre's three farm laws, with the party's state chief Nana Patole warning that it will intensify the demonstrations if the Narendra Modi government does not heed the farmers' stir near Delhi.Patole, who led the party's hunger strike at Mahatma Gandhi statue near Mantralaya here, also hit out at the Centre over the rise in fuel prices and labour reforms.Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan, Mumbai Congress president Ashok alias Bhai Jagtap and ministers Yashomati Thakur, Amit Deshmukh, Varsha Gaikwad and others also took part in the agitation staged in support of the Bharat Bandh call given by some farmers' bodies."The Narendra Modi government enacted the farm and labour laws after trampling on democratic values and traditions. There is anger across the country against the laws," Patole said.He alleged that farmers' have been protesting near the Delhi border for the last four months, but the Modi government refuses to give up its "obdurate" approach.More than 300 farmers have lost lives during the protest, he claimed."The Prime Minister has gone abroad (Bangladesh) today when the farmers' bodies have called a Bharat Bandh. This is arrogance. We will intensify protests if the Modi government does not take note of the farmers' stir," Patole said.Noting that the Centre has stayed the implementation of the farm laws, Chavan said the Modi government should now frame new laws after holding a discussion with farmers."The new laws should be kept before the standing committee of the Parliament," he added.Jagtap claimed that, compared to India, petrol and diesel are cheaper in Pakistan and Nepal. "Loot is on in India," he alleged.Other Congress ministers in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government Balasaheb Thorat, Sunil Kedar, Satej Patil and Vishwajeet Kadam took part in the party's protests in Shrirampur (Ahmednagar district), Savner (Nagpur), Kolhapur and Sangli respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cong-stages-protests-against-farm-laws-in-maha-warns-of-intensifying-agitation-101616762317666.html
26-03-2021||Bangalore||No question of hiding Covid-19 numbers: Karnataka health minister||Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said on Friday all factual data on Covid-19 is being made public. There was no question of hiding numbers and the government has no such intention nor is it possible to hide any details, he said."We are not hiding any statistics regarding Covid-19.All opposition leaders are welcome to give their valuable suggestions for controlling Covid. They can also figure out any flaws in the system," Sudhakar said.He said the chief minister may call an all party meeting to discuss the issue."We are free to discuss anything in this regard," he was quoted as saying by his office in a release.He said the Manipal institute alone had 704 cases and it has been sealed. Stringent measures were being taken to curb spreading.Maharashtra reported 35,000 cases yesterday while over 2,000 were recorded here. People should follow guidelines and youngsters should voluntarily take the elderly at home for vaccination, the minister said.Stating that the technical advisory committee on Covid-19 has suggested several precautionary measures, Sudhakar said the chief minister will take a decision in this regard."It is difficult to restrict any activity, but keeping in view the spread of infection, adequate measures will be initiated," he said. The Health department has submitted a representation to the Election Commission on safe conduct of by-elections amidst the second wave, the minister added.Bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha seat, and Basavakalyan and Maski assembly segments will be held on April 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-question-of-hiding-covid-19-numbers-karnataka-health-minister-101616761439451.html
26-03-2021||Pune||One dead after fire breaks out at scrap godown in Ganj peth||PUNE A 28-year-old man died in a fire that broke out at a scrap godown on Mahatma Phule road, Ganj peth, in the wee hours of Friday.The deceased has been identified as Shivkant Kumar, who hailed from Uttar Pradesh.Kumar was working inside the godown when it caught fire and he sustained serious burn injuries.Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said that the central control room of the fire brigade received a call regarding the incident at the shop named RK Scrap Centre, Ganj peth around 1.20 am on Friday.The Bhavani peth fire brigade team along with a fire tender and a water tanker reached the spot.“Firemen extinguished the flames and brought the situation under control within fifteen minutes. The cause of the fire is being investigated,” he said.“Our men found Kumar in serious condition inside the godown. He was rushed to the Sassoon General Hospital for treatment where he died,” added Ranpise.Kumar’s antigen test was conducted at the Sassoon hospital where he tested positive for Covid, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/one-dead-after-fire-breaks-out-at-scrap-godown-in-ganj-peth-101616761708395.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Corruption in BMC might have led to...’: Fadnavis on Mumbai hospital fire||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday hit out at the Maharashtra government over the fire that broke out at a hospital treating patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Mumbai and demanded strict action against all those who did not carry out the safety audit. “The Maha-Vikas Aghadi government must own it up and take responsibility now,” Fadnavis, the leader of opposition in the state assembly and former chief minister, tweeted.Eleven Covid-19 patients have lost their lives so far in the fire at the Sunrise Hospital inside the Dreams Mall in Bhandup. The hospital is situated on the top floor of the mall. An official told news agency PTI on Friday that the fire broke out around Thursday midnight.Fadnavis, while speaking to reporters after paying a visit to the hospital, alleged that corrupt practices in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) led to the tragedy and urged Bombay High Court to take suo moto cognisance of this matter, PTI reported. Pointing out that the Maharashtra government had given assurance in conducting safety audits of all hospitals in the state, he said, “Yet this incident occurred today. It means the government is not serious about public health and safety.”How many more deaths does this MVA government need to take safety precautions at all such hospitals and COVID centres.We demand strict action against everyone responsible for not carrying out the safety audit.MVA Government must own it up and take responsibility now. https://t.co/9oBc7jxJKP pic.twitter.com/TaD5XP5XSkEchoing Fadnavis’ allegation against BMC, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said on Friday that he would file a complaint of criminal negligence against the civic body in connection with the accident. “There have been several complaints against this mall, but no action was taken against its owners,” he said.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has apologised to the families of the deceased and announced a financial aid of ₹500,000. He assured strict action against those responsible. Citing out the increased spread of Covid-19 across the state, Thackeray said the Maharashtra government in 2020 had allowed some hospitals to treat infected patients and the Sunrise Hospital was one such facility. “The permission was to end on March 31. Unfortunately, the fire broke on the first floor of the mall and spread upwards,” the chief minister added.The accident in Mumbai comes three months after a fire was reported at the sick newborn care unit of the Bhandara District Hospital on January 9, claiming the lives of 10 infants.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/corruption-in-bmc-might-have-led-to-fadnavis-on-mumbai-hospital-fire-101616759350046.html
26-03-2021||Pune||Covid-19: Maharashtra Dy CM Ajit Pawar warns of stringent measures in Pune||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday warned that some "stringent measures" will be taken if the Covid-19 situation did not improve in the next one week in Pune district.Pawar, who is also the guardian minister for Pune, issued the warning while addressing a press conference after reviewing the situation in the district."I would like to tell people that the situation is becoming serious. If the situation (in terms of cases) remains the same, we will have to take more stringent measures in the district by the first week of April," he said.The deputy chief minister further warned people to follow all the Covid-19 norms such as using masks, physical distancing and hand hygiene.As many as 50 attendees will be permitted at weddings, while 20 persons are allowed at funerals, he said, adding that social and political events have been cancelled.Hotels and restaurants will be allowed to operate till 10 pm with a 50 per cent capacity, Pawar said.In view of the surge in infections, the state has decided to take control of 50 per cent of beds at private hospitals, he said."We have already started a jumbo hospital in Pune and a jumbo facility in Pimpri Chinchwad will be operational from April. We are also starting other Covid-19 care facilities in the city," the deputy chief minister said.The number of beds in Sassoon General Hospital has been increased to 500, he said, adding that an officer has been appointed to ensure that the oxygen supply in hospitals remain uninterrupted."We are in talks with an oxygen plant in Raigad district in case we need additional supply," he said.There are plans to double the vaccination centres in the district, he said."We held a discussion with Union Minister Prakash Javadekar and we have sought additional vaccine doses for the district. He has agreed to look into the issue," Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-maharashtra-dy-cm-ajit-pawar-warns-of-stringent-measures-in-pune-101616759671360.html
26-03-2021||Lucknow||Jeweller held for raping aspiring model in Lucknow||A jeweller has been arrested for allegedly raping a 23-year-old aspiring model at a hotel in Lucknow on Thursday night after calling her there on the pretext of an audition for a video album, police said. The woman alleged the accused, Vasu Soni, approached her through social media for the audition while promising work with renowned production houses.Chandra Shekhar Singh, a local police officer, said Soni, 30, introduced himself as Reyansh alias Shivam while hiding his identity.Also Read | Varanasi, Kanpur to have police commissioner systemThe woman has alleged Soni held her captive in his room, beat her up, and threatened her with consequences if she reported the matter. She said Soni left the hotel after she called some of her friends. The woman alleged one of her friends was also allegedly raped in a similar manner around a week ago, but she did not file a police complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jeweller-held-for-raping-aspiring-model-in-lucknow-101616759789297.html
26-03-2021||Patna||RJD’s Bihar Bandh hits rail, road traffic; commuters stranded as vehicles stay off roads||The Bihar Bandh as well as the nationwide shutdown called by Opposition parties including the RJD and Left on Friday to protest against the assault on MLAs, that took place inside the Vidhan Sabha premises three days ago and to protest the controversial farm laws affected normal life across the state. Despite heavy police deployment on major roads and national-highways, the protesters blocked many routes including state-highways and the Mahatma Gandhi Setu in Bihar by burning tyres on the roads and halting vehicular traffic resulting in long snarls.Most people were clueless about why the Bandh had been called and which organization had announced it. The sudden shutdown threw lots of office goers, school children and businessmen into confusion. People were trying to confirm it through WhatsApp and SMS messages from friends and relatives.Huge processions were taken out in different areas of Bihar, with protesters raising slogans against Nitish Kumar’s government. They took to the streets forcing closure of shops and business establishments. There were reports of protests on rail tracks at many places, leading to more than 16 passenger/express and goods trains being blocked. Commuters had a harrowing time reaching their destinations as the protestors resorted to picketing and road blockades in different places in the state. In capital city Patna, hundreds of party supporters -- among whom children could also be seen-- stormed the railway station and bus stands carrying sticks and party flags, but they were chased away by police personnel. Vehicles - both private and public – even city buses in the state capital stayed off the roads. As business establishments pulled down shutters, schools, colleges and government offices functioned normally. According to the state police headquarters, rail and road traffic was halted at Gaya, Jehanabad, Saharsa, Madhepura, Begusarai, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Nalanda, Muzaffarpur, Madhubani, Bhojpur, Lakhisarai, Sheikhpura, Nawada and Bhagalpur districts. The state government and police have made adequate arrangements to maintain law and order in the state. Hundreds of passengers were stranded at scores of railway stations, bus stations and taxi stand on Friday morning. “There were no major untoward incidents,” said Patna SSP Upendra Sharma adding that all preventive measures have been taken to maintain law and order during the bandh. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said barring stray incidents and forceful closure of some shops in some cities, the bandh in the state remained peaceful. More than 500 RJD and CPI (ML) leaders and activists were taken into preventive custody from various other parts of the state. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said he didn’t participate in the bandh due to the death of his uncle. Talking to reporters, Yadav said RJD has also given its support to the nationwide strike called by the farmers’ unions. Yadav further said that the bandh would include matters concerning unemployment and farmers’ issue.“The Speaker is our custodian. The police used batons and thrashed legislators in the assembly premises only after the instruction of Nitish Kumar. The chief minister is likely to put pressure on the Speaker but RJD has faith on him,” Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjds-bihar-bandh-hits-rail-road-traffic-commuters-stranded-as-vehicles-stay-off-roads-101616759729512.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Planning for a sustainable Delhi||Can you walk down or cycle to the nearby market without any hassle in Delhi? Not really, even as it became possible last year after the Covid-19 lockdown norms were eased in June. There was a surge in cyclists cycling for kilometres amid relatively lesser congested roads. The situation is now back to how it was before the pandemic for cyclists and pedestrians. These are not the only problems that the rise in Delhi’s population has resulted in. Traffic congestion, lack of parking spaces, an increase in pollution levels, and encroachment of pedestrian spaces are among other urban challenges impacting people’s quality of life. Delhi ranked 13th in the Union housing and urban affairs’ Ease of Living index of 49 cities with a million-plus population. Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Ahmedabad, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Indore ranked higher than Delhi.The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is drafting a new Master Plan of Delhi (MPD-2041) for the city’s growth over the next two decades. Other policy decisions have also been touted as game-changers in making the city more liveable by ensuring sustainable development:Transit-oriented developmentMobility is among the problems Delhi faces with inadequate public transport leading to an increase in private vehicles. Delhi has over 10 million registered vehicles and roughly 6,75,000 more are registered annually. The transit-oriented development seeks to reduce the dependence on private vehicles. The plan notified in 2019 envisages mixed land-use development (residential, commercial and office complexes) within 500 metres of mass transit facilities such as Metro stations.Also Read | New NCT Bill will obstruct good work done by AAP govt: Manish SisodiaDDA has started work on the first such project at Karkardooma. It plans 12 transit nodes (Metro stations) which will be developed as per the policy in the first phase.AK Jain, a former planning commission with DDA, said, “Land pooling and TOD [transit-oriented development] are important policies to ensure sustainable development. It will meet the housing requirement. But the focus should be on promoting the use of public transport.”DDA recently proposed some modifications to the policy regarding parking spaces under the plan. They include a mandatory 5% of the parking area for bicycles and wheelchairs and at least 10% for charging points for electric vehicles.Restricted parking space near Metro stations and multilevel parkingAn increase in vehicles has resulted in parking problems in residential and commercial spaces with fights over them becoming common.DDA has approved a policy to reduce parking spaces coming up along Metro corridors or near multilevel parking lots by 10-30% to encourage people to use Metro, which has a network of 389km spread across Delhi and the National Capital Region. The move once notified is touted as one of the crucial measures to address the growing traffic congestion problem. The policy is expected to encourage the use of public transport and push for transit-oriented development.As per the new norms, for a property (except residential) within 500 metres of a Metro station, there will be a 30% reduction in the permissible parking space. For properties located over 500 metres and less than 800 metres from a Metro station, there will be a 15% deduction. For properties coming up within a kilometre radius of a multi-level parking lot, 10% of the permissible parking space will be deducted.Also Read | Supreme Court orders status quo on water supply to DelhiCurrently, a new commercial complex within 500 metres of a Metro station has to provide three equivalent car parking spaces for every 100 squares of built-up area.Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said after the entire Metro network is built in Delhi, nearly 70% of the city will be in transit-oriented development zones. “It is a good move that provision of metro and multilevel parking is being incorporated in calculating the parking space in development around it. But the provision should be applied to housing as well.”Enhancing walkabilityWith pavements encroached upon, there is little space for pedestrians. As per a DDA report, nearly 34% of all daily personal trips in Delhi are “walk only”. Despite efforts to remove encroachment and to redevelop road infrastructure, Delhi is far from being pedestrian-friendly. In a push to make the city pedestrian-friendly, a walkability policy was approved in August 2019. The policy focuses on the integration of walkability into various policies and projects, using technology for preparing walking tours, providing barrier-free pathways, pelican crossings near schools and major pedestrian crossings and multi-utility zones to accommodate street vendors and other public activities.Key features of the policy include time-bound implementation of area-specific walk plans, a centralised city-wide monitoring system, a mobile application to give information about walking and a Walk Delhi Coordination and Monitoring Committee.The DDA has selected 22 locations such as Nehru Place where the plan will be implemented.Development control norms for unauthorised coloniesThe unauthorised colonies have been outside the planning ambit and deprived of basic civil amenities. The unregulated development there has been a major concern of planners and civic agencies. Efforts have been made to regularise close to 1,800-odd unauthorised colonies, but they have not yielded results. In 2019, the Centre decided to confer ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi. For this, the Parliament passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Recognition of Property Rights of Residents in Unauthorised Colonies) Act.A year later, the DDA approved regulations to ensure planned development in these colonies, which till now have been out of the purview of the Master Plan of Delhi-2021.A DDA official said the development control norms for unauthorised colonies are part of the 2019 law. “...For the first time, detailed norms have been prepared for unauthorised colonies. Now that they are getting the legal tag. There is a need to have norms for planned development/redevelopment in these areas.”The new norms have provision for amalgamation of plots, creation of social infrastructure and redevelopment of colonies.Shamsher Singh, a former chief municipal town planner, said for any planned development in these colonies, redevelopment is the only option. “But these norms are more builder-oriented as it will be difficult for RWAs [Resident Welfare Associations] or individuals to comply.”Land pooling to meet housing requirementThe lack of affordable housing in Delhi is one of the reasons for the mushrooming of unauthorised colonies. To meet the demand for affordable housing, DDA prepared the land pooling policy. The policy was notified in 2015 but the work for its implementation started in 2018. It will be implemented in 95 urbanised villages and seeks to provide close to 1.7 million dwelling units. Under the policy, 40% of the pooled land will be earmarked for essential services and civic infrastructure like parks.Developers will get 60% of the total pooled land of which 53% will be residential, 5% commercial and 2% for public and semi-public facilities. DDA and other service providers will get 40% of the land for developing civic infrastructure. Over 6,500 hectares of land has been pooled so far under the policy. DDA officials said they are working on developing three model sectors in Bawana, Pooth Khurd and Sultanpur Dabas villages over 180-210 hectares.Green area developmentWhile the Master Plan of Delhi-2021, which was notified in February 2007, has been amended several times to fix planning issues, rural areas have largely remained untouched. Till recently, no construction activity was allowed in villages located in the green belt on Delhi’s periphery. This led to rampant unauthorised construction in these 47 rural villages, especially on agricultural land.The DDA has prepared a new policy which for the first time allows planned development in these areas so that people living in these villages get access to better education, medical facilities and also an opportunity to earn their livelihood through development activities.Residents of these villages say that with an increase in the population, there is a need for a plan so that people can construct their houses and earn their livelihood.Bhupinder Bazad, president of Master Plan Committee of Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch, said, “There are a lot of warehouses in these villages which are currently unauthorised. As the population of the village is increasing, residents need space to construct new houses and also look for opportunities to earn their livelihood. The policy is the need of the hour. While we need to protect the green lungs of the city, we also have to provide avenues to villagers to earn their livelihood.”No manufacturing units in new industrial areasThe Union housing and urban affairs ministry has broadened the definition of industries in the Master Plan 2021. As per a notification issued in October, information technology firms, media companies, knowledge parks, research and development centres, vocational training centres and even educational institutes will be allowed in new industrial areas. No manufacturing unit will be allowed in any new industrial area, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said while announcing the decision in November last year. He called the move a “historic and significant” step aimed at reducing pollution levels in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/planning-for-a-sustainable-delhi-101616758110482.html
26-03-2021||Pune||Covid norms: FIR against PCMC deputy mayor’s son, 70 others||Pune: A first information report (FIR) has been filed against Chetan Ghule, the son of deputy mayor and 70 supporters of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for flouting Covid-19 norms after the election for deputy mayor held on March 23.Chetan Ghule, son of deputy mayor Hirabai Ghule, and BJP supporters celebrated the poll win in front of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s main entrance gate. Most of the members were not wearing masks and social distancing norms were also not followed, as per the complaint.Although the election was held online, supporters gathered in huge numbers.“Nothing was planned, members gathered in excitement after the victory of Hirabai. No top leaders of the party were involved in it,” said a PCMC BJP unit leader on the request of anonymity.The complaint was filed at Pimpri police station by Dattray Bhor who works at PCMC.“As soon as the result was announced, members crowded at the PCMC entrance and no one bothered to wear a mask,” said Bhor.“We have filed a case against Chetan Ghule and supporters for not following social distancing norms,” said Milind Waghmare, senior police Inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-norms-fir-against-pcmc-deputy-mayor-s-son-70-others-101616758048175.html
26-03-2021||Pune||Pune gets another week to check Covid March to avoid lockdown||Pune: Pune has got another week to make serious efforts to bring down Covid tally, failure to which will lead to lockdown, said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar after reviewing the situation in the city on Friday. According to Pawar, if the situation doesn’t improve in Pune, there is no alternative but to resort to lockdown and decision pertaining to this will be taken on April 2. “The situation in Pune is grim. I am making the last appeal to all, including residents, to follow the Covid norms. If the graph of Covid tally refuses to move upward, we have to resort to lockdown,” said Pawar. It’s been more than a month since Pune is put under restrictions such as night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, capping crowd inside restaurants and bars and prohibiting social and political gatherings. The administration has extended closure of schools and colleges till April 30 while keeping all other restrictions in place. To a question on how the administration expects to change within a week when people have stared following norms, Pawar said an additional week has been given so that people will prepare themselves for stricter curbs. “We are trying to create an atmosphere so that people will stock essential commodities at home. We are preparing their mentality for stricter curbs,” said Pawar. On Thursday, Pune district reported 6,426 cases with 20 deaths, a slight dip compared to Wednesday when 6,754 cases were registered. With daily caseload crossing the 5,000-mark over the past one week, Pune is reporting highest number of cases across the country with daily positivity rate above 25 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-gets-another-week-to-check-covid-march-to-avoid-lockdown-101616757150522.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mixed response to farm union’s bandh call in BJP-ruled Himachal||The Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Centre’s three farm laws evoked a mixed response in Himachal Pradesh. Shops and the commercial establishments remain open in the BJP-ruled state. The bandh was peaceful even as traffic was disrupted partially in the border areas of Nurpur in Kangra district due to the blockade by farmers in Pathankot district of neighbouring Punjab. Protesters, led by Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Gurdyal Singh, held a dharna at Chakki Bridge, causing a traffic jam on the Jammu-Jalandhar highway. This led to disruption of traffic movement to Himachal Pradesh. Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Samiti members held a protest at Panjehra in Nalagarh area of Solan district. The protesters led by samiti president Charanjit Singh Channi took out a tractor march. Local Congress MLA Lakhvinder Singh Rana along with his supporters participated in the march, raising slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre and the state. Farmer and trade unions held protests in Shimla, Kullu, Chamba and Hamirpur districts. Activists of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPIM), Himachal Kisan Sabha and Students’ Federation of India participated in the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mixed-response-to-farm-union-s-bandh-call-in-bjp-ruled-himachal-101616757148917.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bandh call stops rail passengers in their tracks across Punjab, Haryana||From job aspirants to migrant families, the 12-hour-long Bharat Bandh from 6am to 6pm on Friday put scores of commuters in hardship across Punjab and Haryana. Officials said members of farmer unions blocked rail tracks at 23 spots in the Ferozepur railway division alone, leaving scores of passengers stranded at stations of Bathinda and other districts of the state since morning. Also read: Rail, road traffic off track in Punjab’s Malwa on farmers’ bandh callMissing job interview to spending day at station One such passenger, Shesh Bhan of Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar, said he is set to miss his interview with a public sector undertaking in Uttar Pradesh because of the bandh call. He was among the passengers waiting at the Bathinda railway station platform on Friday. “I was to appear for the interview in Kanpur on Saturday but now there is no train for Delhi. There is no bus service plying either otherwise I could have boarded one and caught the connecting train from Delhi. The UP government should consider the case of youngsters like me compassionately. We have no choice but to wait because of the blockade by farmers,” he said. Ramesh Kumar, a small-time sweetmeat seller from Bikaner, said he has been waiting at the station for more than 12 hours by Friday noon for continuing his journey. “I reached Bathinda around midnight and was scheduled to board the train for Haryana’s Jakhal town this morning. I went to the local bus stand also only to be told that all government and private bus services are suspended for the day. I have no option but to wait till the rail service resumes in the evening,” he said. Holi plans with family go for toss Another passenger, Dinesh Singh from Faridkot, said his plans to be with his parents in Uttar Pradesh over Holi have been dashed due to the disruption of train services. “I came with my family and a colleague to Bathinda on Thursday night to board the train for our native place in Bareilly. Now there is a lot of uncertainty over the train schedule and we can’t go back to our home due to the road blockade and non-availability of buses,” he said. No train cancelled, only rescheduled Rajesh Agarwal, the Ferozepur divisional railway manager (DRM), said that 12 trains with passengers on board have been stopped at different places due to Friday’s protest. “No train has been cancelled in our division. Services will be resumed after the blockade is lifted and mandatory safety audit of tracks is completed. To avoid inconvenience to passengers planning to avail of the Holi special trains and those who need to visit Haridwar for post-funerary rituals, we are rescheduling train schedules,” said the DRM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bandh-call-stops-rail-passengers-in-their-tracks-across-punjab-haryana-101616755891097.html
26-03-2021||Pune||Slam dunk: Separating fact from fiction in the NBA||With the globalisation and expansion of the NBA, the game of basketball in the NBA is covered and consumed by more people than ever before. Media outlets, basketball personalities and the players are constantly producing content to make themselves more accessible to their fans across the globe. Fans have more access to the complete behind-the-scenes world and infrastructure surrounding the NBA, yet there are certainly intricacies to the NBA only seen thoroughly by those who experience the NBA daily. Below are a few myths that colloquially surround the NBA, as well as the realities, and perspective of a daily lens viewing the NBA. Myth: NBA All-Stars are the players who are most dedicated to improving at basketballWhile the above might seem to be a controversial statement, based on their success on court, watching the daily dedication of players on the fringes of the NBA might tell a different story. Undoubtedly, it is impossible to be an NBA All-Star without possessing a work ethic and passion for improving at basketball. However, as a minor league player in the G-League, or an overseas basketball player striving to break into the NBA, the fierce competition and razor-thin margins between a guaranteed NBA contract and not being able to earn a roster spot mean that often times these individuals have to maximise every ounce of their basketball talent to earn a chance in the NBA. Often, NBA All-Stars are players who possess a unique blend of talent, desire, physical advantages and those who may develop mental advantages over years of playing in the most competitive environments. To compensate for disadvantages in talent, physical size or athletic makeup, lesser players often have to work maximally and with extreme precision and focus just to keep their current roster spot in such a competitive league. This paradox is constantly observed in the perception of the dedication of different players throughout the NBA. Myth: NBA players who don’t get playing time in NBA games are not very good at basketballAs a player who isn’t playing a lot of NBA minutes, fans on the outside may often watch these players and wonder why they are on a team’s roster if they can’t contribute. Players don’t get to play in games for a myriad of reasons outside of purely talent-based reasons. Factors like injury status, long-term health, team lineup combinations and trade rumours can all impact the likelihood of a coach to insert a player into a game. Players in the NBA are all incredibly skilled at the game, and it is unfortunate that intangibles and uncontrollable factors occasionally come in the way of them displaying their skills in NBA games. Myth: NBA players do not “play hard”, or play good defenceAnother myth that is often touted is that NBA players do not play hard or good defence. This couldn’t be further from the truth. There are certainly nights where players do have lower energy from extreme exertion and the constant rigours of NBA travel and game schedules. However, the NBA does tilt its rules to favour offensive players, in addition to the extreme skill of modern-day offensive players, means that the rules do not provide a lot of advantages to a defensive player in the NBA. Hence, it may appear that players are not playing hard defence or trying to play defence well without fouling the opposition. Comparing these myths to the reality can give a fan of the NBA a deeper understanding and appreciation of just how competitive the NBA league is, and why players are monetarily, valued so highly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/slam-dunk-separating-fact-from-fiction-in-the-nba-101616755889391.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid-19 surge, schools, colleges shut in HP till April 4||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Himachal Pradesh government on Friday decided to close all educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities and technical institutes, till April 4 except for those classes having examinations. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur in Shimla as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of the coronavirus infection. Boarding schools not to close hostels but maintain protocol The chief minister said that schools with residential facilities need not close their hostels but should strictly comply with the standard operating procedures (SOPs). He said residential areas should be cut off and compliance officers should be appointed to ensure the implementation of the safety protocol. Also read: Himachal logs 315 new infections, two deathsMedical colleges to function as usual Medical colleges and nursing institutions will continue to function as usual. Teachers and other school and college staff will continue to attend the institutions, he said. No social, cultural events to be held by govt Thakur said that the government will not organise any social and cultural events till April 4 and gatherings will be restricted to a maximum of 200 for indoor and 50% for outdoor events. He said congregations and community kitchens in temples will not be allowed but devotees may pay obeisance at shrines. No public celebration on Holi The chief minister said that April 3 will be a holiday for all offices in the state and there will be no public celebration of Holi. He urged people to celebrate Holi at their homes with their family members only. He said all frontline workers will be sensitised to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest and take their second dose as scheduled. It was also decided at the meeting that the district administrations will take a judicious call on more restrictions in view of the positivity and fatality rate in their respective districts. State chief secretary Anil Khachi, additional chief secretaries RD Dhiman and JC Sharma, health secretary Amitabh Awasthi and National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) director Dr Nipun Jindal were present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-19-surge-schools-colleges-shut-in-hp-till-april-4-101616751988471.html
26-03-2021||Other||CBI files case against YSR Congress MP in ₹234 cr bank fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday registered a case against YSR Congress party parliamentarian Kanumuru Raghurama Krishnam Raju for allegedly duping a consortium of banks of ₹237.84 crore by producing forged documents between 2012 and 2017.The case was registered under Section 120 (b)(criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of documents), 468 (forgery of electronic record) and 471 (using forged documents for criminal purposes) of the Indian Penal Code, following a complaint lodged by State Bank of India, Chennai.Raju represents Narasapuram parliamentary constituency. He, however, turned rebel against the YSR Congress party which filed a petition before Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla last year, seeking his disqualification.Apart from Raju, his company Ind Barath Power Gencom Ltd and six other directors of the company were also booked in the case. The corporate office of the company is based in Hyderabad and the plant is located in Toothukudi, Tamil Nadu.According to the FIR, Raju and others had allegedly diverted funds, manipulated books of accounts to defraud the consortium of banks, comprising Axis Bank, SBI, Indian Overseas Bank, UCO Bank, Syndicate Bank, Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and ILFS Financial Services Ltd.The fraud came to light during the forensic audit conducted by an audit firm at the request of the consortium of banks. The audit took into account the company’s transactions between May 25, 2012, and May 21, 2017, and the report was submitted on July 24, 2020. The FIR said Ind Barath Power Gencom Ltd, a power plant, was set by the MP and others at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu, with a capacity of 189 MW. The company commenced its commercial operations in January 2010 but was shut down in May 2017. The company’s account in the consortium of banks turned into a non-performing asset (NPA) on May 28, 2017.Reacting to the development, the YSRCP lawmaker said the FIR lodged against him by the CBI was fabricated without any facts. He, however, said he would fully cooperate with the CBI in the investigation and would come out clean in the case.Raju alleged that the case was registered under pressure from his own party leaders and demanded the CBI should also disclose the data of the telephone calls between the Andhra Pradesh chief minister’s office and SBI authorities in Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-files-case-against-ysr-congress-mp-in-rs-234-cr-bank-fraud-101616750549717.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena seeks action against police officers over phone tapping||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday demanded action against police officers allegedly involved in phone tapping, saying he is surprised that Rashmi Shukla continued to be the state police’s intelligence wing chief despite intercepting calls without permission. Raut said the government should have learnt a lesson and not depended too much on the administration to govern.Raut said his phone calls were allegedly tapped along with those of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, independent lawmakers, and journalists when they were in talks to form the Shiv Sena-led government in the state.“The government should decide [on action against the officers]. Why is there a need to demand over it? ... Whosoever was involved in the formation of the [Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress] government [in 2019], their phones were tapped,” Raut told reporters in Delhi. Also Read | Ex-intel chief misguided authorities: Chief secretary’s report to Maharashtra CMIn his report, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte blamed Shukla for intercepting calls under the guise of “public safety” and thus “misguided the authorities”.Raut referred to independent lawmaker and minister Rajendra Patil Yadravkar’s comments on Thursday that Shukla called her and asked him to back the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as it sought to form the government in the state. He added it is not a revelation because everyone knew about phone tapping. “[Shukla] called independent legislators and of smaller parties asking them not to align with the [Uddhav] Thackeray government and go with the BJP. Threats and messages that their files are ready were given,” Raut said. Raut said the state government did not hold a grudge against such officers after coming to power and retained them. But he added Shukla retaining her post was surprising. “After the [Shiv Sena-led government] came to power, the woman officer was still on the same post for the next five-six months... The administration should not be trusted so much.”Raut said three to four officers were sympathetic towards the previous BJP government and should have been removed. “Pawar was also of the opinion that such officers should not be kept around. Had action been taken at that time, the leader of opposition [Devendra Fadnavis] would not have had the opportunity to come to Delhi with those documents.”Fadnavis on Tuesday accused the Maharashtra government of sitting on “incriminating evidence” Shukla provided on an alleged “money for transfer” scam in the police department as he met the Union home secretary in Delhi and demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation probe on Tuesday.HT on Wednesday reported the report names senior politicians, middlemen, and police officers, who allegedly sought transfers and postings of their liking. The report is based on intercepted phone calls of six people.BJP leader Ashish Shelar alleged Kunte’s report was prepared to save a middleman involved in the alleged transfer scam as he is close to the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-seeks-action-gainst-police-officers-over-phone-tapping-101616750548500.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rural Haryana observes total bandh, partial response in Rohtak, Hisar cities||The Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions, got the maximum response in villages and smaller towns of Haryana, while it was business as usual in Rohtak and Hisar cities. Farmers assembled at Kharawar village and blocked the Rohtak-Delhi highway with combine harvesters and tractors, while other groups blocked Rohtak-Chandigarh highway near Makrauli village and Hisar-Rohtak highway was blocked near Madina toll plaza in Meham. Ambulances, essential services being allowed Farmers were seen allowing ambulances and vehicles engaged in essential services to ply. The protesters made arrangements for food, lassi, milk and tea for commuters stuck in the traffic jam due to the blockades. Dayanand Punia, the secretary of the Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, said supporters had laid siege to Siwani railway platform in Bhiwani district till 6pm. “Labourers have also joined our protest and the rural areas will remain shut today,” he said. Security up at toll plazas, stations Security was stepped up across toll plazas and railways stations as a precautionary measure. Fearing inconvenience due to the blockades, people avoided travelling on Friday. Rohtak superintendent of police (SP) Rahul Sharma issued a traffic advisory, asking people to refrain from travelling on the Rohtak-Bahadurgarh, Rohtak-Jind and Rohtak-Hisar roads unless in case of an emergency. “We have taken all measures to maintain law and order,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rural-haryana-observes-total-bandh-partial-response-in-rohtak-hisar-cities-101616749528362.html
26-03-2021||Bangalore||Congress names Satish Jarkiholi for Belgaum Lok Saba bypoll||Former Karnataka minister Satish Jarkiholi has been named as the Congress candidate for the bypoll to Karnataka’s Belagavi (Belgaum) Lok Sabha seat, the party announced on Friday. Jarkiholi, who represents Yemkanmardi seat in the state assembly, will be pitted against the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Mangala Suresh Angadi, the wife of late Union minister Suresh Angadi who has represented Belagavi in Lok Sabha for four consecutive terms from 2004.Suresh Angadi died on 23 September due to Covid-19 related complications necessitating the April 17 by-election in Belagavi, about 500 km from state capital Bengaluru.Satish Jarkiholi, one of the five Jarkiholi brothers, is known as a strategist and is credited to have played a key role in helping former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah win from the Badami assembly seat in Bagalkote district in 2018.The Congress decision to name Satish for the Lok Sabha bypoll comes at a time his brother, Ramesh Jarkiholi finds himself at the centre of a raging sex scandal in Karnataka that has pushed the BJP’s BS Yediyurappa-led governement into a corner. Ramesh Jarkiholi, who had to exit from the Yediyurappa’s council of ministers because of this controversy, was disqualified in 2019 when he switched over from the Congress to the BJP but was re-elected to the assembly in the December 2019 by-elections.The Basavakalyan seat in Bidar district fell vacant after the sitting Congress legislator, B Narayan Rao, died last year. His wife, Mallamma, has already been named the Congress candidate from this seat and will face-off with Sharanu Salagar of the BJP.Maski in Raichur fell vacant after its Congress legislator, Pratapgouda Patil defected to the BJP in 2019. Patil, one of the 17 legislators who engineered the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress government in 2019 by switching sides, is the BJP candidate for the bypoll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-names-satish-jarkiholi-for-belgaum-lok-saba-bypoll-101616748448240.html
26-03-2021||Other||Back-to-back bank robberies in Kashmir put security forces on alert||Back-to-back robberies in banks in Kashmir have put security forces on an alert and efforts are being made to identify people responsible for these robberies.The police have already made few arrests in connection with these bank robberies and officials are trying to find out those behind these repeated crimes. Staff at various banks have been asked to remain vigilant and contact police in case of any emergency.Inspector-General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that one person has been arrested and efforts are underway to arrest others involved.Meanwhile, the police held a meeting with all bank managers in north Kashmir and discussed the security aspect across bank branches.“In view of recent bank dacoity incidents and to avoid recurrence of such incidents, police held an emergency meeting with all zonal heads/managers at J&K Bank, Grameen Bank, Canara Bank and SBI Bank in the Conference Hall at PC Sopore,” J&K police spokesman said.The spokesman added that all the participants have assured that the security of all bank branches shall be taken on priority and no loophole shall be left.Two days ago, unidentified gunmen robbed ₹two lakh from a bank in central Kashmir’s Budgam district, forcibly making their entry into the J&K Bank branch at Chandapora. They also snatched a 12 bore rifle from the security guard of the bank.Last week, unidentified robbers decamped with ₹3.5 lakh from a Grameen Bank branch at Panzinara. Earlier a Grameen Bank branch in Kunzer Tangmarg was also looted when armed men took away 2.24 lakhs from the bank. In all these cases, officials say people who looted the banks were armed.In Kashmir, dozens of bank robberies have taken place in the past five years and many cases were solved by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/backtoback-bank-robberies-in-kashmir-put-security-forces-on-alert-101616747129480.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Seek forgiveness, says Uddhav Thackeray on 10 deaths in Mumbai mall fire||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that action will be taken against those who are found responsible for the fire incident at a mall, which houses a hospital, in Mumbai's Bhandup area. He also apologised to family members who lost their loved ones in the incident."Compensation will be given to families of the deceased. Most of the patients who have died were on the ventilator. I offer my condolences and apologies to their families," Thackeray was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Watch | ‘I ask for forgiveness’: Uddhav Thackeray on Mumbai hospital deaths; 10 deadHis comments came after Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said that negligence of Sunrise hospital's management has come to light. "10 people have died in the fire incident. This is a serious incident. Negligence of hospital management has come to light. We will register a case," Nagrale was quoted as saying by ANI.The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has already ordered an investigation into the fire incident.Speaking about the incident earlier today, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar had said, "This is the first time I have seen a hospital in a mall. This is a very serious situation. Seven patients were on ventilators. 70 patients have been taken to another hospital. There will be an investigation to ascertain the cause of the fire."A fire had broken out at the private Covid-19 hospital on Thursday night.According to a statement from the hospital, the fire started at the first floor and also affected its operations. Hospital authorities said that they successfully evacuated all the patients and thanked the police for help.The hospital also said that it has been following all regulations regarding fire safety.According to the police, the fire started at 11.59 pm on Thursday. The operation to completely douse the flame is still continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-patients-who-died-in-mumbai-hospital-fire-were-on-ventilator-uddhav-101616746072424.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Police rescue three people trapped in burning house in Delhi's Greater Kailash||Two policemen climbed the metal grilles of a burning three-storey residential building in South Delhi’s Greater Kailash to help three members of a family trapped there stay calm while firefighters doused the flames on Friday.Video clips of the police’s efforts showed head constable Munshi Lal in uniform, wearing a helmet and carrying a gun, climbing the grilles of the building even as three members of a family, including an 87-year-old woman, huddled together on one side of the balcony. He was closely followed by constable Sandeep.Also Read | Delhi Fire Services plan tech overhaul, reduce response time, improve efficiencyAtul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said during the entire firefighting operation, the two policemen stood holding the iron grilles and talked to the three people, telling them not to panic, and avoid running inside the rooms which were filled with smoke.“Eventually, all the three trapped persons were rescued safely,” the DCP said.The fire broke out on the second floor which is owned by an advocate, the DCP said. People were trapped on the third floor which was quickly engulfed by smoke as flames raged on below them.The cause of the fire remained unknown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-help-family-stay-calm-during-rescue-from-a-burning-building-in-delhi-s-gk-101616746108118.html
26-03-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh-based company is ‘milking’ its way to success, women empowerment||Jaswanti Rajput is among the 22,000 women who scripted the success story of Balinee - a milk producer company where all milk suppliers are women. Balinee, in turn, is scripting a women’s empowerment story. Balinee means ‘a powerful woman’ - in this case, powerful women. Also, out of the nine-member board of directors of the company, seven, including the chairperson, are women milk suppliers. Forty-five-year-old Jaswanti’s story runs parallel with that of Balinee’s. In January 2019, when the company was incorporated, Jaswanti of Naya Kheda, Prithivipur in Babina of Jhansi district, became a member milk supplier. Since then, every morning and evening Jaswanti milks her milch cattle and walks to the nearby Balinee milk collection centre carrying her milk pails (containers) to sell milk. “I had one cow then, now with the regular earning from milk sale, I have bought a buffalo and a cow. I will soon buy one more cow,” says Jaswanti. Balinee’s chief executive officer (CEO) Dr OP Singh said, “We have paid ₹61 crore since inception to our women milk suppliers. And the company’s net profit is nearly ₹3 crore so far.” “Balinee means a powerful woman. That is what our company and brand name is,” he added.Singh said, “Balinee is the only all-woman milk producer company in the state and is headquartered in Jhansi.” The company was set up under the “dairy value chain development project” in Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh and is financially supported by the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) and UP State Rural Livelihood Mission (UPSRLM) with the National Dairy Development Board Dairy Services as the technical support agency. “The company has the objective of safeguarding the interests of member suppliers (exclusively women) by providing them round-the-year access to the organised market in a fair and transparent manner, timely payment, capacity building and providing livestock support services to increase milk productivity etc,” said Singh. As of now, the company has 22,000 milk supplier members across 521 villages of five districts of Bundelkhand - Jhansi, Jalaun, Banda, Hamirpur and Chitrakoot. Its target is to have 36,000 members across 600 villages in all the seven Bundelkhand districts, including Lalitpur and Mahoba, by March 2022. “We are not far from our target now,” Umakanti Pal, 31, who is one of the directors of the company noted. Umakanti is a milk supplier and secretary of the Jai Ma Durgey Women Self-Help Group in her village of Banki, Hamirpur. “As an individual milk supplier, I have supplied over 2,000 litres of milk to Balinee so far and earned over ₹50,000. As one of the directors, I am engaged in meetings, decision-making, connecting more villages and women to the company. Such a company is a boon for the women of the region,” she said. Balinee, till December 2020, procured 105 lakh litres of milk from its women milk suppliers with a peak procurement of 85,000 litres per day. The company has 10 chilling plants in the region with a total capacity of 1.5 lakh litres per day. “Balinee supplies milk to Mother Dairy in Etawah. We send milk in our milk trucks,” said Singh. All women milk suppliers of the company also hold shares. “We have put in an efficient system of milk procurement at every procurement village. The milk is weighed, tested and the value calculated without manual intervention using data-processer-cum-milk collection unit. The real-time data is transferred using GPRS to a central server and the milk payment is transferred directly to the individual member’s bank account once in 10 days. In addition to the acknowledgement slip, the members also get SMS on their phones,” said Singh. The company also provides services for productivity improvement of milch cattle, quality nutrition, feed and breeding. It has so far done 6,000 artificial inseminations, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-based-company-is-milking-its-way-to-success-women-empowerment-101616745688396.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Journalist and writer Anil Dharker passes away at 74||Indian journalist and writer Anil Dharker died of a cardiac ailment at a Mumbai hospital on Friday morning. He was 74 years old. Dharker had been admitted for a scheduled bypass surgery. The founder and director of the Mumbai International Literary Festival and of Tata Literature Live!, Dharker had been battling cardiac issues for a few years. “Dharker was one of the pillars of the cultural legacy of Mumbai,” said cricket writer and commentator Ayaz Memon, a friend and former colleague who worked with Dharker at the city tabloid Mid-Day and later at The Independent, Mumbai. “He was a man of fine style and fine words and had a delectable style of writing.” Dharker was also a member of the National Centre for the Performing Arts theatre committee and a columnist for the NCPA’s monthly magazine, On Stage. “He was a delightful companion who always had so many stories to tell,” NCPA chairman Khushroo Santook said on Friday. “His greatest contribution is his profound writing on politics, philosophy and current affairs, which were liked by old and young alike.” A statement released by the Tata Lit Live! festival described Dharker as “the quintessential Renaissance Man, myriad-minded and deeply knowledgeable across genres; an engineer by training who shone in the Arts”. “I first worked with Anil in the 1990s, when he was editor of The Independent in Mumbai. He was the politest editor I’ve ever worked with – before and since,” said Shashi Baliga, executive director of Tata Lit Live! “He gave us all, old-timers and young entrants, absolute freedom to air our views, however far removed they were from his. And that is why Tata Literature Live! has reached the heights it has in ten wonderful years.” Online, writers took to Twitter to express their grief. Columnist Shobhaa De wrote: “Goodbye dearest Anil. An elegant mind, a stylish writer, and a loyal friend. You will be missed by all those whose lives you touched. RIP.” Journalist Meenal Baghel tweeted: “Terrible new about @anildharker. He has been a big influence in Mumbai journalism and was an unfailingly kind man.” Dharker had studied engineering in the UK but had always wanted to write. After returning to India, he first worked as a senior consultant at Pheroze Kandianavala & Associates, a leading architectural practice where he devised fire safety innovations for the city’s growing number of multi-storey buildings. His writing on cinema led to a role heading the Film Finance Corporation, before it became the National Film Development Corporation. Dharker is survived by his ex-wife, poet Imtiaz Dharker, their daughter Ayesha Dharker, and his partner, the editor and writer Amy Fernandes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/journalist-and-writer-anil-dharker-passes-away-at-74-101616742388181.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Complete shutdown brings life to standstill in Punjab’s Majha region||The Bharat Bandh call given by farm unions to protest the Centre’s three farm laws led to a complete shutdown in Punjab’s Majha region of Amritsar and adjoining border districts on Friday. All commercial outlets, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) head office, most government offices and banks were closed. Roads in Amritsar wore a deserted look. With the support from people of different walks of life, farmers owing allegiance to organisations such as the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) blocked roads and staged protests at key points in the town. KMSC activists laid a siege to the rail track near Valla village on the Amritsar-Delhi rail route. They staged a protest at Golden Gate, the main entrance to the holy city. Barring emergency services, no one was allowed to travel on roads. Contradicting the leaders’ announcement that pilgrims going to participate in Hola Mohalla at Sri Anandpur Sahib will not be restricted, the farmers stopped their vehicles too, causing inconvenience. A complete bandh was observed in neighbouring Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts. Farmers held demonstrations at chowks in Batala town, demanding the farm laws be repealed by the government. The bandh call affected normal life in Pathankot district, which is considered a stronghold of the BJP, which leads the NDA coalition at the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/complete-shutdown-brings-life-to-standstill-in-punjab-s-majha-region-101616742210708.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rail, road traffic off track in Punjab’s Malwa on farmers’ bandh call||The Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions evoked a total response in Bathinda and adjoining districts of south Punjab on Friday. Activists blocked national and state highways and squatted on rail tracks in support of the 12-hour bandh, while shops and private establishments in the region remained closed. Activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union Sidhupur faction started assembling at Bathinda’s Bhai Ghanaiya Chowk since 6am to block the intersection that connects the city with Patiala and Chandigarh, Amritsar and Jalandhar and Ferozepur and towns in neighbouring Rajasthan. Supporters of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) gathered in large numbers at toll plazas in Bathinda district. Union activists blocked rail tracks at Maur on the Bathinda-Jind-Delhi section, leaving commuters high and dry. Ferozepur railway division officials did not respond to repeated calls for arrangements being made in view of the farmers’ protest. Trains were stopped at different unscheduled stops to ensure safety of rail property. Private and public transport buses remained off the road during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rail-road-traffic-off-track-in-punjab-s-malwa-on-farmers-bandh-call-101616740947890.html
26-03-2021||Other||Bharat Bandh: Good response in Ambala as markets remain closed||The Bharat Bandh call evoked a strong response in Ambala as main markets in the urban areas remained closed for hours since late morning on Friday.Most shops in Cloth Market, Jagadhri Gate, Prem Nagar, multiple sectors in city and Sadar Bazaar in Cantonment area were open till 11am until farm leaders came on their vehicles requesting them to close shops in their support.Farmers had blocked the NH-44 near Shahapur village and rail track next to the spot. Two other highways in the rural belt in district were also blocked.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) district cice-president Gulab Singh said, “Earlier, there was a call for Bharat Bandh for four hours, then six and now 12. This can extend up to a day or many days if the government remains a mute spectator.”3 TRAINS CANCELLED, 9 DIVERTEDA Chandigarh-bound train remained stranded at Ambala Cantt station that was cancelled later, along with a pair of unreserved passenger trains scheduled to depart to and fro Ambala Cantt railway station.Nine other trains were diverted in the division, officials said.Railway officials said that nearly 31 locations were occupied by farmers in Ambala and Ferozpur division, affecting rail movement mostly in areas under them in Haryana and Punjab.“As many as 44 passenger and goods trains were stuck in Ambala division due to the agitation and most passenger trains will be terminated as per the call of railway board,” another official, who didn’t wish to be named, said.COMMUTERS HASSLED ON HIGHWAYS, STATIONSA large number of vehicles were seen lined up at NH-44 which connects Delhi with the northern states, where many commuters requested farmers to let them through, for their emergencies.However, the farm leaders refused to do so.Many commuters were seen walking past the agitation site on the highway with luggage and a few travelling in Volvo buses were provided shelter at a gurdwara, where entry of media was barred.A woman from Jaipur, who was travelling to Chandi Mandir for her joining at the Army Public School, cried with folded hands in front of farmers to allow her to reach her destination.“If I don’t reach today, I won’t be able to join as there are three consecutive holidays starting tomorrow. Why stop private vehicles?” she said.High drama was witnessed as farmers remained adamant to not let anyone cross the agitation site but when other commuters requested the farm leaders, the woman was dropped at the school in a private vehicle by a farmer.Ram Kumar Pal, 51, who was to board a train to Haridwar with his family with ashes of his mother, was stranded at the railway station.“My mother died on March 22. We wanted to immerse her ashes in Ganga today. But our train was cancelled,” Pal, a resident of Ambala Cantt, said.In Yamunanagar, farmers blocked roads at eight locations in district. There was a muted response in the Yamunanagar market region as most shops remained open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-lay-siege-to-highways-rail-lines-in-ambala-yamunanagar-101616738907602.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Noted journalist and author Anil Dharker passes away in Mumbai||Noted journalist and author Anil Dharker, founder of Mumbai International Literature Festival and Literature Live! died here on Friday after a brief illness, a former colleague said.Over a five-decade-long illustrious career, he had been a columnist and writer, an architect, a member of the advisory committee of the film censor board and more.Dharker, who was in his mid-70s, was the editor of several publications including Mid-Day and The Independent and played a vital role in opening the Akashwani Auditorium in south Mumbai as an art movie theatre.His columns appeared in leading publications both in India and abroad. He was the author of The Romance of Salt.Expressing grief over Dharkers demise, columnist Bachi Karkaria tweeted: "Extremely saddened by the passing of the many talented Anil Dharker. I can safely say no other Indian Litfest curator had his deep, emotional commitment or drive. Knew him for well nigh 50 years. Flourish as much up there, dear Anil."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/noted-journalist-and-author-anil-dharker-dies-in-mumbai-101616737707627.html
26-03-2021||Other||12-hour Bharat Bandh: Farmers block most Haryana highways||The 12-hour Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha for Friday to mark four months of the ongoing farmers’ agitation on Delhi borders got a good response across the northern districts of Haryana, especially in the small towns.Most of the subzi mandis wore a deserted look as farmers did not turn up to sell their vegetables and vendors had to return empty handed. “I went to purchase vegetables at Sabzi Mandi Ladwa (Kurukshetra) for a party at home but the mandi was closed,” said Mukesh Kumar.Farmers have also reportedly blocked most of the roads connecting districts and traffic has been diverted to link roads. Hundreds of passengers were stranded at the Karnal railway station as trains were stopped following reports that farmers had blocked the tracks in Ambala.“Since trains were not cancelled, we decided to go for Vaishno Devi darshan as per our schedule, but now the train has been stopped at Karnal and we can’t understand why the government allowed the train to start from Delhi if there was a bandh call,” said Delhi-based passenger Lisa.Also Read | Left parties participate in Bharat bandh in VisakhapatnamFarmer union leaders announced that they will block all state and national highways of the state and will also take out a protest march, requesting shopkeepers to down their shutters in support of the agitation against the three agriculture laws.Jagdip Singh Aulakh, local leader of BKU (Charuni), said Karnal-Meerut; Karnal- Kaithal; Karnal-Yamunanagar; and Karnal-Assandh roads will be blocked.Meanwhile, district administrations have made arrangements to deal with any untoward incident and traffic advisory has been issued to avoid traffic jams.Kurukshetra Police said traffic will be diverted to NH-44 from Shahbad and Pipli. There will also be diversions from the Pehowa-Patiala road and the Kaithal-Kurukshetra road via link roads.Karnal Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said that elaborate arrangements have been made to deal with any untoward incident and police have been deputed at all link roads to avoid traffic jams.BKU(Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni thanked farmers for supporting the bandh. In a video message, he, urged activists to ensure the movement of emergency vehicles during the bandh. “Don’t stop local vendors, emergency vehicles and supply of milk and essentials as this movement is against the government not the people,” he said.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national Capital since November 26 last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12hour-bharat-bandh-farmers-block-most-haryana-highways-101616737588926.html
26-03-2021||Patna||ED attaches properties worth ₹1.01 crore in Patna, Rohtas||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday provisionally attached properties worth ₹1.01 crore in a case of cheating the public by a trust called ‘Buddhist Welfare Trust’. The trust allegedly used to receive payments from the gullible members in the name of giving lifetime membership in a medical college which was said to be established by it. During the investigation, the ED found that the said medical college was never established. The attached assets include 14 immovable properties in Patna and Sasaram. Movable assets provisionally attached by the ED include bank balances and insurance policies in the name of Surendra Kumar, chairman of the said trust, secretary of the trust and Surendra’s wife Sita Kumari, and their daughter Lipsa Kumar. A residential flat owned by Sita at Vindhya Ambika Apartment in Patna, worth ₹74.40 lakh, was also attached along with three plots of land owned by Surendra and Sitaat Sasaram in Rohtas district valued at ₹23.71 lakh.The ED also found 13 bank accounts in the name of Surendra, his wife and daughter with a balance of ₹56. 80 lakh.The central agency initiated investigations based on an FIR registered by Shastrinagar police station of the state capital. Charge sheets have been filed against Surendra and his wife. As per the investigation, Surendra and Sita opened a ‘Buddhist Welfare Trust’, where the former was the chairman and his wife was the secretary. The couple used to cheat other members of the trust by giving false assurances that the trust would establish a medical college and the donors would be given lifetime membership. This way, the couple went on collecting money from the members and accumulated a huge sum of money which was later siphoned off from the account of the trust to their personal bank accounts. The money was used for their personal gains and to acquire movable and immovable properties in their names. Further investigation with respect to the identification of other proceeds of crime is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ed-attaches-properties-worth-rs-1-01-crore-in-patna-rohtas-101616737467525.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers block highways, rail tracks in Haryana on Bharat Bandh call||The 12-hour Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha in support of the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, evoked a good response across the northern districts of Haryana, particularly in the smaller towns. Most of the markets, particularly vegetable mandis (wholesale markets) and roads wore a deserted look as farmers did not turn up to sell vegetables and vendors had to return empty-handed. “I had gone to buy vegetables at the sabzi mandi at Ladwa in Kurukshetra district, but it was closed this morning,” said Mukesh Kumar, a local resident. Highway traffic diverted to link roads With farmers blocking most roads connecting districts, traffic has been diverted on smaller link roads. Kurukshetra police diverted traffic on National Highway 44 at Shahbad and Pipli. Traffic on the Pehowa-Patiala and the Kaithal-Kurukshetra roads was also diverted via link roads. Jagdip Singh Aulakh, the local leader of BKU (Charuni), said the Karnal-Meerut, Karnal-Kaithal, Karnal-Yamunanagar and Karnal-Assandh roads have been blocked. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said that arrangements have been made to deal with any untoward incident and police have been deputed at all link roads to avoid traffic jams. Bhartiya Kisan Union Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni thanked farmers for supporting the bandh call by blocking roads. In a video message, he urged activists to ensure the movement of emergency vehicles. “Don’t stop local vendors, emergency vehicles and supply of milk and essentials as this movement is against the government not the people,” he said. Rail passengers stranded at stations Hundreds of passengers were stranded at Karnal railway station as trains were stopped following reports that farmers have blocked tracks in Ambala. “Since the trains were not cancelled, we decided to head for the Vaishno Devi shrine as per our booking schedule, but now trains have been stopped at Karnal. The government should not have allowed the train to depart from Delhi itself due to the bandh call,” said a Delhi-based woman passenger, Lisa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-block-highways-rail-tracks-in-haryana-on-bharat-bandh-call-101616736687637.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||'Death toll in Mumbai mall fire rises to 11; three bodies yet to be identified': BMC||The BrihanMumbai Municipal corporation (BMC) on Friday said that the death toll in a fire incident in Bhandup area rose to 11. The civic agency also said that three bodies are yet to be identified.Earlier in the day, the BMC expressed "deepest condolences" on Twitter to the families of those who were killed in the incident. It also said that the firefighting operation is still under progress.The fire broke out on the first floor of the Dreams mall just before midnight, and also affected the Sunrise hospital located on the top floor of the building. The BMC earlier said that there were two related deaths, but the hospital in a statement said that those were not linked to the fire incident."There were two dead bodies (due to Covid) which were also evacuated. There was no casualty due to fire," the hospital said in a statement on Friday morning."The smoke reached the hospital located at the top floor. All fire alarms beeped and hence all patients were safely evacuated due to the smoke to the fire refuge area," the statement further said. The police said that 70 patients were evacuated.The hospital said it is grateful to Mumbai fire brigade and the police "for helping us save lives".The police said that it was a 'level four' fire (serious emergency call) and they are trying to ascertain its cause.Twenty fire engines, 15 water tankers and ambulances were rushed to the spot. Fire fighting operation is underway, the official said.Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar who visited the site expressed surprise that a hospital was operating inside the mall."I have seen a hospital at a mall for the first time," the mayor said, adding action will be taken if irregularities were found in allowing the facility to operate there.The hospital, on its part said that it is functioning with all due compliances like fire licence, nursing and home licence.A civic official said the BMC had issued notice to the mall in November last year for allegedly flouting fire safety norms, news agency PTI reported. Former Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Sanjay Dina Patil said he also wrote to the BMC commissioner last year drawing the civic body's attention to the flouting of fire safety norms there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-lives-lost-in-mumbai-mall-fire-says-bmc-toll-rises-to-6-101616734939834.html
26-03-2021||Jaipur||BJP announces Rajasthan bypoll candidates, fields ex-minister Kiran Maheshwari’s daughter||The BJP on Thursday fielded the daughter of former minister Kiran Maheshwari from Rajsamand assembly constituency, which is among the three assembly seats going to bypolls on April 17.Not experimenting much, the BJP, riding on the sympathy wave, fielded Deepti along with former MLAs Ratanlal Jat from Sahara (Bhilwara) and Khemaram Meghwal from Sujangarh (Churu) as the party candidates.Deepti Maheshwari is the daughter of Kiran Maheshwari who was the MLA from Rajsamand and died due to Covid-19 in November last year. It was the only seat among the three which was held by the BJP. Rest two seats, Sahara and Sujangarh, were held by the ruling Congress and represented by Kailash Trivedi and Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal.While Meghwal, who was the social justice and empowerment minister in the Ashok Gehlot cabinet, died due to a brain stroke in November, Trivedi lost his battle to Covid-19 in October 2020.Also read: ACB team at his doorstep, Rajasthan official burns ₹15-20 lakhA senior BJP leader, on condition of anonymity, said Kiran Maheshwari had worked for the people of Rajsamand for long, people would support Deepti, though there is resentment among the local leadership but that would be set aside with peoples’ support. On the rest two seats, the party trusted its old guard - both candidates had been MLAs twice and even held cabinet berth. The nomination process is already going on and the last date of filing of nomination is March 30. Polling will be held on April 17 and counting of votes will take place on May 2.Now that BJP has announced its candidates, the Congress list is expected in a day or two. Congress’ frontrunners on Sahara seat include late MLA Kailash Trivedi’s wife Gayatri and brother Rajendra. For Rajsamand, the top picks for Congress include Tansukh Bohra and Asha Paliwal while for Sujangarh, the party has moreover finalised Manoj, son of late MLA Bhanwarlal Meghwal. Of the three seats, the party is likely to field family members on two seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-announces-rajasthan-bypoll-candidates-fields-ex-minister-kiran-maheshwari-s-daughter-101616733267685.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai fire: Over 70 Covid patients moved out from hospital at mall||A level four fire was reported from Dreams Mall which houses Sunrise Hospital in Bhandup in the eastern suburbs of Mumbai at around 11.59 pm on Thursday. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management cell confirmed two deaths but the hospital authorities said they were not due to the fire. Later, BMC tweeted that the toll had risen to six.As many as 76 patients -- 73 of them Covid-19 patients-- were shifted out of the hospital as soon as the fire was reported, said BMC officials.Earlier in the day, BMC said, “A massive fire was reported late last night at Sunrise Hospital in Dreams Mall at Bhandup West. Several patients have been duly shifted to different hospitals. A search and rescue operation by Mumbai Fire Brigade is still going on and two deaths have been confirmed so far.”Also Read | 3 army personnel killed as vehicle overturns, catches fire in RajasthanHowever, Sunrise Hospital in a statement said that the two deaths reported were due to Covid-19 and not the fire. The hospital statement said, “There was a fire on the first floor of Dreams Mall, Bhandup, and the smoke reached the Sunrise Hospital located at the top floor. All fire alarms beeped and hence, all patients were safely evacuated to the fire refuge area .There were two bodies (Covid-19 fatalities ) which were also evacuated. There was no casualty due to the fire.”The statement added, “All patients were shifted to Jumbo Covid Centre ( and some to other private hospitals). We are grateful to Mumbai Fire Brigade and to Mumbai Police for helping us save lives...This hospital was started in exceptional circumstances of Covid last year...It is functioning with all due compliances such as, fire licence, nursing home licence etc .The hospital staff did a fantastic job in safely evacuating patients on wheel chairs and beds to the refuge areas and by following the fire drills.”Fire fighting operations were on at the time of filing of this report, and further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-over-70-covid-patients-moved-out-from-hospital-at-mall-101616730927236.html
26-03-2021||Other||CAG raps Bihar road development corp for avoidable interest payment of ₹37.75 cr||Even as the ambitious Ganga Path project, along the river Ganga from Digha to Deedarganj, is still in the construction stage having missed several deadlines in the last few years, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in its audit report has now rapped the Bihar State Road Development Corporation (BSRDCL) for paying avoidable interest on loans without taking into account the “availability of funds” and “slow progress of work”. The project faces cost escalation due to several missed deadlines. In its report, the audit body has said that the BSDRCL made avoidable payment of interest of ₹37.75 crore by the unnecessary withdrawal of loan worth ₹193 crore from Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO) in the period 2013-18 and later refunded the loan amount. The project has now got a new deadline of December 2022 with work of approach roads connecting various points at Ashok Rajpath still going on. The 23.50-kilometre-long road from Digfha to Deedarganj along the river, with an elevated portion for several kilometres, is aimed at easing traffic congestion on the Ashok Rajpath and provide better connectivity from West to East Patna. In its report on Public Sector Undertakings recently tabled in the state assembly, the CAG has said the project, which was given administrative approval in 2013 at a cost of ₹3,160 crore, was to be financed through the state government’s contribution of ₹1,160 crore and ₹2,000 crore from the HUDCO. The CAG added that scrutiny of records (March 2017) has revealed that construction work was given to a contractor at a total cost of ₹1,777.37 crore in August 2013 with the date of completion targeted for the road in September 2017. Due to technical problems and land-related issues, the pace of construction was very slow. The audit body has found the BSDRCL erring on the count that despite receiving funds to the tune of ₹836.20 crore as project fund (during 2013-18) from the state government, the company withdrew loan amounting to ₹193 crore from the HUDCO in two instalments. One instalment of a loan worth ₹125 crore was withdrawn in February 2014 despite having ₹20.22 crore as balance out of the funds received from the Bihar government. The second instalment of ₹68 crore was withdrawn in March 2015 despite a balance of ₹260 for the project. “Since there was no actual requirement of loan due to the slow progress of work, the company refunded the loan amount. Thus, due to inefficient financial management, the company unnecessarily withdrew interest-bearing loan worth ₹193 crore despite the availability of funds and incurred avoidable expenditure of ₹37.75 crore on interest payment from 2013-18,” the report said. The audit body also found no merit in the BSRDCL’s contention that the first and the second instalments of loans were availed to avoid automatic closure of the loan agreement and automatic curtailment of the loan agreement. “The reply is not acceptable. The company should have taken up the matter with HUDCO for non-withdrawal of instalment to avoid interest on the loan amount,” the report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cag-raps-bihar-road-development-corp-for-avoidable-interest-payment-of-rs-37-75-cr-101616729546902.html
26-03-2021||Other||Goa CM’S pledge to start mining corporation evokes mixed response||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant’s surprise announcement - that the state would set up a state-run mining corporation - has set the cat among the pigeons in Goa’s mining sector that has long been the fief of a small group of mining companies who were beneficiaries of concessions from the erstwhile Portuguese government. While the chief minister didn’t elaborate on what role the corporation would play towards the resumption in the state, Sawant assured that the bill to set up the corporation would be introduced in the current session of the Goa Legislative Assembly and that the state was “100 per cent committed to restarting of mining in the state at the earliest.” The corporation route - in which Goa’s mining leases be handed over to a government-run corporation, thus dispensing with the need to conduct auctions - was one of the options before the state government which has had to contend with a stoppage in mining activity since March 2018 after the Supreme Court cancelled 88 mining lease renewals that were granted in 2015 ruling that the renewals were illegal. The Supreme Court in its order asked the Goa government to issue fresh mining leases and not renew existing ones if mining is to restart in Goa. However, the MMDR Act, as amended in 2015, now mandates auctions for grant of fresh leases to private players, something the government has been reluctant to do. Sawant’s announcement to set up a corporation is a fresh twist to the saga which began with the government first seeking a legislative cure, which meant asking the Central government to amend the Act to give retrospective validity to Goa’s leases, filing a review petition before the Supreme Court as well as more recently Sawant announcing that the state government would be going ahead with auction process for grant of fresh leases. However, mining companies in Goa believe that treating Goa’s mining leases as ‘dead’ would be prejudicial to their claims that they are eligible not just for renewals but also to their claims to perpetual concessions as granted by the Portuguese. The Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association (GMOEA), has in a terse statement cautiously welcomed Sawant’s latest announcement. “Resumption of mining operations in the state of Goa has always been the objective of the association and its members. Resumption of mining operations have to be as per prevailing laws and acts as well as in accordance with the matter before the Hon’ble Court,” the GMOEA said. Several mining-related cases in Goa are pending before the Supreme Court, most notably a plea challenging the Central government’s act converting Goa’s mining concessions granted by the Portuguese into leases under the Mines and Minerals Development Act (MMDA) is also pending currently before the Supreme Court as well as a plea to retrospectively grant a 50-year validity to Goa’s mining leases till 2037, which the mining companies have said they are eligible for. Any attempt to resume mining before adjudicating the pending cases would further obfuscate the ongoing saga, the miners have said, a claim which found support from the Central government which approached the Supreme Court, seeking early disposal of the cases.“Till the legal issues pertaining to the rights accruing to the mining concession holders under the Portuguese Colonial Mining Law, which were converted into mining leases by the Abolition Act, are not decided one way or the other, the title of the mines will not get clear and as a natural corollary the directions passed by this court (SC) would not get implemented in its letter and spirit,” the mines ministry said in an appeal before the Supreme Court. “Pending adjudication of the legal issues involved there will always remain an inherent legal uncertainty on the title rights of the mines if granted as per the directions passed by this Court as the original title of rights is still under litigation,” the ministry told the Supreme Court in its application.Meanwhile, the Goa Foundation has welcomed the move calling it a step in the right direction. “This is a welcome move. If installed with sincerity, it means the government of Goa has decided to get rid of the old system with its in-built weaknesses which have facilitated unaccounted and illegal mining,” director of Goa Foundation, Claude Alvares, said. “Though the setting up of a corporation is welcome, its management also needs to be completely professional. Hitherto, the Directorate of Mines and Geology has handled mining, but with poor business sense, and hardly any skills with the trade in minerals or their use. The new Corporation should not be run by bureaucrats or politicians,” Alvares said. “The very need to do illegal mining will come to a halt if the corporation holds on to all leases, hands out extraction contracts to capable persons under bidding schemes, takes charge of the output and e-auctions it professionally. Most of the wealth generated will accrue to the public exchequer. The best way to handle the revenue is to place it in the permanent fund, and distribute its investment gains to all citizens of Goa as a basic dividend, keeping the capital intact for coming generations,” he added.The Goa Mining People’s Front, a collective of workers’ unions, too, said they welcome the decision but cautioned against any premature jubilation. “We want work at the mines to start, it doesn’t matter how. But unless previous legal issues are resolved, attempts to restart mining will lead to more litigation,” Puti Gaonkar, president of the GMPF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-cm-s-pledge-to-start-mining-corporation-evokes-mixed-response-101616727566240.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic diverted||The Delhi-Ghaziabad border at Ghazipur was once again closed for traffic as the agitating farmers blocked both the carriageways of the elevated highway on Friday. One carriageway for vehicles moving towards Ghaziabad had been opened by the farmers earlier. Meanwhile, Tikri and Singhu borders connecting Delhi and Haryana, continue to remain completely closed due to the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws.Delhi traffic police also tweeted on Friday morning, “Traffic movement is closed on Ghazipur Border NH-24 (Both carriageway), Kindly avoid the stretch.”Farmer groups have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu against the three farm laws since November 2020, for over 100 days now.Also Read | Bathinda farmer found murdered near TikriThe Delhi traffic police in its advisory had earlier asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The Delhi-Noida Chilla border is, however, open for commute on both carriageways.The entry and exit points between the national capital and Haryana -- passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh borders-- continued to remain closed on Monday.The traffic police also advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad.The police have also diverted traffic from Mukarba and Grand Trunk Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101616727326878.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||'All patients evacuated, no casualty due to fire', clarifies Mumbai hospital||A fire broke out at a mall in Mumbai's Bhandup area just before midnight in which a private Covid-19 hospital is located. The rescue operation is still on at the Dreams mall and 23 fire engines are on the spot.The BirhanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that there have been two deaths, but the Sunrise hospital said those are not linked to the fire incident."There were two dead bodies (due to Covid) which were also evacuated. There was no casualty due to fire," the hospital said in a statement on Friday morning.It also said that the fire broke out on the first floor of the mall. "The smoke reached the hospital located at the top floor. All fire alarms beeped and hence all patients were safely evacuated due to the smoke to the fire refuge area," the statement said."This hospital was started in exceptional circumstances of Covid last year and has helped in saving many patients from Covid deaths. It is functioning with all due compliances like fire licence nursing home licence etc. The hospital staff did a fantastic job in safely evacuating patients on wheelchairs and beds to the refuge areas and by following the fire drills," the statement further said.The hospital said it is grateful to Mumbai fire brigade and the police "for helping us save lives".The police officials, who reached the spot, said that it was level 4 fire. The BMC said that it started at 11.59pm on Thursday.Smoke can be seen billowing from the building on Friday morning as firefighters are trying to douse the blaze.Speaking about the incident earlier, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said, "This is the first time I have seen a hospital in a mall. This is a very serious situation. Seven patients were on ventilators. 70 patients have been taken to another hospital. There will be an investigation to ascertain the cause of the fire."The patients were earlier shifted to a safer refuge area and oxygen support was made available for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-killed-in-fire-at-covid-19-hospital-in-mumbai-around-70-patients-evacuated-101616725039544.html
26-03-2021||Other||12 vehicles engaged in road construction work set ablaze by Maoists in Chhattisgarh||Maoists set ablaze at least twelve vehicles engaged in road construction work in Kondagaon of Bastar region in Chhattisgarh, officials said on Friday.Police said that the incident took place in Kuemari village under Dhanora police station limits where a road is being built between Batrali and Cherbeda under the Prime Minister Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY).“A group of Maoists in normal clothes came to the spot and threatened the contractor. They later set ablaze twelve vehicles and fled,” said Bhimsen Yadav, a police officer posted in the district.On Tuesday, five jawans of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) were killed while fourteen others were injured in serial IED blasts when Maoists allegedly targeted a bus ferrying security personnel in the neighbouring Naryanpur district of Bastar region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-vehicles-engaged-in-road-construction-work-set-ablaze-by-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-101616725226851.html
26-03-2021||Other||Wheat procurement: Ambala admn ups manpower for smooth operation||With wheat procurement starting in Haryana in a week, the Ambala administration has made arrangements to ensure a smooth process and roped in extra computer operators to avoid gate pass related glitches at the grain markets.The annual procurement process for wheat at the minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,975 per quintal is expected to begin on April 1 at 14 centres in the district.Other than wheat, the government agencies will also purchase mustard at Shahazadpur mandi at ₹4,650 per quintal and sunflower at four mandis at ₹5,885 per quintal, officials said.Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma, who chaired the third meeting with officials regarding the process on Wednesday, said that every possible effort will be made to make procurement a smooth affair for farmers.“To avoid problems in getting the gate passes, there will be a facility of two computer operators each at every gate along with at least Saksham Yuva for assistance,” said Sharma.Last year, several farmers had blocked the Ambala-Hisar highway with tractors and trollies for several days alleging non-procurement of paddy at the mandis.Farmers had said that the procurement process that was to begin on September 26, 2020, had not started despite tonnes of grains already reaching the mandis. Later on October 7, Ambala MLA Aseem Goel staged a symbolic protest outside the state assembly in Chandigarh against the delay in procurement, blaming state additional chief secretary (consumer affairs) PK Das for the same.Ambala (city) SDM Sachin Gupta said that the focus will be on cleaning the mandis before the season begins, along with proper facility of drinking water, food, toilet and electricity.Representatives of commission agents also pressed for timely lifting and transportation of the crop, among other issues, during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wheat-procurement-ambala-admn-ups-manpower-for-smooth-operation-101616715266710.html
26-03-2021||City||IIT-Bombay imposes strict rules as Covid-19 cases rise on campus||At least 20 members of staff and students at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past two weeks, leading to restrictions on out-of-campus travel. While lectures are only being conducted online, 2,000 staff members (including faculty, institute staff and project staff) as well as 3,000 students have returned to IIT-B campus.In a WhatsApp message shared informally among staff and students, the institute has requested everyone to avoid visiting barber shops outside campus. The institute’s contract tracing team had narrowed down upon a salon outside campus as a potential spreader.“When there were signs of the second wave, three weeks ago, we added new measures that includes restricting out of campus travel,” confirmed Professor S Sudarshan, deputy director of academic and infrastructural affairs, and head of IIT-B’s on-campus Covid task force.IIT-B’s Covid protocol includes 10-day quarantine for returning students, social distancing and reduced capacity in the hostel messes, reduced capacity in outdoor eateries, as well as reverse and forward contact tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iitbombay-imposes-strict-rules-as-covid-19-cases-rise-on-campus-101616709246129.html
26-03-2021||Bangalore||Woman in Jarkiholi case seeks protection for kin||The woman in the video linked to the sexual harassment case against Karnataka BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi, raised doubts on Thursday over the credibility of the Special Investigation Team probing the case and sought protection for her family. Meanwhile, Jarkiholi has claimed that he has “shocking evidence” to expose the real culprit in the case, and will release it at the right time.In a video statement released on Thursday, the woman claimed she would appear before the SIT only when she is assured about her family’s safety. “I will appear before the SIT only after the safety of my parents is ensured. I will take care of all further procedures and also provide statements (once their safety is ensured).”Referring to the missing complaint lodged by her family, she said: “I don’t think that my parents have given the complaint out of their own will because they know I have done nothing.”“I had sent a video to SIT on March 12 addressing the Home Minister, seeking protection. But the video was made public 30 minutes after Jarkiholi filed a complaint (on March 13). This has raised doubts on whom the SIT is protecting,” she said.In the video, the woman has also requested Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, state Congress president DK Shivakumar, senior Congress MLA and former Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar, along with women’s organisations, to provide security to her parents.The video has come a day after the budget session of the state legislature was adjourned sine die, five days ahead of the schedule of March 31, as the sexual harassment case rocked the proceedings.On March 12, the woman released a video seeking protection. “I don’t have any one supporting me. Ramesh Jarkiholi promised me a job. After all that is done, the video has been released now. I don’t know how it has happened. I request you to provide me with protection.”Reacting to the woman’s statement, state home minister Basavaraj Bommai said the SIT was doing an impartial probe and was ready to give protection to her and also her parents. “.. let whoever say whatever they want, we are doing an impartial probe, our officials have said they have inquired Ramesh Jarkiholi also, and are ready to take the woman’s statement,” Bommai told news agency PTI.Shivakumar said that the Congress party stands by what it said in the Assembly and urged the state government to ensure safety of the woman and her family.Meanwhile, Jarkiholi asked the media to take note of the conspiracy involved, while asserting that the woman was under pressure.“First, her video came out half-an-hour after I filed my complaint on March 13. Now, she says her video had been sent on March 12 itself... There’s politics behind this. I’m ready to face even if there are ten more CDs... Also, look at the planning...what was (her) voice then and what is it now,” he told news agency PTI.“We have readied evidence... I haven’t done anything wrong and I will 100 per cent succeed. With God’s blessings, I will come out of this...,” he added.Claiming that he had “shocking evidence”, he said: “I will release it when I have to..this evidence is against that great leader.. I haven’t revealed the name of the great leader because what if he is innocent and someone else was just using his name? Let’s wait, you will get to know,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/woman-in-jarkiholi-case-seeks-protection-for-kin-101616709241032.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhna Lake, Sector-17 Plaza in Chandigarh to remain out of bounds for public on Holi||Taking note of the rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the UT administration on Thursday banned Holi celebrations at all public parks, Sukhna Lake and Sector-17 Plaza.The order, issued by UT adviser Manoj Parida under the Disaster Management Act, stated, “It is specifically ordered that all public government parks, Sukhna Lake area and Sector-17 Plaza will remain out of bounds for public for Holi celebrations. There will be restrictions of entry into these places, which will be strictly implemented by the police and municipal authorities.”Restriction on entry to these places will remain in effect from 6am to 6pm on March 29.As a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of infection, the administration had recently also banned public gatherings for Holi celebrations and advised residents to observe Holi festival in their own houses, while strictly following Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhna-lake-sector-17-plaza-in-chandigarh-to-remain-out-of-bounds-for-public-on-holi-101616707825657.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Holi sales dwindle in Chandigarh amid Covid restrictions||With Covid cases rising in the city and the administration banning the celebration of Holi in public government parks, Sukhna Lake and Sector 17 Plaza, shopkeepers selling Holi items have reported huge losses, as the festival will mostly be observed on a small scale this year.Bobby Gakkhar, who supplies items like water guns, balloons and colours, said, “Around 30% of the shopkeepers start to procure stock for Holi around a month before the festival. Big retailers spend about ₹1 to 2 lakh to get the latest water guns, which many did this year as well, as Covid numbers were low around February end. Now, even I haven’t sold even one packet of water balloons, which used to be a staple in previous years.”Gakhar said that shopkeepers are now willing to sell water guns without any mark-up in prices, as they still have no takers. “Something that would have sold for ₹300 last year, is now available for ₹120, but nobody is ready to buy. Shopkeepers are also in a dismal mood, and many of them won’t set up stalls in front of their shops like previous years, as the festive spirit is missing.”Even sweet shop owners remain cynical about Holi sales this year. Proprietor of Uttam Sweets, Balwinder Singh Uttam, said, “We will be preparing festive sweets, but since people won’t visit each other’s houses, the quantity that we prepare will be reduced almost by half.” Proprietor of Sindhi Sweets, Neeraj Bajaj added, “Sales will drop by 50% and we won’t prepare many gift boxes this time. We will make gujiya, since it has close ties with the festival. Apart from that, we will stock normal sweets like rasgullas.”President of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) Charanjiv Singh said, “This is a sad time for all and shopkeepers are suffering losses, but there isn’t much we can do. We hope that the number of cases decline soon.”Jail stocks up on gujiyaThe Central Jail has been working to produce gujiya for Holi, which is sold at the jail itself and their Srijan Store in Sector 22. Assistant inspector general (jails) Virat said, “We will sell organic colours, while advising the people to maintain protocol while playing holi. However, the emphasis is on preparing gujiya. We have already started receiving orders for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/holi-sales-dwindle-in-chandigarh-amid-covid-restrictions-101616705855965.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Six lose battle to Covid-19 in Chandigarh tricity, 663 contract infection||Covid-19 claimed the lives of six people in the tricity on Thursday, while 663 people were found infected.Mohali led the tally with 321 cases, followed by Chandigarh with 226 and Panchkula with 116. Among the fatalities, three were reported in the UT, two in Mohali and one in Panchkula.This was the fourth time in the last six days when Mohali reported over 300 cases, while in Panchkula, the cases shot past the 100 mark once again, after a gap of five days.On March 19, Panchkula had reported 166 cases after over six months and the cases had remained below 100 since.All deceased in UT womenIt was also the first time this year that Chandigarh reported three deaths in a day, which pushed the death toll to 368.The deceased were all women, a 78-year-old from Sector 19, a 72-year-old from Sector 39 and a 62-year-old from Sector 45.With the 226 fresh infections, the city’s tally has reached 25,356, of which the active cases stand at 2,286. As many as 16 deaths have already been reported this month against 18 in February.Mohali’s active cases rise to 2,829Mohali’s death toll reached 418 with the two casualties on Thursday, while actives cases soared to 2,829 with the latest cases. Majority of these, at 214, were reported from Mohali city. The district’s case count stands at 24,806, of which 21,559 patients have been cured. Five health workers test +ve in PanchkulaAmong the 116 cases in Panchkula were five health workers. The latest fatality was a 71-year-old woman from Khol Fateh Singh. The district has reported 12,296 cases so far, of which 880 are still active cases. As many as 11,265 patients have been cured and 151 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-lose-battle-to-covid-19-in-chandigarh-tricity-663-contract-infection-101616705606840.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro to increase checks to ensure Covid safety compliance, commute time may go up||Travel time for passengers in Delhi Metro is likely to witness a rise, with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Thursday announcing that they will intensify their drive to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour inside the system in the wake of rising number of cases in the Capital. This effectively means that passengers may have to wait in queues to enter Metro stations.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) also said that entry will be strictly regulated as per Covid-19 physical distancing protocols, especially at major stations like Rajiv Chowk, Barakhamba Road, Central Secretariat, Patel Chowk, ITO. The checks will be stepped up during morning and evening peak hours.“Due to the strict reinforcement of social distancing norms, passengers are advised to plan their journey in advance and allow for additional time of 20-30 minutes for their commute. If possible, off-peak hour travel may also be opted by those who have the flexibility to avoid overcrowding/long wait during peak hours,” Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said on Thursday.DMRC’s heightened safety protocols come two days after the Delhi government identified the Metro services to be among the five super-spreader zones that were contributing to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital. The city has been witnessing a steady increase of fresh cases, notching 1,515 cases on Thursday at a positivity rate of 1.69%.Metro authorities will also be increasing the number of flying squads for checking violations of physical distancing and mask protocols inside the trains. “Inside trains, the number of flying squads and the frequency of checking drives is being increased,” a Metro official said, adding that “offenders will be penalized on the spot.”Data shared by DMRC showed that while the monthly footfall since Metro operations resumed in September last year was the highest in February, the number of prosecutions for violation of Covid-19 safety norms was the lowest in the same month. While 7.16 crore commuters used the Metro in February, as compared to 1.48 crore in September 2020 (when Delhi Metro reopened), the number of violations detected decreased for the same period from 5,180 (in September last year) to 2,823.“The teams also counsel passengers regarding Covid protocols and penalise them if required under section 59 of Delhi Metro O&M Act, for creating nuisance, such as not wearing masks/maintaining social distancing during their travel inside trains. Regular announcements inside trains and station premises are also being made to create mass awareness,” Dayal said.Commuters have also been asked to maintain social distance, while entering or exiting stations. “While waiting in a queue, the passengers will be strictly required to wait on the marked social distancing circles/stripes. If it is found that the social distancing protocols are not being followed at stations, entry gates will be closed for passengers at those stations until social distancing can be ensured,” DMRC said.In order to ensure that there is no overcrowding outside Metro stations, DMRC said it will write to district officials to deploy staff who maintain physical distancing outside the stations. “There might be a spike in number of passengers waiting outside the stations for their turn to enter stations in line with social distancing norms,” it added.As per the existing Covid Safety Protocol, it is mandatory for all the passengers to enter the station after thermal screening, hand sanitization, bag sanitization, and with their faces properly covered with a mask. Social distancing in Metro premises is to be followed throughout their journey.Though, passengers are also required to sit in designated alternate seats and stand at spots with floor stickers inside the train, several commuters were seen flouting these norms during a spot check done by HT this week.Ritu Gupta, 20, an undergraduate student at Delhi University, who travels from Dwarka to GTB Nagar to attend her coaching classes, said, “People have become careless in terms of maintaining physical distancing inside the trains. With the rise in number of commuters, many sit on seats that are supposed to remain empty during the journey. This situation can be alarming for families with elderly people, who are yet to get vaccinated.”Other commuters pointed out the problem of crowding at Metro stations. “At peak hours at busier Metro stations, people rush inside the trains in groups. Though it is not bad as old times, being coming in close proximity to people who are not even wearing their masks properly increases the chance of infection,” said Mohit Sharma, 29, a marketing executive who travels from INA to his office in Gurgaon daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-increase-checks-to-ensure-covid-safety-compliance-commute-time-may-go-up-101616699281672.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panic as angry customer fires shots outside Tarn Taran mall||Panic spread at Vishal Mega Mart, a shopping mall, in Tarn Taran city when around 10 men stormed into it by breaking its outer glasses with bricks over an issue of billing. One of the accused also fired in the air outside the shopping mall, said police.The incident, which was recorded in the closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed inside and outside the mall, took place around 5pm, said police. The mall is situated opposite the residence of senior superintendent of police (SSP), Tarn Taran. The police have identified two of the accused as Jaideep Singh of Palasuar village and Sunny Dayal of Tarn Taran, while the identity of the others is yet to be ascertained.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP-City) Sucha Sing, said: “On Thursday afternoon, Jaideep along with his family members had come to the mall for shopping. There was an issue on the shopping bill. The issue was sorted after heated arguments and the customer left the mall. “At around 5 pm, Jaideep along with his eight to nine aides, returned to the mall and started laying waste to everything. The group of men also broke some glasses of the mall by using bricks. Before leaving the spot, one of the accused also fired shots, but no one was hurt in the melee.”The DSP said their raids were on to nab the accused. He said they have registered a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian penal code (IPC) at Tarn Taran City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panic-as-angry-customer-fires-shots-outside-tarn-taran-mall-101616704645707.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar ‘upstaged’ by Prashant Kishor, should resign as Punjab Cong chief immediately: Akali Dal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Thursday said Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar should submit his resignation immediately to the party’s de facto leader Rahul Gandhi as he had been “upstaged” by chief minister Amarinder Singh’s newly appointed adviser Prashant Kishor. “Since Kishor assumed Jakhar’s powers and functions by holding a meeting with 37 first-time party MLAs, the latter has become redundant and should put in his papers. Jakhar does not have any role to play in the party now as Kishore has been empowered to interact with legislators directly,” the former minister said. Amarinder may repose faith in PK (referring to Kishor), TK or GK but cannot escape the fact that he took a false oath in the name of the holy Gutka Sahib and Guru Gobind Singh, he said.“How can the CM run away from the fact that he got forms filled from the youth promising them government jobs? How can he deny that he promised unemployment allowance of ₹2,500 per month to youths and ‘ghar ghar naukari’ to them? He will have to tell as why he reneged on the promise to give ₹2,500 per month old age pension and why he had not given electricity at the rate of ₹5 to both the domestic and commercial consumers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sunil-jakhar-upstaged-by-prashant-kishor-should-resign-as-punjab-cong-chief-immediately-akali-dal-101616703985386.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to start third phase of garbage collection from April 1||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) will start the third phase of its door-to-door garbage collection drive from April 1 for the remaining sectors of the city.In December last year, the MC had taken up door-to-door garbage collection through its own vehicles in Sectors 1 to 30. In March this year, though it initially planned to cover the entire city, it could collect waste in only 12 southern sectors (31-38, 38 West, and 46-48).MC joint commissioner Sorabh Arora said, “We will be starting the third phase on April 1. The exact number of sectors where the drive would be carried out will be decided in a review meeting scheduled for Friday.”The MC had deployed its 93 garbage collection vehicles in Sectors 1 to 30, replacing the informal cart-based waste lifting system. Earlier, the civic body had also deployed 99 vehicles to collect waste in some villages and commercial areas of the city. In the second phase started in March, it deployed additional 70 vehicles for the process.MC medical officer Dr Amrit Warring said, “We are aiming to start garbage collection in all sectors from April 1. Thereafter, we will initiate the process in areas like Manimajra.”To ease the payment of garbage collection charges, the MC has introduced POS (point of sale) machines.Streamline process, say residents The MC is still struggling with teething problems, particularly in the 12 southern sectors, where garbage collection was initiated in March. In many sectors, waste is still being picked up by private players, while in other areas, residents complain about accessibility issues.“It is a mixed case in Sector 38 as some of its parts are being covered by MC collection vehicles, while in other pockets, the old waste collectors continue to pick up garbage in their carts, seemingly through some understanding with MC-deployed staff. We expect the system to be streamlined in the coming months,” said Major (retd) DP Singh, chief adviser, Sector 38 resident welfare association (RWA).The MC, which had assured collection of garbage from houses, as was being done by the cart-based collectors, has failed to achieve its mission in most areas. “Under the new system, though private collectors have been taken over by the MC, still garbage is not being collected from the upper floors. Residents who are away for work and old persons are facing great difficulty in ensuring daily handing over of garbage. Many a times, they are seen requesting their neighbours’ help,” said RS Kaura, president of Sector 32 RWA.Confusion over payment There is also confusion among residents as to whom to pay the garbage collection charges — MC or cart-based collectors.“The MC should immediately clarify that who will take the collection charges for the last three months. Cart-based collectors have picked up garbage in this period even in parts of northern sectors. They are now coming and demanding payment for their services. Moroever, the MC is yet to add collection charges for the last three months in the water bills as was stated earlier,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO).Under the new system, waste collectors are refusing to pick horticulture and C&D waste like broken plant earthen pots. “Earlier, residents had no difficulty in handing over such waste. We are facing issues as there is no alternative arrangement for the same,” said Kidar Nath Sharma, president, Sector 46 RWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-start-third-phase-of-garbage-collection-from-april-1-101616703866131.html
26-03-2021||Other||‘Fudged’ opinion poll: SAD lodges plaint against agency, Kejriwal, Bhagwant||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has filed a police complaint against a private opinion poll agency, a Hindi news channel, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, and party leader Bhagwant Mann.A delegation comprising SAD leaders Harish Rai Dhanda, Harbajan Singh Dang, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, Inderjit Singh Gill, former councillor Jivan Dahwan, former member subordinate Iqbal Singh Gill, spokesperson Gurinderpal Singh Pappu and others visited the office of police commissioner to lodge their complaint on Thursday.Dhanda alleged that the opinion poll agency, in connivance with AAP leaders, published a fake poll. “The entire so-called research work is a fraud being done with the public with the common intention and conspiracy to help a political party,” he added. “The so-called opinion research is nothing but self-created fudged data which the opinion poll agency very convincingly presents and plays on news channel,” claimed Dhanda.“All this is a cheap political stunt being done to beguile the public. AAP is playing with the public sentiment. Such fudged data are used either in print media or in the electronic media to create a false impression,” he added.He said that such fake records were given wide publicity in their election campaign. “Putting advertisements and pasting handbills on the walls or by further circulating through their own IT cells on the social media, they raise the political prospects of their party and try to damage the interest of other political parties. Such an act is not only unethical, but is a criminal act,” Dhanda added. “We have submitted a complaint demanding strict criminal action and thorough probe behind this fictitious survey,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fudged-opinion-poll-sad-lodges-plaint-against-agency-kejriwal-bhagwant-101616703387603.html
26-03-2021||Other||Residents bear brunt of Ludhiana MC’s failure to dispose of waste||The failure of municipal corporation (MC) in disposing of the garbage dumped at the main dump site at Tajpur road is taking a toll on the residents living in the nearby colonies.With over 16 lakh metric tonnes of accumulated waste at the dump site spread over 40 acres of land and additional 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage being dumped at the site daily, the residents are suffering due to the foul smell, flyash, air pollution among other problems.Frequent fire incidents are also reported at the dumpsite due to the generation of highly combustible methane gas at the landfill site that even takes a toll on the environment.Residents of different localities situated at Tibba road, including Shankar Colony, Star Colony, Mahatma Colony, Kakka village, among others, are bearing the brunt of the failure of MC in taking up proper solid waste management.Laxmi, a resident of Mahatma Colony, said,” Due to the frequent fire incidents reported at the main dumpsite and fuel burnt by the dyeing industry situated in the area, the residents are facing a lot of problems because of fly ash. We run a grocery store, and our goods get covered with fly ash daily. It also causes breathing troubles. Despite our raising the issue for a long time, no action has been taken by the authorities.”The residents stated that problems had increased after the MC discontinued the refuse-derived fuel (RDF) plant installed at the dumpsite in the first week of February after the A2Z company left the work.Naveen Kumar, a shopkeeper at Tibba road, said,” Foul smell is emanated from the waste dumped at the dumpsite. A large number of tippers move through the area to dump garbage at the main dumpsite. As they are improperly covered, the garbage from the tippers falls on the roads. Shopkeepers also face problems due to dust emission.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The MC is working to deal with the issue. Tenders for allotting three separate contracts, including those for dealing with door collection of waste, shifting waste from secondary points to the main dumpsite, and for disposing of waste at the main dumpsite, will be floated in the first week of April.”Likely to affect city’s ranking in Swachh SurvekshanThe failure of MC in dealing with the waste is also likely to hit the ranking of the city in the Swachh Survekshan 2021-22. The third-party inspections are going on under the survey. After the dismal performance in Swachh Survekshan 2020, wherein the city was ranked at the 34th position out of 47 cities with over 10 lakh population, the civic body had been working hard to improve its ranking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-bear-brunt-of-ludhiana-mc-s-failure-to-dispose-of-waste-101616703386664.html
26-03-2021||Other||Scrap dealers allege torture by Ludhiana police, ACP refutes claims||Three scrap dealers taken for interrogation in a burglary case have alleged torture in custody, a claim that the police refuted on Thursday. One of the dealers was admitted to a hospital after he lost consciousness. They said the police gave them a clean chit in the case after sensing that the situation was turning serious and also offered to bear the medical expenses of the hospitalised dealer in case they did not file a complaint. One of them is Kali Prasad, 32, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, and had been living in Kakowal in Ludhiana. He said on March 23, some police personnel turned up at his shop on Noorwala Road in two vehicles to conduct a raid. “The cops said they were investigating a burglary case that took place at a multipurpose store and suspected that I had hid the stolen articles in my shop. I was not present at the shop at that time, but I asked them to check if they wanted,” he added. “The police rounded up my brother Kalideen, 28, and another scrap dealer Bipin Das, also from Noorwala Road, and took them to the police station. When I reached the police station around 7.30pm, the police took us inside and thrashed us badly,” he alleged. He further claimed that the police released them and asked them to visit again the next day. “When we reached the police station around 3pm, cops took my brother into custody. After some time, he fainted and threw up. He was rushed to a hospital. Later, on Wednesday night, the police told us that our names have not been included in the FIR and gave us a clean chit,” Kali Prasad added. However, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) (North) Gurbinder Singh refuted the allegations of torture. He said the police had called on three suspects for questioning. One of the suspects was drunk and collapsed immediately after entering the police station, he said, adding that he was then taken to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scrap-dealers-allege-torture-by-ludhiana-police-acp-refutes-claims-101616703385260.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Gang of thieves busted in Mohali, three nabbed||The police on Thursday arrested three members of a gang involved in several thefts in the tricity. Four stolen cars, two motorcycles and four mobile phones have been recovered from them. The accused have been identified as have been identified as Gurjant Singh and Harsh Kumar, both residents of Mauli Baidwan village in Mohali; and Sher Singh, a resident of Sohana village in Mohali. Police said Gurjant and Sher Singh are school dropouts and Harsh is an insurance agent. Superintendent of police (city) Harvinder Singh Virk said four of their accomplices, Gurpreet Singh and Shanga, residents of Mauli Baidwan, Pappu, a resident of Patton village in Mohali and Rahul, a resident of Sunny Enclave in Kharar, have yet to be arrested. The gang was active in Mohali, Chandigarh, Ropar and Baltana, from where they stole vehicles, parked them in different hideouts and sold them later. They also snatched several mobile phones. Three members of the gang including Gurjant, the prime accused, have been nabbed while the other four have yet to be arrested. What led to their arrestVirk said that on March 16, two motorcycle-borne persons snatched a mobile phone from a person in Kumbra village. With the help of the complainant, a police team led by DSP (city 2) Deep Kamal and SHO, Phase 8, Rajesh Kumar, arrested the prime accused, Gurjant Singh and recovered the snatched mobile phone from him. During interrogation, Gurjant confessed that his gang had stolen several vehicles, which were parked in secret locations. He also disclosed the names of his accomplices, following which the police nabbed Harsh and Sher Singh on March 19. The police recovered four cars – BMW, Verna, XUV-300 and Swift; two Splendour motorcycles and four mobile phones from various areas. “With the arrests, we are hoping to bust a big gang of thieves. More criminal cases are likely to be solved soon and investigation is on,” said Virk. SHO of Phase 8, inspector Rajesh Kumar, said, “Gurjant was already sent to judicial custody. Today, Harsh and Sher Singh were produced before a local court, which also sent them to judicial custody.” A case under Sections 379-B (theft) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the suspects at the Phase 8 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-of-thieves-busted-in-mohali-three-nabbed-101616703330895.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda farmer found murdered near Tikri||A 61-year-old farmer’s body was found near Bahadurgarh bypass on Thursday evening, said police. The deceased has been identified as Hakam Singh, a resident of Bathinda in Punjab. He was among farmers protesting against three farm laws at the Tikri border. A spokesman of Jhajjar police said the farmer was killed with sharp-edged weapons by unidentified persons.“The Bahadurgarh police have sent the victim’s body to the civil hospital and started a probe under section 302(murder) of the IPC,” the spokesman added. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-farmer-found-murdered-near-tikri-101616703329917.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC disposes of contempt plea against Haryana CM||The Punjab and Haryana high court has disposed of a contempt plea against Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.In the plea, Gurugram firm Haryana City Gas Distribution Ltd had claimed that on September 23, 2020, an HC bench had disposed of its plea directing that the representations of the firm, be decided by the respondent (HSVP chairman) not later than December 1, 2020. The CM was made party being chairman of Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). However, when authorities failed to take a decision despite reminders, the firm approached high court again with a contempt plea in February this year. The representation was about allocation of land for setting up CNG stations at Sector 49, Gurugram, the dividing road of Sectors 49 and 50 and in certain other sectors, as per firm’s counsel, Abhinav Sood.The plea was disposed of as state’s advocate general had informed court that a decision has been taken by the competent authority on the representation as directed by the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-disposes-of-contempt-plea-against-haryana-cm-101616702908644.html
26-03-2021||Other||Kapurthala jail starts vaccination drive for inmates||Jalandhar To inoculate inmates against covid-19, a vaccination drive has been started at the Kapurthala Central Jail, which has become the first prison in Punjab to provide this facility. Additional district and sessions judge Rajwinder Kaur and secretary district legal services authority, Ajitpal Singh, launched the drive in jail premises. Justice Rajwinder asked officials from the jails department to ensure that the health protocol and restrictions that the Punjab government has put in place were followed. Both judicial officers also gave a hearing to grievances of the inmates and directed officials to resolve them immediately on priority. The jail administration was also directed to ensure that the provision of free legal services to every needy detainee and prisoner was extended, without fail. Justice Rajwinder added that orders had been issued to settle custody cases in district courts on priority basis. Later, the judges visited the women’s barracks and listened to their problems. The food provided to prisoners and detainees was also inspected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kapurthala-jail-starts-vaccination-drive-for-inmates-101616702605085.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sangrur admn asks panchayats to pay water supply power bills||SANGRURSarpanches associated with the Panchayat Union Sangrur opposed the recent orders of state government directing village panchayats to pay electricity bills of water supply schemes from the grants of 14th Finance Commission or other sources.In a letter dated March 5, 2021, issued by Sangrur block development and panchayat officer (BDPO), the panchayats of the block were asked to pay water supply electricity bills up to July 2018 under one time settlement (OTS) scheme. However, sarpanches of Sangrur block announced not to pay the bills and said that they will stage protests across the district from March 27. On Thursday, they held a protest outside the office of Sangrur BDPO.“The panchayats have received grants from the central government for development projects under 14th Finance Commission. Though the bills were not paid for many years, the government ordered us to pay these which are in lakhs. We will not pay these bills and the grants will be used for development works in villages,” said Jasvir Singh Channa, Sangrur block chief of the panchayat union, whose wife Rajwinder Kaur is a sarpanch of Fatehgarh Channa.“We will not use these funds for the payment of pending electricity bills. The protest will be intensified across the state as sarpanches associated with the Congress party are also part of the agitation,” said Harbhajan Singh Duggan, whose wife Surinder Kaur is a sarpanch of Duggan village.Sangrur BDPO Lenin Garg said that he issued a letter to the panchayats of Sangrur block as per directions of higher authorities. “The sarpanch concerned is chairman of the water supply and sanitation committee who is responsible for the electricity bill payment. There are 73 villages in Sangrur block and the bill payment of the past five years is pending which is around ₹1.5 crore. They have been asked to pay a part of the pending bills,” added Garg.Sangrur additional deputy commissioner (development) Rajinder Batra said that the electricity bill payment is a very small part of the sanctioned grants. In case of default, the power corporation will disconnect the electricity connections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangrur-admn-asks-panchayats-to-pay-water-supply-power-bills-101616702545216.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amid worries over new Covid strain, 60 +ve patients go untraceable in Bathinda||Amid high presence of the new UK strain, a more infectious variant of the virus, in positive patients across the state, the health authorities are facing it hard to trace infected patients who gave wrong phone numbers and incomplete addresses at the time of sampling. The untraceable Covid patients have set the alarm bells ringing for the health authorities as 326 of the 401 samples from across the state, collected between January 1 and March 10 and sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genome sequencing, showed the presence of the new UK strain. Bathinda, which has the highest active number of Covid cases in the southern Punjab districts, also has a maximum of 60 untraceable positive patients where seven were added on Thursday. As per the official data, the district had only one untraceable case on February 28, which means the health department is unable to reach 59 such patients in the 25 days, who were tested positive for coronavirus. Health experts say such individuals are posing a “public health risk” in the absence of strict rules of identity confirmation. The health authorities of various districts have now started approaching the police to trace such patients to isolate them and contain virus spread. Bathinda civil surgeon TS Dhillon said the issue came to the notice of the health team recently as officials could not contact them after they were found to be positive. He said the department on Wednesday decided to relook into each such case. “This is a serious matter that patients furnish wrong contact details or remain inaccessible to the department for their health audit. It is crucial that individuals who tested positive are medically taken care of. The new stain of Covid is stated to be 70% more infectious and infected persons need isolation for larger public health interest,” he said. Sources said during a video conferencing on Tuesday, the civil surgeons apprised the department high-ups of the worrying situation that is emerging across the state. Dhillon said the department is considering asking for photo identity card details for more authenticated contact details of those who appear for testing. With 521 active cases (230 added in last three days), Bathinda is emerging as the hotbed of coronavirus cases in the south Malwa region. Ninety nine new cases were added on Thursday. Acknowledging a similar problem, Fazilka chief medical officer Kundan Kumar Pal said the civil and police administration has been given a list of four patients as there is a possible threat of infection spread from those withholding their real identities. Presently, the individuals are asked their address, phone numbers and Aadhar number at the time of sampling and no documentary proof is attached with the sample. “We faced a similar situation during the first wave of the pandemic outbreak in July-August last year too. The problem should be addressed strictly to curb the spread as even a single unidentified infected person could spread the disease to many,” said another health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-worries-over-new-covid-strain-60-ve-patients-go-untraceable-in-bathinda-101616702365613.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||5 senior Punjab cops suspended for collusion with ex-sarpanch accused of running drug cartel||The Punjab government has suspended five senior police officers, including controversial inspector general (IG) Paramraj Singh Umranangal, for their alleged complicity with former Rano village (Ludhiana district) sarpanch Gurdeep Singh Rano who was arrested last year by the special task force (STF) for running a high-profile drug cartel. Umranangal is already facing suspension in the 2015 police firing cases. Two SP-rank officers and DSPs each suspended by the director general of police (DGP) in an order dated March 23 include Varinderjit Singh Thind, assistant commandant, 4th battalion, Pathankot; Faridkot SP (detective) Sewa Singh Malli; and DSPs Parminder Singh Bath and Karansher Singh. In November last year, the STF had recovered 5.39 kg heroin, illegal arms and luxury vehicles worth ₹3 crore from the accused Gurdeep Rano in a special operation and the probe into the matter had pointed towards the role of police officials and some influential politicians. Following investigation of the accused, the STF had prepared a detailed report about the complicity of the five cops with the ex-sarpanch who enjoyed a significant political clout in his area. This report was forwarded for action to the DGP on December 2. A senior STF official said the accused Rano revealed that he used to bear expenses of Umranangal for participating in sports events as chief guest when the latter was posted as DIG Ludhiana range. “The accused also claimed the officer also helped him to take illegal possession of 4 kanals of land behind Apollo Hospital in Ludhiana. He also gave details of Umranangal’s hotel stays and other expenses incurred on him,” the official added. Varinderjit Singh Thind, who remained Payal DSP during the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government, provided gunmen to Rano who was elected as sarpanch as an Akali nominee and enjoyed a lot of political clout, the official said. Thind often visited Rano’s house and had also invested ₹25 lakh in his liquor business at the time, the report says. Also, Sewa Singh Malhi helped Rano reach a compromise in a dispute over a liquor vend and the STF claims to have recovered diary from the ex-sarpanch with details of payments. “Parminder Singh Bath had also invested ₹8 lakh in Rano’s liquor business, the report says, adding Rano was yet to pay ₹1 lakh to the officer as his share in the profit. Also, Rano had lent money to some persons on the guarantee of DSP Karansher Singh,” the report says. The STF is probing whether the money used by Rano on the cops came from the drug business only, said the STF official, adding that they have already recorded the officials’ statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-senior-punjab-cops-suspended-for-collusion-with-ex-sarpanch-accused-of-running-drug-cartel-101616702246908.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mass resignations rock Punjabi University||An administrative crisis loomed over Punjabi University, Patiala, as 28 of its top officials, including the dean of academic affairs, the registrar and the heads of eight academic departments, resigned en masse on Thursday, expressing their dissatisfaction over the working of officiating vice-chancellor (V-C) Ravneet Kaur, a senior IAS officer.This comes barely two weeks after the state government came to the rescue of the beleaguered varsity by announcing a special financial grant of ₹90 crore. Others who resigned included the controller of examination; dean of colleges; dean of directorate of international students; additional dean (research); additional dean (alumni); additional dean of student welfare; director of women’s studies; and incharge of internal audit.The resignations were filed following consultations with the office-bearers of the Punjabi University Teachers’ Union (PUTA), which along with other non-teaching staff unions has been protesting against the alleged delay in promotions and other administrative issues. In the evening, officiating V-C Ravneet Kaur, who is additional chief secretary (forests) in the Punjab government, called an emergency meeting with dean (academic affairs) Amritpal Kaur, registrar Devinder Singh and the PUTA members in Chandigarh. “The meeting was scheduled for Friday to discuss demands of the protesting unions, but it was advanced by a day in the wake of the resignations by top varsity officials. The issue will be resolved at the earliest,” the officiating V-C said. PUTA secretary Avneet Pal Singh said the bureaucratic interference in the varsity’s affairs was damaging as no one is paying heed to the demands of the employees. “The officiating vice-chancellor is working in an autocratic manner. The files pertaining to promotion of 105 teachers have been put on hold for five months. Moreover, the top officials of the varsity are feeling suffocated and ignored due to which they resigned in one go,” he said. Ravneet Kaur was appointed the officiating V-C by the Punjab government after Prof BS Ghuman had resigned from the post in November last year. ‘Staff unions of hindering administrative working’Accusing the staff unions of hindering the administrative working of the university, Kaur said, “They have laid siege to the administrative offices and are preventing the important issues from being discussed. There is no reason of holding promotion cases as the approvals will be given after proper scrutiny of each case.” The extension cases were cleared in last syndicate meeting, while the promotion cases will be put up in the upcoming conference, she added. Illegal appointees on promotion list The varsity management is scrutinising each promotion case as the list has the names of those allegedly recruited in an illegal manner besides the ones seeking previous service benefits, it is learnt. An inquiry into the appointment of 62 assistant professors hired from 2009 to 2016 is already pending. The varsity had roped in the state vigilance bureau to probe the matter and sent all records related to the recruitment of teachers from 2009 to 2016 to the vigilance. In a complaint filed in 2017, it was alleged that these assistant professors were appointed by violating the University Grants Commission (UGC) norms related to National Eligibility Test (NET) and PhD. It was also alleged that wards and relatives of the then ruling Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders were recruited on regular posts, ignoring the eligible candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mass-resignations-rock-punjabi-university-101616702246004.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 2,700 Covid cases, highest single-day spike this year||Punjab on Thursday reported 2,700 coronavirus cases, the highest single-day spike this year, while 43 more people died from the virus.The previous record of the highest single-day hike of the year was on March 21 when the state had witnessed 2,669 cases. Punjab’s maximum single-day increase in Covid cases to date is 2,896 infections, which was recorded on September 17 last year. On Thursday, maximum 413 cases were reported in Jalandhar, followed by 340 in Ludhiana, 321 in SAS Nagar, 233 in Gurdaspur, 231 in Patiala, 217 in Hoshiarpur. SBS Nagar witnessed maximum eight deaths, Ludhiana seven, Hoshiarpur six, 2 each in Amritsar, Patiala, SAS Nagar and one each in Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Sangrur. A total of 1,735 people were discharged on Thursday, and record 40,085 tests were conducted. Harish Rawat tests positiveAll India Congress Committee general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat has tested positive for Covid-19. He was airlifted from Dehradun to Delhi in an air ambulance on Thursday for treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). “Finally, Corona pahalwan (wrestler) has gripped me. During noon time, I decided to get my wife, daughter, Sumit Rawat, Puran Rawat, tested. I was reluctant to get myself tested. Then, I thought I should also get tested, and it was the right thing to do,” he tweeted on Wednesday. Four members of his family have also tested positive.Museums closed till April 10The Punjab government has decided to close all museums for the public till April 10 due to the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases across the state. A spokesperson of the Punjab government said that Virasat-e-Khalsa situated at Anandpur Sahib would also be closed with immediate effect and public entry would be strictly prohibited. The general public is also advised to comply with the health advisories issued by the state government to check the spread of virus. “The pilgrims coming to Anandpur Sahib to take part in Holla Mohalla celebrations should not gather at one place in large numbers. They should also put on masks, maintain social distance and sanitize their hands at regular intervals,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-2-700-covid-cases-highest-single-day-spike-this-year-101616702125210.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||J&K Police opposes Mehbooba’s passport renewal citing ‘adverse report’||The Jammu and Kashmir Police has opposed giving passport to former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti citing “adverse report” against her, officials said on Thursday.A report has been submitted to the Jammu and Kashmir High Court which is hearing a petition filed by Mehbooba over the delay in clearing her passport application.Mehbooba had applied for a fresh passport in December last year after the previous one expired on May 31, but the application has not been cleared till date in the absence of a police verification report.The officials said that “an adverse report” has been filed against her by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), but refused to elaborate saying the matter would be taken up before the high court.Hearing the petition on March 23, additional solicitor general TM Shamsi, representing the Ministry of External Affairs and the Regional Passport office, sought a short adjournment after the counsel representing the Jammu and Kashmir CID informed Justice Ali Mohammed Magrey that the verification report on her passport application had been submitted on March 18.However, Shamsi informed the court that he had received a communication from the Passport Officer in Srinagar on March 22 and the contents “reveal that the verification of the petitioner is under process and as soon as verification process is completed, the requisite report will be submitted immediately for further course of action”.“Communication further reveals that CID verification report in respect of the petitioner is still awaited from the JK CID. Copy of communication so produced by Shamsi...is taken on record,” Justice Magrey said while posting the matter for further hearing on March 29.The counsel for Mehbooba had submitted that the stand taken by the Regional Passport Officer, Srinagar with reference to non-availability of report from the JK CID, has delayed issuance of passport in favour of the petitioner.In the petition, Mehbooba said her passport expired on May 31 last year and accordingly she applied for issuance of a fresh passport before the authorities concerned on December 11, 2020.Mehbooba’s counsel submitted that according to instructions issued by the Ministry of External Affairs, the passport of an individual is to be issued within 30 days but in the instant case, despite lapse of three months, passport has not been issued to the petitioner due to the pending police verification.The 61-year-old politician was put under preventive custody on August 5, 2019, the day the central government revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 and bifurcated the erstwhile state into union territories.She was released in October last year after the Union Territory administration revoked the charges under the Public Safety Act against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-police-opposes-mehbooba-s-passport-renewal-citing-adverse-report-101616701945187.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda jail: HC tasks secy legal services authority to look into complaints of gangsters||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday directed secretary, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Bathinda, to look into complaints from gangsters lodged in Bathinda jail.Four petitions are in the high court, including by one Chandan, alias Chandu, in whose case these directions were issued on Thursday. The court directed that secretary, DLSA, will interact with the jail officials and the complainants to find out as to whether there is any truth in these allegations and submit a report through the district and sessions judge, Bhatinda, by March 31.The three other gangsters are Ramandeep Singh, alias Rammi Machana, Gurpreet Singh Sekhon and Kulpreet Singh Neeta Deol. Ramandeep is stated to be cousin of alleged mastermind of Nabha jailbreak, Ramanjit Singh, alias Romi. Romi is believed to be in Hong Kong and Indian authorities are trying to bring him back. As of Sekhon and Neeta Deol, they are among the accused facing trial in the Patiala jailbreak case of 2016. The petitions of three other gangsters were taken up on Wednesday. The allegations from the gangsters are that they had been put under solitary confinement in violation of Article 21 of the Constitution, according to which no person can be deprived of his life or personal liberty. They want that state be directed to not to put them under solitary confinement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-jail-hc-tasks-secy-legal-services-authority-to-look-into-complaints-of-gangsters-101616701885116.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt starts process to form judicial panel||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray decided to conduct a probe into the allegations levelled by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh against home minister Anil Deshmukh, the state government began the process to form a judicial commission, which will be headed by a retired judge, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) insiders said. On Wednesday, in a meeting of senior ministers held at his residence, Thackeray decided to form a commission to probe Singh’s allegations that Deshmukh was asking police officers to collect money and he had set a target of ₹100 crore for Sachin Vaze, who is now the main accused in the Antilia bomb scare as well as businessman Mansukh Hiran’s death case. “We need concurrence of a retired judge who will probe the charges levelled against the home minister, which may take a few days,” said an MVA minister, requesting anonymity. The commission is likely to be formed under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, which will give it powers to summon anyone for deposition, seek documents and conduct hearings. In an eight-page letter, Singh on March 20 accused Deshmukh of running a bribery ring. He brought up the charges through a letter three days after being transferred from his post of Commandant General of Home Guards, Maharashtra, on March 17. The home minister has welcomed any move to initiate a probe into the charges against him. “I will welcome the move if the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) decides to initiate a probe in the allegations levelled against me by Param Bir Singh (former Mumbai police commissioner) as I only requested the chief minister for the same,” he said in a tweet on late Wednesday night. He also shared a letter written to the chief minister on March 21 in which he has requested for an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-starts-process-to-form-judicial-panel-101616701405185.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||March JEE Mains results out; 2 from Maharashtra score 100 percentile||Results for the second session of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains, conducted earlier in March, were released late on Wednesday night. A total of 619,000 candidates registered for the March exams and around 590,000 took the test conducted from March 16 to 18. Three candidates each from Telangana and Rajasthan scored 100 percentile which include Bannuru Rohit Kumar Reddy, Madur Adarsh Reddy, Josyula Venkata Aditya, Mridul Agarwal, Zenith Malhotra, and Rohit Kumar, the first three are from Telangana and the rest from Rajasthan. Two candidates each from Delhi and Maharashtra, and one each from West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, and Bihar scored 100 percentile, which include Siddharth Kalra, Kavya Chopra, Bakshi Gargi Makarand, Atharva Abhijit Tambat, Bratin Mondal, Ashwin Abraham, and Kumar Satyadarshi, respectively.Gargi, originally from Nashik, prepared for her Class 12 exams and competitive exams from a coaching institute in Dadar, Mumbai. “We realised it was important for her to study there, so she stayed with my mother till lockdown was implemented,” said Gargi’s mother. At present, Gargi is in Nashik with her parents, preparing for her Class 12 board exams as well as JEE Advanced exam, to be held in May this year. Gargi is one of the two female students who scored a 100 percentile.Atharva Tambat, a resident of Vashi, prepared for his Class 12 exam and competitive exams from Ryan International School in Sanpada with an integrated session with a coaching institute. “He had already appeared for the first session of JEE Mains in February, and appeared for the exam in March to score better. He has scored 300/300. Now his focus will be on doing well in his Class 12 exams,” said Abhijit Tambat, Atharva’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/march-jee-mains-results-out-2-from-maharashtra-score-100-percentile-101616701345578.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||City’s max temperature stays above 38°C for 4th day||For the fourth straight day, the city’s maximum daily temperature crossed 38 degrees Celsius, with the temperature at 38.7°C on Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s weather station. The temperature was 38.1°C on Wednesday. Thursday’s reading was 5.2 degrees above normal, as per the IMD.Officials warned that warm conditions will persist across most of the city till at least Saturday. The IMD has also issued a ‘yellow alert’ or heat wave warning for Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg districts. “Across the Konkan region, maximum temperature could go up even further before the weekend,” said an IMD official.The IMD’s regional meteorological centre in Mumbai defines a heat wave for the area when the maximum temperature remains at least 4.5 degrees above normal (with a recorded reading of at least 37°C). If both the IMD’s weather stations in Colaba and Mumbai simultaneously record such high temperatures for a period of 48 hours, a heat wave is declared.Though heatwaves are unlikely in Thane and Palghar districts, the weather will continue to remain hot and dry.IMD officials said the highest temperature observed in Mumbai during the month of March was 41.7°C in 1956. Since then, the city has recorded maximum temperature exceeding 40°C in March on five occasions in 2011, 2013, 2015, 2018 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/citys-max-temperature-stays-above-38-c-for-4th-day-101616701164494.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||IIT-B researchers make robot for military ops||A team of researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B), have designed an indigenous compact, spherical tele-operated robot that can be deployed for military purposes such as reconnaissance and search operations. A team of two professors and five research scholars — led by Leena Vachhani, associate professor from the department of Systems and Control Engineering at IIT-B — has developed a palm-sized bot that can roll in any direction with a speed of 20 centimetres per second. “The tele-operated robot may be deployed at hazardous, difficult and enemy-intruded areas and controlled from a safe region. The structure of the spherical robot has many advantages over conventional mobile vehicles or humanoids. The ball shape of a spherical robot enables rolling in any direction on planar surfaces. Sensors and other electronics are completely inside the shell, making it robust to collisions,” said Vachhani. The camera mounted inside the robot provides a real-time panoramic, 360-degree, visual feedback. The robot can be easily manoeuvred and controlled using real time visual feedback from the camera with an android application, said Abhishek Gupta, assistant professor from the Mechanical Engineering department, who was also a part of the team. The researchers have recently filed for a patent for the robot. “There is no risk of overturning and getting stuck in a collision-prone environment. It travels indoors from point to point autonomously. Outdoors, it uses GPS [global positioning systems] to navigate from point to point autonomously,’ said Vachhani, adding that application-specific sensors could be mounted on a need basis. The robot was built with funds from the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY), allocated to IIT-B’s National Centre of Excellence in Technology for Internal Security (NCETIS), a joint initiative between IIT-B and MietY which has 20 projects under its belt. “The spherical robot is a low-cost surveillance system in comparison to other conventional surveillance systems available in the market. The product was improvised over time. We have been in touch with the National Security Guard for this robot. Rigorous testing is still pending as some work is yet to be completed. We are looking for industry to commercialise this product. Recently, during the Industry Day programme organised by NCETIS, we invited industry [members] to view our products. Some companies have shown interest,” Seema Periwal, senior programme manager for NCETIS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbresearchers-make-robot-for-military-ops-101616701106121.html
26-03-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body staffers abused, assaulted by Covid-positive woman, kin||The employees of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) health department were allegedly abused and assaulted by a Covid-positive woman and her relatives, when she was asked to get admitted to the isolation ward. This is the second case in a week where BMC employees were assaulted by locals.​ BMC nurse Sony Amrut Gavli, 34, stated in her complaint that on Wednesday at 9am, when she was at the medical centre in Anand Nagar, Jogeshwari, she received a message on the WhatsApp group created by the Indian Council of Medical Research that a resident of Vikas Nagar had tested positive and that she should be contacted and taken to an isolation centre. “At the time, Dr Neelam Nishad and three nurses, including me, were present at the Anand Nagar centre,” said Gavli. At 11am, Gavli contacted the patient’s family about her report. “On the directions of Dr Nishad, we went to Vikas Nagar for polio vaccination of kids. We were carrying out a vaccination camp, which two women visited without wearing masks,” said Gavli, adding that one of the women from the Covid-19 patient’s family abused them and said that they lied about the patient’s report. When Gavli and the three other nurses –Rekha Chincholi, Rajni Shinde and Roopa Uppar – asked her to calm down, she assaulted them. “She abused us and a man who was with the accused threatened us of lodging a police complaint,” added Gavli. The medical team then approached Oshiwara police and registered a complaint against the patient, her kin and the unidentified man. “We have detained the women and are investigating the matter based on the complaint filed by the BMC employees,” said an officer from Oshiwara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-staffers-abused-assaulted-by-covid-positive-woman-kin-101616701105063.html
26-03-2021||Other||Ex-intel chief misguided authorities: Chief secretary’s report to Maharashtra CM||Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte submitted a report on Thursday to brief chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on the matter of the alleged money for transfer scam in the state police that former state intelligence commissioner Rashmi Shukla had raised in an August 2020 report after intercepting phone calls of six people.Kunte’s report – HT has seen a copy of it – stated that Shukla intercepted the calls under the guise of “public safety” and thus “misguided the authorities”. It further stated that no transfers of police officials took place between June 27 and September 1, 2020 – the period in which the calls were intercepted, and thus no scam had occurred. “Rashmi Shukla had taken the permission under the guise of interception of the calls of a few people in the interest of public safety, but it appears that she misguided the authorities… In fact, the interception is done in case of the possibility of the threat to national security and anti-national activities under the India Telegram Act to avoid any such threats. The interception is not expected for the political differences, professional or family disputes. However, Shukla did use the permission for the purpose other than it meant for misleading the government and misusing the permission,” it stated.Shukla submitted a report to her senior, the then director general of police Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, naming senior politicians, middlemen and police officers, who allegedly sought transfers and postings of their liking. While the report did not state that any direct transfer of money to these politicians took place, it did refer to “monetary exchange” between police officers and middlemen acting in close connection with politicians. HT has seen a copy of the report.Kunte’s note raised a doubt on whether the IPS officer, currently on central deputation with the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), had leaked the report and contended that if that were the case then she would be liable for “strict action”. “The leak of the report has led to breach of privacy of the officers whose names have been mentioned in the report. It has also led to their defamation. The so-called deals for the transfers mentioned in the report and actual transfers done by the government differ. This proves that there was no question of any scam in the transfers,” the brief stated.The state intelligence department is likely to register a case against an unknown person over leak of secret documents, a senior official from the home department requesting anonymity said.Shukla did not respond to the phone calls and text messages. The cover letter of the report was circulated by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis earlier this week, who alleged that Shukla had “sought proper permissions from then additional chief secretary (home) and intercepted phone calls of several police officials and politicians”.Fadnavis further said that he had 6.3GB of data from the intercepted calls in a pen drive, which contained the voices of police officers and politicians closely related to the home minister and home department. He further demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the matter after submitting the report to the Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla.Following these allegations, Thackeray directed Kunte to submit a report on the issue, and the chief secretary submitted a five-page note on Thursday.Kunte’s brief stated that Shukla had not submitted any pen drive along with her report and prime facie it appeared that she leaked the report, which was top secret, to the Opposition. “The report submitted to the home department had no pen drive (which was displayed by leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis in a press conference on Tuesday) along with it. The report leaked in the media appears to be the office copy of it which was in possession of Shukla. This could lead to strict action against her,” the report stated. The brief further pointed out that Kunte confronted Shukla following the illegal interception.“Shukla then personally met me, home minister Anil Deshmukh, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and expressed her apology. She also cited family reasons, including her husband’s demise while requesting to not initiate any action against her. She also requested permission to withdraw the report, but since there were no such provisions, she was not given the permission. However, her request to not initiate the action was accepted on humanitarian grounds,” the report stated. Jaiswal forwarded the report to Kunte, who was the then additional chief secretary (Home), on August 26. “It is a serious matter and necessitates urgent action by the state government. It is recommended that this be brought to the notice of Hon. Chief Minister at the earliest and an immediate and comprehensive enquiry by State CID (Crime), Pune be ordered to identify concerned individuals and take necessary legal action. It is also advised that the secrecy of this report be ensured, in order to prevent unnecessary scrutiny, which may bring disrepute to the government,” Jaiswal wrote in the covering letter.Kunte’s report stated that he brought Shukla’s report to the CM’s notice, who in turn directed him (Kunte) to submit his opinion/remarks on it. On August 31, 2020, Kunte informed the CM: “It has been said that there was no concrete evidence (about money for transfers scam) except so called intersection and CDR analysis and therefore the CID enquiry (as suggested by the then DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal) would be undesirable.”Housing minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Jitendra Awhad on Thursday reiterated his allegations against Shukla saying she acted on behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). While briefing the media at his official bungalow on Thursday, Awhad alleged that an independent MLA from Shirol (Kolhapur) Rajendra Patil Yadravkar who later joined the coalition MVA government in 2019, was put under surveillance purportedly by Shukla. “An officer of the rank of deputy superintendent of police was put to watch his movements constantly to put pressure on him. She [Shukla] even had asked Yadravkar over phone, “Will your loyalty be at stake if you have a cup of tea with me?” Awhad said.“The phones of many political leaders and ministers from the state government were under surveillance under the behest of Shukla. This is a serious violation of the existing laws including Official Secrets Act and strict action needs to be taken against her. The decision about the action will be taken by top leadership in the government,” he said.When asked why the state government did not take action against the officers after it learnt about the illegal interception of the calls, Awhad said that the government avoided action on humanitarian ground. “Shukla submitted an apology letter to home minister Anil Deshmukh and urged for the pardon. But after a few days, she requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and home minister Anil Deshmukh to withdraw the letter,” he said.Awhad said that Shukla’s report and the interception of the calls for it was part of the “conspiracy” against the state government. On Wednesday, the minister said that the report came up for discussion at the state cabinet meeting, and several ministers were “furious” about the report. Shukla’s report mentioned the names of politicians such as NCP chief Sharad Pawar, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and Deshmukh, as they came up in the alleged conversations.The report did not state that the middlemen spoke to these leaders directly. It contended that one middleman is an assistant in the home minister’s office.In the summary to the report, Shukla wrote: “The aforesaid brokers were in close contacts and embroiled in these negotiations with several influential and the police officers ranging from inspectors to several high-ranking officers are in contact with such undesirable individuals. The information obtained and evidence collected is highly incriminating and gravely implicates a number of individuals engaged in this activity.”BJP legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar said that chief secretary Sitaram Kunte has himself admitted to having given permission. “In his report he has said that he gave permission, but it was taken by misguiding him. This has proved the MVA government’s claim of having not given the permission for tapping the phones is false. The report talks about Shukla’s apology, but it has no proof. Secondly, why was Rashmi Shukla pardoned for such a serious illegal crime of tapping phones? Forgiving her is an offence committed by the home minister and home secretary. I am moving Lokayukta on Monday seeking action against both of them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exintel-chief-misguided-authorities-chief-secretary-s-report-to-maharashtra-cm-101616701045032.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 35,952 cases; first state to administer over 5 million doses||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded more than 30,000 Covid-19 cases for a second day in a row, after it recorded 35,952 new infections, its highest one-day spike. The state also recorded more than 100 deaths with 111 more Covid-19 fatalities. In the past seven days, the state has recorded 657 deaths owing to the infection. Mumbai also recorded an all-time high of 5,505 new cases. It also recorded 13 deaths. Maharashtra became the first state in the country to administer more than 5 million doses since the nationwide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16. The state government, on Thursday, said that drive will be scaled up further in the coming days. According to data released by the Maharashtra public health department, as of Thursday, 7 am, Maharashtra has administered 5,014,7714 doses, followed by Rajasthan (4,994,574), Uttar Pradesh (4,756,799), Gujarat (4,381,814), and West Bengal (4,250,140).Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, the public health department of the state government, said, “Maharashtra is at the top of the country in the number of Covid vaccine doses administered. We are also the first state to cross the 5-million doses benchmark. We will further scale up the vaccination.” On Thursday, 270,937 citizens were administered the vaccine across 3,302 centres, the state government said. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Commission, also said the state is looking at completing the first three phases — vaccination for healthcare workers, frontline workers, those above 60 years of age, and those above 45 with comorbidities by May. Ramaswami said, “We have more than 3,000 centres in the state. We have sent a proposal to the government to add 146 more centres. We will also look at scaling up the number of people getting vaccinated in each centre.”He also said the state is in the process of estimating the number of people above 45, who will be eligible for the dose starting April 1. The state’s tally is now at 2,600,833 cases and 35,952 deaths since the pandemic began. The state has 262,685 active cases. According to a presentation made to the state cabinet on Wednesday, active cases in the state have increased in 35 districts since February 11, with Sindhudurg being the only exception. The state’s doubling rate has gone down to 63 days as on March 23, from 566 days in the end of January 2021 and 194 days in end of February. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state-appointed task force, said, “Maharashtra will see a huge spike and record number of cases as the number of tests have increased.” The public health department has projected that Maharashtra would see 300,000 active cases by April 4 going by the surge of Covid-19 cases. It wanted to beef up the hospital infrastructure and ensure beds are available to those who need it. It warned that the death count on April 4 can reach 64,613 from 53,796 today.It also warned that steps to be taken to ensure social distancing in vaccination centres or else it could be places of super spreaders. While the state has a recovery rate of 87.78%, its case fatality rate is around 2.07%. On Thursday, the Mumbai circle reported the highest number of cases with 10,062 cases followed by Pune circle, which reported 7,391 cases. The state government, on Thursday, also issued a notification asking people to celebrate the upcoming festival Holi in a very simple manner. While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has banned celebrations in Mumbai, the state, in its guidelines, has said that no major events should be organised for the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-35-952-cases-first-state-to-administer-over-5-million-doses-101616700809294.html
26-03-2021||Other||Corrupt practices by cops, politicos must be probed: Ex-Mumbai top cop’s plea in HC||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday filed a criminal public interest litigation (PIL) in the Bombay high court (HC), seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged malpractices resorted to by Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Singh, who approached HC on Supreme Court’s directions, has also sought the seizure of the CCTV footage of the minister’s home in his petition.His PIL has also called for the report, said to be submitted by ex-commissioner of intelligence Rashmi Shukla to the state, and all the files related to it, to be placed before HC.Singh’s PIL, filed through advocate Akshay Bafana, has alleged that Deshmukh had bypassed him while he was the Mumbai Police commissioner and called suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to the minister’s residence and told him that he had a target of ₹100 crore to collect per month. The PIL further stated that a few days later, Deshmukh called assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Sanjay Patil of the social service branch and held discussions about hookah parlours in the city, and instructed officers of the force to conduct investigations into various crimes as per his whims. The PIL also claimed that Singh had written to the chief minister and other leaders, apprising them of Deshmukh’s meetings with the police officers and his interference in the functioning of the police force. However, instead of taking action against Deshmukh, Singh was transferred to home guards department on the basis of a March 17 order of the home department, the petition alleged. It further pointed to the unceremonious transfer of Shukla, after she reported Deshmukh’s interference in matters pertaining to postings and transfers in Maharashtra, to the director general of police (DGP), who in turn informed the additional chief secretary of the home department. In light of these submissions, the PIL sought an “urgent, independent, unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the various corrupt malpractices of Deshmukh” by CBI, among other pleas. Meanwhile, another PIL has been filed by an advocate, Ghanshyam Upadhyay, seeking a court-monitored probe by CBI or Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the alleged various malpractices by police officers including Singh, Vaze, Patil and deputy commissioner of police Bhujbal, as well as Deshmukh and other politicians for “extorting money” from nearly 1,750 bars and restaurants in the city. Both the petitions will come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corrupt-practices-by-cops-politicos-must-be-probed-ex-mumbai-top-cop-s-plea-in-hc-101616700745466.html
26-03-2021||Other||Amid controversies in Maharashtra, Supriya Sule meets Sonia Gandhi||Member of Parliament (MP) Supriya Sule, who is the daughter of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, met interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday. Sule reportedly apprised Gandhi of the ongoing situation in Maharashtra.The meeting assumed significance as it was held in the backdrop of the controversies in the state involving state home minister Anil Deshmukh, after the Antilia explosive scare and allegations of extortion and corruption in the police force, came to light.“Thank you so much Hon. Mrs. Sonia Gandhi Ji for your valuable guidance. It’s always such pleasure interacting with you (sic),” Sule tweeted after the meet.Sule is the first leader from NCP to meet Gandhi amid the controversies that have led to a major beating to the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s image. On March 21, Congress leader Kamal Nath met Sharad Pawar in Delhi in view of the ongoing developments in the state. The meeting took place a day after the then Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh accused Deshmukh of assigning former cop Sachin Vaze, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia case, a target to collect ₹100 crore each month from establishments, among other allegations.Deshmukh is also facing allegations of corruption in the postings of Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. The allegations were levelled by the leader of Opposition and former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis, based on a report prepared by former intelligence commissioner Rashmi Shukla.NCP has already refuted all the allegations against Deshmukh. The MVA government has decided to form a judicial commission to probe into the accusation of extortions. A report prepared by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte over Shukla’s report stated that transfer of IPS officers named in her report did not take place at all. The report from Kunte was sought by CM Uddhav Thackeray.A delegation of senior leaders from all the three ruling parties, headed by CM, will also be meeting Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to apprise him of details on the controversies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-controversies-in-maharashtra-supriya-sule-meets-sonia-gandhi-101616700565271.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Two vaccination centres open for 14 hours daily in Mumbai||At a time when the city is witnessing the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra Covid-19 task force emphasises on more inoculation to contain the spread. Amid a drop in the mass immunisation programme, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is starting double shifts till late night to increase the overall turnout.To give a boost to the vaccination programme, from Thursday, BMC started two vaccination centres where inoculation service will be available for 14 hours daily.“At the initial stage, we are starting the double shift at two hospitals including Rajawadi Hospital. Now, probable beneficiaries can get vaccinated between 7am and 9pm. With this extension, we are hopeful that we will record better turnout,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “Following this, we will extend the facility in other centres,” he added.With the plan to increase the daily inoculation target to 100,000, BMC has set up more than 100 vaccination centres. Despite this, the number of beneficiaries across three groups – healthcare workers, frontline workers and individuals above the age of 45 – has remained stagnant.For instance, 40,502 people were given shots at 65 centres on March 8. But an analysis of the data of the past six days shows the average turnout of beneficiaries has remained around 41,000 across over 100 vaccination centres. On March 18, 39,644 people got inoculated at 91 centres. The number surged to 42,740 at 92 centres on March 19, followed by 49,547 at 94 centres the next day. However, the turnout decreased to 42,420 at 100 centres the next day (March 21). On March 23, the number of centres increased to 103 but the number of beneficiaries dropped to 37,120. On Wednesday (March 24), almost 6.6% drop was recorded with 34,633 beneficiaries at 104 centres.BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal in a statement on Thursday said in the coming days, the civic body has resolved to vaccinate 100,000 people daily. Need for awarenessDoctors highlighted the need to increase awareness among people and answer to their doubts and queries about vaccines. “To win the battle against the second wave and mutation of the virus, we have to increase daily testing and vaccination. Just like Covid-19 testing, BMC will have to bring the facility of vaccination to people’s doorsteps. Door-to-door counselling is also necessary, especially in slums,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultant.BMC has joined hands with non-government organisations (NGOs) to facilitate the process. Sweta Mehra, a vaccinator at Dahisar jumbo centre, said a number people refuse to take the vaccine even after reaching the vaccination centre and leave. “They ask us questions about the vaccine’s efficiency rate, side effects and sustainability of antibodies in the body. Many Covid recovered patients are also avoiding getting the jab presuming they are safe from reinfection,” she said.Rupali Basu, a patient with chronic kidney disease who is on dialysis for two years, has not gotten the vaccination yet as she has doubts about its effect. “Along with kidney issues, I also have diabetes. So, I am quite speculative. I don’t want to develop any side effects because of my health,” she said.Shortage of vaccineThough Mumbai has enough vaccine doses, districts like Thane are facing shortages. All corporations managed to continue administering the booster doses, but some found it difficult to give the first dose to senior citizens. The situation has improved this week, but without continuous supply of doses, Thane may face a shortage soon.TMC had to administer Covaxin to all for one week due to the shortage. Those keen on getting Covishield had to wait. Since the start of this week, the city has been administering only Covishield vaccines. They are expecting additional doses of both Covishield and Covaxin soon. To adjust with the shortage of vaccines, the civic body has rescheduled the timings of vaccination centres. Of the 51 functional vaccination centres, only 18 are operating on all days while the remaining are working on alternate days. “Of the 120,000 who have been vaccinated, 9,817 are in the age group of 45 to 59 years. Around 59,892 beneficiaries are aged above 60 while and the rest are frontline workers and healthcare workers,” said TMC chief Dr Vipin Sharma. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has administered 120,000 vaccines while Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) administered 43,588 doses so far. KDMC was administering only second doses for two weeks. “Currently there are enough doses of both Covishield and Covaxin, but if we do not get additional vaccines, we shall be out of stock within four days,” said a senior official from KDMC. Meanwhile, the jumbo vaccination facility, opened by the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Saturday, saw shortage of vaccines with only five of the 16 booths operational. Inputs from Ankita G Menon and Sajana Nambiar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-vaccination-centres-open-for-14-hours-daily-in-mumbai-101616700325009.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Dreaded gangster flees police custody after dramatic shoot-out in busy Delhi hospital||Gunshots rang out at east Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospital on Thursday noon when four policemen and a group of at least seven criminals exchanged nearly 20 shots, triggering panic in one of Delhi’s busiest hospitals, police said.A dreaded gangster escaped police custody, while one alleged criminal died and two others got injured in the dramatic shoot-out between the police and associates of the gangster who had come to rescue him. The policemen did not suffer any injury except some discomfort after the assailants threw chilli powder on their faces, the police said.Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar said the gang of assailants had come to rescue Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja, a close confidant of jailed gangster Jitender alias Gogi, who was brought to the hospital, escorted by five personnel of the Delhi Armed Police’s 3rd Battalion, from the Mandoli Jail, after the jail doctor referred him to GTB hospital’s surgery OPD for treatment of a stomach-related ailment.The police said Fajja was arrested along with Gogi and two others – Rohit Moi and Kapil alias Gaurav -- from an upscale residential colony in Gurugram, following an operation by a special cell team, on March 3 last year. Fajja is allegedly involved in several cases of murder, extortion and robbery.A senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said around 11am, five personnel of the 3rd Battalion left the jail with Fajja and reached the lock-up at the hospital for jail inmates around half an hour later through gate number 1 of the hospital. After making the prisoner’s visit entry in the logbook, the five personnel escorted Fajja on foot to the OPD surgery, which is nearly 300 metres from the lock-up. One of them was carrying a video camera and was recording the process, said a senior police officer from the battalion, who also asked not to be named.After the medical check-up, four personnel were escorting Fajja back to the lock-up while the fifth stayed back in the building to complete the paperwork. They had walked around 100 metres when the policeman who was capturing the video, spotted two to three men with firearms outside the hospital’s gas plant number-2 and raised the alarm, the officer said.“Another policeman quickly responded and took out his service pistol. However, the gun got locked while he was cocking it. Suddenly, one of the assailants overpowered him from behind while his accomplices threw chilli powder at the policemen,” the officer said.As the assailants opened fire, two policemen carrying an MP5 machine gun and a self-loading rifle, returned the fire. Two bullets hit one of the assailants, who had overpowered a policeman, and he was caught. He was later identified as Ankesh.Another assailant, identified as Ravi Jakshi, was also hit by two bullets in the chest. He ran towards the maternity and child block. However, after running around 200 metres, he collapsed and died on the road in front of Florence Nightingale College of Nursing on the hospital campus, the officer said.The police said the CCTV cameras of the hospital were defunct so they have not been able to get the video footage of the incident.The hospital authorities refused comment on the violence, saying it was a police matter.A second police officer said the assailants had come in a white Scorpio SUV and at least two motorcycles. The police said Fajja escaped with the assailants in the car.While escaping, two assailants pointed a gun at a biker and his pregnant wife at the hospital’s Gate number 7, pushed the couple, snatched their bike and sped away. They fired three rounds in the air to disperse the crowd that tried to overpower them, eyewitnesses as well as the police said.The bike owner from Uttar Pradesh, who had brought his pregnant wife for a routine medical check-up, fell on the ground after being pushed by the assailants. He informed the police about his bike’s snatching and the firing by the assailants. Two calls regarding the shoot-out were made by the police personnel involved in the gunfight.The shoot-out and a bleeding man running on the road triggered panic among the hospital staff, patients and their attendants.“For a couple of minutes, we were all in shock as nobody knew what was happening. Many people went inside the hospital building after hearing the gunshots. It was only after the policemen told us about the encounter that we understood the situation,” said a private security guard of the hospital.Another witness, Veerpal, who sells chhole-kulche outside gate number 7 said he was busy with his customers when two men came running from inside and pointed a pistol at the biker, who was with his wife.“The assailants pushed the couple away and snatched their bike. They fired three rounds in the air because of which people present at the gate panicked and ran for cover. The assailants fled on the bike, brandishing their guns,” said Veerpal.A third police officer said a case has been registered and teams have been formed to nab the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dreaded-gangster-flees-police-custody-after-dramatic-shoot-out-in-busy-delhi-hospital-101616699316787.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to increase Covid beds to 21,000 in hospitals, 50,000 in CCC-2||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to increase the number of hospital beds available to Covid-19 patients to 21,000 as it expects a further spike in cases over the next 15 days. The city has seen a 217% increase in the number of active cases of Covid-19 since March 1. With the number of cases of Covid-19 surging in the city since March, civic officials said they expect the number of cases to rise further as testing is being ramped up in an effort to break the chain of transmission. On Thursday, BMC commissioner IS Chahal issued a statement saying the civic body had the situation under control despite the spike. He further said that assuming the number of daily patients increases to 10,000 and 15% of them who would be symptomatic (needing14 days of hospitalisation), the requirement would be of approximately 21,000 beds. BMC is gearing up to ensure this infrastructure is in place. To this end, the civic body will increase hospital bed strength from 13,773 to 21,000. For mildly symptomatic patients, BMC plans to increase the number of beds in Covid care centres-2 (CCC-2) to 50,000. “We have categorised the beds into active, buffer and reserved. Initially, we would focus on improving the bed strength at Covid-19 jumbo centres. If the number of active patients increases further, we would activate the buffer beds. In the reserved category, if needed, we would reactivate the lodges, hostels, schools and establishments with oxygen facilities for moderate cases,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. Last July, when the pandemic curve was at its peak with a 69% recovery rate in the city, BMC had reserved 17,000 beds for severe and moderate cases. There were 23,810 beds in CCC-2 for mild cases. On Wednesday, a statement from the Central government confirmed that a new strain of Covid-19 has been detected in Maharashtra, which appears to have a higher rate of transmission while being less virulent than the original strain. Experts have said that further analysis is required to know whether the recent spike in Covid cases may be attributed to the new variant. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is part of the state’s Covid task force, said on Wednesday, “Though most patients are asymptomatic and don’t require admission, we need to be ready for the worst. We don’t know if the virus won’t get aggressive and if we don’t keep the beds prepared, we may face bed shortages in the coming months.” BMC has already held meetings with private hospitals, instructing them to increase their bed capacity. “Soon, we would increase beds by around 4,000,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, chief officer of Covid beds in private hospitals. At present, there are no plans to turn major hospitals into dedicated Covid hospitals as had been done last year. “We need beds for non-Covid patients also. So, until we run out of all beds, we don’t want to convert any major hospital,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-increase-covid-beds-to-21-000-in-hospitals-50-000-in-ccc2-101616699965113.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to stop sending reminder for second vaccine shot||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will stop sending reminders to beneficiaries about their second dose. The decision has been taken after the new guideline of the Central government that allows beneficiaries to take the second dose after four to eight weeks, for Covishield.Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, has two shots. So far, beneficiaries were taking the second jab with a gap of 28 days. After considering recommendations of scientists and researchers, the Centre on Monday advised states to administer the second dose of Covishield at an interval of four to eight weeks, instead of the earlier bracket of four to six weeks.“The recommendation has been revised to provide the second dose of Covishield at four-eight weeks of interval after the first dose, instead of earlier practiced interval of four-six weeks,” said the health ministry in a statement. However, the increased interval does not apply to Covaxin.With these new instructions, the civic body has decided to stop reminding beneficiaries about the date of their second jab. So far, ward war rooms used to call all beneficiaries before the date of their second shot to remind them.“It is up to the beneficiaries to decide when to take the second jab between four and eight weeks after the first shot. As it is voluntary, we can’t decide on the dates. So, now the beneficiaries have to take the second shot without any reminders from BMC,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.The option for the reminder for the second dose has also been removed from Co-WIN application which used to send automated messages to beneficiaries about the date.“From April, states have been instructed to inoculate people above 45 years irrespective of comorbidities. And we are expecting the turnout to increase. So, it would be tough to manually maintain the date of their second jab as Co-WIN app has stopped producing it,” said Kakani.A study published in science journal The Lancet on February 19 found that Covishield’s efficacy is 55.1% when its two doses are administered less than six weeks apart, but 81.3% when administered 12 weeks apart.Doctors have advised beneficiaries to not avoid the second jab which acts as a booster.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid task force, said, “It has been seen in the study that the first shot is enough to give protection against the Covid-19 virus for almost three months. The second dose which acts as a booster may further strengthen the immunity for more days. So, people should not avoid the second shot which can help in strengthening immunity further.”Till March 25, 932,291 people had taken Covishield shots in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-stop-sending-reminder-for-second-vaccine-shot-101616699725026.html
26-03-2021||Other||Raut reiterates demand to make Pawar UPA chief; Sena can’t discuss matter, says Congress||Shiv Sena parliamentarian and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut’s repeated statements about Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar be made the chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) has not gone down well with its Maharashtra alliance partner Congress. Raut, however, dismissed speculations that Congress leaders are upset over his demand. “The Congress leadership is not upset over the demand that Pawar should head UPA. In fact, we get such suggestions from within the Congress that UPA should be strengthened. It can be [current UPA chief] Sonia Gandhi’s stand as well. Gandhi has led UPA resolutely for a long time. But she has been unwell and there are [political] developments happening in the country. At such a time, several regional parties have demanded that UPA should be headed by a person outside the Congress,” Sena’s chief spokesperson said in New Delhi. Replying to Raut’s demand, Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole said, “UPA constituents have decided who should head the alliance. I had asked the chief minister [Uddhav Thackeray] two days ago if he [Raut] is Pawar’s spokesperson. Our only advice is that they should not discuss things that are not related to them... Shiv Sena is not a member of UPA and one who isn’t a member, must not enter into this discussion. There is no question of being upset over it.” Raut also said that several regional parties who are not a part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance or UPA should be taken under the aegis of UPA. “It is not the question of how many MPs (Members of Parliament) are backing Pawar saheb. Almost all [political] parties besides BJP have demanded that UPA should be reconstituted and there should be a change in the leadership. It is not just our demand,” he said. This is not the first occasion when Raut has called for the restructuring of UPA by making Pawar its head. In the past few months, Raut has spoken about it repeatedly. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant also said Shiv Sena does not have the right to make any such demands. “They should first formally enter UPA, which is a national level alliance and has fought against NDA for several years now. We have come together to form government here [in Maharashtra] under extraordinary circumstances—to preserve democracy and oppose BJP,” Sawant told TV channels. Meanwhile, NCP MP Supriya Sule met Gandhi, who is also the interim Congress president, in New Delhi on Thursday morning. There were speculations that the meeting was to discuss the Congress leadership’s unhappiness about the demand. However, Raut dismissed any such speculation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/raut-reiterates-demand-to-make-pawar-upa-chief-sena-can-t-discuss-matter-says-congress-101616699484901.html
26-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 5,505 new Covid-19 cases||While the city saw a record number of new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the daily caseload could go up to 10,000 in the coming days because of increased testing. However, more than 80% of the cases remain asymptomatic and a complete lockdown is not expected as the city’s health infrastructure is prepared for the increased numbers, according to BMC. The civic body plans to ramp up the number of tests conducted daily to 60,000. On Thursday, the city recorded 5,505 new cases of Covid-19, which is the highest single-day spike since the onset of the pandemic. Thirteen deaths were also recorded, taking the city’s Covid death toll to 11,623. BMC has said the increased cases may be attributed partially to increased testing. Since Tuesday, Mumbai has conducted over 40,000 tests per day, compared to the previous count of 20,000 tests conducted daily. Since the onset of the pandemic, Mumbai has tested 38,41,369 samples and the city’s positivity rate is 9.75%. The recovery rate is 88.14% and mortality rate is 3.05%. Between 80-85% of the current Covid cases are asymptomatic. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal issued a statement on Thursday in which he said BMC would ensure the number of hospital beds for Covid patients increased from the current 13,773 to 21,000 beds in next 15 days. This would ensure the city’s health infrastructure is prepared for the number of detected cases increasing in proportion to the number of tests conducted. “Assuming that the number of positives in due course of time in Mumbai increases to 10,000 cases per day with assumption that approximately 15% of these would be symptomatic, and further assuming that every symptomatic patient will require a bed, the total number of beds required to handle 10,000 positive cases every day for a period of six to eight weeks will be around 21,000 beds,” Chahal said in his statement. Chahal reiterated that the Covid fatality rate is under control and the immunisation drive is continuing apace. “We have completed 1 million vaccinations and we resolve to vaccinate 100,000 citizens daily, in the coming days. The ultimate remedy for ending this pandemic is only vaccination,” said Chahal.BMC has ruled out a complete lockdown, but strict measures are being taken, like conducting tests on randomly-selected citizens in public places like beaches and shopping malls. Between Monday and Wednesday, 57,627 citizens were tested using rapid antigen kits and approximately five tested positive, said BMC officials. According to BMC’s dashboard, there has been a sharp rise in occupancy of Covid beds, but there is no reported shortage. Of the total 13,083 beds dedicated to Covid patients, around 5,310 were vacant as of March 24. Of the total 1,559 beds in intensive care units (ICUs), 538 are vacant and out 8,851 oxygen beds, 3,860 are vacant. Of the total 987 beds with ventilators, 281 are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-5-505-new-covid-19-cases-101616699425372.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi man poisons wife, her family with thallium||A day after the police arrested a resident of south Delhi’s Greater Kailash-1 for allegedly poisoning his wife and her family using thallium, a toxic chemical, a member of the woman’s family said they are exploring legal options to secure custody of the couple’s two children.The police had, on Wednesday, arrested Varun Arora, for lacing his in-laws’ dinner with thallium on January 31, killing his mother-in-law and sister-in-law, and leaving his wife comatose. The man’s father-in-law and the domestic help recovered after treatment.Police said Arora planned the poisonings after his wife aborted her pregnancy last year, and to exact revenge for “being humiliated”, because his construction business was not doing well.Arora has been booked for murder, attempt to murder along with charges under other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said the police received information from Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on March 22 that a woman, Anita Devi Sharma, has died of thallium poisoning, after being treated for over a month.“We made efforts to trace the source of thallium administered to the woman and found that the woman’s older daughter Divya, married to Varun Arora, is also admitted in the ICU of the same hospital with thallium poisoning. She is on ventilator support,” the DCP said.Goel said investigations revealed that Divya’s younger sister Priyanka also died of thallium poisoning while undergoing treatment at BL Kapoor Hospital on February 15. “Anita’s husband Devender Mohan Sharma also showed symptoms of thallium poisoning. The maid working in the couple’s house had also been treated at RML Hospital for similar symptoms,” she said.One of Divya’s cousins, who asked not to be named, said she has been on ventilator support for 22 days and her condition is deteriorating. “We have already lost two family members. Divya’s condition is also critical. All we want right now is the custody of her children. They are with Varun’s mother, and if thallium has been found in his house, the kids are also not safe,” the woman said.Arora had visited the Sharma family in Inder Puri in January and cooked for them. He served the food to the entire family except his twins.“Arora was detained for questioning on Wednesday, and when confronted, admitted to have procured thallium and administered it to his mother-in-law Anita, wife Divya, father-in-law Devender Mohan and his sister-in-law Priyanka. He claimed he poisoned them to take revenge because they had allegedly been humiliating him repeatedly,” the officer said.Arora told the police that his wife had conceived after his father’s death last year. “He believed that his father was being reincarnated as his son. However, Divya developed complications and aborted the child on the advice of her parents and sister, against Arora’s wishes,” DCP Goel said.“He also said that his in-laws used to taunt him because his construction business was not doing good,” she said.She said the thallium was recovered from his Greater Kailash house. “We have also recovered his mobile phone that he had used to procure the thallium,” Goel said.Police are tracing the source from where Arora had procured the thallium.During interrogations, Arora is said to have revealed that he got the idea to use thallium from the internet. They also added that contrary to media reports, they had found no evidence to suggest he had been influenced by former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, whose agencies reportedly use thallium to poison rivals.“So far we have not found any evidence of him being inspired by Saddam Hussain,” Goel said.Recalling that Arora started ill-treating Divya after she got her first child aborted last year, the cousin said if Divya had not undergone an abortion, she would have risked her own life. The cousin also added that the two families also had a tiff because Arora’s construction business was not doing well and Divya’s family had been supporting him for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-poisons-wife-her-family-with-thallium-101616697352650.html
26-03-2021||Other||Govt issues new curbs as 2nd wave of Covid surges in city||Bengaluru: At the beginning of the year, Bengaluru was heaving a sigh of relief with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city showing a downward trend. Today, the city finds itself in the midst of a surging second wave. The city that recorded 12,467 active Covid-19 cases on an average through December 2020, recorded only 7,085 on January 1. Since then, the downward trend continued and on February 26, Bengaluru reported its lowest number of active cases at 3,754. However, between February 24 and March 24, the city has seen a 163% jump in the number of active cases.According to data from the health ministry, Bengaluru Urban (as the district is called) features among the 10 districts in the country with the highest number of active Covid-19 cases.Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said the second wave of the Covid-19 has begun in the state. “We are at the beginning of the second wave of coronavirus. The next three months are crucial for us. The technical advisory committee on coronavirus has given clear guidelines to the government stating that people will be in trouble if certain activities are not controlled. The new guidelines for the city are part of our efforts to control the spread of the virus,” he said.In December 2020, Bengaluru reported an average of 601 daily new Covid-19 cases. The number dropped to 338 in January and 241 in February. However, by March 24, the number was up to 601 once again. On Thursday, Bengaluru accounted for 1,623 of the new Covid-19 cases of the 2,523 reported from across the state, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.. Meanwhile, the daily positivity rate rose to 2.32% with over 1.08 lakh samples being tested in the previous 24 hours.Dr V Ravi, senior professor and head of the department of Neurovirology at NIMHANS and member of the technical advisory committee on Covid-19 in Karnataka, said the government’s efforts to proactively trace contacts and get them tested had reduced in the past few months. He added that even though hospitals were better equipped to deal with the surge, the lack of efforts in the contact tracing has impacted the city adversely.A senior Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) official cited the lack of cooperation from the people as a big problem. “Compliance when it comes to wearing masks has reduced drastically. There was a time when people of Bengaluru were adhering to social distancing and wearing masks. We saw the results. But we are now attending large events and gathering in public places without precaution. There is only so much that the government can do,” the official said on the condition of anonymity..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-issues-new-curbs-as-2nd-wave-of-covid-surges-in-city-101616699124368.html
26-03-2021||Other||RT-PCR -ve report now must to enter B’luru||Bengaluru Amid a continuous surge in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Thursday announced that travellers to Bengaluru from any state will require a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test report (with the test having been taken within the previous 72 hours) from April 1. The minister said the decision was taken for Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits as the city continued to report the highest number of cases in the state. On Thursday, Bengaluru registered 1,623 fresh cases out of the total of 2,523 from across the state. “There is a spike in cases every day. It is increasingly found in passengers arriving in the city from other states. As of now, the requirement (of a test report) is for those coming from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and Chandigarh (to Bengaluru). But going forward, it is applicable to visitors from all states ,“ the minister said. However, only visitors from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and Chandigarh need negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test reports for travelling to other parts of Karnataka. Government officials said people without test reports will be tested, and asked to be in quarantine till the results are available. They also added that the requirement isn’t just for visitors but also Bengaluru and Karnataka residents who travel outside the state and then return. Stating that 60% of the cases in Bengaluru have a history of inter-state travel, Sudhakar said the government will revive the practice of stamping the hands of those who need to undergo home isolation. “Many young people who are supposed to undergo home isolation are freely walking around because they are asymptomatic 9and there is no way of knowing they need to be in quarantine). We need to curb this,” he said. The government has also decided to resume its Quarantine Watch application which was suspended after the state witnessed a drop in Covid cases, to monitor those undergoing home isolation. On Thursday, the State Disaster Management Board has directed the commissioner of BBMP, all deputy commissioners, and all authorities concerned to prevent public gatherings during upcoming festivals such as Holi and Good Friday.On Wednesday, the state government proposed imposing strict penalties on establishments such as hotels, departmental stores and organisers of public events or large gatherings who fail to enforce safety protocols. In a late night order, the government announced a fine of ₹5,000-10,000 on all establishments found violating safety protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing. “The owners of the establishment will be responsible for: a) ensuring compulsory wearing of masks and social distancing; b) enforcing restrictions on the number of persons to be allowed,” the order read.As a precautionary measure, the government has limited the number of wedding attendees to 500 in open spaces and 200 in closed areas; it has permitted a gathering of 50 to 100 people in birthday parties and funerals, depending on whether they are held in enclosed or open spaces; and it has restricted the number of attendees to 500 at religious and political events. There are currently 18,207 active coronavirus cases in Karnataka. As many as 12,471 people have succumbed to the virus while 978,478 patients have recovered. According to the Union health ministry, 3,044,524 (a little over three million) vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rtpcr-ve-report-now-must-to-enter-bluru-101616699064329.html
26-03-2021||Other||4 die, daily case count breaches 800-mark in UP||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh reported 836 fresh Covid cases on Thursday, taking the infection count to 6,10,233. The daily case count breached the 800-mark after a gap of 77 days. As many as 815 fresh cases had surfaced in UP on January 7. Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Sultanpur saw one death each, taking UP’s fatality count to 8,733. The state’s active case count rose to 5,049 as compared to 2,078 on March 1, according to the health department. During the day, bulk of the cases were reported from Lucknow – 237, followed by Kanpur 33, Prayagraj 42, Ghaziabad 39, Gautam Buddh Nagar 30, Meerut 26, Varanasi 60, Saharanpur 29, Muzaffarnagar 25, Agra 12 and Jhansi 18. “Lucknow has reported 83,524 cases, of which 80,970 have recovered and the recovery rate is 96.94%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. During the day, only eight districts reported zero fresh cases while in the first and second week of March this number remained over 30. Keeping in view the Covid surge, the bed strength at Covid facilities was being enhanced. “We are increasing number of beds in our Covid facilities,” said Dr D Himanshu, of the King George’s Medical University. UPWARD TREND IN CASESMarch 25 – 836 March 24 – 737 March 23 – 638 March 22 – 542 March 21 – 496 March 20 – 442||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-die-daily-case-count-breaches-800-mark-in-up-101616698884275.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||New NCT Bill will obstruct good work done by AAP govt: Manish Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre brought in the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to “counter the rising popularity of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal” and to obstruct the “good work” by his government in the Capital.The controversial bill, which effectively hands executive powers to the lieutenant-governor (L-G) from the city-state’s government and legislative assembly, cleared Parliament on Wednesday after the Rajya Sabha passed it with an 83-45 vote amid a walkout by Opposition parties. The Lok Sabha passed the bill on Monday.“The bill that was passed yesterday shows how the Modi government was feeling insecure because of the popularity of Arvind Kejriwal and of the work done by his government. Today, people are saying that Kejriwalji can be an alternative to Modiji... This bill has been brought in to stop Arvind Kejriwal’s rise,” Sisodia said at a press conference.The bill says that “government” in Delhi will now refer to the L-G in the context of all laws passed in the Capital, and that the opinion of the L-G will be mandatory before any executive action. It also bars the state assembly from forming any committees to examine the day-to-day administration of Delhi.Sisodia said the Delhi government was in touch with legal experts to decide on their course of action. Till then, he said, the AAP plans to attack the BJP “politically”.He told reporters that the BJP was indulging in negative politics and accused it of “theft and cheating” to take administrative control of a state where it had twice been defeated in the assembly elections.“The BJP has no model to counter the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) governance in Delhi. Despite the fact that they run the government at the Centre and in several states, they are afraid of the Kejriwal model because people are asking why BJP-ruled states can’t provide free water and cheaper electricity like Delhi,” he said.“Across India, the demand for Kejriwal’s model of governance is increasing, which can be seen in the recent panchayat and municipality elections in several BJP-ruled states in the country. Kejriwal has a vision of development, which is now posing a challenge to the BJP. For the last six years, they have tried many things. But Kejriwal is a fighter. He has always come back stronger. He will fight back,” he said.Sisodia was referring to the AAP’s performance in the Surat municipal polls in Gujarat, where it won 27 seats, and the party’s electoral gains in panchayat elections in Maharashtra, where it won 145 of the 300 seats it contested, and in Himachal Pradesh, where it came out on top in 36 of the 40 seats it fought.The BJP did not comment on Sisodia’s claims.Sisodia also accused the Centre of obstructing the government’s doorstep ration delivery scheme. The scheme was to be rolled out from Thursday was stalled after the Union food and public distribution ministry raised objections to Delhi government giving a new name, ‘Mukhyamantri ghar ghar ration yojana’, and amending the ways of delivery, which the ministry said was in violation of the provisions of the National Food Security Act (NFSA).After Parliament cleared the NCT Bill, Kejriwal on Wednesday said it was a “sad day for Indian democracy.”“RS passes GNCTD amendment Bill. Sad day for Indian democracy. We will continue our struggle to restore power back to people. Whatever be the obstacles, we will continue doing good work. Work will neither stop nor slow down,” he tweeted.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta welcomed the passing of the BIll on Wednesday and said that it will help improve the administrative system in Delhi. “During last few years, the Kejriwal government, by bringing unconstitutional bills in Delhi assembly, has hurt the image of the national capital. Now, all Bills will be vetted before being tabled in the assembly,” Gupta said.Delhi Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt said the Congress has been opposing the GNCTD bill even when Kejriwal did not raise the matter.“For almost 55 days ever since the amendments were first approved by the Union cabinet, Kejriwal did not utter a word on the matter until a few days ago. It was the Congress which repeatedly raised the issue. In all these years Kejriwal has become the B-Team of the BJP by even running a campaign during the recent elections that there should be Modi as PM and Kejriwal as CM in Delhi. Now, the AAP and Kejriwal might be regretting the choices they made, “ he said.PDT Achary, former secretary general of Lok Sabha said going by the Supreme Court judgement of 2018, the government can only mean the elected government. “The Bill does not only overturn the SC’s verdict but also defies the Constitution. It is now to be seen how this plays out in reality once it becomes a law after the gazette notification,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-nct-bill-will-obstruct-good-work-done-by-aap-govt-manish-sisodia-101616697374674.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Supreme Court orders status quo on water supply to Delhi||Noting that the right to drinking water is a fundamental right, the Supreme Court on Thursday cut short any attempt by Punjab and Haryana governments and the central agency of Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) to curtail supply of water to Delhi on account of repair work of the Bhakra Nangal channel.Anticipating a water scarcity, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) had rushed to the Supreme Court to seek stay of any repair work undertaken by the BBMB in the months of April and May. “We have no problem with the repairs being carried out. But do not touch it in April when there is a peak demand of water in the city,” senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi submitted for DJB. The Nangal Hydel Channel supplies 232 million gallons of water a day to Delhi. Closure of the two gates supplying water to the Capital will lead to a 25 per cent shortage, said DJB’s petition filed through advocate Gautam Narayan.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde noted that the matter was “serious” and issued notice to Punjab, Haryana and BBMB seeking their responses within a day. “The respondents are directed to maintain status quo on supply of water to Delhi till tomorrow i.e. 26th March,” added the bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.This is the second petition by DJB before the top court. Earlier, the Jal Board filed a petition accusing Haryana Government for releasing untreated water into Yamuna leading to high ammonia levels in water that posed a health hazard to denizens. The Haryana government had disputed this position and claimed that the problem was at Delhi’s end. On Thursday, the Delhi government again accused Haryana of supplying less water to Delhi. Senior advocate Vikas Singh who appeared for Delhi told the Court that the water level at Wazirabad barrage that supplies water to Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants had reduced by six feet. For Haryana, senior advocate Shyam Divan contradicted the statement and claimed that not a single drop was being withheld from Delhi. Singh urged the Court to consider sending a Court commissioner for an on-the-spot verification. The bench said, “Since it’s a matter of fundamental right to water we will not entertain any technical objections and if required we may appoint a commissioner to visit the spot.” Over the past few months, DJB had written six letters to Punjab, Haryana and BBMB citing postponement of repairs of the Hydel channel to the monsoon months of July-August but received no response. Top officers of DJB had even visited Punjab in this connection. The bench wished to know the nature of repairs being carried out. “If repair is integral to the water channel, we won’t stop them,” bench said. Singhvi assured that the repairs can be carried out later as well and requested for a stay till the matter is taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supreme-court-orders-status-quo-on-water-supply-to-delhi-101616698825100.html
26-03-2021||Other||SGPGI director, wife test positive for Covid||LUCKNOW SGPGI director RK Dhiman and his wife are in home quarantine after testing positive for Covid-19.“Two days ago, Dr Praveena tested positive and today I tested positive for Covid through RT-PCR. Those who have come in contact with me or my wife in the last seven days should kindly take necessary precautions. We are absolutely fine. Take care,” read Dhiman’s message on social media. Dhiman was administered the Covid vaccine on January 16 and he took the second shot on February 15. The news of his testing positive triggered a debate over the efficacy of the vaccine. The PGI director said his wife had also been inoculated. “The vaccine is very effective in preventing hospitalisation as well as deaths; at the maximum it causes mild disease,” said the PGI director.“There is a possibility of people testing positive for Covid despite taking the vaccine shot, but the intensity of the virus would be lesser,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president, IMA (Lucknow).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpgi-director-wife-test-positive-for-covid-101616698704339.html
26-03-2021||Lucknow||237 new cases in Lucknow; 2 doctors, 8 health workers, a teacher test positive||Ten healthcare workers, including two doctors, and a teacher with City Montessori School (Mahanagar branch) tested positive in Lucknow on Thursday even as 237 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state capital.The number of patients in home isolation in Lucknow is now 1,046 while the number of active cases is 1,357.“One teacher of CMS Mahanagar branch, who was on leave from the school since March 12 as he was suffering from typhoid, tested positive three days back after his doctor advised him to get himself checked. He called the principal to inform her of his being positive and requested further leave,” said Rishi Khanna, CMS spokesperson.“The school was conducting pre-board exams for class 10 and viva for class 12 students when people from the administration conducted an inspection. They closed the school as a precautionary measure,” he said.At the Dufferin (women’s) Hospital, two doctors, two lab technicians, an x-ray technician, three security personnel, a clerk and a ward aya (maid) tested positive through the rapid antigen method. Among the 10, nine have had their two doses of the Covid vaccine and one of them had the first dose, according to people familiar with the matter.According to the hospital’s chief medical superintendent Dr Sudha Verma, a pregnant woman was operated in the hospital a day before. She tested negative in the antigen test, but her RT-PCR test came positive. After this, 234 staff members were tested with antigen method and the report of 10 came positive. The pregnant woman was isolated earlier.The fresh cases in Lucknow were reported from Indira Nagar 18, Gomti Nagar 11, Hasanganj 8, Alambagh 22, Madiaon 9 and Mahanagar 11.“Indira Nagar and Gomti Nagar are the two areas that had reported the maximum cases the previous year. Again, the rise in the city’s Covid cases has a major contribution from these areas only. They need increased focus with contact tracing,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.“The new cases would not cause serious illness. Hopefully, a majority of the people falling sick will recover in home isolation only,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of Indian Medical Association, Lucknow.Rising trend in LucknowMarch 25 – 237 fresh Covid casesMarch 24 – 220March 23 – 232March 22 -- 147||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/237-new-cases-in-lucknow-2-doctors-8-health-workers-a-teacher-test-positive-101616698044284.html
26-03-2021||Lucknow||Varanasi, Kanpur to have police commissioner system||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Thursday gave its nod to implement the police commissioner system in Kanpur Nagar and Varanasi Nagar (city) in an attempt to provide “smart and safe” policing there. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the Lok Sabha MP from Varanasi.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath presided over the meeting of the state cabinet that took the decision which comes over a year after the implementation of the police commissioner system in the Lucknow metropolitan area and Gautam Buddha Nagar on January 13, 2020.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi confirmed the state cabinet’s decision. The posting of officers as police commissioners, joint police commissioners, additional police commissioner, deputy police commissioners, assistant deputy police commissioners and assistant police commissioners will be made once the official notification in this regard is issued. They will have the powers of executive magistrates.An official spokesman said the new system will provide more security, get more cooperation from the people and lead to efficiency and effectiveness of police functioning.Under the new policing system in the two districts, 34 police stations will fall under Kanpur Nagar while 11 police stations will be placed under Kanpur (Outer). Similarly, 18 police stations will fall under Varanasi Nagar limits while 10 police stations will be in the Varanasi (rural) area.Six-monthly reviewAn official spokesman said the state government will review the law and order situation, crime against women, traffic and other aspects every six months.14 laws to be under purview of police commissioner systemThe state cabinet has decided to bring 14 prevailing laws under the purview of the police commissioners system Action under these laws will be taken by the police commissioners and other officers working under the new system.These laws include the Uttar Pradesh Control of Goondas Act, Uttar Pradesh Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act, Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention Act and Official Secrets Act etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasi-kanpur-to-have-police-commissioner-system-101616697984842.html
26-03-2021||Lucknow||NHRC issues notice to UP DGP over arrest of 10 people in ‘fake’ case in Etah||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Thursday issued notice to director general of police (DGP), Uttar Pradesh over arrest of ten people in an alleged false case by the policemen in Etah district.In a press statement, deputy director, NHRC, Jaimini Kumar Srivastava said, the NHRC has taken suo motu cognizance of a media report that in Etah district, two policemen got involved in a squabble at a ‘dhaba’ (eatery) over payment of bill for the food they consumed. The policemen then falsely implicated and arrested ten people including the brother of the owner of the eatery and eight customers in an alleged encounter with them. The persons reportedly arrested by the police are presently lodged in the judicial custody, he said.The Commission has issued a notice to the DGP calling for a report in the matter within six weeks. A copy of the proceedings has also been sent to the Member Secretary, Uttar Pradesh State Legal Aid Services Authority to ensure free legal aid to the arrested people, if not provided, he said.Issuing the notice, the Commission observed that the contents of the media report, if true, raise serious issue of violation of Human Rights. The incident, apparently, is a classic example of failure of entire system of checks and balances. Hence, fair investigation is required to be conducted to know as to from where the policemen could manage to procure these items, Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nhrc-issues-notice-to-up-dgp-over-arrest-of-10-people-in-fake-case-in-etah-101616697864996.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 graph continues to soar: Capital adds 1,515 new infections||The Covid-19 surge in the Capital continued unabated on Thursday as Delhi recorded its highest single-day case spike of the year, adding 1,515 new infections — the most since December 16, as experts urged authorities to consider stepping up curbs to prevent infections from spiralling beyond control.The seven-day average of new cases, known as case trajectory, crossed the 1,000-mark for the first time in 91 days, with the city adding an average of 1,016 cases per day over the past week.The positivity rate also increased to 1.69%, even as the city ramped up testing. For six days now, the test positivity rate, which experts regard as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection, has remained over 1% since it dipped below that number in December last year. On Wednesday, numbers from which are reported a day later in Thursday’s bulletin, the city tested 89,836 samples for the infection. Of these, almost 65% samples were tested using the more accurate RT-PCR method. Just over 78,000 tests were conducted on average daily during the last seven days in comparison. Just over 71,000 tests were conducted the week before and over 65,000 tests the week before that. Experts called for immediate measures such as curtailing all “non-essential” activities and large gatherings to prevent a surge in cases as seen in states such as Maharashtra. “There is a need for some restrictions such as curtailing the number of people at weddings, restricting travel between states, closing non-essential services such as bars, restaurants, and cinemas. And these need to be brought in now before we see a surge like in Maharashtra. The case fatality rate in Delhi as well as the country has come down since last year because of the better understanding about the disease, however it still kills. It is a myth that this time around the virus is causing milder infections,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Four deaths on average were reported each day over the past seven days, up from two deaths that were reported the week before. Five deaths due to the viral infection were reported in Thursday’s bulletin. The case spike has bought with it a significant increase in hospitalisations as well. There were 1,094 people with the infection admitted to city hospitals as on Wednesday night, meaning one in five beds earmarked for Covid-19 are already occupied. A total of 5,740 beds in city hospitals are reserved for the treatment of the infection which has so far claimed 10,978 lives in the city.Other than restrictions on transport, experts have also recommended that travel for events such as the Kumbh Mela be restricted. “In cities where the cases are going up, restrictions have to be put in place. People have to be asked to avoid unnecessary travel and there have to be restrictions on the number of people allowed on modes of public transport,” said Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, professor of medicine and head of the department of neurology at Lady Hardinge Medical College. In addition to the traditional methods of controlling the infection, the experts have also called for increasing the pace of vaccination. “There is a need to enhance vaccination on a war footing. But, nobody seems to be worried about what is happening; I do not see a sense of urgency anywhere. In addition to the people over the age of 45 years and the healthcare and frontline workers, the government should also start vaccinating all the teachers and ancillary staff at schools and colleges so that they can be reopened,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore. However, the vaccination drive has failed to pick up pace in Delhi despite the government announcing that more vaccination centres will be opened up and they will remain open till 9 pm. Since the extended drive began on Monday, on average 34,027 jabs were administered each day. In comparison, 46,769 shots – both first and second dose – had been given on Saturday, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-graph-continues-to-soar-capital-adds-1-515-new-infections-101616697864285.html
26-03-2021||Other||Dadupur-Nalvi canal decommission: Three years on, just 10% Haryana farmers return compensation to get back land||Three years after the Dadupur-Nalvi canal, spread across 125 villages of Yamunanagar, Ambala and Kurukshetra districts was decommissioned by the BJP government; less than 10% farmers have returned the money paid to them as compensation for acquiring their land. The scheme was conceptualised in 1985-87 and taken over by the Congress government in 2005, to connect Dadupur head of Yamunanagar with Nalvi Feeder in Shahabad via Ambala. Its aim was to recharge groundwater level and put a dedicated irrigation facility in place for Kharif crops. In May 2016, the Punjab and Haryana high court ordered the award of compensation at ₹1.16 crore per acre. The BJP government, however, decided to de-notify the project in September 2017 and issued this notification in August 2018. Irrigation department data shows that the government acquired 830 acre of land post-2004. In the first circle of Yamunanagar, of 799 farmers, only six paid back the compensation of ₹3.5 lakh, 300 of 2,000 paid back ₹4.3 crore in the second circle (Saraswati and Shahabad together) of Kurukshetra. In the third circle of Ambala, 50 of 1,035 farmers got back ownership of land by paying ₹43.2 lakh.DON’T HAVE MONEY TO PAY BACK: FARMERSSeveral farmers HT spoke to in Yamunanagar and Ambala are unwilling to pay back the money. Rajpal from Subhri village of Ambala’s Barara said, “I have invested the money on my family and don’t have anything to pay back. We hope water will flow in the canal soon.” He is a member of the Dadupur-Nalvi Sangharsh Samiti that had protested for months at the Jagadhari grain market.Ramesh Sangwan, one of the owners of 3 acre in the scheme in village Adhoya in Ambala, said that he and his two brothers got their land back this year by returning the money.Soon after the project was cancelled, opposition leaders in the Congress and INLD had staged protests and farm unions had criticised the move. Congress MLA from Mullana Varun Chaudhary said the land government is giving back is unfit for farming.“When farmers asked for compensation, the government de-notified the scheme. This is an example of how the executive mocks at judiciary,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dadupurnalvi-canal-decommission-three-years-on-just-10-haryana-farmers-return-compensation-to-get-back-land-101616697745476.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Dreaded gangster flees police custody after dramatic shoot-out in busy east Delhi hospital||Gunshots rang out at east Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospital on Thursday noon when four policemen and a group of at least seven criminals exchanged nearly 20 shots, triggering panic in one of Delhi’s busiest hospitals, police said. A dreaded gangster escaped police custody, while one alleged criminal died and two others got injured in the dramatic shoot-out between the police and associates of the gangster who had come to rescue him. The policemen did not suffer any injury except some discomfort after the assailants threw chilli powder on their faces, the police said. Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar said the gang of assailants had come to rescue Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja, a close confidant of jailed gangster Jitender alias Gogi, who was brought to the hospital, escorted by five personnel of the Delhi Armed Police’s 3rd Battalion, from the Mandoli Jail, after the jail doctor referred him to GTB hospital’s surgery OPD for treatment of a stomach-related ailment. The police said Fajja was arrested along with Gogi and two others – Rohit Moi and Kapil alias Gaurav -- from an upscale residential colony in Gurugram, following an operation by a special cell team, on March 3 last year. Fajja is allegedly involved in several cases of murder, extortion and robbery. A senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said around 11am, five personnel of the 3rd Battalion left the jail with Fajja and reached the lock-up at the hospital for jail inmates around half an hour later through gate number 1 of the hospital. After making the prisoner’s visit entry in the logbook, the five personnel escorted Fajja on foot to the OPD surgery, which is nearly 300 metres from the lock-up. One of them was carrying a video camera and was recording the process, said a senior police officer from the battalion, who also asked not to be named. After the medical check-up, four personnel were escorting Fajja back to the lock-up while the fifth stayed back in the building to complete the paperwork. They had walked around 100 metres when the policeman who was capturing the video, spotted two to three men with firearms outside the hospital’s gas plant number-2 and raised the alarm, the officer said. “Another policeman quickly responded and took out his service pistol. However, the gun got locked while he was cocking it. Suddenly, one of the assailants overpowered him from behind while his accomplices threw chilli powder at the policemen,” the officer said. As the assailants opened fire, two policemen carrying an MP5 machine gun and a self-loading rifle, returned the fire. Two bullets hit one of the assailants, who had overpowered a policeman, and he was caught. He was later identified as Ankesh. Another assailant, identified as Ravi Jakshi, was also hit by two bullets in the chest. He ran towards the maternity and child block. However, after running around 200 metres, he collapsed and died on the road in front of Florence Nightingale College of Nursing on the hospital campus, the officer said. The police said the CCTV cameras of the hospital were defunct so they have not been able to get the video footage of the incident. The hospital authorities refused comment on the violence, saying it was a police matter. A second police officer said the assailants had come in a white Scorpio SUV and at least two motorcycles. The police said Fajja escaped with the assailants in the car. While escaping, two assailants pointed a gun at a biker and his pregnant wife at the hospital’s Gate number 7, pushed the couple, snatched their bike and sped away. They fired three rounds in the air to disperse the crowd that tried to overpower them, eyewitnesses as well as the police said. The bike owner from Uttar Pradesh, who had brought his pregnant wife for a routine medical check-up, fell on the ground after being pushed by the assailants. He informed the police about his bike’s snatching and the firing by the assailants. Two calls regarding the shoot-out were made by the police personnel involved in the gunfight. The shoot-out and a bleeding man running on the road triggered panic among the hospital staff, patients and their attendants. “For a couple of minutes, we were all in shock as nobody knew what was happening. Many people went inside the hospital building after hearing the gunshots. It was only after the policemen told us about the encounter that we understood the situation,” said a private security guard of the hospital. Another witness, Veerpal, who sells chhole-kulche outside gate number 7 said he was busy with his customers when two men came running from inside and pointed a pistol at the biker, who was with his wife. “The assailants pushed the couple away and snatched their bike. They fired three rounds in the air because of which people present at the gate panicked and ran for cover. The assailants fled on the bike, brandishing their guns,” said Veerpal. A third police officer said a case has been registered and teams have been formed to nab the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dreaded-gangster-flees-police-custody-after-dramatic-shoot-out-in-busy-east-delhi-hospital-101616697625506.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||SC notice to Punjab, Haryana govts and Bhakra board on water supply to Delhi||Noting that drinking water is a fundamental right, the Supreme Court on Thursday issued notices to the Punjab and Haryana governments and the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) on a petition by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) that repair work on Nangal Hydel channel gates will lead to a severe water crisis in Delhi. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde noted that the matter was “serious”, and sought responses from Punjab, Haryana and BBMB within a day. “The respondents are directed to maintain status quo on supply of water to Delhi till tomorrow i.e. 26th March,” added the bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Delhi receives at least 232 MGD (million gallons per day) of water through the channel, which helps meet nearly 25% of the city’s daily water requirement, estimated to be around 935 MGD.Anticipating a water scarcity, DJB rushed to the Supreme Court to seek a stay on repairs scheduled to be undertaken by BBMB in April and May. “We have no problem with the repairs being carried out. But do not touch it in April when there is a peak demand of water in the city,” senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi submitted for DJB. Over the past few months, DJB has written six letters to Punjab, Haryana and BBMB, citing postponement of repairs of the hydel channel to the monsoon months of July-August, but received no response, Singhvi. Top officers of DJB visited Punjab early this monthover this issue. The bench wanted to know the nature of repairs being carried out. “If repair is integral to the water channel, we won’t stop them,” the bench said. Singhvi assured the court that the repairs can be carried out later as well, and requested for a stay till the matter is taken up.This is the second petition by DJB before the top court concerning the supply of water to the Capital. In January, it filed a petition accusing the Haryana government of releasing untreated water into the Yamuna, leading to high ammonia levels in the water that posed a health hazard to residents of the national capital. The Haryana government claimed that the problem was at Delhi’s end. This second petition is still pending in the court and will be taken up on Friday along with the fresh petition filed by DJB.On Thursday, the Delhi government again accused Haryana of limiting water supply to Delhi. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for Delhi, told the court that the water level at Wazirabad barrage, which supplies water to the Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants, reduced by six feet. Singh did not specify the period over which the water level has declined. For Haryana, senior advocate Shyam Divan contradicted the statement and claimed that “not even a single drop was being withheld from Delhi”. Singh then urged the apex court to consider sending a court commissioner for spot verification. The bench said: “Since it’s a matter of fundamental right to water we will not entertain any technical objections and if required we may appoint a commissioner to visit the spot.” The Delhi government could not be reached for a comment.The spokesperson for BBMB rejected reports that water flow to Delhi will stop as hoax. He said that the board has given assurance to the Centre that the drinking water for Delhi will continue to flow from Nangal hydel channel. He said the normal water flow in the channel is 11,500 cusecs, which reduces to 8,000-9,000 cusecs during repair work. “Delhi Jal Board is supplied 500 cusecs of water daily from the channel. The Haryana government has to ensure that the water flow to Delhi doesn’t reduce. The board had decided to a partially close of the channel for repairs by taking all partner states into confidence,” he said.Spokespersons for the Punjab and Haryana government did not respond to queries till the time of going to print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-notice-to-punjab-haryana-govts-and-bhakra-board-on-water-supply-to-delhi-101616697624228.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Woman sub-inspector in shoot-out operation to nab two men on Delhi Police’s most wanted list||A shoot-out led by a crime branch team comprising a woman sub-inspector, in the early hours of Thursday on Bhairon Marg in central Delhi, ended in the arrest of two “most wanted” men, who carried a reward on their arrest, the police said later in the day. Sub-inspector Priyanka Sharma and assistant commissioner of police Pankaj Singh were allegedly fired upon by the two men, but their bulletproof vests saved them and they went on to arrest (alleged) gangster Rohit Choudhary and his accomplice, Parveen (single name only), the police said. Choudhary, 35, carried a cash reward of ₹3.5 lakh on his arrest, while Praveen carried a reward of ₹2 lakh.On Thursday, the photograph of Sharma, the only woman among 10 policemen, wearing a bulletproof vest was widely circulated on social media -- the novelty being that although Delhi Police has around 8,000 women personnel, it is rare for a woman officer to be involved in a shoot-out. Women personnel are mostly posted in the traffic wing, at police stations or with other units. A few women IPS officers are also heading districts as deputy commissioners or are leading teams in the crime branch. Police said 35-year-old Sharma had joined the Delhi Police in 2010. She was recruited as a constable, but she later cleared an exam and was appointed as sub-inspector. She started working with the crime branch in 2019 and has spent nearly three years with the unit.Retired Delhi Police officer Ashok Chand, who served the force for around 35 years and headed the special cell and crime branch, said in his knowledge, a woman officer has been part of a shoot-out for the first time. “Women have always assisted search parties and surveillance teams in such cases. However, for a shoot-out, this may be a first,” Chand said.Police said the two men were involved in multiple cases of murder, attempts to murder, kidnapping, extortion, illegal use of arms and assault. Last year, in October, Choudhary was also booked under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999, police said.Following their arrest, police have also recovered two SUVs -- a black Endeavour and a white Fortuner. Police said the Fortuner was a bulletproof vehicle. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Shibesh Singh said his teams had been keeping a watch on the movements of both Choudhary and Parveen for the past few months. “On Thursday, following a tipoff that the suspects would be coming near Bhairon Temple on Bhairon Marg, a trap was laid. Around 5am, a blue Toyota Glanza was spotted approaching the police barricade. The Glanza driver tried to break through the barricades and when our team tried to reach the car, the occupants opened fire at our team,” Singh said.While one bullet hit ACP Singh, another struck S-I Sharma. However, since both officers were kitted out in bulletproof vests, both escaped with minor injuries.The additional commissioner said his team returned the fire. Both occupants got out of the car and started fleeing when they were hit by a bullet each in their legs. “Both men were caught and we recovered two loaded semi-automatic pistols from them. They were taken to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for treatment and were arrested for attempt to murder and under other relevant sections,” the officer said.Singh said a total of six rounds were fired during the encounter, of which four were fired by the police team. During the search of their car, police also recovered several fake identity documents, mobile phones and internet dongles. The identity documents were used by the men to stay at different hotels and mobile phones and dongles were used for communicating with the other gang members, police said.Later on Thursday, a video was widely shared on social media in which two women, identifying themselves as wives of Choudhary and Parveen, claimed that their husbands had been picked up by the police a day before from Palwal, Haryana. The women purportedly said if anything happens to their spouses, the Delhi Police will be held responsible.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video or the claims made by the women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-sub-inspector-in-shoot-out-operation-to-nab-two-men-on-delhi-police-s-most-wanted-list-101616697564274.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Reopening of IGI’s Terminal 1 delayed till May||The reopening of Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport’s Terminal 1 has been delayed again at a time when Covid cases are rising again in the country, officials aware of the development said on condition of anonymity. The terminal, which was to open on March 28, is now likely to be opened only in May, one of the officials cited above said, adding that the decision was taken as the Union ministry of civil aviation has only allowed 80% air traffic movement at airports, which can be handled by Terminals 2 and 3.Terminal 1 was shut on March 25 last year, two days after international flight operations were suspended due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Two months later, when air operations in the country resumed on May 25, only Terminal 3 was opened. Terminal 2 eventually resumed functioning on October 1, while Terminal 1 continued to stay shut to facilitate ongoing expansion work.The Delhi airport operator, DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd), was planning to resume operations at Terminal 1 on Thursday as the government was expected to allow 100% air traffic movement. The reopening was first pushed to March 28, and has now been delayed further because the government is yet to take a call on when full-fledged flight movements will be permitted.“The airport operator was planning to open only a portion of the terminal, with the ongoing expansion work continuing in the remaining area. Around 200 flight movements were planned from Terminal 1 on resumption of operations, and we were expecting a daily passenger footfall of roughly 35,000 to 50,000. Two airlines — IndiGo and SpiceJet — were to shift their operations to the Terminal 1. The reopening of the terminal has now been postponed by about four to five weeks at least,” said an official who asked not to be named.He added that this will give the airport operator time to resume operations from a much wider area of Terminal 1, which will help enhance passenger experience when it does become functional again.A second official, who asked not to be named, said all the planning for the reopening was in place — airlines had scheduled their flight operations, and they have now been asked to inform flyers about the change.The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which secures the airport and conducts security checks at the Security Hold Area inside the terminal, had also planned its deployment.“We have not officially been told about the postponement. We were present at the terminal throughout, even when it was shut. As the reopening was planned, we had decided to strategically deploy our commandos inside the terminal at different points and on the periphery of the building, following a detailed survey. Whenever the airport operator decides to resume operations from Terminal 1, we will be ready to provide adequate security,” a senior CISF officer said, asking not to be named.Spice Jet and IndiGo declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/reopening-of-igi-s-terminal-1-delayed-till-may-101616697446061.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Private schools’ body writes to DoE seeking permission to ‘hike’ fee||Days ahead of the start of the new academic session, an umbrella group of over 400 private schools in the national capital has asked the state education department to allow private institutions to increase their fee this new school year and to let them charge components other than tuition fee for all classes from April.In a letter, sent to director of education Udit Prakash on Wednesday, the Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools said, “Schools are preparing a budget and their fee structure for the 2021-22 session. You are also aware of the critical financial position of schools on account of various factors. In fact, the private unaided schools in Delhi cannot survive unless the government permits the schools to hike their fee for the 2021-22 academic session and allow them to charge development fee and annual charges for the upcoming session.”The education directorate had on April 18 and August 28 last year ordered private schools in Delhi not to charge anything other than tuition fee in view of financial hardships caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, and mandated that this component should be collected on a monthly basis, as against quarterly or annual payments.The DoE had also directed private schools to collect fees under other components, including annual and development charges , on a pro-rata basis from the day in-person classes resumed for students. Many private schools had started collecting these components from students of classes 9 to 12 after their in-person classes resume between January 18 and February 5. However, schools are not allowed to charge for these components for entry-level classes till Class 8 which have not resumed in-person lessons as yet.SK Bhattacharya, president of the association, said private institutions have found it difficult to pay teachers and other staff, and to manage expenses such as maintenance of buildings and transport.Officials at several private schools echoed these sentiments.The principal of a school in Shalimar Bagh said their expenses have increased “exponentially” due to the pandemic.“Our regular expenses such as property tax, EMIs, and insurance payments have not reduced. The expenses have, in fact, increased exponentially due to online classes, and the infrastructure changes made to ensure compliance with Covid appropriate behaviour. Schools won’t be able to start a new academic session without development and annual charges.”Officials said budget private schools had fared even worse.The principal of a low-cost school in Narela Mandi said, “We still don’t receive the fee from nearly half the parents. We have not been able to pay our staff regularly for the last nine or 10 months, and some teachers have left because of that. We recently had to sign undertakings to give assurance to our teachers that they will be paid all the pending amount once the situation improves.”Despite several calls and text messages, Prakash did not respond to requests for comment.A senior official at the directorate said on condition of anonymity, “Representatives of private schools had met the director earlier this month to discuss the issue. However, the DoE has not taken any decision in this regard as of now.”A state government spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/private-schools-body-writes-to-doe-seeking-permission-to-hike-fee-in-new-academic-session-101616697444846.html
26-03-2021||Delhi||Govt plans round table meeting next month to brainstorm long-term pollution control plan||Environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday announced a round table conference next month to be attended by experts and different organisations to formulate a long-term action plan to tackle pollution in the national capital. The announcement was made after Rai held a review meeting with officials from the environment department and Delhi Pollution Control Committee on Thursday.“On April 12 and 13, Delhi will hold a round table conference at the Secretariat. Environment experts and others will be called to the conference, so that we can formulate the next action plan…We will take suggestions of experts and different organisations working on pollution and then the Delhi government will discuss and develop an action plan,” Rai said.Last year, the Delhi government ran an anti-dust campaign in Delhi, used a bio-decomposer to stop stubble burning, held a ”red light on, car off” campaign, started a green war room at the Secretariat to monitor and coordinate efforts by different agencies to control air pollution, and also launched the Green Delhi app. The government said after the meeting, officials would engage in the formulation of the action plan based on the advice given by experts. Rai also called for monitoring of all pollution hot spots in Delhi and said agencies related to construction work should be aware of dust pollution norms.“Regular monitoring of all hot spots in Delhi should happen. I am ordering action on complaints that are coming to the green war room. The second important point was discussed on dust pollution. We took action in many places, especially last year. The public works department and the municipal corporations have also been instructed to spray water continuously on roads,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-plans-round-table-meeting-next-month-to-brainstorm-long-term-pollution-control-plan-101616697444195.html
26-03-2021||Other||Govt tells depts to not wait for end of financial year for project approvals||New Delhi: The Delhi government has asked its agencies to ensure their expenditure is evenly spread out throughout the year in order to end the practice of departments rushing to spend their allocated funds at the end of the financial year. The government has also warned departments that if expenditure proposals are not sent in a timely and uniform manner, they will be pushed to the next financial year. A senior official explained that the delayed expenditure proposals leads to several thousand crores of rupees of government money lying unused, and getting carried to the next year. And then the same cycle repeats year after year. An office memorandum was issued by the state finance department on March 17, and it is now being sent to all departments, companies and agencies. “Attention of all departments is invited to the need for ensuring that expenditure is evenly spread throughout the financial year. Rule 62(3) of GFR, 2017 stipulates in unambiguous terms that rush of expenditure, particularly in the closing months of the financial year, shall be regarded as a breach of financial propriety and shall be avoided,” read the order issued by special secretary (finance) Prince Dhawan. GFR, 2017 is the general financial rules issued by the Union finance ministry and rule 62(3) directs financial advisers of the ministries or departments to ensure adherence to the stipulated monthly expenditure plan and the guidelines issued by the budget division from time to time.Dhawan said the late filing of expenditure proposals leaves little time for the finance department for detailed scrutiny of the financial demands raised by departments.“Receipt of the proposals at the fag end of the financial year leaves little time for the examination of proposals. Besides, departments.agencies too do not have sufficient time to ensure proper utilisation of funds. Inevitably, the departments seek revalidation of expenditure sanctions; local bodies/grantee institutions seek permission to utilise unspent balances in the subsequent financial year in respect of sanctions accorded in the previous financial year,” the order stated. The finance department has set a deadline of March 25, after which, it said, all proposals will be accepted only in the next financial year, which starts from April 1. “To avoid this situation, all the departments are advised that expenditure proposals requiring the concurrence of the finance department should be submitted latest by March 25, 2021. Proposals received after the due date shall be considered only in the next financial year,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-tells-depts-to-not-wait-for-end-of-financial-year-for-project-approvals-101616697383662.html
26-03-2021||Other||New National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill will obstruct good work done by govt: Manish Sisodia||New Delhi: Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre brought in the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to “counter the rising popularity of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal” and to obstruct the “good work” by his government in the Capital. The controversial bill, which effectively hands executive powers to the lieutenant-governor (L-G) from the city-state’s government and legislative assembly, cleared Parliament on Wednesday after the Rajya Sabha passed it with an 83-45 vote amid a walkout by Opposition parties. The Lok Sabha passed the bill on Monday. “The bill that was passed yesterday shows how the Modi government was feeling insecure because of the popularity of Arvind Kejriwal and of the work done by his government. Today, people are saying that Kejriwalji can be an alternative to Modiji... This bill has been brought in to stop Arvind Kejriwal’s rise,” Sisodia said at a press conference. The bill says that “government” in Delhi will now refer to the L-G in the context of all laws passed in the Capital, and that the opinion of the L-G will be mandatory before any executive action. It also bars the state assembly from forming any committees to examine the day-to-day administration of Delhi.Sisodia said the Delhi government was in touch with legal experts to decide on their course of action. Till then, he said, the AAP plans to attack the BJP “politically”.He told reporters that the BJP was indulging in negative politics and accused it of “theft and cheating” to take administrative control of a state where it had twice been defeated in the assembly elections. “The BJP has no model to counter the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) governance in Delhi. Despite the fact that they run the government at the Centre and in several states, they are afraid of the Kejriwal model because people are asking why BJP-ruled states can’t provide free water and cheaper electricity like Delhi,” he said.“Across India, the demand for Kejriwal’s model of governance is increasing, which can be seen in the recent panchayat and municipality elections in several BJP-ruled states in the country. Kejriwal has a vision of development, which is now posing a challenge to the BJP. For the last six years, they have tried many things. But Kejriwal is a fighter. He has always come back stronger. He will fight back,” he said. Sisodia was referring to the AAP’s performance in the Surat municipal polls in Gujarat, where it won 27 seats, and the party’s electoral gains in panchayat elections in Maharashtra, where it won 145 of the 300 seats it contested, and in Himachal Pradesh, where it came out on top in 36 of the 40 seats it fought.The BJP did not comment on Sisodia’s claims.Sisodia also accused the Centre of obstructing the government’s doorstep ration delivery scheme. The scheme was to be rolled out from Thursday was stalled after the Union food and public distribution ministry raised objections to Delhi government giving a new name, ‘Mukhyamantri ghar ghar ration yojana’, and amending the ways of delivery, which the ministry said was in violation of the provisions of the National Food Security Act (NFSA). After Parliament cleared the NCT Bill, Kejriwal on Wednesday said it was a “sad day for Indian democracy.” “RS passes GNCTD amendment Bill. Sad day for Indian democracy. We will continue our struggle to restore power back to people. Whatever be the obstacles, we will continue doing good work. Work will neither stop nor slow down,” he tweeted.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta welcomed the passing of the BIll on Wednesday and said that it will help improve the administrative system in Delhi. “During last few years, the Kejriwal government, by bringing unconstitutional bills in Delhi assembly, has hurt the image of the national capital. Now, all Bills will be vetted before being tabled in the assembly,” Gupta said.Delhi Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt said the Congress has been opposing the GNCTD bill even when Kejriwal did not raise the matter. “For almost 55 days ever since the amendments were first approved by the Union cabinet, Kejriwal did not utter a word on the matter until a few days ago. It was the Congress which repeatedly raised the issue. In all these years Kejriwal has become the B-Team of the BJP by even running a campaign during the recent elections that there should be Modi as PM and Kejriwal as CM in Delhi. Now, the AAP and Kejriwal might be regretting the choices they made, “ he said. PDT Achary, former secretary general of Lok Sabha said going by the Supreme Court judgement of 2018, the government can only mean the elected government. “The Bill does not only overturn the SC’s verdict but also defies the Constitution. It is now to be seen how this plays out in reality once it becomes a law after the gazette notification,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-national-capital-territory-of-delhi-amendment-bill-will-obstruct-good-work-done-by-govt-manish-sisodia-101616697324179.html
26-03-2021||Other||Will relent only when Centre meets demands, says Tikait||A day before Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on Friday (March 26), Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Rakesh Tikait that if the government did not meet farmers’ demands, their agitation would soon be the biggest and the most historic movement the world had ever seen. “You (the government) has not heard us for the past four months, even as we braved harsh winter and rain waiting for talks. Now, we are in no hurry as we have become habitual of hardships. The government must be clear, however, that our agitation will not end and we will make it the biggest Kisan Andolan of the world,” said Tikait addressing a Kisan Mahapanchayat, his 10th in the state since January 26. Tikait hailed farmers for their unity and support saying that they had foiled the government’s bid to divide them on basis of state, religion and region. “The morcha is as united as it was on the first day of the agitation. All 40 leaders will continue taking decisions from the Singhu border,” he added. Cautioning farmers not to get misled by the government’s covid-19 restrictions, Tikait claimed it will try to end this agitation by imposing curfew and restrictions.“We will harvest our crops, but the agitation will also continue. The government must withdraw these laws and enact a law to guarantee the Minimum Support Price (MSP). We will not allow the government to suppress this agitation,” he added.TIKAIT’S FOCUS ON HARYANAWith Thursday’s mahapanchayat, Tikait continued his focus to mobilise support from Jat and Sikh dominated areas of Haryana. “Bade Tikait Sahab Kahte the jab Haryana andolan me khada ho jata hai to sarkare kamp jati hai aur ab Haryana ke saath Punjab, UP, Rajasthan bhi Khada hai is andolan ko koi daba nahi sakta (Elders in my family used to say that once an agitation get going in Haryana, government shiver with fear. Now, we also have other states for company. This movement cannot be suppressed,” he said, amid cheers from the crowd. “The government should understand that this is a farmers’ agitation and has nothing to do with state, religion or region,” he said. SEEKS SUPPORTS FROM LABOURERSUrging shopkeepers and labourers to join the protest, Tikait said the new laws had been enacted to give the entire foodgrain of the country to some corporate houses and they will have monopoly on prices. He slammed the union government for increasing the prices of fuel and LPG and privatisation of government departments and agencies.Haryana (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni told the gathering that farmers across the country had united against these laws. Charuni also sought support from Haryana’s farmers to make Friday’s Bharat Bandh a success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-turn-farm-stir-into-the-world-s-biggest-movement-bku-president-in-haryana-101616697205023.html
26-03-2021||Other||Death of two Pilibhit sisters - mother, brother among three held for murder||Two days after a 20-year-old woman and her 17-year-old sister were found dead in Bilsanda area of Pilibhit district, police on Thursday arrested the brother and mother of the deceased accusing them of honour killing.The sisters went missing from their house on Monday evening. The body of the younger sister was found in a field while the elder sister’s body was found hanging from a tree on Tuesday. The owner of the brick kiln where the sisters worked was also arrested for aiding the accused by failing to report the incident to police.The police have booked the accused for murder under Section 302 and for criminal conspiracy under Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police are also trying to identify other relatives who helped the accused in committing the crime.“The two sisters were murdered by their family members who were upset with them for having affairs even after their marriages were fixed. Based on the evidence collected in the case, call recordings, mobile phone location, post-mortem report and confession of the accused, we have arrested Ram Pratap Sharma, 28, the elder brother of the sisters, Kamladevi Sharma, their mother, 50, and Ali Hasan who is the owner of the brick kiln where they worked,” said superintendent of police (SP), Pilibhit, Jai Prakash.The brother and the mother confessed to the police that they caught the sisters speaking to men on their phone on night of March 22. When they inquired about it, the two said something which enraged their brother. In a fit rage, Ram Pratap (the brother) and their mother tried to strangle the elder sister. When the younger sister opposed it, they caught and strangled her too.“While the younger daughter died at the spot, the elder one fell unconscious. The duo with help of a relative dumped the body of the younger girl at a distance from the house. The duo later hanged the elder girl at a different place to misguide police. She was unconscious at the time but died because of hanging,” said the SP.“The accused (Ram Pratap) informed the brick kiln owner about it and sought his help in disposing of the bodies but the latter did not agree to it. However, the brick kiln owner didn’t inform the police about it and neither did he reveal the truth when interrogated hours after the bodies were recovered,” the SP added.Earlier the post-mortem investigation had revealed that the younger girl died after being strangled while hanging led to the death of her elder sister. “The post-mortem investigation ruled out any possibility of injuries, torture or rape with the sisters,” the SP said,The post-mortem report prompted the police to focus their investigation on the suspected involvement of people close to the girls, including family members, in the crime. As per police sources, the suspicion grew after a police team recovered the same kind of rope at the house of the deceased which was used in hanging the elder sister.Initially, their family members did not name anyone in their complaint. On Wednesday, they alleged that the two sisters were raped and murdered by two men with whom they were in touch with.“The allegations made by the family were found to be false during the investigation. The mobile locations of the men accused by the girls’ family were not found near the place from where the bodies were recovered. In fact, the mobile location of their brother was traced to those places,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/death-of-two-pilibhit-sisters-mother-brother-among-three-held-for-honour-killing-101616694384003.html
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Two members of Bhupi Rana gang shot dead in Ambala city||Two men from Chandigarh’s Mauli Jagran, said to be affiliated with the Bhupi Rana gang, were shot dead in a gang war at Ambala City’s Kalka Chowk in broad daylight on Thursday.Two others also suffered bullet injuries, of which the condition of one is critical, police said.The dead have been identified as Pradeep, alias Panja, and Rahul, while the injured are Ashwani and Gaurav, all in their early 30s.DSP (Headquarters) Sultan Singh said the deceased men were from the Bhupi Rana Gang. “The shooting is suspected to be a gang war between the Bhupi Rana and Lawrence Bishnoi gangs. We are looking into the weapons used in the attack,” the officer said. Investigators said the four men had visited Ambala for a court hearing in connection with a 2019 gang war with the Lawrence Bishnoi gang members at the Ambala jail, and were headed back to Chandigarh in the afternoon in their Hyundai Verna.On reaching the Ambala-Hisar highway, they had just halted at the Kalka Chowk to cross towards Baldev Nagar, when three men in a Maruti Suzuki Swift opened fire at them.Over 15 rounds were fired, killing Pradeep and Rahul, who were in the rear seat, and Ashwani and Gaurav, who was driving the sedan.Before onlookers could react, the assailants fled towards Patiala.All four were taken to the Civil Hospital in Ambala City, where doctors declared Pradeep and Rahul dead, while Gaurav, who received three bullet injuries and Ashwani, who got shot in the left shoulder, were referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. Gaurav, who is critical, was operated upon later in the day.The autopsy of the deceased will be conducted by a board of doctors at the Ambala hospital on Friday.“Ashwani is a resident of Manimajra, while the other three are from Mauli Jagran. Gaurav was their driver,” said inspector Ram Kumar, SHO, Ambala City.SSP Hamid Akhtar said four crime investigation teams were on the assailants’ trail. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act has been registered. Clashed with Bishnoi gang in jail in 2019SSP Akhtar said the deceased were booked in 2019 for a violent spat between both the gangs inside the Ambala Central Jail.As per the FIR lodged on July 12, 2019, as many as 84 inmates were booked after around 45 inmates belonging to the Bishnoi gang pushed their way into Ambala jail’s central area by pushing the warders and climbing the walls to attack the inmates belonging to the Rana gang with bricks, stones and sticks.In retaliation, the Rana gang members had also attacked the rival gang members after climbing the walls. The brawl had also left many jail warders, police officials and senior officials injured. Later in July, Bhupi was shifted to Jhajjar jail.On Thursday, when the deceased reached Ambala for hearing in this case at the court of judicial magistrate first class Neelam Kumari, it was cancelled as some court staffers had recently tested positive for Covid-19.Deceased were facing assault casesBoth Pradeep and Rahul were facing two cases of Arms Act and assault registered at the Mauli Jagran police station in 2015 and 2018, respectively. They were also caught a number of times for gambling at Panchkula’s Rajiv Colony. Complainant also booked in drug casePolice said Ashwani, the complainant in the case, was also booked for assault and sexual harassment at the Manimajra police station in 2014. But, was acquitted later. However, he is facing another trial in a drugs case registered by the Panchkula police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-shot-dead-two-injured-in-gang-war-in-ambala-city-101616667444167.html
