27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 17-year-old’s video helps man get bail in Pocso case||The special court under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act granted bail to a 27-year-old man booked for sexually abusing a 17-year-old girl after considering the video of the minor where she claimed she was forced to implicate him at the insistence of her mother and stepfather.The teenager had recorded a video before lodging a complaint with Dongri police station, stating that her stepfather used to harass her, but her mother did not believe her. She further alleged that her mother made her consume drugs and also forced her to harass the accused.The accused and the teen lived in the same locality and had a physical relationship. It was alleged that the accused was a drug addict and that, without his knowledge, the girl started to steal drugs and consume them. The prosecution alleged that the mother sent her to a rehabilitation centre. After returning, she fled from her house twice and the second time went to the accused. However, the accused left her near her house, following she recorded the video. The accused was booked on October 2 and arrested the next day. Before lodging the case, the minor had sent the accused a video but he could not access it till recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-17-year-old-s-video-helps-man-get-bail-in-pocso-case-101616868819174.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Satyendar Jain takes stock of cleaning of 600 water bodies in city||Delhi water minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday chaired a meeting to take a stock of 600 water bodies and lakes in the city that need to be cleaned. The minister directed the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to clean at least 200 of these water bodies before the advent of monsoon this year. “He (Jain) directed the DJB officials that priority should be given to cleaning of all water bodies and lakes. The arrangement for treated water, however, should go on simultaneously. Officials were further directed by the minister to complete the work within the given time frame,” read a statement issued by the Delhi government about the meeting. It further said, “The source of water is being arranged either through the construction of decentralised STP (sewage treatment plant) or laying conveyance line from existing STP. The minister opined that rainwater can also be collected in the water bodies and lakes provided that they are clean.” Reviewing individual projects of lake revival, Jain directed that for the desired quantity of water — 10-12 MGD (million gallons per day) — to the Paschim Vihar lake area, a dedicated pipeline should be laid from Keshopur STP to Paschim Vihar lake. DJB officials in the meeting committed that all the pending work will be completed in six months and informed that treated water from Keshopur STP will be used for groundwater recharge in 200 acres of green area across Najafgarh drain. “The minister directed that DJB should complete the Najafgarh lake rejuvenation project and develop it as a polishing pond to improve the incoming 5 MGD of water from Najafgarh STP, using natural wetlands and aeration to BOD (biological oxygen demand; a metric for water pollution) 3 mg/L. Sludge generated from this STP will be used in Pappankala STP, where the surplus capacity of treatment is available. This will result in a saving of ₹ 30 crore of the DJB,” the minutes read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/satyendar-jain-takes-stock-of-cleaning-of-600-water-bodies-in-city-101616868519040.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mercury jumps to 40.9°C in Mumbai, temperature to dip from Monday||The maximum temperature in the city, as per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz, touched a season high of 40.9 degrees Celsius on Saturday. This is 7.7 degrees Celsius above normal and up from 38.2 degrees recorded the day before. IMD, which had issued a yellow alert on Thursday, warning of heatwave conditions along the Konkan coast, said that temperatures are expected to remain high for at least the next 24 hours.“Heatwave conditions are due to hot and dry winds blowing from the north and northeast of the city, passing over Rajasthan. Starting Monday, when sea breezes will begin setting in at earlier hours of the day, the temperature will drop and remain between 35 to 37 degrees Celsius till the first week of April. After that we will see temperatures rise again,” said an official from IMD’s Mumbai centre.Saturday’s maximum reading also marked Mumbai’s third-highest March reading over the past 10 years. The highest maximum temperature ever recorded in the city (in March) was 41.7 degrees Celsius on March 28, 1957. Such high readings (above 40 degrees Celsius) have been recorded in March on five other occasions in the past 10 years — in 2011, 2013, 2015, 2018 and 2020.A similar jump in mercury was also seen at the IMD’s Colaba observatory, where the maximum temperature touched 38 degrees Celsius on Saturday, up from 35.7 degrees Celsius on Friday. IMD Mumbai defines a heat wave for the area when the maximum temperature remains at least 4.5 degrees above normal (with a recorded reading of at least 37 degrees Celsius). If both the IMD’s weather stations in Colaba and Mumbai simultaneously record such high temperatures for a period of 48 hours, a heat wave is declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mercury-jumps-to-40-9-c-in-mumbai-temperature-to-dip-from-monday-101616868461141.html
27-03-2021||Other||Antilia case: Why has ex-Mumbai top cop not been quizzed yet, asks Congress||Maharashtra Congress has raised questions over the disappearance of the digital video records (DVR) from the office of the Mumbai Police commissioner when Param Bir Singh was at the helm of affairs. The DVR is assumed to be a crucial evidence in the investigation into the Antilia explosives case, as prime accused Sachin Vaze had reportedly frequented the commissioner’s office during the case, the party said.The Congress also questioned why the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has been investigating the case, has not summoned Singh yet for the probe, as the key accused and the vehicles seized were from his office. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant, in a press conference on Saturday, asked if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) does not want Singh to be questioned.Sawant said that the DVR obtained by the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) during its probe in the Antilia explosive scare was taken back by Singh, hours after its seizure. “ATS had obtained the DVR on March 10, but Singh office called ATS chief Jai Jeet Singh and directed him to return the electronic evidence as the images were unclear. But it has gone missing since then. The records are very crucial to establish the movements of officers like Vaze and others who are accused in the case. Also, the movements of the vehicles used in the explosive scare are reportedly seen in the CCTV footage of the DVR. It needs to be investigated as to who is behind the disappearance of the DVR. If NIA fails to investigate, the state government should do it,” he said.Sawant also claimed that while NIA has booked Vaze in the case under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), it is “surprising” that the central agency has not reached to the officers who are likely to be at the helm of the conspiracy. “Apart from Vaze, two other assistant police inspectors and two drivers who have been questioned by NIA are from Singh’s office. Despite this, their boss [Singh] is not questioned by NIA. Surprisingly, the BJP, which had sought Singh’s suspension last year under Article 311 of the Constitution in the Arnab Goswami case, is now backing him. The BJP has been diverting the attention of the people from the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran death cases by raising the issues in the Rashmi Shukla case and the letter by Singh,” Sawant alleged.Singh did not respond to calls and messages, seeking his response on Sawant’s comments, while leader of Opposition and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis rubbished the Congress leader’s claims. “The CCTV footage/ DVR is always available with the source server with a backup data. The servers are in the possession of the concessioner of CCTV surveillance network in the city. The mirror images of the footage are always available with the authorities. The ruling party leaders who are Vaze’s real patrons are now scared as the investigation by NIA will unearth the truth,” the former CM said in Nagpur. He also said the ruling party leaders are scared about the police transfer scam, after he demanded an inquiry by a central agency in the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-case-why-has-ex-mumbai-top-cop-not-been-quizzed-yet-asks-congress-101616868459142.html
27-03-2021||Other||With S-I’s killer yet to be arrested, Agra cops not to celebrate Holi||Even as the killer of sub-inspector (S-I) Prashant Kumar Yadav is yet to be arrested, the Agra police have decided not to celebrate Holi this year, to mourn the loss of the S-I.The accused Vishwanath Singh, involved in the killing of S-I Yadav, continues to evade his arrest after he shot S-I Yadav dead on Wednesday.A dozen police teams have been constituted and sent to other districts and states and the surveillance team is also involved in tracing the accused, stated Satyajeet Gupta, the superintendent of police (Rural) for Agra west.“We are doing our best to nab the accused and teams are being sent to nearby districts and states,” SP said. The absconding accused is now carrying a reward of Rs50,000, declared by the then Inspector General (IG) A Satish Ganesh.Meanwhile, the Agra police have decided not to celebrate Holi, to mourn the death of their 35-year-old associate. The cops have called off the Holi celebration, scheduled on the next day of Holi.“It had been an unfortunate incident that we lost our colleague, and his family is still to revive from shock and grief. As such, the decision has been taken not to celebrate Holi this year,” said a police official. It may be recalled that a police sub-inspector (S-I) was shot dead when he arrived to resolve a dispute between two brothers at Naharra village under the Khandoli police station limits in Agra district on Wednesday evening. The S-I was identified as Prashant Kumar Yadav (35). One of the warring brothers was the accused in the murder of the policeman. Expressing grief over the S-I’s killing, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced a compensation of ₹50 lakh to the bereaved family, a government job to a dependent and a road would be named after the sub-inspector, said the additional chief secretary (Home). The sub-inspector had reached unarmed to resolve a dispute between the two brothers over a potato crop, after the information about the same was received at the police station. The accused brother is absconding after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-s-i-s-killer-yet-to-be-arrested-agra-cops-not-to-celebrate-holi-101616868038526.html
27-03-2021||Other||AKTU VC suspends associate prof for submitting fake documents||Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), Lucknow on Saturday suspended associate professor, Satyendra Singh of Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET), Lucknow for submitting fake documents seeking promotion for the post of professor under the career advancement scheme (CAS). A committee has been formed to prepare a charge sheet against him.AKTU vice-chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak said, on March 22 this year, an investigation was launched to ascertain the veracity of educational documents submitted by Satyendra Singh to seek promotion. In the investigation, it was found that Singh submitted an array of documents to stake a claim for the promotion which the university found to be fake.The university administration has formed a three-member committee headed by prof Karunakar Singh to look into the matter. The committee was asked to prepare a charge sheet report regarding the matter within a month.When contacted Satyendra Singh claimed that he has submitted original documents and they are not fake. He also said that he has not received any official communication for his suspension from IET. Singh said he is presently on leave and is not aware of any developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aktu-vc-suspends-associate-prof-for-submitting-fake-documents-101616867918460.html
27-03-2021||Other||In Prayagraj, it is Narendra Modi vs Rahul-Priyanka this Holi||: Come Holi and Prayagraj will see ‘Narendra Modi’ take on ‘Rahul’ and ‘Priyanka’ alongside ‘Akhilesh’ and ‘Mamata’ in a war of colours.No! These are not the people you think they are, in fact, they are not even people. Read on!With the poll process underway in five states and a union territory, the political pitch is at an all-time high. Products at this year’s festival of colours have got politically-inspired, with sprinklers and water guns named after PM Narendra Modi and Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi besides SP chief Akhilesh and West Bengal CM Mamata Bannerjee, which, are in great demand.There is also an opportunity to fire a burst of the ‘Gatbandhan’ (alliance) made after mixing eight separate hues. Many shops in Chowk, Bahadurganj and even Katra are offering a wide range of these politically-inspired Holi products.“Modi pichkaris have been ruling the markets for the past four years, but it is ‘Rahul’ and ‘Priyanka’ pichkaris along with ‘Akhilesh’, ‘Mamta Bannerjee’ and ‘Yogi Adityanath’ water guns that are giving a tough fight to it this time around,” said Mohd Qadir, who runs a shop in Chowk.While Akhilesh, Rahul and Priyanka plastic and fibre water guns with pictures of these leaders prominently displayed are available for anywhere between ₹50 and ₹350, Modi pichkaris in steel and brass are available from ₹1,500 to ₹6,000 depending on the size and metal used.A new addition to these high-end water guns and sprinklers named after prominent politicians this festival is a range of musical tunes that many of them will emit while in action. Once filled with air through pump action, they can sprinkle colour for an hour with tank capacities ranging from 2 litres to 5 litres and emit Holi related Bollywood tunes when in use.The Gatbandhan has been prepared using eight separate colours associated with prominent political parties including red, yellow, blue, saffron and violet and costs ₹250 for a 200 gm pack, shared Guddu Singh, a shopkeeper selling it in Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-prayagraj-it-is-narendra-modi-vs-rahul-priyanka-this-holi-101616867748407.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 6,130 Covid-19 cases; active cases up 393% in a month||With 6,130 new Covid-19 cases reported in the city on Saturday, Mumbai has been setting and breaking records of the highest number of cases reported in a single day since the beginning of the pandemic. In the past one month since February 27, active cases in the city have increased by 393%, from 8,080 cases active cases on February 27 to 39,869 on Saturday. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city has now gone up to 391,791.On Saturday, Mumbai also reported 12 deaths due to Covid-19, taking toll to 11,645. The case fatality rate has reduced to 2.9% from over 3% recorded earlier this month.Saturday’s figures are a result of 48,075 tests conducted in Mumbai on Friday, which shows the positivity rate for the day to be 12.75%, up from 4% to 5% recorded earlier this month when Mumbai was conducting around 25,000 tests a day.In view of rising number of cases in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) planned to scale up testing, increase number of beds, and accelerate vaccination. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the civic public health department, said, “We are continuing the same strategy. As per the state government’s order, not more than five people will be allowed to gather between 8pm and 7am, and all public places such as beaches and gardens, restaurants, malls, in the city will also remain closed during this time.” The Maharashtra government issued an order to the effect on Saturday evening.Dharavi, once a Covid hot spot in the city, reported 50 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Active cases in Dharavi have more than doubled to 376 on Saturday from 151 on March 21.On Saturday, BMC vaccinated a total of 38,158 beneficiaries, of which 34,565 received their first dose and 3,593 received the second dose. Of the beneficiaries, 20,552 were senior citizens and 6,613 were citizens aged above 45 who also have comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-6-130-covid-19-cases-active-cases-up-393-in-a-month-101616867679861.html
27-03-2021||Lucknow||S Korean minister visits Queen Heo memorial park in Ayodhya||: South Korea defence minister Suh Wook visited Ayodhya on Saturday and reviewed the memorial park and Indo-Korean Monument being constructed in memory of Queen Heo Hwang-ok.According to legend, Princess Suriratna of Ayodhya had travelled to Korea and married King Kim Suro and became Queen Heo Hwang-ok in 48AD. Many Koreans trace their ancestry to the legendary princess.The state government has allocated ₹24 crore for the project. On the occasion, the Korean defence minister stated that the memorial will further strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries. He was also hopeful that the memorial will become as famous as the Taj Mahal. Anuj Jha, district magistrate, Ayodhya, apprised the Korean defence minister that the project was on the priority list of the state government and will be completed in one year. Earlier, the Korean defence minister was accorded a warm welcome at the Ayodhya airstrip by senior officials of the district and Army officials. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his South Korean counterpart President Moon Jae-in had signed an MoU in May 2015 during Modi’s visit to South Korea for expansion and beautification of the existing memorial of Queen Heo Hwang-ok, on the banks of the Saryu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/s-korean-minister-visits-queen-heo-memorial-park-in-ayodhya-101616867438574.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC in urgent need of new building: CJI SA Bobde to law minister||The Bombay high court (HC) in Mumbai is in urgent need of a bigger and better building as the current heritage complex is inadequate to meet the ever growing needs of the HC, chief justice of India SA Bobde said. Justice Bobde, who was in Goa as the chief guest to inaugurate a new high court complex, requested Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who was also in attendance, to expedite his pending proposal for a new building in Mumbai. “Bombay also needs a new building. The Bombay building was constructed for seven judges. It is now housing more than 40. It is impossible and there is a proposal pending with the government. Mr Law Minister, I would request you to expedite it,” Justice Bobde said. The Bombay HC is presently housed in a heritage structure that was added to the list of World Heritage Sites in 2018. The work on the present building of the HC was commenced in April 1871 and completed in November 1878. It was designed by British engineer Col. James A Fuller, part of The Victorian and Art Deco Ensemble of Mumbai. In 2016, it was announced that the premises of the Bombay HC would be shifted to Bandra-Kurla Complex. Justice Bobde also said that discussions concerning the improvement of judicial infrastructure should go beyond just buildings and spaces. “Discussions on infrastructure have been largely quantitative, that is on building more courtrooms. Though building more courtrooms is necessary and important, there was very little emphasis on modernising existing courtrooms. In this regard, though the pandemic has posed a lot of problems to access to justice, it has paved the way for modernising the courtroom,” Justice Bobde said.“I see a trend of having smaller courtrooms in the future because of Justice Ravi Shankar Prasad’s ministry. The e-filing and data which can be contained is going to take away the need for many storage rooms and many rooms which are necessary for storing paper. The Supreme Court (SC) has done its bit on issues of court infrastructure. It has devised benchmarks and frameworks for minimum standards,” he added. According to the law ministry, 8.2 million cases were heard through video conferencing. The SC heard 59,309 cases, Hcs heard 2,758,560 cases and subordinate courts heard 5,446,876 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-in-urgent-need-of-new-building-cji-sa-bobde-to-law-minister-101616867259049.html
27-03-2021||Other||A Satish Ganesh takes charge as first police commissioner of Varanasi||A Satish Ganesh on Saturday took charge as the first commissioner of police of Varanasi. Addressing a press conference here, Ganesh said that implementing the police commissioner system effectively was his top priority.After reaching Varanasi, he first offered prayers to Baba Kashi Vishwanath and Baba Kaal Bhairav and later he reached his office and assumed the charge.The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Thursday gave its nod to implement the police commissioner system in Varanasi and Kanpur in an attempt to provide ‘smart and safe’ policing there. UP government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, on Friday, appointed ADG A Satish Ganesh, the first police commissioner of Varanasi. He was transferred from Agra where he was deployed as IG range. He is a 1996 batch officer. He also served as the deputy inspector general of police, Varanasi range, in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-satish-ganesh-takes-charge-as-first-police-commissioner-of-varanasi-101616867078376.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Special CBI court convicts six in 22-year-old customs duty evasion case||In a 22-year-old case, the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court has convicted six accused booked for conspiracy, cheating, forgery for customs duty evasion under Duty Entitlement Pass Book (DEPB) scheme causing ₹4.72-crore loss to government in 1999. As per the case filed by CBI on the complaint of customs officers, the accused in connivance with an officer of customs department, Navi Mumbai, obtained 18 DEPB scrips from Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), Mumbai for duty-free import in the name of four fictitious companies by submitting forged shipping bills and forged bank certificate. The case was registered against, M/s Kuteer Mercantile Pvt Ltd, M/s Hindustan Mercantile Pvt Ltd, M/s Sumoha Exports Pvt Ltd, M/s Impact Trading Company, M/s KMP Syntex Pvt Ltd, and Abhinav Singh, the then appraising officer of the customs department at Nhava Sheva port. Singh had absconded and was also declared proclaimed offender by the court. He was later arrested from Agra.The court has found six accused — Snehalata Jaiswal, Ramesh Suraj Singh, Kiran Cheulkar, Babulal Sanghavi, Suresh Kumar Jain and a firm — guilty. The key accused, Jaiswal, was sentenced to three years of imprisonment along with ₹3.80-crore fine. Ramesh, Cheulkar and Sanghavi have been sentenced to two years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of ₹4.5 lakh, while Jain for one-year imprisonment with a fine of ₹3 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-special-cbi-court-convicts-six-in-22-year-old-customs-duty-evasion-case-101616867019000.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 40 hours later, fire at Bhandup mall housing hospital doused||Close to 40 hours after a fire broke out on Thursday night at Dreams Mall in Bhandup, killing nine Covid-19 patients admitted in Sunrise Hospital inside the building, it was extinguished around 3.30pm on Saturday. According to the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB), the operations went for as long as there were a lot of shops inside the mall delaying cooling operations.According to MFB officials, several retail shops inside the malls had goods stored, affecting firefighting operations. There were several small offices of companies in the service sector. A MFB official said, “Although firefighting went on for 40 hours, operations were easier when compared to the blaze at City Centre Mall last year. Then, the operations went on for 56 hours where mobile phones and batteries led to constant fires at isolated spots.”The MFB official added, “In case of Dreams Mall, the fire was covered from all sides by Friday night, but still we had smoke and due to which we were undertaking cooling operations since Friday night. The cooling operations will still be undergoing, and we will also start investigations simultaneously.” The MFB also maintained that the firefighting equipment inside the mall were not functional. The MFB had also issued a notice to the mall for non-compliance of fire safety violations in November 2020. On Thursday night around 11.45pm, a level-four fire was reported at the ground-plus-three Dreams Mall in which nine patients lost their lives at Sunrise Hospital on the third floor of the mall. Six out of the nine patients were on ventilator and they lost their lives during the transit. Overall, 78 patients were at the hospital at the time of the incident. Two patients had already lost their lives before the fire.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal late on Friday ordered an inquiry into the incident, to be conducted by the disaster management cell of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The scope of the Inquiry will be to ascertain the cause of the fire jointly with the fire brigade, fix responsibility on the official in case of illegality found in the structure, followed by investigating whether all permissions were in place. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, while speaking to reporters on Saturday, said, “An inquiry has been ordered into the unfortunate incident. The report is expected to be out in the next 15 days, and until that the Mumbai Police has assured appropriate action.”The Sunrise Hospital in a statement on Saturday said, “The Dreams Mall has been managed by court appointed administrator since 2018 by as per National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) court order. The mall was under NCLT and the court appointed administrator was ordered to look after the operations. All the operations at the mall and the licenses of the mall are the responsibility of the court appointed administrator. All the hospital permissions and licenses were taken and are in order and have nothing to do with the mall compliances. We wish to clarify that dreams mall is being run by mall administrator and the original owners of the mall Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan were nowhere involved in the management of this mall since 2018.”Amid the firefighting operations, shop owners on Saturday protested outside the Dreams Mall demanding compensation from the authorities for the damage. Imtiaz Nakhwa, a shopkeeper, said, “The shopkeepers are demanding compensation for the damage caused to our property. The authorities have given compensation for the Covid-19 patients, but nothing for the shop owners.”Meanwhile, on the other hand, several bank account holders of Indian Overseas Bank located inside the mall are in distress due to the fire. Ajay Tembhekar, regional manager of Indian Overseas Bank, said, “The fire has not impacted the bank or the lockers inside the bank’s branch. We would like to ensure our customers that they will be able to access their lockers and bank accounts once we are able to operate the branch in the coming two to three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-40-hours-later-fire-at-bhandup-mall-housing-hospital-doused-101616866779000.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC warns dissenting minority trying to stall redevelopment of societies||Observing that dissenting members have no separate identity from that of their cooperative housing society and they cannot oppose society’s decisions taken in properly convened meetings, the Bombay high court (HC) last week issued a stern warning to dissenting minority members who try to stall redevelopment of their society by refusing to vacate their respective tenements.The court was hearing an arbitration petition filed by Westin Sankalp Developers for eviction of two dissenting members of Kandivli’s Basant Bahar Cooperative Housing Society who were opposed to redevelopment of the society’s property.Noting that most often dissenting minority members rake up frivolous grounds to oppose and stall redevelopment of their societies, single-judge bench of justice Gautam Patel said “every such untenable and unsustainable objection by a dissenting member is a colossal waste of judicial time.”The bench warned that “the next such matter will receive, first, an order of immediate eviction of the dissenting member (i.e., vacating that very day, or at best the next), and, second, an appropriately severe order of costs.”HC clarified that cost will be imposed on dissenting members “keeping in mind the costs incurred by the society, the loss to other society members, and the actual loss suffered by the developer on account of the delay occasioned by such members.”The developer complained that though they have spent considerable amounts on getting redevelopment plans sanctioned and acquiring transferable development rights from the market, the work was stalked as two of the 14 members of the society were opposed to the work and had refused to vacate their respective tenements.The dissenting members, on the other hand, maintained that they were not a party to the development agreement signed by the society with the developer and therefore the developer could not have involved the arbitration clause of the agreement against them.The argument, however, failed to impress upon justice Patel. The single-judge bench rejected the argument observing that the law on the point is very well settled - individual members of a society do not have a separate identity and their identity is subsumed and merged into that of the society.“They do not have the right to oppose the decision of the society taken in a properly convened meeting. They cannot hold society to ransom. They cannot prejudice the rights of their fellow members and neighbours in the society,” said the bench.HC added that the development agreement signed by the society binds the dissenting members. “The Development Agreement is itself backed by an undisturbed general body resolution of the Society,” said the court. HC has now directed the two members to vacate their respective flats by April 30, failing which the court receiver will forcibly evict them along with their belongings, if necessary with the assistance of the local police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-warns-dissenting-minority-trying-to-stall-redevelopment-of-societies-101616866239039.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 10K applications for 4K seats in new BMC’s CBSE schools||The newly opened CBSE schools under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have got a good response as a whopping 10,000 applications have come in, for around 4,000 seats in these schools. Admissions for nursery to Class 6 are ongoing in these schools.As per the data shared by the civic body, there are a total of 3,740 seats up for grabs this year for which there are 9,524 applications. The civic body will soon announce a lottery for these schools and students selected in the lottery will be admitted against these seats.“The response is really good. Parents are happy about getting to send their children to English medium schools without having to spend anything. We are happy that a large number of students will get access to quality education” said Sainath Durge, a member of the BMC’s education committee.To attract more parents to civic body schools, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s education department has started CBSE board in 10 schools from the academic year 2021-22. In 2020-21, there were nearly 7 applications for every seat at the newly opened CBSE School at Poonam Nagar municipal school run by the BMC in Jogeshwari east. The civic body’s first ICSE affiliated school- the Woolen Mill Municipal School in Mahim received 343 applications for 320 seats.Anju Shaikh, a parent who has applied at an Andheri school said, “I had heard that the school is good and free, hence we registered. We hope that our name comes in the lottery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai10k-applications-for-4k-seats-in-new-bmc-s-cbse-schools-101616866119073.html
27-03-2021||Noida||NGT orders UP pollution board, Noida authority to enforce ban on single-use plastic||Noida: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Noida authority and the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) to enforce the single-use plastic ban to combat pollution.The order came after a petitioner from Noida complained that a ban on single-use plastic items was not implemented in the city, while its rampant sale persists.The NGT bench, headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, observed that while there are laws to control the plastic waste, their implementation needs to be assured. “This is primarily a governance issue,” it said.“General directions for the enforcement of law, which is in any case to be implemented, do not serve any purpose. If such an order is to be implemented, questions will be raised about the alleged violators and why no action was taken against them. In an absence of particulars of the violators and prayer being based on specific violations, only a formal order can be passed that the Noida authority and the UPPCB may look into the grievance of the application as per the law. The order is given accordingly,” read the order issued on March 25.Plastic is sold in violation of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2018, and the Uttar Pradesh Plastic and other Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Regulation of Use and Disposal) (Amendment) Ordinance 2018, it added.Abhisht Gupta, the petitioner, said, “About 200 volunteers collected plastic from over 50 sectors of Noida — from roadsides and other open places — on February 21, and by the end of the day, we had collected 1,245 kgs of plastic. This is the scale at which plastic is being used in the city. It’s criminal that such a menace is still being faced by the city and going to a court was the only option I had.”When asked, UPPCB officials said they will ensure that the plastic waste is in check. “The pollution board has ensured that there are no plastic manufacturing units in the city. The main issue with the plastic waste in Noida is due to its storage, distribution and use. The plastic items mostly come to Noida through neighbouring cities, and it’s the urban local bodies that must ensure that this is curbed,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida.SC Mishra, project engineer, Noida authority, said, “We have seen the NGT order, and we will act accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ngt-orders-up-pollution-board-noida-authority-to-enforce-ban-on-single-use-plastic-101616865999492.html
27-03-2021||Noida||Gang involved in over 250 snatchings busted in Noida||Noida: Three members of a gang were nabbed by the Noida police Friday night from near Gijhore gate over their alleged involvement in several snatchings in the national Capital region. At least 30 stolen phones were recovered from them.The suspects were identified as Manmeet (the alleged kingpin), Aayub and Aamir, all from Delhi. The trio was allegedly a part of a gang known as the ‘Sardaar gang’, said the police.“The gang has been active for over five years now and is responsible for more than 250 snatchings in the NCR,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Rannvijay Singh.Police officials said that the suspects allegedly targeted passersby and snatched phones and chains whenever the opportunity came. They mostly roamed on two motorcycles and after snatching, the suspects allegedly exchanged vehicles to evade capture.Police said Aamir allegedly used to purchase the stolen goods from the others. Police officials said that phones were also sold to random people and in grey markets as well in NCR after changing their IMEI numbers.“There are more people associated with the gang along with more buyers and jewellers. We are working on identifying and nabbing them,” said Singh.Police recovered two bikes stolen from Ghaziabad, two knives and 30 mobile phones from the suspects, some of which were stolen from Gautam Budh Nagar’s Surajpur and Phase 2 police jurisdictions.“They have extensive criminal histories and have also gone to jail a couple of times since 2018 from our district and ten times from Delhi as well,” said Singh.Police officials said that the snatchers allegedly kept weapons on them during crimes but so far no incidents of violence have come to light. The trio was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gang-involved-in-over-250-snatchings-busted-in-noida-101616865998374.html
27-03-2021||Noida||Woman alleges harassment, stalking; suspect nabbed||Noida: A 35-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly harassing and stalking a 22-year-old woman for the past two weeks.The suspect was identified as Ram Kumar Singh, a resident of Ghaziabad’s Vijay Nagar and a native of Agra. Singh, who runs a sweets shop, is married and has two kids, police said.According to police, the woman had approached Sector 58 police on Friday alleging that she was being harassed by a man near her office in Sector 59. She also alleged that on several occasions the suspect even offered her money for solicitation.“Every day when I leave office in the evening, the man follows me on his motorcycle and makes lewd comments. This has been happening for the past two weeks now,” said the woman in her police complaint.Based on her complaint, a case was registered against the suspect under sections 354 (sexual harassment) and 354D (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code.“The suspect had been following the woman for the last 15 days on his motorcycle and saying objectionable things to her. He would start stalking her in the evening as soon as she left her office. He would follow her around for nearly one or two kilometres before going back to Ghaziabad. We registered a case based on her complaint and nabbed him today,” said Anil Rajput, station house officer, Sector 58 police station.The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-alleges-harassment-stalking-suspect-nabbed-101616865998957.html
27-03-2021||Noida||Traffic crawls at Jewar toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway||Greater Noida: The traffic near the Jewar toll plaza on the Yamuna Expressway moved at a snail’s pace on Saturday, especially from noon to 3pm, as scores of people took to the road to travel from Noida and Delhi to their home towns for Holi.The huge pile-up of vehicles near the toll plaza compelled some commuters to take to social media and post photos and videos stating that the waiting time was between 30-45 minutes.Tagging Nitin Gadkari, minister for road transport and highways, in his tweet, Manish Bajpai, a commuter, wrote, “This is the status of Yamuna Expressway Jewar toll plaza and queue is 45 minutes long! Wondering how much fuel is burnt for no reason? Please do something to save this.” Vivek Gupta, another commuter, wrote, “Imagine spending 30 minutes on a toll plaza in 2021.”Stretching 165 kilometres, the Yamuna expressway connects Delhi to Agra via Greater Noida. This is also a significant route connecting the national capital region to western UP and Bihar. The six-lane access-controlled expressway has four toll plazas and six interchanges along the entire length.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic) Gautam Budh Nagar, said a number of people were travelling home for Holi. “This is the reason why the traffic movement slowed down on the Noida-Agra side of the expressway at all the six toll booths. A team of traffic police also reached the spot. We talked to the toll operator and introduced a token system to ease traffic,” he said.As part of the token system, the toll executives went up to each vehicle, issued them tokens and received the toll tax. “This exercise came in handy as the commuters only had to show the token at the toll booth and exit, without having to stop for toll payment," said Saha. The traffic police said they are making arrangements for smooth traffic flow on Sunday as well.The Yamuna Expressway Authority has planned to implement FASTags on the expressway from April 1. On an average, around 28,000-30,000 vehicles ply on the Yamuna Expressway per day and the toll is collected manually.Meanwhile, the traffic police are also making arrangements to ensure the safety of motorists and check for violations like drunk driving, overspeeding, reckless driving, dangerous driving, etc. during the festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traffic-crawls-at-jewar-toll-plaza-on-yamuna-expressway-101616865938396.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Positivity rate up from 2.1% to 4.6% in one week||The Covid-19 test positivity rate, the total confirmed positives out of the samples tested, shot up to 4.6% from almost 2.1% in a week, even as Gurugram reported 245 new infections on Saturday. To end the rapid transmission chain, the district health department has restarted evening testing camps in crowded areas of the city.“Testing has been increased exponentially this week to almost 5,000 per day. Mass screening through rapid antigen test is also ongoing to identify clusters in densely populated areas. As a part of it, evening testing camps has also started outside crowded areas like malls and markets from Friday onwards,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, mentioning evening camp has been held outside Ambience mall and Galleria mall in the last two days from 5pm to 8pm.Currently, Gurugram is among the 46 most-affected Covid-19 districts across the country. In the last seven days, daily infections are up from 141 (on March 20) to 245 on Saturday, taking the active case count to 1,516 and the total tally to 61,972. This suggests cases are increasing at a positivity rate of 4.6%, just below the 5% threshold established by the World Health Organisation as an indicator of the infection spread being under control.Due to the resurgence of cases, the union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday held a meeting with the officials of 12 states and 46 districts, where the spike has been highest. Three Haryana districts, Gurugram, Kurukshetra and Karnal, featured on the list.According to the statement issued by the ministry, the second wave reflected more laxity in Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, and containment and management strategy at the ground level. To handle the situation, the state has been directed to ensure effective containment and contact tracing for at least 14 successive days in the worst affected districts for breaking the chain of transmission.The state administration has been directed to adopt strategies of increased testing, effective contact tracing and isolation of infected people within 72 hours, focus on micro-containment zones, strengthening public and private hospital infrastructure, compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour in crowded places through heavy fines and vaccination.“Due to festivities, it is likely daily cases will further increase after Holi. A detailed strategy on effective containment and contract tracing will be prepared on March 30. If required, the existing reserved bed capacity for Covid-19 patients will be increased from 35% to 50% but currently, it is not required as hospitalisation has been low in the district,” said Yadav.As per the district health bulletin, at least 116 severe to moderately ill patients are currently admitted to hospitals, while five are at Covid care centres and over 1,395 are in home isolation. The death toll stands at 364.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-positivity-rate-up-from-2-1-to-4-6-in-one-week-101616865879617.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Land within SGNP to soon be clear of encroachments||Several acres of land within the confines of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) that were cordoned off and deforested in violation of the Forest Conservation Act (1980) during the Covid-19 induced lockdown last year, will soon be cleared of encroachments, as the forest department is planning to conduct a series of demolition drives in the area early next month.Officials in the SGNP administration said that the land in question, which abuts Aarey Colony’s Sai Bangodapada village and is spread over at least 20 acres of protected forest land, has been notorious for encroachments. “The area is very much within the national park. We had attempted to remove the violators sometime last year, but enforcement teams faced resistance on the ground. There is a proper encroachment removal drive being planned for early next month, for which we will request adequate police bandobast,” said G Mallikarjuna, chief conservator of forests, SGNP.The forest department had previously run into conflicts with encroachers in the region. On March 23 last year, five forest officers who went to Sai Bangodapada to question the locals were allegedly attacked. One of them had to be admitted to Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Care Centre with injuries. A few days before that, a forest guard had also been beaten up in the nearby Filterpada slum. A forest department official, who wished to remain anonymous, said that the area has turned into a hub for the production of illicit liquor. “You will see stacks of chopped branches which are used as fuelwood in manufacturing alcohol illegally. There are a few kachas structures in the area where this is being done,” said the officer.According to environmentalists who have been tracking the area, the scale of encroachments near Sai Bangodapada runs into at least 100 acres. In a petition addressed to environment minister Aaditya Thackeray last year, activists had stated, “The section of Sanjay Gandhi National Park that borders Aarey from Bangodapada is being systematically decimated. Over a hundred acres of protected national parkland has been cordoned off in many places, deforested, fifty-year-old trees chopped down and burnt in many places inside the park boundaries near the Vihar lake.”“At many places, barbed wire fencing has been put up. Please note that these areas are not the ones used for cultivation by the tribals for many decades but are fresh acts of destruction not more than two months old. Bootlegging is seen at some places too,” the petition said. “Sanjay Gandhi National Park, unlike Aarey, is already a declared forest. There is no reason why any action needs to be taken to protect this park should be delayed,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-land-within-sgnp-to-soon-be-clear-of-encroachments-101616865879079.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||Strict enforcement of mask rule on the cards to curb Covid-19 transmission||District officials are targeting to penalise around 5,000 people over the next three days to strictly enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and curb transmission of coronavirus infections due to Holi celebrations.“It has been decided in a district-level meeting that more than 1,000 people in a day will be challaned if they are found without face masks in public places or while commuting in groups in personal or public vehicles. Last year, Covid-19 cases drastically increased after Diwali. The purpose is not to repeat a similar situation and to control the transmission after Holi, as cases have been growing exponentially,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Deputy commissioner Yash Garg on Saturday, in a video to citizens, reiterated orders restricting Holi celebrations in public places, farmhouses, marriage and banquet halls, community centres and hotels. “If anybody is found violating norms, action will be taken against Section 188 of the IPC and sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The order will remain in force till March 29 evening,” read an order issued in the regard.Gurugram police on Saturday said that police teams have been deployed in most of the major markets to enforce mask discipline and to implement directions issued by the state government for restricted Holi celebrations. “Out teams are deployed and issuing challans to those not wearing masks. Mask discipline and social distancing measures will be enforced strictly,” said Subash Boken, PRO, Gurugram police.Multiple studies suggest that 90% of people are aware that wearing masks is a preventive step against coronavirus infection, but only 44% actually wear face masks, according to a statement issued by the health minister. One infected person could spread Covid-19 to an average of 406 individuals in a 30-day window, if left unchecked, as per studies.Earlier this week, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar directed the district to increase the number of fines issued to those flouting mask norms. The union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday also issued a similar directive to the 46 worst-affected districts on Saturday. The Gurugram administration has been advised to strictly enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by imposing heavy fines for violations as festivals of Holi, Shab e-barat and Easter have to be celebrated within residences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/strict-enforcement-of-mask-rule-on-the-cards-to-curb-covid-19-transmission-101616865819503.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||Mercury to touch 38 degrees Celsius on Holi||The temperature in Gurugram is likely to soar in the next two days and touch 38 degrees Celsius by Monday, when Holi will also be celebrated, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) weekly forecast. The maximum temperature on Saturday was 35.9 degrees Celsius, while the minimum was 17.5 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 36 degrees Celsius and 19 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Sunday. A clear sky may prevail on Sunday. An IMD official said, “The temperature will rise by one or two degrees and hover around 38 degrees on Monday but fall again from Tuesday.” Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, while the temperature is likely to rise till Monday (March 29), it will again dip from March 30 onwards on account of strong winds. “There is a forecast of strong winds on March 30 and March 31,” said Srivastava. The city’s air quality stayed in the moderate zone on Saturday, recording an air quality index (AQI) of 183 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin, deteriorating from Friday’s AQI of 146. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 149.65 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Saturday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in sector -11. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality over Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in the moderate to the poor category on Sunday and Monday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate to poor category over the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mercury-to-touch-38-degrees-celsius-on-holi-101616865818882.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||Rapid Metro case: SC orders HSVP to deposit ₹1,925 crore in escrow account||The Supreme Court on Friday, hearing a dispute over unpaid dues between the Rapid Metro concessionaire and Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), directed the authority to deposit ₹1,925 crore into an escrow account within three months.The concessionaire, IL&FS, moved the Supreme Court seeking termination payments from the HSVP, after the authority failed to pay an amount of ₹1,925 crore amounting to 80% of the “debt due” of ₹2,407 crore as per an audit done by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) on the orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court. The HSVP had raised several objections to the CAG audit report.“The Supreme Court order will go a long way in protecting the interest of investors in the infra sector,” a spokesperson for IL&FS said.Officials of the HSVP said they have received the order and are studying it. “We are seeking a legal opinion in this matter and will take further action based on it,” said Ajit Balaji Joshi, chief administrator, HSVP.The appropriation of any amount from the escrow account shall be subject to further orders of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) or other competent legal authority, the apex court held.The Gurugram Rapid Metro project, which was developed by IL&FS through its subsidiary special purpose vehicles (SPVs) - Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon Limited (RMGL) and Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon South Limited (RMGSL), between 2009 and 2013.The concession agreement was terminated in 2019 as HSVP failed to meet its obligations, following which the company demanded payments as per the agreement. The IL&FS company spokesperson said that agreements pertaining to advertising rights, construction of parking, real estate developments and several other revenue streams were not activated due to which the company decided to terminate the concession agreement. However, HSVP refuted the contention of IL&FS SPVs and challenged the matter in the high court, according to IL&FS.The high court ruled in September 2019 that operations and maintenance of the Metro link should be handed over to HSVP and directed the CAG to carry out a financial audit of total debt due. Following the audit, the HSVP was directed to deposit 80% of the debt due in an escrow account within 30 days of submission of the CAG report and directed that other disputes be settled through arbitrationThe company officials said that the project was handed over to HSVP in October 2019, as per court orders. They stated that auditors appointed by CAG submitted their report on debt due and determined the same at ₹2,407 crore. The report was taken note of by the court on September 28, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rapid-metro-case-sc-orders-hsvp-to-deposit-rs-1-925-crore-in-escrow-account-101616865818361.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||DTCP puts 75 property owners in Sushant Lok 1 on notice for building violations, illegal activities||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) put over 75 property owners in Sushant Lok 1 on notice over alleged building plan violations and for allegedly running commercial operations from residences.DTCP officials said that they had received a number of complaints alleging that gyms, saloons, shops and other offices were being run without permission in the area. “Action will be taken if these activities are not stopped. Commercial activities can’t be run from residential units,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement. Action against illegal constructions and building plan violations, and encroachments in markets has been initiated across different agencies this week in the city and DTCP, MCG and HSVP officials said that a sustained drive will be carried out in their areas. The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran said that they removed several encroacments and demolished illegal vends in sector 15 part II as it was done earlier in sector 23, and sector 4 market. “We removed several illegal vends and this drive will be carried out in all the HSVP markets to ensure that the problems faced by residents are resolved,” said Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP. The enforcement team of MCG Gurugram also visited several sites in old city such as New Colony, Krishna Colony and adjoining areas and removed some constructions. Bhath, who has additional charge of enforcement in MCG said thay there were several complaints that property owners had illegally removed seals from the sealed buildings where Show cause notices, demolition orders were already issued. “The properties where the seals were removed were visited and sealed again and the non compoundable violations made in form of projections were demolished,” said Bhath. Officials of all three agencies said that they will work in tandem to ensure violations are curbed across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-puts-75-property-owners-in-sushant-lok-1-on-notice-for-building-violations-illegal-activities-101616865760875.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG trial to pedestrianise Sadar Bazar fails to take off||The municipal corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG’s) efforts to pedestrianise Sadar Bazar ended in failure on Saturday as vehicles ruled its narrow lanes.From March 20, the MCG had scheduled a ban on vehicles. But the same day the market saw protests from shopkeepers against the decision.MCG met the protesters and decided to instead seek to request customers to park their vehicles at the three designated spots near the market. But on the ground, there were no officials at any of the entry or exit points of the market to direct the customers.On Saturday, the market’s narrow lanes filled with two-wheelers and four-wheelers.On the main street of the market, a 600 metre stretch between Jama Masjid and Head Post office where the trial was concentrated, barring the installation of benches, a few streetlights and pots, there was little to suggest change.“The MCG’s executed the trial without any planning or consent. Most shopkeepers were opposed to the idea and throughout the trial, people arrived in their vehicles. There was no change. We had the same stance last month as well when a similar trial was aborted,” said Bablu Gupta, president, Sadar Bazar traders association.Gupta said that the MCG did not take into account that if visitors could not bring their vehicles in, they would simply choose not to come.“Sadar Bazar is a large market with more than 1,200 shops. Travelling to different corners of the market will amount to more than two kilometres of walking. People would then choose to go to a nearby mall or sector market for their shopping. This we cannot allow,” said Gupta.Jitender Garg, joint commissioner, MCG who is overseeing the project said that the civic body will use the learning to try it out once again.“Our focus is on the future. Around 200 volunteers from various civil defence teams will be on the ground in the next trial. Our approach with the shopkeepers will be much sterner,” said Garg, who added that he has called for a meeting with representative of various associations and traders of the market on Tuesday.He said the next trial will be two weeks long, likely next month and will focus on building awareness.“We are likely to allow entry of vehicles in then and hopefully by the third trial, our gradual changes would make it completely vehicle-free,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-trial-to-pedestrianise-sadar-bazar-fails-to-take-off-101616865759728.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||This Holi, farmers near Haryana-Rajasthan border will burn copies of farm laws, not asura||: Farmers protesting near Shahjahanpur-Jaisinghpur Khera on the Haryana-Rajasthan border will mark the upcoming Holi festival by burning copies of three farm laws that were passed by the central government in 2020. According to the farmers, they will burn copies of the farm laws as part of Holika Dahan — a pyre lighting ritual symbolising the victory of good over evil, an asura, on the eve of Holi.They said that the act is to “demonstrate their anger against the government’s refusal to accept the legitimate demands of the farmers”.Farmers from across India have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the central government in September 2020. According to the protesting farmers, the new laws might leave them at the mercy of private corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops.Sanjay Madhav, a member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) — the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting near Delhi borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) in Rajasthan, said that the farmers will burn copies of the farm laws and “remember the sacrifices of people who died during the course of the agitation”.“More than 300 farmers have sacrificed their lives since the movement against these black laws started. Can’t mark a festival without remembering their sacrifices. We will remember the sacrifices of our brothers and sisters and take a pledge to continue this agitation till the laws are repealed. We will burn copies of the farm laws during Holika Dahan and strengthen our agitation till the government repeals these laws,” said Madhav.Also, several cultural programmes have been organised at the protest site ahead of Holi. Performers from the Shekhawati region in Rajasthan joined the agitation on Saturday. “Holi is celebrated days in advance in this region. Folk artistes from the Shekhawati region joined us today, and voiced support for the farmers through their songs and performances,” he added.Madhav also said that a group of supporters from northern Rajasthan will join the agitation on Sunday, and other farmer groups are expected to join the protest in April. “We are expecting the numbers of protesters to swell by the first week of April. Farmers who were occupied with the crops will be back soon,” said Madhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/this-holi-farmers-near-haryana-rajasthan-border-will-burn-copies-of-farm-laws-not-asura-101616865760342.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG directs banks to get licence for ATMs with dish antennas; or to be sealed||According to a release issued by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), banks erecting dish antennas on automated teller machines (ATMs) are now required to obtain a licence from the civic body. The MCG will seal such ATMs without a licence, said the officials.The MCG, however, has not announced a deadline for obtaining the licence.As per the provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation (Communication and Connectivity Infrastructure) Bye-laws, 2013, an applicant is required to pay a processing fee of ₹10,000 per antenna, a licence fee of ₹5,000 per antenna per annum, and a compounding fee of ₹2,500 per antenna per annum if the person has already put up an antenna without obtaining a prior permission from the MCG. The applicant can obtain a licence from the civic body after paying all the above, said the MCG officials.The official data provided by the MCG’s planning branch revealed that many banks have installed ATMs within the limits of the MCG area without taking any prior permission from the civic body, according to RS Bhath, district town planner (DTP), MCG.“Since October 2020, such banks have been constantly directed to submit applications for regularisation of illegal dish antennas installed on the ATMs after paying the requisite fee and the charges, but none of them have submitted applications for the same,” said Bhath.Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG, said that if the banks concerned don’t obtain licences, the MCG will start sealing their ATM booths.In July 2020, the MCG’s planning branch had asked Prahlad Rai Godara, lead district manager (LDM), for submitting contact details of all the banks in the city. Subsequently, the MCG had issued notices to all the banks concerned in October 2020, to share details of their ATMs — according to the locations and get them regularised under the bye-laws. According to the LDM data in 2020, there are around 537 bank branches in urban areas of the city, and 1,489 ATMs in Gurugram.Earlier, the Haryana accountant general (audit) had directed the MCG in July 2016, to seal around 400 ATMs in the city, if the banks failed to obtain licenses under the bye-laws within 90 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-directs-banks-to-get-licence-for-atms-with-dish-antennas-or-to-be-sealed-101616865759013.html
27-03-2021||Noida||Surge in Covid cases forces GB Nagar admin to increase daily testing to 7,000||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration called upon an urgent meeting on Saturday evening amid reports of 182 coronavirus (Covid-19) cases emerging in the district between March 20 and 26 to decide measures to be taken to curb the spread of the disease. One of the many measures to be implemented is increasing the number of Covid-19 tests to 7,000 per day, said officials.Suhas L Y, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, said that health officials have been asked to increase surveillance activities at public places and contact tracing. “We are aware that the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has had a direct impact on its neighbouring districts in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Of the 182 cases detected in the district between March 20 and 26, over 40% of the cases had contacts in Delhi. When almost all restrictions have been eased and commercial activities started, we have no option other than proper surveillance and observing all precautionary measures,” he said.Attributing the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases to the district’s floating population and movement, with over one lakh vehicles crossing the Delhi-Noida border daily, the district magistrate said that only mass awareness about social distancing and sanitisation can check the spread of the virus. “In the meeting with officials of different departments, I have asked them to make arrangements for Covid-19 helpdesks at their establishments and not to allow entry to any employee having influenza-like symptoms (high fever or cough). Health officials have been asked to conduct up to 7,000 tests per day and enhance contact tracing in the district. They have also been asked to keep strict surveillance in crowded areas. I myself will keep a tab on daily testing and contact tracing,” said Suhas. He further said that in the current situation, early and timely tracking of new cases is the main focus of the administration. “We cannot rule out further spread of Covid-19 given that festivals like Holi and Shab-e-Baraat are round the corner. Our focus is on reducing the number of fatalities and curing maximum infected patients on time. For that, we have adopted the ‘tracking, testing and treating’ methodology, in which we are ensuring maximum contact tracing, testing nearly 4,000 people every day and treating infected patients as per symptoms. While the recovery rate in Gautam Bugh Nagar is still nearly 99%, the case fatality rate (CFR) is 0.35% compared to the state ‘s CFR of 1.43% (as on March 26),” said Suhas. The district magistrate further said that after achieving the target of inoculating 65,048 persons above 60 years and those between 45 and 60 years with comorbidities in the third phase of the vaccination this month, the district health department has been assigned to inoculate at least 1.35 lakh people in April. “Since everyone over 45 years will be covered under the vaccination drive from April 1, we have decided to double the vaccination booths at all private and government hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/surge-in-covid-cases-forces-gb-nagar-admin-to-increase-daily-testing-to-7000-101616865758432.html
27-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad, Noida get 370K Covid-19 vaccination target for April||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday issued fresh Covid-19 vaccination targets for April, in which people aged over 45 years can get the shots from April 1. The Ghaziabad district has been given a target of covering 216,000 beneficiaries while Gautam Budh Nagar is to cover 162,000 beneficiaries in the coming month. The overall vaccination target given to the 75 districts of the state is a total of 12,073,200 for April. This time, the state government has also defined targets to be met on “major days” – Monday, Thursday and Friday – and also for “minor days” – Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday – as well as the weekly target assigned to each district.Previously, the state government had not assigned daily or weekly targets but had given a combined monthly target.“The daily and weekly targets have been assigned this time to better monitor and to expedite the vaccination process in the wake of the rising tally. On “major days”, all district hospitals, community health centres (CHC) and even primary health centres (PHC) administer shots, however, PHCs do not administer shots on Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday. So, these are called “minor days” when we have a smaller number of healthcare centres running,” said an officer from the district health department. As per official figures, Ghaziabad for April has been assigned a target of vaccinating 14,000 beneficiaries each of the three major days while 4,000 beneficiaries each are to be vaccinated on the minor days. This provides the district a weekly target of vaccinating 54,000 beneficiaries per week. Likewise, GB Nagar is given a weekly target of vaccinating 40,500 beneficiaries per week with 10,000 per day on major days and 3,500 each day for minor days. “We are gearing up and will open more private and government healthcare facilities to meet the fresh target given for April. Till March 27, we have achieved about 111% of our target given for March. To meet the rise in the number of beneficiaries in the month of April, we will be doubling the daily target of our vaccination centres,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar. For the third round of vaccination of senior citizens and people having co-morbidities, GB Nagar was assigned a monthly target of 65,048 beneficiaries while Ghaziabad was given a target of vaccinating 93,480. According to sources, Ghaziabad, till March 27, administered shots to 73,693 beneficiaries, which is about 78.8% of the given target of 93,480. The sources said that it is unlikely that the district will be able to meet the target for March. “It is likely that in remaining days, the maximum vaccination that can be achieved will be about 10,000 beneficiaries and it is likely that the target for March will be missed. It is also due to the fact that people will not turn up due to the festive season coming around. Above all, we also have about 20,000 odd doses of vaccine available with us and the next consignment will be received only on April 2,” said an officer from the health department, requesting anonymity. When approached for response, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that 30 more vaccination centres at government healthcare centres will be roped in for vaccination starting April 1. “We are assured that we will be able to get good coverage for vaccination starting April 1 and we are also expediting the vaccination process to complete 100% of the target given for March. We do not have a shortage of vaccines in our stock. We have held a review meeting with our officials and all targets will be achieved,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-noida-get-370k-covid-19-vaccination-target-for-april-101616865638401.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: HSNC University to opt for blended mode to conduct exams||After the University of Mumbai (MU) announced that it will hold all summer semester exams online, the HSNC University has said that it will opt for a ‘blended’ mode of examination.HSNC University is a newly-minted cluster university comprising HR College, KC College and Bombay Teachers’ Training College. On Saturday, the university’s provost, Niranjan Hiranandani, said that practical exams will be held physically in laboratories and theory exams will be held online.“The Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted the education sector like many other sectors in the economy. This has forced all the educational intuitions to shift modes of communication and examination on digital platforms under strict lockdowns. However, with the gradual reopening of the economy and with the examination period being right around the corner, HSNC University will take a cautious approach of holding examinations in a blended manner,” said Hiranandani.“The practical examinations will be physically conducted in the laboratories, wherein batches of students will be scheduled to appear for exams in a staggered manner keeping in mind all due covid precaution and safety measures in place. The theory examinations will be kept on the online mode in the backdrop of pandemic led restrictions,” he said. The exam dates are yet to be announced.The University of Mumbai, on the other hand, said in a circular on Thursday announced all exams — theory and practicals — were to be conducted online. The exams for semester 1 to 4, for both regular and repeater students, will be held between April 15 and May 5. The exams for semester 6 for regular and repeater students will be conducted from May 6 to 21 and semester 5 repeater exams from May 24 to June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hsnc-university-to-opt-for-blended-mode-to-conduct-exams-101616865579146.html
27-03-2021||Noida||Covid crisis: Ghaziabad bans Holi milan, dance parties||Ghaziabad: Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey issued directions on Saturday to ban Holi milan programmes, and rain and other dance parties, among similar events with an immediate effect in the district, even if prior permissions were taken for the same.This comes in furtherance to the directions issued by Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on March 23 for regulations in the wake of panchayat elections and festivals. The decision was also taken in light of rising coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Ghaziabad, with 54 new cases reported on Friday. Last time, the daily case tally had gone above 50 was on December 29, 2020, when 59 fresh cases were reported in a single day. In its Saturday order, the administration stated that prior permission is required for processions and public events, and that the organisers will have to furnish an affidavit saying that they will comply with the conditions mentioned in the chief secretary’s order and will ensure compliance of the Covid-19 protocols.“The directions have been issued to ban parties and Holi milan programmes, not events like weddings,” said Pandey, adding that people must wear masks, and maintain social distancing in public places.Meanwhile, markets in Ghaziabad have been buzzing ahead of Holi, and according to the traders’ association, people have been seen not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. “The Holi milan programmes are conducted every year. This year, people are not maintaining social distancing even amid a surge in coronavirus cases. Only 25-30% customers can be seen wearing masks in markets of trans-Hindon areas in Ghaziabad, but they also don’t maintain social distancing. They coronavirus guidelines are not being followed on the ground,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener, Vyapari Ekta Samiti in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram.Most of the traders at busy markets had similar complaints.“Many visitors — about 65-70% — wear masks, but there is absolutely no social distancing. Beyond a limit, we can’t ask customers to follow Covid-19 guidelines. There is hardly any enforcement. So, many shopkeepers provide free masks to their customers, and have sanitisers at the shops,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairperson, Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal.Commenting on this, Pandey said, “We have issued advisories and guidelines, and strict enforcement will be ensured in markets so that people wear masks and maintain social distancing.”According to the Ghaziabad health department, 187 Covid-19 cases were reported in February, but the tally has been at 301 this month so far. The most-affected localities in the district so far in March are Shastri Nagar and nearby areas (61 cases), Raj Nagar (60), Ghukna (25), Indirapuram (23), Vasundhara (16), and Vaishali (10), among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-crisis-ghaziabad-bans-holi-milan-dance-parties-101616865518427.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2 firemen hurt in Prabhadevi building blaze||Two firemen of the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) were injured on Saturday while undertaking firefighting operations for a storage facility in Prabhadevi.According to BMC’s disaster management cell, a level-3 fire was reported at a ground plus five a storage facility Gammon House at Prabhadevi. The fire was reported at around 5.42am, and no civilian injuries were reported in the incident.An MFB officer said, “There was a large number of electric cables and wires stored due to which the firefighting operations went on for a longer period. Two firemen were injured.”According to MFB, Harichandra Vadekar, 55, received a minor injury on his leg, and Abijit Tandel, 49, felt suffocated during the operations and was rushed to Sushrusha Hospital.Meanwhile, the fire was extinguished at around 5.13pm, the disaster management cell added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-2-firemen-hurt-in-prabhadevi-building-blaze-101616865339156.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Pune dist reports 6,591 new Covid cases, over 38K inoculated||PUNE The district reported 6,591 new Covid cases and over 38,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Saturday. Also, 14 new deaths took the death toll to 8,318.The district’s progressive count went up to 5.08 lakh cases, out of which 4.42 lakh recovered and 56,849 people are active cases in Pune undergoing treatment in hospitals or are home isolation.Pune city reported 3,522 new cases which took the final count to 2.62 lakh and eight new deaths which took the count to 4,701.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 1,687 cases taking the final count to 1.28 lakh and four more deaths which took the death count to 1,366.Pune rural reported 1382 new cases taking the final count to 1.17 lakh cases and two deaths took the death toll to 2,202.At least 16,952 beneficiaries got the vaccine in rural Pune on Saturday while 15,284 beneficiaries were vaccinated in PMC and PCMC saw 5909 beneficiaries get the vaccine.Out of the 38,000 beneficiaries, 2,685 beneficiaries got Covaxin and 35,460 got Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-6-591-new-covid-cases-over-38k-inoculated-101616864978289.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Amid surging Covid-19 cases, Delhi issues fresh restrictions. Details here||The Delhi government on Saturday issued new orders with regards to gatherings in closed spaces amid the recent spate of Covid-19 cases in the national capital. The order followed the earlier restrictions that were put in place by the government on celebrations and gatherings at public places and religious sites during the upcoming festivals of Holi, Navratri and Shab-e-Barat. The government has also issued new restrictions on people arriving at the airport, trains stations and bus terminals.Delhi recorded 1,558 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest in more than three months, and 10 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to a bulletin issued by the health department on Saturday. The Capital’s infection tally surged to 655,834 and included 6,625 active cases and 638,212 recoveries and 10,997 deaths.Read more: Govt releases list of states with more than 280,000 Covid-19 casesHere’s the list of restrictions put in place by the Delhi government amid rising Covid-19 cases:1. The government has capped gatherings at open wedding venues at 200 and at 100 in case of closed spaces. Also, only 50 people will be allowed to attend funerals. The restriction will stay in place till April 30, according to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).2. In an earlier order, celebrations and gatherings at public places and religious sites in the Capital are banned for Holi, Navaratri and Shab-e-Barat. “It is anticipated that gatherings, congregations and public celebrations during upcoming festivals like Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri, etc. may pose a considerable threat of the spread of the virus and may cause a setback to the appreciable gains made in the suppression of chain of transmission of Covid-19 cases in Delhi. Considering this, it has been decided that public celebrations and all gatherings/congregations during upcoming festivals should not be allowed in public places,” the order signed by chief secretary Vijay Dev said.Read more: 80% of new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, 5 other states: Govt3. However, private parties inside houses and private lawns will be allowed.4. DDMA has also said that people arriving at the airport, train stations and bus terminals will be randomly tested. “All district disaster management authorities shall conduct random testing (RAT/RT-PCR) of passengers coming from the states where Covid-19 cases are increasing, at all airports, railway stations, inter-state bus terminals (ISBT) and other alighting points (for private buses) in NCT of Delhi,” the order stated.Read more: ‘Lockdown not a solution’, says Delhi health minister as Covid-19 cases soar5. The government has also directed all district magistrates (DMs) to increase surveillance of super-spreader areas to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks and social distancing is followed. “There are several super-spreader areas like weekly markets, cinema, malls, Metro services, religious places, etc. All the DMs should greatly intensify their enforcement efforts and awareness campaigns in these areas. Areas, where sero surveillance is low, should also be targeted with more intensive efforts,” said the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-surging-covid-19-cases-delhi-issues-fresh-restrictions-details-here-101616863684172.html
27-03-2021||Pune||100% healthcare workers, 92% frontline workers receive first dose of Covid vaccine in Pune district||PUNE As the district vaccinates a record number of people each day, the inflow of the Covid vaccine has not been as much as the inoculation. The district vaccinates almost 37,000 people each day which means it would need about 2.22 lakh doses for a week not accounting for the wastage and also considering a day off.As of Friday, 100 per cent of health care workers (HCW’s) and 92 per cent frontline workers (FLW’s) have got their first dose. Also, 2,68,466 of those aged between 45-60 with comorbidities and 57,124 of the senior citizens have got the first dose of the vaccine.As of Friday, the district has 2.18 lakh doses of the vaccine.To fill in the requirement of the city, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had earlier sought vaccines from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and now Pune rural has got over 20,000 doses of the vaccine from Solapur district.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “We thank the Solapur district for providing 20,000 vaccines to rural Pune and we will continue vaccinating in record numbers. The rural Pune team has vaccinated 18,841 people on Friday and 21,329 on Thursday at all the centres including private hospitals. Even interior locations like Bhor taluka, primary healthcare centres has vaccinated about 404 people.”“As of March 27, Pune rural has vaccinated nearly a quarter of the projected population of intended beneficiaries. under phase one and phase two,” he said.The district administration had to return over 90,000 doses of Covishield to Armed Forces Medical College Pune which the latter had earlier given to Zilla Parishad.To increase vaccination during the third week of March the administration had added 108 vaccination centres and from April 1 as all above 45 years of age with or without comorbidities begin to get the vaccine, the administration prepares to start 600 sub-centres in addition to the primary health centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/100-healthcare-workers-92-frontline-workers-receive-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-in-pune-district-101616864378997.html
27-03-2021||Ranchi||Jailed former BJP MLA files contempt case against IG||Former BJP legislator and murder accused Sanjeev Singh has moved the Jharkhand high court, seeking a direction to Dhanbad lower court to initiate criminal contempt proceeding against inspector general (IG), prison, and jail superintendent of Dhanbad divisional jail for not shifting him to Dhanbad jail from Dumka prison despite court orders.“The lower court is delaying in passing necessary and appropriate order with regard to initiation of criminal contempt proceeding against IG (prison) and jail superintendent,” Singh stated in his petition filed recently on Friday.Accused of murdering his cousin and Congress leader Neeraj Singh, the former BJP MLA in February this year was shifted to Dumka central jail from Dhanbad jail, citing security reasons. However, Singh moved a lower court, challenging the decision. Later on February 25, a court of special session judge directed the jail administration to shift the former legislator back to Dhanbad, but the same was yet to be complied with.Niraj Singh and four others were killed in an indiscriminate firing at Dhanbad’s steel gate on March 21, 2017.It was alleged that Sanjeev Singh and around nine others intercepted Niraj’s SUV at the steel gate and opened firing, in which four people, including Niraj, were killed.Following the incident, Sanjeev was arrested and sent to Dhanbad jail. A month later, he was shifted to Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Central Jail. The former legislator approached the Dhanbad court at the time and then the Jharkhand high court for shifting him back to Dhanbad jail. On court’s order, he was sent to Dhanbad jail in 2018.In his recent petition, Singh argued that his shifting to one jail from another was violation of the relevant provisions of the Prisoners’ Act, 1900, rules of Bihar jail manual and Supreme Court’s orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jailed-former-bjp-mla-files-contempt-case-against-ig-101616864378324.html
27-03-2021||Ranchi||Ahead of festive season state bans celebration, congregation at public places||In wake of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases being reported in the state yet again, the Jharkhand government has banned all kinds of celebrations and congregations at public places during the upcoming festive season over the next few weeks. An order to this effect was issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh late on Friday night, directing all district administrations and concerned authorities to implement the order. “All celebrations and congregations at public places during festivals such as Holi, Sarhul, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri, Ramnavmi, Easter etc. shall not be allowed in the state. People may celebrate Holi with family members in their respective houses only,” the order said. The order also banned all kinds of processions, including those on Sarhul and Ramnavmi, across the state. The state was witnessing a surge in the number of daily positive cases over the past few days, especially in capital city Ranchi and Jamshedpur.As per a bulletin issued by the health department on Friday night, 308 positive cases were reported from across the state on the day, of which 179 cases were detected in Ranchi alone. Section 144 imposed in RanchiThe Ranchi district administration on Saturday issued prohibitory orders and imposed Section 144 in the capital city, restricting gathering of more than four people at one place in order to contain spread of Covid-19 infection. The restrictions will remain in place till March 30, officials said. “The district administration has imposed Section 144 and no public celebrations are allowed during Holi and Shab-e-Barat. People are requested to celebrate indoors. Loud music and rallies are also not allowed,” a statement from the district administration statedOfficials in the district administration said people can report at their nearest police station against violators. Meanwhile, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan met health department officials and directed them to keep hospital beds ready for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ahead-of-festive-season-state-bans-celebration-congregation-at-public-places-101616864198397.html
27-03-2021||Other||Bihar clamps Covid curbs ahead of festivals||PATNAAmid the second wave of Covid-19 infections, the home department has banned processions and advised against crowding during Holi and Shab-e-Barat falling on March 28 and 29.“Keeping in mind the new strain of Coronavirus, we will have to celebrate Holi cautiously this year. In view of the increasing number of cases of Coronavirus in many states, any kind of crowding in a public place, processions and DJs will be banned across the state,” said a senior official of state home department.The government has also advised people to maintain social distancing.For Holi, all types of celebrations have been banned in public places. “People may celebrate Holi with family members in their houses only and not at any public place,” the home department order says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-clamps-covid-curbs-ahead-of-festivals-101616864138204.html
27-03-2021||Patna||Over 32 lakh students enrolled during Praveshotsav||More than 32 lakh students have been enrolled across the state during special admission drive Praveshotsav, which concluded this week, said an official of state education department on Saturday. The education department launched a special admission campaign with the help of rural and social welfare department on March 8 for bringing back children of school-going age and drop out students to schools. The campaign concluded on March 25. As per the education department, altogether 32,08,503 students have been enrolled in Classes 1 to 9 in 70,000 government schools across the state. Of 38 districts, Muzaffarpur recorded the highest number of admissions with 1.94 lakh new students, followed by Vaishali where 1.5 lakh students were enrolled. The capital city Patna recorded 1.05 lakh new admissions while Sheikhpura recorded the minimum enrolments in the state with 18,776 new admissions.Officials of education department said that no district registered 100 admissions per school but admission rate remained high in Madhepura, Sitamarhi and Vaishali where 70 to 85 students enrolled in each school. Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary of education department, said, “Our aim is to ensure that not a single child remains out of school. The highest number of students have been enrolled in Class 1, which accounts for 42% of total new admissions. All the new and existing students will attend catch up classes to bridge the learning gap caused by year-long school closure. New session will commence in July” As per data available, more than 13.55 lakh students enrolled in Class 1 while 18.53 lakh students in classes 2 to 9 during the admission drive. A total of 5,535 disabled students have been enrolled in various classes across Bihar. Meanwhile, the Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) is all set to commence three-month catch-up classes which will begin from April 5. BEPC’s director Sanjay Singh said, “Around 300 master trainers attended training programme for catch-up classes and conducted training at district and block level for teachers. Learning materials will be made available to schools latest by April 3.”Head: Special admission driveIntro: The campaign by education department was launched on March 8 and concluded on March 25. Total Number of govt schools in which admissions took place: 70,000 Total number of students enrolled in Classes 1 to 9: 32.08 lakh Maximum number admissions took place in Muzaffarpur: 1.94 lakh Minimum number of admissions took place in Sheikhpura: 18,776Maximum students enrolled in Class 1: 13.55 lakh Total number of students enrolled in Classes 2 to 9: 18.53 lakhTotal number of disabled students enrolled: 5.535||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/over-32-lakh-students-enrolled-during-praveshotsav-101616864020448.html
27-03-2021||Lucknow||It’s raining gujiya this Holi!||The sweet war of gujiya is heating up among the sweet sellers and bakeries in the state capital. With innovation being the keyword in this battle of taste, the food joints are gladly offering numerous flavours of Holi special delicacy as the festival inches closer. From traditional to dry-fruit and baked options there is a lot to choose for those who love to binge during festivities and as well as for gifting purposes. The variants include khoya, navratan, sugar free, dates, chocolate, fig, rose, mango, meva anjeer, almond, pistachio, gulkand, mango, gold-crust and the baked variety includes chocolate, wafers, saffron, sugar free and regular. “See traditional khoya and kesariya navratan gujiya are what people like most. 80 to 90% of customers go for traditional ones. Rest of the options is for buyers who wish to add-on according to their taste and need. In trade its said customers are king, so we need to give them an entire assortment including baked varieties,” said Matrika Gupta of Ram Asrey Sweets adding that they have 17 types to choose from. “Nothing beats a homemade gujiya but then we can also pick from a range delicious and interesting options available in the market to serve our guests,” said Yatish Srivastava, a foodie and a blogger. For those who don’t have a liking for traditional sweets and look for bakery items, too have a wide choice to pick from. “We have wafers, sugar free, chocolate, kesar and regular gujiyas. All are baked, filled with the richness dry fruits and prepared with thin crust which does not involves ‘maida’ and are sweetened by honey. Besides, our baklawa is a hot selling novelty item that we first introduced in the market,” said Vikas Malik of Danbro by Mr Brown.Trying to give something new to customers the sweet sellers are busy innovating. “We have introduced Bahubali gujiya which in one-piece weighs 1.5 kilograms. It’s a traditional gujiya and the concept of one large piece is that entire family can jointly savour it while celebrating festivities,” shares Ravindra Gupta of Chhappan Bhog. Besides, they are 11 more variants including Exotica which is made of pure gold foil. “Currently, we have 11 variants to offer including the Golden Gujiya. We have also noticed that besides sweets people also ask for namkeens, so we arranged 13 varieties to choose from,” said Utkarsh Gupta of Classic Radhey Sweets. The large number of options are available for the customers, so, now we have all the more reason to sport a sweet smile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/its-raining-gujiya-this-holi-101616864020003.html
27-03-2021||Other||Panchayat elections: Poll panel seeks list of contestants in 2016 who didn’t report expenses||PATNAAhead of the panchayat polls scheduled to begin in May, the State Election Commission (SEC) has started the exercise to identity such contestants in the last election in 2016 who did not furnish election related expenditure after the polls. The SEC has already sent letters to the district magistrates of all 38 districts to furnish the names of all contestants for six posts, from ward member to district board member in rural local bodies, who did not furnish election-related expenditure. In the last panchayat polls, there were around 10-12 lakh candidates for 2.54 lakh posts in three tier local bodies. The election expenditure limit for candidates for Mukhiya (village head) is ₹40,000, for panchayat samiti member ₹30,000 and for district board member ₹1 lakh. Under the Bihar Panchayat Raj Act, 2006, all candidates are required to furnish election expenses through an affidavit within 15 days of completion of polls. There are provisions in the Act that erring candidates would be served notices and could even be debarred from contesting election for three years after a proper hearing by the SEC. “In panchayat elections, a large number of candidates usually do not file election related expenditure. This is why we have initiated this move so that we can assess how far the rule was complied with by all contesting candidates in the last polls. We will appropriate action later against erring contestants,” said secretary (SEC) Yogendra Ram. “Only a few districts have so far sent names of candidates not having given election related expenditure after the polls. We have sent reminders to all DMs to send the names and number of candidates at the earliest,” said an SEC official. In fact, SEC officials admit the exercise of serving notices to candidates having not furnished information about poll expenses should have started within a few months after the completion of the 2016 April-May panchayat polls. “The returning officers should have ensured that notices were served to all such candidates.Now that the panchayat polls are near, it would not be easy to serve notices and complete hearing against erring candidates. But yes, it would send a strong message to candidates that they cannot take panchayat polls lightly and have to comply with all rules,” said another official. Meanwhile, the SEC has also directed all DMs to send a list of booths and blocks which are located in remote areas having no proper communication system in place, especially internet facilities. “We have asked the DMs to identify shadow zones in their respective districts where net connectivity is poor or not available at the booths. This is being done so that proper arrangement for net connectivity could be put in place. This time, there will be high dependability on digital and computer based network for holding polls, including use of EVms and webcasting,” said the SEC secretary. This time, the number of booths for the panchayat polls would be around 1.19 lakh.Local body pollsWhat’s the ruleUnder the Bihar Panchayat Raj Act, 2006, all candidates are required to furnish election expenses through an affidavit within 15 days of completion of polls.Election expenditure limits ₹40,000: For Mukhiya candidates ₹30,000: For panchayat Samiti member  ₹1 lakh: For district board member||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchayat-elections-poll-panel-seeks-list-of-contestants-in-2016-who-didn-t-report-expenses-101616863778269.html
27-03-2021||Other||Punjab’s covid numbers in March signal uphill battle in second wave||With the daily covid-19 case count in Punjab touching 2,700 on Thursday, there are other trends in numbers related to the infectious disease this month, which indicate that the second wave of the virus will do far more damage than in 2020, and this is no time for living in denial. This year, the state has already surpassed previous year’s records of active cases, which was at its all-time high in the state at 22,652 on Friday. In September last year, there were eight days when the number of cases reported was above 2,000. In March, there have already been nine days when the case count has crossed 2,000, even as the month has not ended.In September, the maximum number of cases was registered in the middle of the month; the maximum active case was on September 20, when active cases were 22,278. Even as Punjab government experts claim that the peak of the second wave had not come yet, the state has added 43,883 fresh cases to its kitty this month till March 26 as compared to 59,000 in September, the month when the state state had been hit by the virus the most. Positivity rate and CFR down The only relief the state has had so far is that its positivity rate has come down to 3.9%, compare to 4.5% which the state had reported at the peak of the disease in 2020. Last week, the state’s daily positivity ratio had touched 6.8% , this increase was also pointed out by the Union government. However, now, as per the state’s nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar for covid-19, it has been 6% for the past three days,primarily because the state’s testing has reached an all-time of 40,000 tests a day. “As we have been carrying out record number of tests, our positivity rate has automatically come down. The decrease in CFR is because daily cases are increasing,” said the nodal officer. Peak likely in second or third week of April Projections from state government experts show that the state may hit a peak of the disease in the third week of April, when the case count may be between 4,000 and 4500 cases a day. “This time, the peak may be more serious as people are not following restrictions and are not adhering to social distancing protocols,” claimed Dr Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabs-covid-numbers-in-march-signal-uphill-battle-in-second-wave-101616863420003.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Traders hope to revive mango export after facing hurdles due to lockdown last year||PUNE The export of Devgad Alphonso mango has begun to Europe, Middle East and South Asia. After the hurdles faced while exporting mangoes last year due to lockdown, producers and traders are hoping for a good season this year.“The situation was different last year. Due to the Covid pandemic the airlines were not operating. The export of this season has begun and it is expected to be up to the level of 2018 and 2019. The export is done through various modes of transportation such as air, marine and by road,” said Bhaskar Patil, deputy general manager of the Konkan division- Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board.According to the Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board officials, it is not possible to give the details of the export quantity of the mangoes yet as the records are kept by the customs department.The export of Kesar mango from Marathwada will begin from the second week of April. Currently, in Pune, the demand is more than the supply. It has kept the rates of Devgad Alphonso afloat. The Karnataka mango is expected to hit the local market in large quantities in the second week of April.Rates of Devgad Alphonso mangoes is 800-1,500 per dozen, while the rate of Karnataka mangoes is 500-1,000 per dozen.Devgad Alphonso mangoes have been available in the local market since February last week. Traders observed that currently, the demand is slightly more than supply. It has kept the rates afloat. “From the second week of April Karnataka mango will be available in the large quantity in the market. Rates are expected to drop then,” said Rohan Ursal mango trader at Market Yard, Pune.Last year after lockdown many mango producers were involved in direct trading with housing societies. Based on last year’s experience many are likely to opt for the same. “Last year farmers directly contacted housing society members and sold the fruit. This trend is likely to continue. Currently, we are receiving 10-12 tempos each day of Alphonso mangoes,” said Baba Bibawe, head of the fruit market department, Market Yard, Pune.“The season has begun. We hope that it will turn out better than the last one. Also, I want to request the government agencies to strictly observe the geographical indication (GI) nomination compliance. When the Karnataka mango starts to come into the market, it is sold as Alphonso. Which happens every year and there has been no effective way to stop this. We, original Alphonso mango producers have to suffer because of this,” said Prabhakar Gogate, Alphonso mango producer in Devgad.Mango pricesDevgad Alphonso- ₹800-1,.500 per dozenKarnataka mango- 500-1,000 per dozen(Rate varies depending upon the quality and the size)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/traders-hope-to-revive-mango-export-after-facing-hurdles-due-to-lockdown-last-year-101616862578206.html
27-03-2021||Other||‘Covid-19 curbs will be made stricter, no lockdown’: CM Gehlot||Expressing concern over a surge in Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday that restrictions imposed by the state government would be made stricter if the situation worsens, but he ruled out the possibility of another lockdown.“People have become careless about coronavirus. If necessary, we will make the restrictions stricter. People do not want a lockdown. Lockdown is very dangerous. Everybody’s employment stops. We have to be strict without imposing a lockdown,” Gehlot said, unveiling works worth ₹55 crore related to six medical colleges.“We have to take the second wave of coronavirus seriously. On March 18 last year, there were 14 Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan. On 18 March this year, 370 cases have been reported.”He said the government’s Covid-19 management was excellent, due to which the recovery rate was the highest and the mortality rate was the lowest in the state. “We do not want the virus to spread in Rajasthan again. The condition is very bad in many states, so we have to be alert.”Gehlot said that registration for universal health coverage will start on April 1. Rajasthan will ensure free treatment of up to ₹5 lakh. “The scheme will come into effect from May 1. The central government will give ₹350 crore for this scheme and the Rajasthan government will spend ₹3,000 crore. Everyone will get the benefit of this scheme. Even rich people can also avail of health insurance by depositing ₹850 per month,” he said.Meanwhile, the state inoculated over five million people against Covid-19 till Thursday, even as positive cases continue to rise sharply. In the past 13 days, 19 deaths have been reported from across the state, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-curbs-will-be-made-stricter-no-lockdown-cm-gehlot-101616862338763.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||'Residential societies with 5 or more Covid-19 cases to be sealed': Mumbai mayor||Amid rising cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Saturday announced that residential societies with five or more Covid-19 cases will be sealed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Speaking to reporters here today, the Mumbai Mayor also said that a night curfew may be imposed in the capital city on March 28 from 10 or 11 pm, adding that hotels and pubs will remain shut during the night curfew with an exemption on essential services.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"Night curfew in Mumbai may start from 10 pm or 11 pm on March 28. Hotels and pubs to remain closed during the night curfew. Only essential services will be allowed. BMC will seal the residential societies with five or more cases. We are seeing a higher positivity rate in high-rises than in slums and chawls," she added.Meanwhile, the Government of Maharashtra extended Covid-19 related restrictions across the state till April 15, 2021, under its 'Mission Begin Again' program.Maharashtra reported 36,902 new positive cases, 17,019 discharges and 112 deaths on Friday, as per the State Health Department.The total cases in the state on Friday surged to 26,37,735 including 2,82,451 active cases and 23,00,056 total recoveries. The death toll yesterday escalated to 53,907 including new deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/residential-societies-with-5-or-more-covid-19-cases-to-be-sealed-mumbai-mayor-101616861484891.html
27-03-2021||Other||Despite police crackdown, no stopping hooch trade in Amritsar, Tarn Taran||The illegal business of illicit liquor trade continues unabated in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts, despite the police and the excise department cracking down hard on it. Last year’s hooch tragedy that killed 140 persons has also failed to act as deterrent. Huge quantities of illicit liquor and many arrests have been reported from the two districts on a daily basis this year. Organised liquor smuggling cartels have also been busted. In March, Amritsar Rural Police unearthed six illicit liquor-making rackets. Over 525 tonne of lahan (raw material used for producing illicit liquor) and over 50 running stills (equipment) have been seized. Punjab Police and excise department officials say unemployment, high prices of liquor sold at government-approved shops and mild punitive action under the Excise Act means the illegal trade tempts many. Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill said Punjab Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was passed during the budget session of Punjab Vidhan Sabha. Police, however, continue to invoke Sections under the Punjab Excise Act, 1914. Ajnala DSP Vipan Kumar said they were waiting for a circular on the law.“Most accused are unemployed and we book them under the Excise Act. Jobs, especially in border villages, are meagre and many, especially the poor, enter the trade to make ends meet. The lockdown led to loss of jobs and some of them started the illegal business,” said a senior police official. He added that most accused have no background of drugs smuggling. “Around 99% consumers of illicit liquor are from the labour class, who cannot even afford the cheapest liquor from government-approved wine shops. Those arrested recently had selling one-liter bottle of illicit liquor at ₹200. A 750ml bottle of the cheapest liquor costs more than ₹300 at approved shops,” he said. Another police official said, “Many accused face over 10 cases under the Act. They get bail easily and re-start business. We need stricter laws.” With the recent busting of a racket in Kotli Sakka village racket, Amritsar police arrested four people, including its kingpin Bhagwant Singh. Bhagwant faces 12 cases under the Excise Act. He was also bailed out and re-started his business.  SSP (rural) Dhruv Dahiya said they were mulling using the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. “Repeated offenders will be brought under the act so that their properties can be attached,” he said.Police say accused in all six rackets in March had been preparing illicit liquor by using jaggery and yeast. Excise inspector Ajnala Rajwinder Kaur said, “Sometimes, people use alcohol, pills and other chemicals, besides jaggery and yeast for making illicit liquor. This can be poisonous.”HT spoke to a man in Tarn Taran, who used to make illicit liquor from jaggery. He said the production cost of one-liter bottle of illicit liquor is between ₹70 and 80, and is sold at between ₹150 and ₹200. “Inferior quality jaggery, available at ₹30 per kg, is used in making illicit liquor.” He added in summers, jaggery and yeast is dissolved in a drum of water for at least seven days; in winters for 15 days. “This concotion, which is called lahan (raw material), is heated in a pot on a still for making illicit liquor.”BLURBPunjab Police and excise department officials say unemployment, high prices of liquor sold at government-approved shops and mild punitive action under the Excise Act means the illegal trade tempts many||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-police-crackdown-no-stopping-hooch-trade-in-amritsar-tarn-taran-101616862038778.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's Nagpur reports 3,688 new Covid-19 cases, 54 deaths||Maharashtra's Nagpur district reported 3,688 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 2,14,850 in the district, as per Civil Surgeon on Saturday.The district reported 3,227 people recoveries from the disease in the said period. With this, the total number of recoveries in the district goes to 1,72,634 so far. However, the active number of Covid-19 cases stands at 37,343.Fifty-four deaths were reported due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative death toll to 4,873 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-nagpur-reports-3-688-new-covid-19-cases-54-deaths-101616856042003.html
27-03-2021||Dehradun||Expedite issuing death certificates for those missing in Feb floods: U'khand CM||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Saturday asked officials to speed up the process of issuing death certificates for people who went missing in last months flash floods in Chamoli district so that compensation could be distributed to their families without delay.A flash flood in Rishiganga and Dhauli Ganga rivers on February 7 killed 77 people and left more than a 100 missing besides causing largescale damage to two hydel power projects at Raini and Tapovan.The chief minister also asked officials to make all preparations in view of the upcoming monsoon season during which the vulnerability of the state to natural disasters increases.Reviewing the works of the disaster management department through video conference, the Rawat said workshops should be organised to create awareness among people about natural disasters.The district magistrates should have their contacts up to the village level in order to get alerts and updates in times of an emergency. Teams should be constituted up to the Nyay Panchayat-level and kits containing all necessary equipment required should be made available to them, Rawat said.On strengthening the early warning systems, Rawat asked officials to speed up operationalisation of the doppler radar at Surkanda and setting up another one in Lansdowne. Building construction workers will be trained in building earthquake resistent houses in the hills.A proposal will soon be sent to the Centre for arranging air ambulances to deal with exigencies during a natural disaster, Rawat said and also announced that a research institute on disaster management will soon be opened in the state. Minister of State for Disaster Management Dhan Singh Rawat said a seminar on disaster management will soon be held in Dehradun. Also, a chapter on disaster management is being introduced in all universities of the state, besides a six-month certificate course on the subject, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/expedite-issuing-death-certificates-for-those-missing-in-feb-floods-u-khand-cm-101616852084924.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Self-proclaimed godman booked under anti-superstition law||The self-proclaimed godman from Indapur booked under the anti-superstition law of Maharashtra for cheating a farmer of ₹12 lakh was arrested by the Pune rural police in the early morning hours of Saturday. The man was identified as Uttam Lakshman Bhagwat, a resident of Gholapwadi in Walchandnagar area near Indapur was found at his daughter’s house in Phaltan, according to the police. He was produced in a court in Indapur and remanded to police custody until March 30 by the court, according to the police. “We arrested him from his daughter’s house in Phaltan rural. He had fled to her house after learning about the case against him. He was probably trying to get anticipatory bail, but we got to him before that. From what people tell us, there are already multiple complaints against him. We will take him in police custody and then get the information from him,” said police inspector Dilip Pawar of Walchandnagar police station. The police had formed three teams based on multiple inputs. One of the teams led by a PSI was sent to Phaltan based on a tip by a villager. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(2) of Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 was registered at Walchandnagar police station. Police sub inspector Nitin Shivaji Lakde of Walchandnagar police station is investigating the case. The man is suspected to have duped multiple people of multiple lakhs by claiming that he had magical powers. producing milk because he was cursed and that he will help him find who put the curse on him for a fee. The godman then allegedly told the complainant that someone in his family would come into physical harm if he discussed the solution, he had provided with anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/selfproclaimed-godman-booked-under-anti-superstition-law-101616859518064.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Inspired by Bollywood movie 'Special 26', five rob cash, jewellery from doctor's house; 3 held||Inspired by Bollywood flick 'Special 26', a gang of five posed as CBI officials and robbed ₹36 lakh, jewellery and foreign currency from a doctor's house in northwest Delhi's Pitampura area, police said on Saturday.Three of them -- Bittu (32), Surender (35) and Vibha (35) have been arrested while the other two managed to escape, they said.The police said ₹36 lakh in cash, jewellery worth ₹5 lakh, 3,852 US dollars and 400 pounds looted from the doctor's house have also been recovered from the possession of the accused.They said efforts are on to nab Amit and Pawan who are on the run.The movie 'Special 26' is based on the 1987 Opera House heist where a group posing as CBI officers executed an income tax raid on the jeweller in Mumbai.In his statement, complainant Priyank Aggarwal said on Friday evening after he reached home from his clinic along with his father and driver, five people, including a woman, entered his house forcefully.They posed as CBI officials, took their mobile phones and started searching their house for black money, the complainant alleged. After collecting all the cash and jewellery, the accused asked Aggarwal's driver to take them along with complainant to his clinic at Maurya Enclave to "continue their search for black money", police said.However, when the vehicle reached near Maurya Enclave police station, Aggarwal's driver raised an alarm following which the accused tried to escape.However, three of them were nabbed by the police while the other two, who were following the victim's car in another vehicle, managed to escape, police said.The looted cash and jewellery were recovered and handed over to the complainant after due procedure, a senior police officer said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northwest) Usha Rangnani said a case was registered in this connection. During investigation, it was revealed that Amit had approached Bittu and his brother-in-law Pawan to work with him.On Thursday, Amit, who was based in Haryana's Panipat, informed Bittu that they would have to leave for Delhi the next morning, the officer said. On Friday, both Bittu and Amit left from Panipat in a car and on the way, they also picked up their associates, including a woman named Vibha from Narela. All of them gathered at a park near Pitampura metro station where they discussed their plan and reached the doctor's house to execute the dacoity, she said. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they were inspired from Bollywood movie 'Special 26'' and decided to execute the dacoity using the same modus operandi as shown in the movie, the officer, said.The police also recovered fake identity cards of CBI officials from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/inspired-by-bollywood-movie-special-26-five-rob-cash-jewellery-from-doctor-s-house-3-held-101616857529997.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Duo booked for ATM jackpotting attack in city||The Pune police registered another case against a man-woman duo in the suspected ATM jackpotting attack on at least four ATMs of a private bank in the city. Through scores of transactions, the duo fled with ₹10 lakh cash from the machine, according to the police. The first case in the matter was registered at Shivajinagar police station while the second and latest case was registered at Market yard police station. The case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act. Similar incidents were recorded at the Dhayari and Viman nagar ATMs of the same bank. However, no cases have been registered in those local police stations yet. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the branch manager of the bank’s Market yard branch, according to police sub-inspector SP Shinde of Market yard police station who is investigating the case. While the one recorded at Shivajinagar police station happened on March 18, the attack recorded at Market yard happened on the night of March 17. Around 10:10 pm on March 17, one of the two entered the bank and went behind the machine to install a device that allowed them to access the machine. The two then used cards to withdraw money directly from the machine, without leaving a trace, according to the police. “Once that device was inserted, they made a withdrawal request of ₹1,000 which gets recorded as ₹1,000 but the machine dispensed ₹20,000. So, there is no trace of the remaining ₹19,000,” said PSI Shinde. The cybercrime cell and the police station officials believe that it is the same duo based on the method.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/duo-booked-for-atm-jackpotting-attack-in-city-101616857477942.html
27-03-2021||Pune||At 38.1 degrees Celsius, Pune city witnesses highest maximum temperature of season||PUNE The city on Saturday reported 38.1 degrees Celsius during the day which was the season’s warmest day so far. The night temperature on Saturday was 17.3 degree Celsius, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).In the next few days, the city will witness clear sky with day temperatures as high as 38 degrees Celsius, said, officials.The day temperature on Saturday was 1.4 degrees higher than normal and the night temperature was normal, as per IMD.Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department, said, Central and Madhya Maharashtra including Pune, with report minimum temperature above normal in the coming few days.“Minimum temperature is likely to increase to 20 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature will be around 36 to 38 degrees Celsius in the next few days,” said Kashyapi.He added that at present there are several weather systems in action across India, but no major activity is affecting the weather in Maharashtra as of now.“There is one western disturbance over the northeast part. There is a wind discontinuity line from Telangana to Orissa. There is another western disturbance expected on March 28. The forecast for weather in Maharashtra will be that of clear sky. There may be one or two clouds in the sky and so slightly cloudy afternoons is possible,” said Kashyapi.The highest maximum temperature reported on Saturday across Maharashtra was at 41.2 degrees Celsius at Chandrapur. And the lowest minimum temperature was reported at 15.0 degrees Celsius at Jalgaon.He further added that at Konkan and Goa, the day and night temperature were more than normal.“There was a heatwave situation in this area. For the coming days, the temperature will be normal. There is no forecast for rain,” he said.At least five-millimetre rainfall was recorded in March. There were other days with more traces of rainfall in many parts of the city. However, now there is no forecast for rainfall in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-38-1-degrees-celsius-pune-city-witnesses-highest-maximum-temperature-of-season-101616856337932.html
27-03-2021||Other||Two bookies held in Zirakpur for betting on England-India ODI||The crime investigation agency (CIA) of Mohali police has arrested two bookies for allegedly betting on the second ODI cricket match between India and England, played in Pune on Friday.“Ankit Sharma, 30, and Tarun Kumar, both hailing from Punjab’s Abohar and currently staying on rent in Zirakpur, were arrested following secret information that they were betting on the match,” said Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.A laptop, ₹50,000 in cash and four mobile phones were recovered from them. A register containing details of the money placed on each bet was also seized.The SSP said during interrogation, the accused revealed that they were running the racket along with one Siddarth, who lives in Rohini, Delhi, and Saurabh, a resident of Karnal, Haryana.They had rented the flat in Zirakpur specifically for their betting business.The accused have been booked under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-bookies-held-in-zirakpur-for-betting-on-england-india-odi-101616855738437.html
27-03-2021||Other||‘Will cut electricity to 16 states if govt doesn’t consider demands’: Rakesh Tikait||Farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait threatened to cut the electricity line to 16 states if the central government doesn’t give in to the farmers’ demands. Tikait’s comments came during his media interaction in Bharatpur on Saturday while on his way to a mahapanchayat in Dausa, Rajasthan. “There is no government in the Centre while traders are ruling the country. They have sold out all government institutes and people of the country need to kick them out of the government,” said Tikait. Also read: Rajasthan CM Gehlot calls GNCTD Bill ‘murder of democracy’, move to target AAP“Any party becomes dictator if it gets a full majority in Parliament or assembly. The central government is planning to sell out the land of farmers while the public faces unemployment and starvation,” he said. “I think the farmer agitation will continue for five or six months. It’s unfortunate for a democracy that there is no opposition. Farmers’ stir on the road would ideally have been fought in Parliament if the opposition was alive,” said Tikait. Farmers are committed to continuing their agitation against the black farm laws, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-cut-electricity-to-16-states-if-govt-doesn-t-consider-demands-rakesh-tikait-101616855498440.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Private Covid testing labs in Pune to undergo audit||PUNE Given the higher rate of positive Covid cases recorded from the private pathology labs as compared to the government labs, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has ordered an audit of the functioning of the private labs and whether or not they are following the standard operating procedures. The civic body will constitute a committee for the same and the audit process will begin from Monday (March 29).The decision was taken in the Covid review meeting headed by Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar at Council Hall, on Friday.“The number of positive cases from private labs is high. We need to look into the issue,” said Pawar.A PMC health official on condition of anonymity said that private labs have been reporting 10-20 per cent more Covid positive cases than the government labs.PMC has initiated the process to form a committee of the representatives from government testing labs such as Sassoon, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), National AIDS Research Institute (NARI) and National Institute of Virology (NIV) who will audit the functioning of the private labs and whether or not they are following the standard operating procedures.“There are 24 private laboratories in Pune which are conducting Covid testing. The positivity rate is high in private labs. That’s why audit will be conducted,” said Dr Sanjeev Vavre, assistant health officer, PMC.The members of the audit committee will do the quality check of the private labs. Mode of functioning, compliance with the standard operating procedures will also be checked.On March 8, PMC had sealed three private laboratories following incomplete Covid reports presented by them.PMC, meanwhile, has been facing the issue of improper and incomplete information given by the private labs. “Sometimes they give incomplete addresses or incorrect numbers of the Covid positive patients. Then it becomes difficult to track those infected,” said Vavre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-covid-testing-labs-in-pune-to-undergo-audit-101616854417761.html
27-03-2021||Pune||HSC, SSC students protest at Shaniwarwada, taken in custody and released||In a demand to conduct the forthcoming examination of Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) class 12 and State Secondary Certificate (SSC) class 10 exams online, around 100 students protested outside the Shaniwarwada main entrance gate. The protest was organised by students and not by any organisation or group. Since the protesting group did not have any prior police permission for the protest, the police stopped the demonstration. For a brief period, there was tension at the spot as some students were taken into custody but later released after counselling. “From the last one year, everything is online, our classes, studies, work from home for parents, webinars and everything. Our demand is that our exams also be held online. The number of Covid cases is again on the rise in our state and we don’t want to risk our lives as the examination is going to be offline,” said Vijendra Naidu, a protesting student.A total of 30 to 40 students gathered at the Shaniwarwada inside premises initially at 12 noon on Friday, however, the number rose to 100 slowly as the message of the protest spread through social media. “We simply want an answer from the state government, on one hand, they are imposing lockdown in some cities and then forcing us to come to give the examinations. This is playing with the lives of thousands of students, instead, they should conduct the exams online and for that, we are protesting today,” said another student Chinmay Hawaldar.As the numbers grew, local police came to the spot and started talking to students. They appealed to students to go away from the spot, but as students were not ready to move then some protesting students were taken into custody. Vijay Tikole, senior police inspector at Vishrambaug police station said, “Our policemen spoke to the protesting students, made them aware that they didn’t have police permission and as per the Covid restrictions, gathering of such large number of students won’t be allowed. After the appeal from police, the students went away from the spot and no complaint was lodged against anyone.”As per the Maharashtra State Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board, the SSC class 10 board exams will commence from April 29 and end on May 20 while that of HSC class 12 board exam will begin on April 23 and end on May 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hsc-ssc-students-protest-at-shaniwarwada-taken-in-custody-and-released-101616854357695.html
27-03-2021||Pune||33 arrested in Pune for betting during India-England cricket match||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police raided three locations in the late hours of Friday and arrested 33 bookies for allegedly running a cricket betting operation during the India-England cricket match which was held at Gahunje stadium.The 33 were remanded to the custody of Pimpri Chinchwad police by a court in Vadgaon till March 30 on Saturday.“We have arrested 33 bookies in the raids. Wakad senior police inspector made three teams and raided three places - a high rise building near Gahunje stadium, a hillock near the stadium, and a hotel in the city. They (the arrested) are from different states. Money has been recovered in dollars, pound, and dirhams from the arrested men,” said Krishna Prakash, commissioner, Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Of the arrested people, one is from Goa, five are from Madhya Pradesh, 13 from Haryana, 11 from Maharashtra, two from Rajasthan, and one from Uttar Pradesh. From three locations, the police seized a total of 73 mobile phones, one car, three laptops, one tablet, eight cameras, four binoculars, one speaker and ₹1,55,000 cash including foreign currency worth ₹28,800.The arrested accused have been identified as Kartik Rajkumar Chawla (28); Govin Rajesh Manihar (31); Gaurav Harish Vadhwa (30); Raymond Samuel Kaydo (21); Amit Subhash Chaudhury (25); Gajanan Baliram Yadav (34); Munish Ramkumar Saini (31); Sagar Yashpal Narang (20); Premjit Rameshchand (20); Vishalsingh Jitendrasingh Bhadauria (24); Satyendrasingh Maheshsingh Gujjar (27); Ramvirsingh Manfulsingh Benival (32); Manish Kailshchand Lahauti (40); Amitkumar Shrirajkumar Rajput (27); Shadab Anis Ahmed Khan (20); Rahul Jayprakash Rajput (27); Rajender Naimatram Vadhwa (39); Bharatkumar Kishanlalji Suhalga (40); Dilip Lal chand Jain (34); Vijay Amarlal Hemnani (35); Keneddy Ashok Hemchandani (35); Ojas Mahindra Patel (38); Nilesh Mahesh Sarvayya (32); Anil Ganesh Soni (32); Himanshu Sureshkumar Hasijha (28); Kamlesh Kishor Chawla (35); Aniket Niranjan Kathore (28); Ricky Hansraj Birmani (34); Jatin Subhash Sethi (29); Pankaj Dnyaneshwar Meher (25); and Avinash Haribhau Badmare (36), according to the police. Commission Prakash said that the six seconds of the time lag between the match and the live stream is what helped the bookies keep a tab on the movements to accept and even place bets and make money. The men allegedly used binoculars to keep tabs on the match before taking or placing bets.“The main accused, as per the preliminary investigation, have been identified as Bholu from Bhopal, Bihar and Chetan alias Sonu from Nagpur, Maharashtra,” said senior police inspector Vivek Mugalikar of Wakad police station who led the raids.“They (bookies) tried to attack the policemen who had first entered the raid spot without realising that the police reinforcements were ready to arrest them,” said Prakash.They had arrived in the city through various modes of transport in the past few days including- road, railway, and airways.A case is registered at Wakad police station under Sections 353, 332, 188, 269 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4, 5, and 12(a) of Gambling Act; Section 21 of Indian Telegraph Act; and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/33-arrested-in-pune-for-betting-during-india-england-cricket-match-101616854118704.html
27-03-2021||Other||Pak refugee women in Rajasthan float company to market craftwork||About 750 women artisans, all Pakistani refugees living in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, have started their own venture to market their handicraft work, in a bid to get free from the control of middlemen.These women artisans were dependent on middlemen for jobs and wages. Now they are co-owners and shareholders of their company, Thar Artisan Producer Company, launched with financial assistance from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). They are also part of the board of directors and have a say in costing, planning, production and wages.Safiyat (65), a Pakistani migrant who came to India in 1980, never thought that one day she would become a director of a company. “I experienced the pain of displacement. When I was only 14, my family got displaced from Pakistan’s Minau village in Sindh province and came to India. Initially, we took shelter in refugee camps. It is a long and painful journey to settle in India with so many hurdles,” said Safiyat.“After reaching India, we didn’t have any job or means to survive. Whatever we inherited was left behind in Pakistan. We reached India with empty hands; our only asset was our craftsmanship,” she said.After coming to India, the migrant families faced many challenges.“We were living under a threat of legal action against us. Our wish was only to keep ourselves alive. Citizenship was not an easy status to get from the government. They had many questions and we had very few answers,” said Tagi Devi, a migrant from Pakistan.These women have come from the Sindh region of Pakistan that is known for its signature handicraft work. Patchwork, appliqué, metal thread embroidery and glass work on naturally dyed clothes are in demand in the fashion world. These women create art pieces while working at home and are the bread earners for their families. Now, with their venture in place, they will try to market their folk craft directly, without working for middlemen for wages.“The middlemen took advantage of our situation, our illiteracy and our needs. They exploited us by giving us very low wages. We were getting only ₹10 to 50 a day while they were earning huge amounts by selling the products made by us,” said Jarrina, an artisan and a member of the board of directors.The NABARD will support the company with the assistance of ₹92 lakh for three years, after which the company has to be self-sustainable, said Dinesh Prajapat, deputy general manager and director, NABARD in Barmer.“The first instalment of ₹12 lakh has been allotted to the company. It is the first such project in India supported by NABARD,” he said.“These women have a unique talent. The products they are making have a demand all over the world. Despite their skills, they are the victims of middlemen that are exploiting them by giving low wages. It is because of these women artisans’ illiteracy and lack of marketing skills. Under this project, we will try to ensure them an opportunity to connect with the market directly and showcase their folk craft.”A non-governmental organisation, Society to Uplift Rural Economy (SURE), which works on issues related to rural economy and women empowerment, will act as a facilitator of the project.“SURE will act as a bridge between these female entrepreneurs and the market. Our aim is to help them in making this venture commercially successful,” said Lata Katchwah, secretary, SURE.“We have also planned to set up a common facility centre (CFC) that will provide the required facilities to these women who have been exploited by middlemen. With this project, we are expecting that soon they will become self-sustained and get the real value of their talent,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pak-refugee-women-in-rajasthan-float-company-to-market-craftwork-101616854118261.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Two decades of happiness…||So, I had planned this article to be the first in the series, but I kept writing about something else every week. I suppose I did not want to start this series by writing about a close friend, with “nepotism” being a commonly used word now. But this needed writing, especially because running a theatre company successfully for twenty years is no mean feat. And Akarsh Khurana has made running Akvarious Productions look very easy for the last two decades! I had met Akarsh when he visited Pune as a judge for the primary round at Thespo (For the uninitiated, Thespo is a theatre festival for those who are under twenty-five years of age, organised by Mumbai-based QTP, but more about them on another day). He gave us some advice after the play and we listened to it diligently, knowing fully well that he wasn’t selecting our play for the finals. And I thought that maybe this was the last I will interact with him. I did bump into him from time to time whenever we had a performance at Prithvi, but they were just an exchange of “hellos”. Amongst all the posters there, I would see the name ‘Akvarious Productions’ regularly. As we started using social media more and more I remember being surprised and envious of the number of shows and new productions AKvarious would churn out. I was a decision maker at a theatre group too and used to wonder how he found the time and the money to do this! A few years later he cast a friend of mine in one of his productions. Then he cast another friend. And another. Slowly his name started popping up in our regular conversations. I heard how they performed all over India and had amazing food everywhere they went. A few months later I started casting for a Marathi film that I was going to direct and wanted a Hindi speaking actor for a part. His name popped up again and I made the call. Even he agreed readily even though he was working on multiple things (which I later realised, he always is.) While working on the film he asked me if I would like to work in a play he was planning to open in a few months. I now suspect that he just knew the date when the play had to open and was still undecided about many of its aspects, including the script! I said “yes” and was waiting for him to call me to Mumbai for rehearsals. As is the custom now, a new WhatsApp group of the team was formed and we all used to chat there. But there was no call for rehearsals! I knew the opening day was close. The other actors used to work with him regularly so they seemed less concerned. Finally, one morning, I got a call for rehearsals! As I had expected (and hoped) there was a lot of good food, conversations and some rehearsal too. It was an interesting process as Akarsh had this knack of extracting whatever he wanted from his actors while letting them explore the character themselves. But what was more interesting was that he was doing it effortlessly. And just like that, we opened our play to good reviews! We performed the play in many cities over the next few years and have worked with each other on multiple projects hence. Now that I have worked with him for quite a bit and in multiple roles - as an actor when he is directing, his director when he is acting, his director when he is a writer, a writer when he is the director, his co-director on a project - I think I know the secret behind the success of Akvarious and Akarsh. It’s pretty simple really - he understands people. And by that, I don’t mean his audience, but his team members. And only someone who is honest to the core can do that. He knows how to build a team that is ready to take risks with them. Not all of them work. Some have misfired and have cost him dearly too. But he makes up for it by writing and directing mainstream cinema and web series and then spends that money on producing new plays! After twenty years, nearly fifty productions and around thirteen hundred shows, I feel that Akvarious has created a tribe of its own. A happy tribe, much like Akarsh. And there can be no bigger success than this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-decades-of-happiness-101616853697695.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Fire at Fashion Street was a tragedy waiting to happen||If Friday night’s fire at Fashion Street reduced over 600 shops to ashes within five hours, its alert was sounded around three years ago. In a statement issued on Saturday, the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) said that the cause of the fire incident on Friday night is not yet clear. PCB clarified, “There is no cantonment electricity connection and all stallholders obtained electricity connections from MSEDCL. The cantonment has only provided street lighting in the parking area. Some stallholders have taken electricity connections through one common connection of the MSEDCL, and others have taken individual connections. The board has not issued any No Objection Certificate (NOC) for obtaining electricity connection for MSEDCL.”According to the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), a report was submitted in 2018 highlighting the “risk” of similar incidents and possible difficulty to deal with it at Fashion Street due to the congested nature of the area. The joint fire audit report submitted by the chief fire officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), and the fire brigade superintendent of PCB was discussed at the special board meeting held in 2018 under the chairmanship of the then PCB president brigadier Rajiv Sethi. The audit report says the market does not have sufficient exit points in case there is a fire and people have to be evacuated. “It is a very serious matter in respect to the Fashion Street report submitted by the fire department of PMC. Fashion Street has become a risky place for fire incidents. We will be collecting information about owners of all the stalls and take action against any illegal stalls,” Sethi had stated on the record. “It is required to do a fire safety assessment or audit,” said Dr DN Yadav, CEO of the Board. In 1997, MG road was cleared of unauthorised vendors and the administration provided these hawkers stalls of five feet by four feet and in total 565 shops came under the agreement. The report pointed out that many shopkeepers used plastic curtains as partitions, which are hazardous in the event of a fire and the narrow ways inside make it difficult to move. There are stall cafeterias or hotels outside the market which use fuels like LPG and kerosene, the report stated. According to the records and earlier verification carried out by the revenue staff of PCB, the place is not safe if any fire incident takes place. Also, it is difficult for a fire vehicle or ambulance to reach there due to narrow and congested roads. According to advocate MV Akolkar, president, MG road hawkers and pathari Seva Sanstha, as many as 448 hawkers were regularised at Fashion Street in 1997 though later some unauthorised hawkers also settled. He also questioned how electricity was provided to these unauthorised hawkers. “We are regular tenants since 1997 and 448 hawkers were allowed later PCB illegally allowed 200 hawkers inside. The parking space and approach road were encroached. The elected members got a proposal for the reconstruction of fashion Street which we objected to, and the matter is in court. The fire incident is fishy, and this appears to be a conspiracy against the traders. The outside space was encroached by hawkers who were permitted by PCB. The same finds mention in the 2018 fire audit report. Why did the board give NOC for installing electricity metre to illegal hawkers? The board is at fault and it is solely responsible for this current crisis. We suspect foul play in this fire incident,” said Akolkar. BOX – Second major fire tragedy in camp On March 16, as many as 25 shops were gutted in an early morning fire at British era Shivaji market located in Pune Cantonment area on Tuesday morning, according to fire officials. No casualties were reported even though property damage is being calculated by the local police. BOX: - Most heritage structures not on fire audit compliance list of PCB Over 100 heritage structures under Pune Cantonment area are not on the fire audit list of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), a revelation that came out after British era Shivaji market in camp was partly gutted in the fire. Among the important heritage structures are Albert Edward Library on East Street opposite Kayani Bakery, which was established in 1975, Victory Theatre which is a 100-year-old colonial-era theatre was once used as a playhouse for the British, 160-year-old Hindustan Covenant Church belonging to the British era which was burnt to ashes in Nov 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-at-fashion-street-was-a-tragedy-waiting-to-happen-101616853397739.html
27-03-2021||Pune||After fighting Fashion Street fire, PCB fire chief dies in road accident||Over 600 shops were completely gutted after a major fire broke out at the famous Fashion Street market in the Camp area of Pune late on Friday night, officials said. While there were no casualties in the blaze, the head of the Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) fire department was killed in a road accident while returning home after dousing the fire. Prakash Hasbe died after his two-wheeler came under the wheels of a bus on Saturday morning around 6.30 am. He was on his way home to Viman Nagar after dousing the fire at Fashion Street. According to police officials, Hasbe was riding home to his house in Nagpur chawl on his two-wheeler when his bike collided head-on with a PMPML bus. The driver of the bus was identified as Mallesh Nagnath Jadhav (36), a resident of Nigdi who has been detained by the police. “We have detained him, and a case is getting registered. The bike was moving on the slightly curved road connecting jail road police chowki to 509 chowk. There is no divider on the curve and both the vehicles collided head-on,” said senior police inspector Gajanan Pawar of Vimantal police station. A case under Sections 279, 304(a) of Indian Penal Code and Section 184 of Motor Vehicle Act is getting registered at Vimantal police station. PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “He called me at around 2 am and briefed me that the fire was under control. He left the spot very late to go to Viman Nagar. After that, there was no information, his son who became anxious called saying that Hasbe did not return. Later, he received a call from someone that his father met with an accident and they were taking him to Sahyadri hospital. It’s a tragic incident which took place early morning.” Fashion Street adjacent to MG Road is a famous `window shopping’ destination that houses small outlets selling garments, shoes, goggles and other accessories. Local traders said there were 448 registered shops and over 200 unauthorised outlets located in the market. The clothes and other material in the market were gutted in fire, and it took six hours for the fire brigade to douse the blaze completely using 45 water tankers. The cause of what triggered the fire is being ascertained, officials said. Even though the market was shut, the fire brigade had a tough time negotiating the narrow lanes, which were encroached and had vehicles haphazardly parked. Precious time was lost in all this, said officials. Local trader Munaf Qureshi said “I have suffered loss of ₹30 lakh as the entire lot of brand new clothes was burnt in the fire. We have gone back by ten years due to this incident.” Another trader Nazim Sayyed said “We want the PCB to provide financial help so that we can start our business again. The traders are shattered as this incident has affected livelihood of hundreds of families.” The fire department received calls at 11 pm and water tankers were rushed to the spot but as the fire spread rapidly due to the small stalls being stacked with clothes, more tankers had to be sent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-fighting-fashion-street-fire-pcb-fire-chief-dies-in-road-accident-101616853217647.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Drones to monitor suspicious activities at Pune railway station||Suspicious movement and illegal crossing of railway tracks at the Pune railway station will now be captured by drones. The Pune railway division has got two drone cameras from the Central Railways (CR) which will now be used for vigilance in and around the Pune railway station premises. According to the information given by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Pune division, these drones were received a few days back, and training to operate these drone cameras was given to 10 RPF policemen. Once all the necessary permission to use these drones are taken by the railways, the vigilance through the drone cameras will start at the Pune railway station. Various parts of the station will be covered with drone cameras, outside passenger circulation, railway tracks, parcel office area, Pune railway yard and nearby workshop. There will be a separate room for drone operations given at the RPF police station at Pune railway station. “We have got two drones from the headquarters and some of our policemen were given training about how to operate it. This will certainly benefit our overall vigilance at the station premises and will be helpful to us in patrolling,” said Ashwini Kumar, RPF senior police inspector and in-charge of Pune railway station RPF police station. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, a total of 200 train operations were carried out from the Pune railway station with more than two lakh travelling passengers. After the unlock process started and train operations resumed back from May 2020, slowly the number of train operations started increasing from the Pune railway station. Currently, around 100 train operations are done from the station with over 40,000 passengers traveling from the Pune railway station. “To keep a watch on suspicious persons, security of the railway’s property, standing trains at the platforms in the night and even during the emergency and festival seasons this drone vigilance will be very useful for us. These drones can fly up to 2 km from the network and their battery backup is 25 minutes. It also has real-time tracking system in it which is beneficial for the RPF policemen,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/drones-to-monitor-suspicious-activities-at-pune-railway-station-101616853097699.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Raina, Bhosale with coach Kanitkar to represent India in Latvia||Ankita Raina, Rutuja Bhosale and coach Radhika Tulpule Kanitkar will be seen in action against Latvia in a Billie Jean King cup tie to be held at the National Tennis Centre Lielupe, in Jurmala on April 16-17. It is not the first time that the trio – two women players and a coach from Pune will be representing India on the international level. In the past, coach Nandan Bal along with Prathana Thombare and Raina were part of the Fed Cup (now Billie Jean King Cup) team against Kazakhstan. A team went down 3-0 and missed the world group berth in 2019. Before that in 2018, Asian games, Thombare and Raina was accompanied by Hemant Bendrey and Raina won the bronze medal. With Raina and Bhosale in top form, coach expects the duo to play a vital role in the team’s progress against Latvia. The winner of the tie will progress to the qualifiers, one step closer to the 12-team final. “The other girls in the team adds much needed balance to the team and we have good singles and doubles teams,” said Kanitkar who knows Raina and Bhosale since their junior team days. The other team members are Karman Kaur Thandi, Zeel Desai and Riya Bhatia (reserve). Vishal Uppal, former Indian Davis cup player will be the non-playing captain of the squad. The coach feels proud when she sees herself with the two more women from the city who are working hard for their country. “Tennis has improved a lot in Pune, from junior level to senior level we have champion players at every stage. In Maharashtra we are number one when it comes to producing quality players,” explained Kanitkar who retired from tennis in 2003 and runs coaching centre at Boat club. “I feel junior players should continue playing tennis so we can get more players like Raina and Bhosale,” added Kanitkar. For Kanitkar, it is the first time she will be on the senior team’s duty and before this she had travelled a lot with junior India teams. “It is like a dream come true to coach the senior team, all the players in our team are match winners. I have travelled with Rutuja during junior tours, and both (Raina) being trained under Hemant Bendrey sir. Both have reached the next level from where they had started,” said Kanitkar who knows both of them since their junior days. Raina’s take on team “Sania always tells you what you need to know and aspects to improve, I have been with her in the team now a lot of times and the best thing about her is that regardless of the result she will be very lively. Her personality is such that she makes the atmosphere very positive and in tense situations it’s very important,” added Raina who feels she has a strong team around. “Rutuja did well last year in Dubai and gave us the lead most of the time and she’s a fighter. Karman has a big serve and a big forehand and Zeel has been performing well. Riya has been more aggressive with her strokes and I hope she continues that. With Sania around, with her experience at a higher level we have a strong team,” added Raina. Bhosale ready for challenge Bhosale, who has played six tournaments post lockdown and won one singles and doubles title is ready for the upcoming tie. “Ankita and I train together at Hemant Bendrey sir which always helps. Now, Radhika ma’am who I have known for a long time will be help us on tour because sometimes I tend to get hyper and stuff on the court and she is a very calm person so her take on the situation will help me,” said Bhosale. For the Indian team, a tough contest is waiting ahead as the home team has the presence of 2017 French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko and Anastasija Sevastova. “It is going to be a tough tie because all these girls are very experienced. We will be playing on the hard court which gives us the better chance,” added Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/raina-bhosale-with-coach-kanitkar-to-represent-india-in-latvia-101616852917829.html
27-03-2021||Other||4 Tripura BJP workers killed, 22 injured in road mishap after returning from CM’s rally||Four Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, including three women, were killed while 22 others got injured in a road mishap while they were returning from Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) rally at Nutanbazar area in Gomati district of Tripura. The TTAADC polls would be conducted on April 06.The deceased were identified as Grahin Kumar Jamatia (65), Urbashi Kanya Jamatia (45), Mamata Rani Jamatia (26) and Rachana Devi Jamatia (30).“The road mishap killed four persons and injured at least 22. Some of the injured persons were moved to Gomati district hospital and two were referred to Agartala due to their critical condition. The rest are in Amarpur sub-divisional hospital,” said officer-in-charge of Birganj police station Suman Acharjee. Police said that the mishap occurred as the vehicle overturned on Nutanbazar-Amarpur road on Friday evening while they were returning after attending the CM’s rally. The chief minister took note of the accident and extended his condolence. “Four workers died in a road mishap while returning from a programme organised by BJP at Nutanbazar. I am deeply saddened due to the incident. Many more were injured. I express my condolence to the deceaseds’ families and pray to Mata Tripurasundari for a speedy recovery of the injured persons. I assure you that the party is beside every family in this sad moment,” Deb wrote in his social media post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-tripura-bjp-workers-killed-22-injured-in-road-mishap-after-returning-from-cm-s-rally-101616851838234.html
27-03-2021||Other||Union law minister praises judiciary for stepping up during the pandemic||Union Minister for Law and Information and Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad praised the country’s judiciary for stepping up during the time of the Covid-19 crisis to ensure that the delivery of justice was not interrupted during the lockdown. Speaking at the inaugural event of a new complex for the Bombay High Court at Goa at Penha de Franca overlooking the capital city of Panaji, the Union minister said, “I wish to congratulate the Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde, all Supreme Court of India judges who really rose to the occasion and ensure that the great wheel of justice does not stop. This unique innovation of India’s judiciary to allow virtual courts not to interrupt the wheel of justice will be indeed very remarkable. As I have said to friends, technology is very important. This is the age of technology, technology is power,” Prasad said. According to the law ministry, 82 lakh cases were heard through video conferencing, the Supreme Court of India heard 59,309 cases, the High Courts heard 27,58,560 cases and subordinate courts heard 54,46,876 cases.The CJI, who threw open the new court house, while speaking on the occasion, said that more than bigger and better court complexes, the need of the hour is to focus on modernising the courtroom. “Discussions on infrastructure have been largely quantitative, that is on building more courtrooms. Though building more courtrooms is necessary and important, there was very little emphasis on modernising existing courtrooms. In this regard, though the pandemic has posed a lot of problems to access to justice, it has paved the way for modernising the courtroom,” Justice Bobde said. “I see a trend of having smaller courtrooms in the future because of Justice Ravi Shankar Prasad’s ministry. The e-filing and data which can be contained is going to take away the need for many storage rooms and many rooms which are necessary for storing paper. The SC has done its bit on issues of court infrastructure. It has devised benchmarks and frameworks for minimum standards,” he added.The new building of the Bombay High Court at Goa will also witness, as its first event, a full-court meeting of the Bombay High CourtBesides five Supreme Court judges, around 62 judges of the Bombay High Court, including Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and its benches in Aurangabad, Nagpur and Goa, were also in attendance at the inaugural function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-law-minister-praises-judiciary-for-stepping-up-during-the-pandemic-101616851658339.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 1,558 new Covid-19 cases, highest in over 3 months||Delhi reported 1,558 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest in more than three months, and 10 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to a bulletin issued by the health department on Saturday. With this, the Capital’s infection tally surged to 655,834, including 6,625 active cases and 638,212 recoveries and 10,997 deaths.Delhi reports 1558 new #COVID19 cases, 974 recoveries and 10 deaths.Total cases: 6,55,834Total recoveries: 6,38,212Total deaths: 10,997Active cases: 6,625 pic.twitter.com/qeHcuqgnfbThe Capital reported its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on December 16 when 1,547 infections were reported. On Friday, the national capital reported 1,534 Covid-19 cases, 971 recoveries, and nine deaths. The city saw 1,515 cases on Thursday, 1,254 on Wednesday and 1,101 on Tuesday—continuously reporting more than 1,000 daily new cases.Read more: Second surge of Covid-19 infections quicker than first waveAs the Covid-19 cases continued to rise in Delhi, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday that lockdown was not a plausible solution to deal with the rising coronavirus infections. "There is no possibility of lockdown. There has already been a lockdown and there was a logic behind it. At that time, no one knew how the virus spreads. It was then said that there is a 14-day cycle from being infected to ending the infection. Then the expert said that if all the activities are locked for 21 days, the virus will stop spreading. Even then the lockdown kept extending but despite this, the coronavirus spread did not stop. I think lockdown is not a solution," Jain said.Read more: 80% of new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, 5 other states: Govt"There were fewer cases earlier but it has increased now. So we have increased the number of tests and conducted 85,000-90,000 tests every day, which is more than 5 per cent of the national average. We are also doing contact tracing and isolation," he added.Jain also stressed the need to follow rules with respect to wearing face masks and social distancing, in order to curb the spread of the viral infection. "People wore masks for two or three months... then they stopped. This is wrong. We don't know how the virus behaves. I appeal to the people.. the more people who wear masks, the better the spread of the virus can be controlled," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-1-558-new-covid-19-cases-highest-in-over-3-months-101616848535259.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19| Maharashtra night curfew from Sunday: All you need to know||The Maharashtra government said on Saturday it will impose a night curfew from Sunday, which will begin at 8pm and end at 7am the next day across the state, and extended curbs, imposed as part of its Mission Begin Again initiative, till April 15. More than five people will not be allowed in any public place, including gardens and beaches, and violators will be fined.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced the imposition of the night curfew from Sunday after the state worst affected by the pandemic reported the highest-ever daily spike in Covid-19 cases since the pandemic hit the country—36,902 infections on Friday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Here is what we know about the restrictions:1. Gathering of five or more people will not be allowed from 8pm to 7am effective midnight March 27. All public places including gardens beaches will be shut between 8pm and 7 am.2. Violation of the restrictions will attract a fine of ₹1,000.3. Cinema halls, malls, auditoriums and restaurants will remain closed from 8pm to 7am. Home delivery and takeaway from restaurants will be allowed during the period.4. No social, cultural, political, religious gathering will be allowed. Auditorium and drama theatres should not be used for conducting such gatherings.5. Not more than 50 people will be allowed during wedding ceremonies and not more than 20 people will be allowed during last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-night-curfew-from-8pm-to-7am-all-you-need-to-know-101616847562933.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi metro services to start from 2:30 pm on March 29 due to Holi||Ahead of Holi festivities, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has announced on Saturday that Delhi metro services will start from 2:30 pm on March 29.In a tweet by DMRC, it read, "Holi Update--On Holi (29th March 2021), metro services will not be available till 2:30 PM on all lines of Delhi Metro, including Rapid Metro/Airport Express Line."Holi UpdateOn Holi (29th March 2021), metro services will not be available till 2:30 PM on all lines of Delhi Metro, including Rapid Metro/Airport Express Line. pic.twitter.com/rMOJrZWWbjThe festival of Holi will be celebrated on March 28-29 this year.Earlier today, DMRC also informed that they will participate in the Earth Hour movement for promoting the idea of protecting nature."This Earth Hour, join people around the world in switching off all unnecessary and non-essential lights on 27 March 2021 from 8:30 PM to 9:30 PM, to #SpeakUpForNature," tweeted DMRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-services-to-start-from-2-30-pm-on-march-29-due-to-holi-101616848608160.html
27-03-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru has a school for women who wish to cycle!||For women who wish to pedal their way to a more sustainable way of commuting, an initiative that works to include more women in the cycling community has been launched in the city, called Cycle School for Women. A collective effort of Pedal in Tandem, Jhatkaa.org (a non profit, startup campaigning organisation), DULT (Directorate of Urban Land Transport ) and Church Street First, the aim is to make Bengaluru cycle-friendly especially for women cyclists. “We realised through various studies and surveys that there was a low participation of women in the city’s cycling community, due to various factors such as safety and personal inhibitions. We need to promote cycling infrastructure, with a focus on safety, keeping women at the centre of our initiative. To open streets for women cyclists would tantamount to the streets being safe for everyone,” says Nimisha Agarwal, a senior campaigner with Jhatkaa.org. At Cycle School for Women, workshops are being organised on Sundays at Church Street with a two-pronged approach. “First, we are teaching women to cycle, so that they can be a part of the thriving cycling community in the city. Bengaluru has been working towards greater pedestrianisation and cycle-centric infrastructure to its citizens. Secondly, we want to equip existing women cyclist with practical skills such as fixing a tyre, so that they can continue to use cycle as a mode of transport,” explains Gowri Omanakuttan, a campaigner with #BengaluruMoving, which aims at solving the mobility crises in Bengaluru, adding, “The workshops, part of a pilot project, have seen tremendous response; we have over 150 sign ups from women who are interested in learning or upgrading their skills.”Sonam Motreja, a resident of Shanthi Nagar who attended the cycle workshop feels this initiative will help women get over their inhibitions about cycling. ““I always wanted to go back to cycling, which I greatly enjoyed in my childhood. Women in general get perturbed by what society might think if they go out to cycle, especially if they are middle-aged. But it was heartening to see volunteers motivate women of all age groups, and were patiently teaching us. This will instil more confidence in women like me to go back to our favourite hobby!”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-has-a-school-for-women-who-wish-to-cycle-101616845248064.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: CricZone that bats (& bowls) for women||PUNE A single tweet or a social media post can change your life… that is the story of Yash Lahoti. Lahoti is founder of Breaking Boundaries, a company that has created a platform to promote women’s cricket - Women’s CricZone. In the beginningBorn and brought up in town called Malegaon in Akola district in Vidarbha, Lahoti did his schooling till Class 10 there. He completed his Class 12 education in Hyderabad and then came to Pune for his computer engineering course at the Pune Institute of Computer Technology (PICT). Says Lahoti, “I started my engineering in 2013, but after the first year itself, I understood that it is not my cup of tea. I started taking lot of interest in events like the tech and cultural fests. I thought management is something I like. I loved marketing, getting sponsors, handling finance. So, after completing my engineering, I was searching for jobs in the marketing domain only. I joined Mojo Networks in July 2017, where I handled marketing activities and social media. I worked there for 13 months and left the job in August 2018.”Family supportI come from a Marwadi family and so starting a business was never a problem. When I called up my dad and said that I want to leave my job and start a business, his response was very clear –“do it”, but don’t stress too much. Lahoti said, “My dad says at no given point in time should you blame the business failure – if it did – on yourself alone.”Women’s CricZone (WCZ)Women’s CricZone was started to bridge the gap between coverage of women’s and men’s cricket. This gap has been prolonged for many years, where women’s cricket has not been given much importance. Cricket is generally liked in India and it grabs the majority of TV viewership. That was the point breaker, says Lahoti. He recalls, “I am also a big, passionate fan of cricket. For me it was like, why is it that women’s cricket is not getting traction? Or coverage? Or viewership? So, I started with a Twitter handle during the 2017 World Cup. I tried to provide information to the public and people liked it. The social media handle got some traction and then after three to four months, a lot of people started messaging me to create a website to give detailed information to the public. Since I was working at another company at the time, I knew that I would not be able to manage it all on my own. I could create a website, given my educational background of computer engineering, but I could not get necessary information or write. A lot of people offered their contribution as freelancers. So, December 2017 we did that.”A life-changing “tweet”Says Lahoti, “In March 2018, there was a tri-series between India, Australia and England, going on at the Brabourne stadium in Mumbai. I was in the city for some office work for a week and I was there watching the match in the first half. There was a 11-year-old girl sitting in the crowd, watching the match, along with her parents. It was interesting. She was sitting about 100 metres away from the commentary box where Isa Guha, Melanie Jones and Anjum Chopra were present. The little girl was trying to approach them but the security guards were not allowing her. Women CricZone had a decent social media following then and I dropped a tweet and tagged Anjum, Melanie and Isa. Melanie Jones replied to the tweet, but since she was on air at that time, Anjum and Isa came and sat with the girl in the crowd for 10 minutes. They asked the girl to come again after couple of days during the India-England game and offered her the opportunity to meet all the other cricketers. The little girl got autographs of all the players in the dressing room. That was the point when I thought women’s cricket is growing, but has not got the backing needed. That was the tipping point for me. I started making a business plan. It was clear that I can’t run this as an NGO and so I left my job and started this full time. Team building Lahoti says, “How to grow was the next big question. With the website we were able to reach out to normal fans, but how to reach stakeholders, who are either playing the game (male or female cricketers), or sponsors. So, we decided to create a high-quality magazine which covers different nuances of the women’s game. Sidhant Patnaik was editor-in-chief of our magazine, but he passed away. Ananya Upendran then joined us as managing editor. After Ananya, S Sudarshanan and Ayan Mukherjee joined our team and the total strength now is 10.”On the hiring strategy, Lahoti says, “Hiring is the most critical part of building a startup. That is something that will take you either to the top or bottom. You need to have right people at the right time in your startup.”First investors When I started in August 2018, I met Vinit Deo, founder of Posiview Consulting. Deo wanted to be an active part of my idea and joined me. Deo used to take care of finance and investment. Deo introduced us to serial investor Chinmay Bhosale. My uncle from Hyderabad too came on board. Our legal advisor is Vivek Sadhale of LegaLogic and he introduced us to Hodek Ventures, who were looking to invest in companies. Hodek’s managing director Abhijit Khanvilkar is also a cricket fan.Chitale Group partner Indraneel Chitale and Pranitya Wealth founder Praveen Bhalerao came on board too. Deo also was instrumental in getting Sunandan Lele as mentor and cricketer Kedar Jadhav as an investor. Mentors Lahoti says, “We have got good mentors who have guided us from time to time. After we raised our first round of funding, we started getting a lot of traction on our social media and website. One of our mentors advised us to start the magazine while the other suggested an award show. The first show was organised at Bhubaneshwar.”“Commentator Prakash Wakankar, Sunandan Lele, Vinit Deo, Indraneel Chitale everybody brings a lot of experience from their respective fields. These mentors give us solutions to our problems. They show us the path and we follow it.” Platforms and responses“In terms of engagements and conversations Twitter is the preferred platform and in terms of viewership, especially videos, Facebook is the platform which is driving our content. 85 per cent of our audience is from India and it is very widespread,” says Lahoti. Recalling the lockdown days, Lahoti says, “After the Covid-19 pandemic hit last year, we have reinvented ourselves. We initially focussed a lot on on-ground coverage. What to do when for seven to eight months there is no cricket at all? We started doing lot more video content. We didn’t want people to forget us. Now the matches have resumed, so we are also back covering the game.”Future plansSays Lahoti, “Last year was very challenging, but next year is going to be very interesting. Consider the December 2021 to March 2023 period - in about 14 months we have three world cups. We have the first under-19 women’s cricket World Cup; the 50-over and 20-over World Cups. Women’s cricket will be played at the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham in July 2022. ICC has announced that there will be a women’s cricket global tournament every year from 2022 to 2031. So, for the next 10 years, there will be four 50-overs World Cups, four T-20 World Cups and two T-20 Champion’s Cups. The T-20 Champion’s Cup is a new category that ICC has introduced wherein the top six teams will participate. We are also expanding our portfolio and want to make women’s cricket content available and accessible to all.”Investor speakChinmay Bhosale“Of course, a combination of cricket and India is a no- brainer when it comes to business. However, what struck me the most was the fact that it also came with a cause - spreading women’s cricket in the world. Today, the success of WCZ has prompted official registered cricket boards as well as startups to take up to this idea which is eventually helping to spread awareness and popularity of women’s cricket. This was the fundamental vision behind supporting Lahoti in his endeavour, and the conviction on the vision was sufficiently strong to understand that money would also follow in due course. Today, most of the world cricketing bodies, ICC Hall of Famers and international women players have knowledge of WCZ’s work and that speaks volumes of the journey which Lahoti and team have managed to cover till date,” Bhosale says.Indraneel Chitale, partner, Chitale Group“Women’s cricket has been a fascinating area and the way the sport is picking up, I felt Lahoti was poised to become the go-to point in that industry. The diverse applications that the platform offers like data, association and now streaming, are great avenues and Lahoti has built a good team around him that led us to invest in this venture.”Vinit Deo, CEO, Posiview Group“Posiview Ventures looks at supporting entrepreneurs who work on startups that are “made In India”, for the World. When Yash met us we were impressed with his vision of being the World’s number 1 platform for Women’s cricket - a sport that is on the verge of take-off. With our network built over the last two decades, we could help Lahoti in creating an advisory board, get initial advertisers, as well as assist in putting together an organisational structure and processes to be ready for growth. We have already raised one round of angel funding from marquee investors and the next round is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-criczone-that-bats-bowls-for-women-101616844582160.html
27-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka govt's inefficiency reason behind Covid-19 surge: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday alleged the state government's inefficiency, corruption and lies are the reasons for the rise in Covid-19 cases in the state."@BJP4Karnataka's inefficiency, corruption and lies are the reasons for the rise in #Covid19 cases in Karnataka. People of Karnataka are facing the crisis due to mistakes of the shameless @BJP4Karnataka government," he tweeted.He further said that the Karnataka government has also lied about Covid-19 related deaths."According to @DHFWKA, number of #Covid19 deaths till Dec 2020 is 12,090. According to Planning and Statistical dept, it is 22,320 till Dec 2020. @CMofKarnataka, @mla_sudhakar, Which of the above data is true?" he questioned."@BJP4Karnataka leaders have not just lied about the #Covid19 related deaths, they have also lied about medicines, masks, sanitizers, PE kits and other procurements. @mla_sudhakar has been consistently lying to hide the corruption and inefficiency," he further wrote in a tweet.The Leader of Opposition further demanded the government to immediately release a white paper about the Covid-19 infection, deaths, treatment details."@BJP4Karnataka govt should immediately release white paper about the #Covid19 infection, deaths, treatment details & compensation paid. Covid19 can be won through treatment and not through lies," he addedOn Friday, Karnataka reported 2566 new Covid-19 cases, 1,207 discharges and 19 deaths. The coronavirus cases in the state reached 9,81,044 including 9,48,988 recoveries, 12,484 deaths and 19,553 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-s-inefficiency-reason-behind-covid-19-surge-siddaramaiah-101616834388166.html
27-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to roll out health insurance coverage scheme on May 1, registration begins from April 1||Rajasthan will roll out its ambitious universal health insurance coverage scheme on May 1, the registration process for which will start from April 1, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday.Under the scheme, announced in the state budget for 2021-22 by Gehlot, every family will get an insurance cover of ₹five lakh by paying ₹850 annually."We are going to implement the universal health coverage scheme from May 1 and registration will start from April 1," the chief minister said at a virtual programme of the medical education department.He said the medical and health sector is the topmost priority for his government."Development works, water, electricity, education, irrigation, social welfare and other sectors are also on the government's priority list, but health is the topmost priority area for us," Gehlot said.He said the state government had launched the "Nirogi Rajasthan" campaign and the preparations for it, which started in December 2019, proved to be crucial in March 2020 at the time of the coronavirus outbreak."The corona management of the government was excellent, due to which the recovery rate was the highest and the mortality rate was the lowest in the state. We have strengthened our medical infrastructure and the per-day corona testing capacity is 70,000 now," the chief minister said.He said Rajasthan's "Bhilwara model" was praised worldwide and the "No Mask, No Entry" slogan was followed in the UK also.Highlighting the medical facilities in the state, Gehlot said his government is exploring the possibility of tie-ups with foreign universities for nursing-training courses. He said the numbers of medical colleges, seats in the MBBS and MD courses have increased in the state and the government is developing model community health centres (CHCs).Expressing concern on the second wave of coronavirus cases, Gehlot said the state government has imposed certain restrictions, which would be made stricter if the situation worsens.However, he ruled out the possibility of clamping a lockdown, saying it causes losses and is not a solution.The chief minister said if required, the state government would impose stricter restrictions without clamping a lockdown.Health Minister Raghu Sharma, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal, Transport Minister Pratap Singh and senior officials attended the programme during which the foundations of various projects were laid and a few other projects were inaugurated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-to-roll-out-health-insurance-coverage-scheme-on-may-1-registration-begins-from-april-1-101616835970815.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||NIA suppressing evidence in Sachin Vaze case, alleges Congress||The Congress on Saturday accused the National Investigation Agency (NIA) of suppressing evidence in the ongoing probe in the Sachin Vaze case.Talking to reporters here, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, "API Sachin Vaze's office was 200 feet away from the office of the then Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. He had direct access to Singh. However, the NIA is not probing Singh in the bomb scare case.""NIA not carrying out inquiry against Vaze's seniors and Param Bir Singh gives rise to suspicion. The agency is deliberately suppressing some evidence," he said.Vaze (49) was arrested on March 13 by the NIA in connection with the probe into the explosives-laden SUV found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house on February 25.Vaze is also being probed for his alleged role in the murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-suppressing-evidence-in-sachin-vaze-case-alleges-congress-101616835355568.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Special teams to be deployed to prosecute traffic violators in Delhi on Holi: Police||In view of Holi, the Delhi Traffic Police has made elaborate arrangements to ensure the safety of motorists and special checking teams will also be deployed at major intersections to detect and prosecute traffic violators, officials said on Saturday.The traffic police has appealed to all motorists to avoid traffic violations and urged people to follow government directives and not celebrate the upcoming festivals at public places.As the festival of Holi will be celebrated on Monday, elaborate traffic arrangements have been made to ensure the safety of motorists on roads and strict action will be taken against those found indulging in drunken driving, performing stunts on two-wheelers, riding without helmets, over-speeding, jumping the red light, dangerous driving or any other traffic violations, according to the traffic police."Special checking teams will be deployed at major intersections and vulnerable points to detect and prosecute traffic violations. Special traffic police checking teams, along with PCR and local police teams, will be stationed on various roads and strategic locations all over Delhi to check drunken driving, red-light jumping and other violations. Radar guns will be deployed at various vulnerable roads to check incidents of over-speeding," Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Choudhary said.Citing the government directives in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the police said public celebrations and gatherings, congregations during upcoming festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navaratri are not allowed at public places, parks, markets or religious places across Delhi and any person found violating the directives shall be prosecuted in accordance with law."According to the directions of the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety, in cases of drunken driving, red-light jumping, using a mobile phone while driving, dangerous driving and over-speeding, the driving licence will also be seized and be liable for suspension for a period of minimum three months," Choudhary said.Action will also be initiated against the owners whose vehicles are found to be driven by minors and unauthorised persons performing stunts or driving without a licence, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/special-teams-to-be-deployed-to-prosecute-traffic-violators-in-delhi-on-holi-police-101616834808297.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||‘Lockdown not a solution’, says Delhi health minister as Covid-19 cases soar||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturuled out the possibility of a lockdown despite the increasing pace of daily spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city.“As of now, there’s no possibility of a lockdown. First, it was said that it's a 14-day cycle between infection and recovery. Experts said if all activities close for 21 days, it won't spread. Lockdown was extended but it didn't stop completely. So I don't think lockdown is a solution,” he told news agency ANI.Jain’s comments come a day after Delhi logged 1,534 fresh cases, which takes the city’s total confirmed cases to 654,276. The daily spike reported on Friday was the highest since the beginning of this year. This was the second day in a row when daily cases breached the 1,500-mark.The health minister pointed out that were fewer cases earlier but the count has increased now, following which testing has been intensified. “...conducting 85,000-90,000 tests every day, which is more than 5% of the national average. We are also doing contact tracing and isolation,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Commenting on the vaccination drive in the city, Jain said not many people are tech-savvy and so they face difficulty in registering for the shot. “Even if they get registered they get busy & don't reach centers. So, the government has decided to keep 3 pm-9 pm as a window when people can go for vaccination without registration,” he told ANI.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The minister asserted that hospitals in the city have a sufficient number of beds as of now. “The occupancy is around 20% now, 80% of the beds are unoccupied. We are monitoring this, if occupancy increases, we will increase the number of beds," he added.As cases continue to rise, the Delhi Police cited the government directive and said public celebrations and gatherings, congregations during upcoming festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navaratri will not be allowed at public places, parks, markets, or religious places across the city. Any person found violating the directives shall be prosecuted in accordance with the law, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-not-a-solution-says-delhi-health-minister-as-covid-19-cases-soar-101616830896640.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda bus operators block road to protest govt tribute to Covid victims||Private bus operators blocked the road outside the Bathinda bus stand on Saturday in protest against the district administration and police after traffic was stopped from 11am to noon to pay tribute to those who lost their lives to Covid-19. The private operators alleged that the police stopped the buses forcefully, so now they have decided to block the road till 4pm. The Punjab government had directed that one hour’s silence be observed every Saturday to pay tribute to the people who had died due to Covid-19 in the state. During that hour, traffic movement would not be allowed on roads except state and national highways. Emergency services and supply of essential commodities were exempt from the order. Sunny Dhillon, the co-owner of a private bus company, said: “What will happen by stopping traffic for an hour? It won’t help the families of those who have died due to Covid-19. Instead, the police should have donated their day’s salary to help the families. To protest against the administration, we have now decided to block the road till 4pm,” he said. Superintendent of police Jaspal Singh said following state government directions, traffic was stopped for an hour in the city. “The protest is illogical as the traffic was stopped to pay tribute to the people who died of Covid-19. They should also pay respect to them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-bus-operators-block-road-to-protest-govt-tribute-to-covid-victims-101616830116942.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sixth illicit liquor racket busted in Amritsar in a month, four held||Four members of an illicit liquor racket were arrested after their manufacturing unit was unearthed at Chak Mishri Khan village in Attari after a search and cordon operation late on Friday. This is the sixth such racket to have been busted in less than a month by the Amritsar district rural police. Five such illegal manufacturing units were unearthed at Chapa Ram Singh, Lakhuwal, Khiala Kalan, Kotli Sakka and Jasso Nangal villages after the police conducted similar raids. The arrested accused are Balwinder Singh, Karnail Singh, Shamsher Singh and Sukhdev Singh of Chak Mishri Khan. A search is on for three absconding members of the gang, identified as Jaspal Singh, Shinder Singh and Gurmeet Singh. The police confiscated 116 tonnes of lahan (raw material used for producing illicit liquor), 400 litres of illicit liquor, 10 stills, 16 tarpaulins, a water tank of 1,000 litre capacity, 20 drums, seven LPG cylinders and a Maruti car. Hub of illicit liquor racket in Attari Police said the accused had been running separate stills at their homes in the village and had been supplying the illicit liquor in Ajnala, Majitha and Lopoke assembly constituencies of the border district. The racket was the hub of illicit liquor manufacturing in Attari police sub division, the police said, though they are yet to confirm since when the racket was being run in the area. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya, who supervised the three-hour search and cordon operation, said the police team acted on a tip-off. “We identified the 20 houses where the stills had been running and a team of more than 150 policemen carried out the raid on Friday night. The accused had been producing illicit liquor on a par with a mini distillery. We are trying to find out to whom they had been supplying it.” He said the property of the accused, amassed through the illegal trade, would be attached. A case was registered under Sections 61-1-14 of the Excise Act at the Lopoke police station. Weekend night operations based on intel inputs Attari deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurpartap Singh Sahota, and DSP, detective, Gurinderpap Singh were part of the raiding team. Sahota said the accused were using jaggery to produce the illicit liquor. With the busting of the six rackets this month, the police have recovered a total of 525 tonnes of lahan and 1,891 litres of illicit liquor. Most of the rackets were busted on Friday or Saturday night operations and were based on intelligence inputs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sixth-illicit-liquor-racket-busted-in-amritsar-in-a-month-four-held-101616828917421.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 caseload from last 3 days higher than total cases last week||Delhi finds itself in the midst of a fresh wave of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the city has recorded more than 1,100 new daily cases in the last four days, including over 1,500 infections in each of the last two days. The national capital has seen more cases in five days this week, than it did in all of last week.Also Read | Delhi records over 1,000 Covid-19 cases for fourth day on the trot, positivity rate also upThe city’s infection tally rose by 888, 1,101, 1,254, 1,515 and 1,534 cases per day, from March 22-26, respectively, according to the health department. This means that in this period, total 6,292 cases have been detected in Delhi, taking its infection tally to 654,276. On the other hand, from March 15-21, Delhi’s Covid-19 caseload went up by 368, 425, 536, 607, 716, 813 and 823 daily infections, respectively. Overall, across last week, the capital city saw a total of 4,288 cases of the viral disease.Thus, in five days, from March 22-26, Delhi has logged 2,004 more infections than total cases last week. In fact, cumulative cases from the last three days, 4,303, is more than the overall caseload from the previous week. Delhi last recorded over 1,500 cases in a day on December 16 last year.In terms of related fatalities, 31 deaths have been recorded in Delhi in the last five days, with nine deaths from Friday being the highest single-day toll since January 24, when an equal number of deaths were reported. In contrast, total 15 fatalities were reported from last week. Overall death toll here stands at 10,987 or 1.68% of the infection tally.Recoveries have reached 637,238 while active caseload has mounted to 6,051. These comprise 97.40% and 0.92% of overall caseload.In view of the surge in coronavirus cases, the Delhi District Management Authority (DDMA) has already prohibited public celebrations of upcoming festivals like Holi, Navratri, Shab-e-Barat etc. Random testing is also being carried out at railway stations and Delhi airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-caseload-from-last-3-days-higher-than-total-cases-last-week-101616827429582.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||22 migratory birds found dead in HP’s Pong wetland, triggering bird flu fears||At least 22 migratory birds have been found dead in the Pong Dam wetland over the past two days, triggering avian flu fears barely three months after an outbreak in the region that left more than 5,000 such birds dead. The wildlife wing of the Himachal Pradesh forest department has put its teams on alert. “Twenty-two birds were found dead, and their samples have been sent for testing,” state forest minister Rakesh Pathania said on Saturday. Fourteen birds were found dead at Ransar Garhi and eight carcasses were spotted by villagers in the Nagrota Surian forest area. “The migratory birds have died an unnatural death over the past two days. We conducted an on-the-spot inspection and collected their blood, stool, tracheal and cloacal samples,” said Rahul Rohne, the divisional forest officer, wildlife, Pong Dam. The samples have been sent to the Northern Region Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar. Mortality mostly in bar-headed geese The mortality has been found mostly in bar-headed geese that migrate from Mongolia to Pong Dam in winter. This season, a total of 40,570 bar-headed geese were spotted at the lake. This is the highest number among bird species at the lake. Areas within a 3km radius of the spots where the carcasses were found dead have been put under surveillance and the forest department has constituted 10 teams to keep track of the situation. The forest staff with the help of the local panchayat representatives, mahila mandals and yuvak mandals are spreading awareness in villages surrounding the water body that is spread 240 sq km. Largest manmade wetland of North India The Pong Dam wetland in Kangra district is one of the largest manmade wetlands of North India, formed by the construction of the dam on the Beas river, in 1974. This is the first major wetland that offers a transitory resting reserve for migratory birds coming from the trans-Himalayan zone in winter when the wetlands in Europe and North and Central Asia freeze. Flocks of waterfowls that breed in these areas in summer undertake migration to Pong wetlands to spend winter in congenial climatic conditions from October to March every year. Wetland supports 415 bird species Pong wetland supports 415 bird species belonging to more than 60 families. The wetland has an untapped potential for bird watching, camping, water sports, nature/heritage tourism and other recreational activities. Rare species of vultures, falcons, Indian skimmer, red-necked grebes, white-fronted geese and waders have been sighted in the wetland. Bar-headed geese, which visit Pong in large numbers, constitute more than 40% of the world’s population of the species. This makes the wetland the largest single congregation destination for bar-headed geese not only in India but also in the world. More than 1.08 lakh birds belonging to 96 species were sighted at the lake this year. Of these, 1.01 lakh birds are of 51 migratory species besides 6,433 resident birds of 29 species and 714 birds of 16 other species. Fewer winged visitors this winter Year Number of birds sighted Number of species 2019 1.15 lakh 103 2020 1.15 lakh 114 2021 1.08 lakh 96||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/22-migratory-birds-found-dead-in-hp-s-pong-wetland-triggering-bird-flu-fears-101616824416836.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal MC polls: Covid norms go for a toss in campaign heat||With campaigning for the municipal corporation elections slated for April 7 intensifying, party workers from different camps have been seen blatantly disregarding coronavirus protocols even as the hill-state is witnessing a surge in cases.Though chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has asked authorities to pull up those not adhering to the pandemic protocols and his party had claimed to have transitioned to a virtual working style, most BJP party workers at an election rally in Mandi were without masks and sitting close together on Thursday. The CM was one of the few people seen wearing a mask.Not adhering to standard operating procedures can make such meets and rallies super-spreader events. When contacted, the chief minister said the government was keeping a strict vigil on the situation and will take all steps to check spread of the virus. “We have banned official fairs and festivals in the state. No indoor function, including political functions, can have more than 50% of the venue’s capacity with a limit of 200 people. Similarly, outdoor political, cultural and social functions must not have gathering of more than 50% of the capacity. SoPs must be diligently followed,” he said.BJP chief Suresh Kashyap said he had also observed that people were not adhering to the norms while attending rallies. “This is not the time to become lax. The state is already witnessing a spike in Covid cases. We will make sure all party workers wear masks and adhere to protocols. All party leaders have been instructed to make sure that guidelines are followed in letter and spirit,” he said.Congress leaders also admitted that the situation may very well spiral out of hand. “Increase in Covid cases is matter of grave concern. Therefore, I ensure that all party workers involved in election campaign wear masks and follow guidelines during electioneering, “said Harshwardhan Chauhan, five-time legislator and Congress observer for Solan municipal corporation.Guidelines issued to workers: BJP Himachal’s BJP media in-charge Rakesh Sharma, who is campaigning for the Dharamshala MC, said the party had issued guidelines to workers asking them to wear masks and carry extra masks to distribute among people without one. “We have also decided to hold corner meetings and avoid big rallies so that fewer people gather” he said.Amid the Covid surge, the state has made ‘no mask, no service’, the new guiding principle for common people in Himachal. The new guidelines came into effect from Friday. The government has proposed to start an aggressive campaign and to impose penalties on those not wearing masks. The government has also put restrictions on festivals and fairs in addition to social gatherings and cultural events at night.After a brief let-up in the beginning of the year, Covid cases are again on the rise in Himachal. The surge that began in the last week of February seems to be peaking.Himachal had recorded 2,971 new infections till March 25, a rise of over 167% as compared to February when 1,109 cases were reported in the state. Thirty-four people have died due to the virus while active cases are nearing 2,000. Since the outbreak on March 20, the state has recorded 61,616 infections while 1,016 people have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-mc-polls-covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-in-campaign-heat-101616819197078.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at a godown in Mumbai’s Prabhadevi area, 15 fire tenders at spot||A fire broke out at a godown of electric wires in Mumbai’s Prabhadevi area on Saturday. At least 15 fire tenders have been rushed to the spot and fire fighting operations are underway.The level-three fire was reported at 5.42am in the basement of a ground-plus five-storey facility at Prabhadevi. No injuries have been reported so far.The Prabhadevi fire comes a day after a massive fire in a Covid-19-designated hospital in the city’s Bhandup area. Nine patients, of whom six were on the ventilator, died in the fire at the Sunrise Hospital, located inside the Dreams Mall on Friday.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who visited the spot, has ordered an inquiry into the incident, and announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh to the family of the deceased, and asked for their forgiveness.“If there is any negligence or delay in it, it will be investigated and action will be taken against those who are responsible for it,” Thackeray said, adding that the hospital was functioning on temporary permission that was due to end on March 31.The firefighting system, including sprinklers, was not functioning at the hospital, officials from the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said, adding that notice for non-compliance with fire safety norms was issued to the mall in November 2020.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ordered a fire audit of all the Covid-19 hospitals and health centres following the incident while the city’s mayor Kishori Pednekar has ordered an additional inquiry into how a Covid hospital was allowed to run inside a mall.There were 78 patients in the hospital at the time of the incident. Two were already dead after failing to recover from Covid-19 while nine died due to the fire, according to BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-a-godown-in-mumbai-s-prabhadevi-area-15-fire-tenders-at-spot-101616816108503.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Phone-tapping: Devendra Fadnavis says fact-finding report full of fallacies||BJP leader Devendra Fandavis on Friday alleged that the fact-finding report submitted to the Maharashtra government by state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte over the phone-tapping allegations is full of fallacies.Kunte had been asked to submit the report into the alleged police transfer racket by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in the wake of Fadnavis’s allegations that the state government suppressed IPS officer Rashmi Shukla’s letter to the then DGP, based on phone intercepts, on a “transfer scam”.Kunte’s report said, “Despite stamping the letter as TOP SECRET, Rashmi Shukla seems to have leaked the letter, which is very serious matter. If it is proved, she will be liable for strictest action against her.”Also Read: In Mumbai, an explosive scare, a murder, and now – a political crisisTalking about it, Fadnavis said on Friday, “The Indian Telegraph Act quoted in the report is presented to public in a manner convenient to the government. The report in itself is full of fallacies. Although there are sufficient provisions to tap the phone calls, the government is not ready to accept it.”“The then DGP Subodh Jaiswal had recommended a CID probe (into the alleged transfer scam) based on the conversations among police officials and other persons involved in it. Then why no action was taken on his recommendations?” he asked.The Act empowers the official to intercept calls to avoid any possible offence that could happen, he said, adding that the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of the Maharashtra police has all the rights to carry out phone-tapping.When asked about the leaking of ‘top secret’ report, the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly said, “I had only shared a two-page letter (related to Shukla’s letter), whereas it was state minister Nawab Malik who leaked some of its pages. I was even contacted by some journalists after they received the report from Malik.”If any action has to be taken, it should be against Malik, he added.“I think state ministers Malik or Jitendra Awhad had prepared the report and chief secretary Kunte must have signed it. I have enough proof with me. If there is a legal action, then I will produce it before the court,” he claimed.Out of all the names mentioned by Malik citing the list, 12 officials have received the postings as per their request, he claimed.Awhad had on Wednesday alleged that Shukla, then Commissioner of Intelligence, sought permission for intercepting the calls of certain persons, but actually the calls of some other persons were tapped.In his reaction, Nawab Malik said Fadnavis seemed to be afraid that a “person close to him” would be in trouble as an offence has been registered in the case.Amid the controversy over Shukla’s report, an FIR was registered on Friday against an “unidentified person” for leaking confidential documents from the SID.“A person close to him (Fadnavis) had tweeted about the report first...who gave the documents to the person close to Fadnavis?“I can see Devendra-ji is somewhat afraid after the offence has been registered. Legal action will be taken,” the NCP minister said.He also took exception to Fadnavis’s comments against the chief secretary “who is an honest officer”.Another NCP leader and minister Jitendra Awhad termed Fadnavis’ comments as “ridiculous”.By making such a comment, Fadnavis “insulted” Kunte, he said, accusing the BJP of working in a way that demoralises officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-mumbai-an-explosive-scare-a-murder-and-now-a-political-crisis-101616813256161.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||9 patients, 6 on ventilator, killed in fire at hospital in Mumbai mall||Nine Covid-19 patients, mostly senior citizens, were killed on Friday after a massive fire broke out at Sunrise Hospital, located inside the Dreams Mall in Bhandup, officials said. Six of the dead were on ventilators.The fire started on first floor of the mall on Thursday night and soon spread to the third floor, which houses the hospital. Officials from the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said the firefighting system, including sprinklers, were not functioning. A notice for non-compliance of fire safety norms was issued to the mall in November 2020, they added.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who visited the spot, ordered an enquiry into the incident, announced ₹5 lakh compensation to the family of the deceased, and asked for their forgiveness.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has ordered a fire audit of all the Covid-19 hospitals and health centres in the wake of the incident, and Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar has ordered an additional inquiry into how a Covid hospital was allowed to run inside a mall.“If there is any negligence or delay in it, it will be investigated and action will be taken against those who are responsible for it,” said chief minister Thackeray. “The hospital was functioning on a temporary permission that was due to end on March 31. Unfortunately, the fire started on the first floor [of the mall]. Many Covid patients were safely taken out of hospital.”Thackeray also pulled up the administration. “We wake up after such incidents and inquiries are ordered. I have already asked state authorities to carry out structural and fire audits of hospitals and Covid Care Centres and Jumbo facilities and ensure no such incidents happen. Some people who were on ventilators could not be saved. I ask for forgiveness for their families.”According to BMC, there were 78 patients in the hospital at the time of the incident. Two were already dead after failing to recover from Covid-related complications, and nine died due to the fire.The blaze was first reported at around 11.45pm on the first floor of the mall. MFB was yet to give details about the cause of the fire. Sunrise Hospital authorities contended in a statement that it responded responsibly to the incident, and called for an investigation to determine how the fire spread.“The fire was on the first floor of Dreams Mall, Bhandup, and not in the hospital. The smoke had reached up to Sunrise Hospital located at the top floor. All fire alarms beeped and hence all patients were safely evacuated due to the smoke to the fire refuge area .There were two dead bodies (due to Covid) which were also evacuated. There was no casualty due to fire. All patients were promptly shifted to Jumbo Covid centre (and some to other private hospitals). The patients were shifted alive, but there were few patients on ventilator and extremely critical. We believe that the casualties have not occurred due to fire, but either in transit or at other hospitals,” the hospital claimed.It further said that the hospital was started in “exceptional circumstances of Covid last year”, and was “functioning with all due compliances”.“The hospital staff did their best in safely evacuating patients on wheelchairs and beds to the refuge areas and by following the fire drills. The patients were then shifted with the help of local authorities... We have spoken to the authorities and request them to investigate and find the cause of the fire. The guilty need to be punished as the lives of people have been lost in the unfortunate incident,” the statement added.Hemant Parab, deputy chief fire officer, MFB, said the mall was in violation of safety norms. “In the backdrop of a fire last year in City Centre Mall, we had inspected this particular Dreams Mall. A notice was issued to them for non-compliance of fire safety violations due to certain concerns. During fire fighting also we observed that none of the fire safety mechanisms got activated inside the mall. We will conduct a detailed probe into the incident now.”Though the fire was brought under control by Friday afternoon, , firefighting was underway at the time of going to print. Till Friday evening, BMC had traced 46 patients who were evacuated from the hospital. Several of them shifted to nearby hospitals, whereas some opted to go back to their homes, the civic body said.A political slugfest also began after the incident, with the Bharatiya Janata Party blaming BMC of cutting corners to allow the hospital to function.“A case of homicide should be registered against the officials who allowed the operations of the hospital inside the mall. Despite repeated complaints by local BJP corporator Sakshi Dalvi, it was ignored due to political pressure. In reply to the complaint in writing, the Medical Officer Health Department of BMC said that they had issued a certificate of registration to Sunrise Hospital. The fire brigade also issued a no-objection certificate,” BJP corporator Prabhakar Shinde said.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who also visited the spot, said, “It seems that the authorities have not learnt from past incidents in Bhandara or even in Apex Hospital in Mulund last year. The government has not woken up even after similar incidents in the past. We cannot expect anything better from the BMC considering its system is filled with corruption.”The BMC, on its part, said it will probe if there were any other violations. “The hospital had occupation certificate and also the fire compliance to operate, but we are told there were fire violations inside the mall. However, that is under fire department’s purview, but I have asked my staff to investigate whether there were any other structural violations inside the mall,” assistant municipal commissioner V Acharekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/9-covid-patients-killed-in-fire-at-mumbai-hospital-101616796965257.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||High end job scam went for qualified people seeking managerial jobs with MNCs||Delhi Police has arrested five men who ran a “high-end job scam” in which they duped professionals looking for mid to senior managerial positions in multinational companies (MNCs), officers aware of the investigation said on Friday.The gang allegedly cheated about 500 jobseekers of nearly ₹7.5 crore. The gang’s kingpin, who was among those arrested, holds an MBA and a PhD in human resources (HR), police said.The group targeted people with an MBA or other postgraduate degrees, who had several years of experience, were earning six-figure monthly salaries, and looking to land senior posts such as senior manager or vice-president in leading private firms.The members of the group would gather the contact information of such jobseekers from their sources in recruitment agencies, police said.“An Uttam Nagar resident, who filed a complaint a few weeks ago, alerted us to the gang. He was duped of ₹20 lakh,” said deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy. He further said the fraudsters first posed as representatives of a reputed recruitment agency, and later as senior managers of an MNC that the victim was hoping to join at some point in his career. The man was made to deposit the money into various bank accounts on the pretext of payments for the selection process, document verification, profile completion, aptitude test, references, and other such expenses.Investigators analysed the phone numbers from which the victim received calls, and examined the money trail, before zeroing in on an alleged fake call centre operating from Gurugram. The five men who were arrested include the alleged mastermind, 44-year-old Manoj Hota, and two of his associates, Ashish Ranjan and Abhishek Kumar, both of whom have engineering degrees. The other two men, Sonu Rawal and Shaik Pintu, did not hold degrees and primarily kicked off conversations with jobseekers.Roy said Hota was a visiting faculty in various universities and colleges -- he did not name them -- and at one point had tried to start his own college. He was deep in debt when he planned the job racket.His targets were well-placed individuals looking for high-paying private jobs so that he could make more money by targeting fewer people, police said. “He hired men with strong communication skills so that they could pass themselves off as senior managers of MNCs,” said the DCP. Ranjan served as the primary manager for the call centre, while Kumar was the “star caller” who lured job seekers.The DCP said the suspects have been booked for cheating, impersonation and forgery.The police have seized seven computers and 14 mobile phones from them, which they will examine to gather more evidence against the suspects. Officers involved in the investigation said police will also attempt to identify more victims and try to recover the money duped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-end-job-scam-went-for-qualified-people-seeking-managerial-jobs-with-mncs-101616796909172.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Both men were forced to clean the tank on threat of wage cut, say their families||Family members and relatives of the two men who died late Thursday while cleaning a septic tank at a banquet hall in east Delhi said their loved ones used to work as daily wagers in weddings and they never were made to clean tanks before. The families said the two men were not provided any protective gear or safety equipment by the management of the banquet hall where the tragedy took place. They were promised a meagre ₹1,500 per man for the job, police later said.The two men who died were identified as 35-year-old Lokesh Kumar and Prem Chand, 40. Both worked at wedding parties in the catering department and lived in Trilokpuri, east Delhi.HT visited the banquet hall on Friday afternoon but it was found locked. There was no one from the management outside the hall to comment on how the two men had entered the tank without protective gearDeepak Kumar, the deceased Lokesh’s, brother-in-law, said, “ I got information around 1am about Lokesh’s death. When I reached the banquet hall, their bodies were still inside the tank. Police took the bodies out by 2am after which we came to the hospital. I told my sister that her husband was unwell. Only by Friday afternoon could I tell her that he was dead,” Kumar said.Lokesh is survived by his wife, who used to work as a domestic help and their two children -- a 15-year-old daughter and a 12-year-old son. Deepak said Lokesh was the only earning member of the family.Kumar said it came to them as a surprise that Lokesh had got into the septic tank to clean it. “He worked as a catering labourer at parties and wedding functions. He had never done tank cleaning work before. We have learnt that he and Chand both had been called in for a catering job but were then made to clean the septic tank. They were threatened that their payments would not be cleared if they did not clean the tank. They were also not given any protective gear to do the work,” Deepak said.Lokesh’s parents live in Shimla. He had four brothers who live with their parents.Prem Chand’s elder brother, Radhey Shyam, who works as a security guard, said he got a call around 7am informing him about his brother’s death. He also said his brother had never worked as a septic tank cleaner before.“My brother had never cleaned a septic tank. I’m sure he and the other person were both forced to do that job. We want adequate police action against the owner of the banquet hall and those who forced my brother to get into the tank without any protective gear,” Shyam said.Chand is survived by three brothers, wife and two sons -- aged 15 and nine years. All of them live in Trilokpuri.During the early hours of Friday, at least 40-50 people from the two men’s families and Delhi sanitation workers unions had also gathered outside the banquet hall and staged a protest there demanding the immediate arrest of the owner and the housekeeping manager. Both have been detained for questioning.Chairman of the union Sanjay Gehlot said despite the government providing machines to clean septic tanks and sewers, people continue to use daily wagers as that is the cheaper option. “This amounts to cruelty to humans. The workers were also not given any safety equipment or protective gear before they got into the tank. We demand that adequate compensation be given to the families of the two men,” Gehlot said.No compensation has been announced for the families as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/both-men-were-forced-to-clean-the-tank-on-threat-of-wage-cut-say-their-families-101616796880269.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s ambitious road revamp plan hits green ministry roadblock||The Delhi government’s ambitious project to redesign 540km of the city roads, along the lines of those in European countries, has hit a roadblock days after the work began, with the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) on Thursday ordering an inquiry against the Delhi public works department (PWD) for allegedly damaging trees and undertaking constructions on a stretch of the Ring Road between Moti Bagh and Mayapuri demarcated as “deemed forest”.Prachi Gangwar, deputy inspector general (forests), regional office of the Union environment ministry, on Thursday sent a letter to the principal chief conservator of forests, Delhi forests department, to file a report on the violations and the action taken against the PWD for violating the Delhi Preservation of Trees (1994) Act.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.“You are requested to submit a factual report based on field inspection in reference of the complaint letter. In case a violation is reported in the matter, action is solicited as per the rules and guidelines of the MoEFCC,” read the letter from Gangwar.The forest department had on March 12 issued a notice to PWD to stop work on a stretch of the Ring Road between south Delhi’s Moti Bagh and Mayapuri for allegedly damaging trees (during trenching) in an area which is a deemed forest. This stretch is among nine roads that are to be redesigned on a pilot basis, as part of the Delhi government’s “redesigning and street scaping of roads” plan, announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in 2019.Ring Road also features in the original list of areas identified as deemed forest land in an affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court by the Delhi forest department in 1997 in the TN Godavarman Thirumulpad v Union of India case.In Delhi’s context, “an area above 2.5 acres having a density of 100 trees per acre as well as stretches along roads and drains having a length of one kilometre,” are considered ”deemed forests”, according to the affidavit.For any “non-forest related activity” to take place in such an area, permissions have to be sought from the Union ministry of environment, under the Forest Conservation Act (1980).A senior forest department official said they are conducting inspections on the stretch and added that a detailed report will be submitted before the Union ministry.PWD officials confirmed that work on the portion of the road has been stopped on the forest department’s orders.“We have followed all guidelines. Such objections were not raised by the forest department earlier. However, the work on the stretch has been stopped after the notice,” said a PWD official aware of the project, asking not to be named.CM Kejriwal, this January, conducted a review meeting on the status of the road redesign project and directed officials to finish work by 2023. However, just days after initial work was started, the work was stopped, citing violations.These nine stretches include redesigning from Mayapuri to Moti Bagh; All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to Ashram; Outer Ring Road from Nigambodh Ghat to Magzine Road crossing; Narwana Road – Mother Dairy to Panch Mahal Awas; Ambedkar Nagar to Defence Colony (BRT corridor); Road number 43 – Britania Chowk to the Outer Ring Road West Enclave; Wazirpur depot crossing (NSP) to Rithala Metro; from Moti Nagar Ring Road T-point to Pusa Road roundabout and Vikas Marg – Laxmi Nagar to Karkari Mor.The PWD official said the project aims not only at making streets look more appealing, but also envisions to make them more pedestrian and cycle friendly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-ambitious-road-revamp-plan-hits-green-ministry-roadblock-101616791689028.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Non-bailable warrant against accused Fazan Khan after he misses court appearance||A Delhi court has issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against an accused, charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the main conspiracy case related to the north-east Delhi riots, after he failed to appear before it during proceedings on Thursday.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat issued the NBW against Faizan Khan after he did not appear before the court despite repeated calls.“Since accused Faizan Khan is absent despite repeated calls, hence, issue NBW against him with notice to his surety for the next date of hearing,” Rawat said in the order passed on March 25.Khan’s counsel said she will move an application for cancellation of NBW against him. On October 25 last year, the Delhi high court had granted him bail after observing that invocation of the UAPA is not valid against him as it is based on nothing but “bald statements”.The judge had said there is no proof on record such as CCTV footage, video or chats of the petitioner with any of the group except the allegation that he provided a SIM on a fake ID in December 2019 and taken a small amount, of ₹200, as payment.On Thursday, the court also directed the police to supply hard copies of the charge sheets filed in the matter to all the 18 accused and posted the matter for further hearing to April 8. It noted that the Delhi high court has vacated the stay on the trial in the case.Khan, then salesperson of a telecom service provider, had allegedly sold a SIM card on a fake ID to co-accused Asif Iqbal Tanha. The police had alleged that the SIM card obtained on a fake ID was used to coordinate protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).Communal violence had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24, 2020, after clashes between the new citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control. It left at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-non-bailable-warrant-against-accused-fazan-khan-after-he-misses-court-appearance-101616791634020.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi cabinet gives nod for purchase of 300 e-buses||The Delhi Cabinet on Friday approved a proposal for purchase of 300 low-floor fully electric air-conditioned buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) under the Central government’s “faster adoption and manufacturing of hybrid and electric vehicles in India (FAME) phase-II” scheme.The government in a statement said the first tender called by DTC in October 2019 was “not found responsive” and, therefore, the process was cancelled. A fresh tender was later called in June 2020, but that too was cancelled as the rates were not found to be competitive. Finally, a third tender in December 2020 was found to be responsive and competitive.“The first prototype of the e-buses is likely to be received by DTC in June 2021. The first lot of 118 buses shall arrive in October 2021, with 100 more buses being added in November. Thereafter, 60 buses will arrive in December, while the remaining 20 buses are likely to be added by January 2022. The buses shall be parked at the Subhash Place Depot, Mayapuri Depot, Rohini-II Depot, Rajghat-II Depot, and Mundela Kalan Depot,” read the statement.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said: “Under the dynamic leadership of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, we have been taking a lot of measures to ensure sustainable and state-of-the-art transport facilities and a switch to electric non-polluting modes. In fact, electric buses are being introduced in Delhi for the first time and this is one of the largest engagements of electric buses by any state government or state transport undertaking.”The Delhi government said in its statement on Friday, said, “So far DTC has been operating only buses owned by it. The lowest bidder is M/s. JBM, which has quoted Rs.68.58 per km. The second-lowest bidder, M/s. Tata Motors, has agreed to match the rate quoted by M/s. JBM. Under the tender conditions, M/s. JBM shall operate 200 buses, while 100 buses shall be operated by M/s Tata Motors.”Meanwhile, the Dialogue and Development Commission in association with RMI India organised a webinar under the Switch Delhi campaign on “Accelerating Electrification of Fleets in Delhi” on Friday.“It’s a huge opportunity for logistics operators, last-mile connectivity service providers and cab aggregators to make a switch to EV due to low regulatory burden and progressive EV policy in place in Delhi. We are already seeing this shift. Out of 7700+ EVs registered in Delhi since the launch of Delhi EV policy in August 2020, 85% are commercial vehicles or operating fleets,” said Jasmine Shah, VC-DDC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-gives-nod-for-purchase-of-300-ebuses-101616791623068.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||15 secondary edu directorate employees test Covid positive, office sealed||Fifteen employees, including the deputy director, working at secondary education department’s directorate located at Park Road tested positive for Covid on Friday, prompting the district administration to seal the office, an official said.There are nearly 100 employees in the directorate of the secondary education department. The Covid test reports of 80 employees is still awaited. The district administration had carried out the Covid sample test drive at the directorate.Joint director education, Bhagwati Singh in a letter to additional chief secretary, secondary education, Aradhana Shukla said those who tested Covid positive included deputy director, education, Vikas Srivastava, Sriram Rawat, Ajit Singh, Prem Kumar Mehto, Sitaram Rajvanshi, an administrative officer, Sachindra Mishra, senior assistant, Hari Shankar, principal assistant, Sohan Lal and Ravi Prakash.The above nine tested positive after an antigen test was carried out on them. Six others tested positive after they went for RT-PCR test. They include additional education director Manju Sharma; deputy education director Prem Chand Yadav; deputy education director Vivek Nautiyal; finance officer Dinesh Kumar Singh Rathore; deputy director Deep Chand and administrative officer Prabhat Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/15-secondary-edu-directorate-employees-test-covid-positive-office-sealed-101616791618104.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records over 1,000 Covid-19 cases for fourth day on the trot, positivity rate also up||With 1,534 cases of Covid-19 reported on Friday, Delhi added over 1,000 infections to its overall tally for the fourth day on the trot. While the city had conducted a high number of tests during these past four days, the increase in cases was not merely a result of that as the positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested -- had also kept rising. It has shot up from 1.31% to 1.80% in these four days, Delhi government data showed.On average, 85,300 tests were conducted daily during the past four days in comparison to nearly 76,000 tests conducted daily in the seven days before that and over 69,200 the week before that.Delhi has reported a positivity rate of more than 1% for the past seven days. The positivity rate – which is indicative of the spread of the infection in an area – had remained below the 1% mark in Delhi for 82 days, according to data shared by the Delhi government. But Friday’s 1.80% positivity rate was the highest since December 16, when it had touched 1.96%.Along with the high number of cases, the city also saw an increase in the number of deaths from Covid-19. On Friday, nine Covid-19 deaths were recorded in the city, which was the highest since January 24, the last day when nine deaths were reported.So far, 10,987 city residents have succumbed to the infection, the state health bulletin said.“Once the number of cases start going up, the number of deaths also increase after around 10 days. This is because the severity of the infection in a patient reaches its peak in the eighth to the 12th day. We have been reporting an increase in the number of cases for over two weeks now. Also, there is a misconception among the people that the virus is causing milder disease this time around, which is not true. We are admitting several people with moderate and severe disease manifestation and they need to be put in the ICU,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman, PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care.Delhi has seen an increase in the number of hospitalisations as well, with over 1,000 being admitted over the past three days, according to the health bulletin. The number of active cases or those living with the infection crossed the 6,000-mark as well. This is the highest since December-end.“I am expecting the number of cases to go up further because people are not following Covid appropriate behaviour. And, that is mainly because the number of cases had come down, and people thought that it is like any other infection. There was also the vaccine euphoria. Now, the government needs to strictly enforce norms like wearing masks in public,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine, Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-1-000-covid-19-cases-for-fourth-day-on-the-trot-positivity-rate-also-up-101616791612156.html
27-03-2021||Bangalore||Congress picks Satish Jarkiholi for Lok Sabha bypoll||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Friday approved the candidature of Satish Jarkiholi, party’s sitting legislator from Yenkanmaradi, for the on April 17 Belagavi (Belgaum) Lok Sabha bypoll. Satish is a brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi, the former state minister who finds himself in the thick of an alleged sex scandal in Karnataka that has further pushed the chief minister B.S Yediyurappa-led state government to a corner.“He (Satish) has had good control over the district and has been in touch with all sections over the last two months. The scandal may have some perception issues, but it might not impact the votes by much since we are talking about issues like price rise, farm laws and other issues which have aggravated voters in the district,” Vinaya Navalgatti, a Congress leader from the district, said.The announcement came a day after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) declared its list of candidates for the three bypolls in the state, including for Belagavi Lok Sabha seat and Basavakalyan and Maski assembly constituencies.Satish Jarkiholi will contest against BJP’s Mangala Suresh Angadi, the wife of late Union minister for railways, Suresh Angadi, who died due to Covid-19 related complications in September last year.Political analysts said the BJP does not often replace one family member with another while handing party tickets. The party has, however, gone with Angadi’s wife, showing some cracks in its confidence, analysts said. They added that by naming Satish Jarkiholi, the Congress has shown some “imagination” and “willingness to give a fight”.Belagavi has been a stronghold of the BJP since 2004, making it harder for the Congress. But the district is also home to powerful families like Jarkiholis and Kattis. Residents have in the past favoured local equations and loyalties to the families over political allegiances, observers said.In 2019, Suresh Angadi won 63.12 % of the vote share securing 761,991 votes against Congress’s Dr Sadhunavar, who polled 370,687 votes, according to data from the election commission of India (ECI).Angadi had won the seat consecutively since 2004 while the Congress’s Amarsinh Vasantrao Patil had won it in 1999, according to ECI data.Interestingly, despite Satish Jarkiholi being from the Congress while his two brothers (Balachandra and Ramesh) are with the BJP, they are a tight-knit family and have come together in the past to thwart off any outside interference into the district, said a political observer.Known for his tactical skills, Satish was instrumental in helping former chief minister Siddaramaiah win from Badami in Bagalkote district in 2018, local leaders said.However, the BJP sounded confident of retaining the seat. “There is really no contest, and the BJP will win. There is a sympathy factor for the wife of Suresh Angadi and the Congress does not stand a chance,” Prabhakar Kore, a former Rajya Sabha member and senior BJP leader from the district, said.Basavakalyan seat fell vacant after sitting Congress legislator B Narayanrao died last year due to Covid-19 related complications. The Congress has fielded the wife of the late leader against BJP’s Sharanu Salagar, a first time MLA contestant.The JD(S) has announced Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri as its candidate for the bypoll to the seta, which, analysts and political leaders said, might split the minority votes of the Congress.In Maski, where bypoll was necessitated after Pratapgouda Patil — who had won on a Congress ticket in 2018 against Basanagouda-Turvihal of the BJP — defected to the BJP along with 17 others in 2019 and helped bring Yediyurappa to power. The Congress has named Turvihal as its candidate for the April 17 bypoll.A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University, said the bypolls being the first elections in the state after Covid-19, economic distress and the impact of Covid-19 could have a bearing on the outcomes of the bypolls.“Normally the ruling party has an advantage in bypolls held in the first half of the term, but this may not necessarily be true in the second half. These polls are in the second half of the term and are a good indicator to gauge the mood of the people both toward the Union and state government,” Narayana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-picks-satish-jarkiholi-for-lok-sabha-bypoll-101616791588014.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||With 351 new virus cases, HP records highest single-day spike this year||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 351 coronavirus infections, the highest single-day spike this year, taking the state’s tally to 61,967 while the death toll mounted to 1,017 after one patient succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 63 were reported in Una, 62 in Hamirpur, 59 in Kangra, 50 in Sirmaur, 39 in Solan, 38 in Shimla, 20 in Bilaspur, 11 in Mandi, five in Kullu and four in Chamba. The active cases have climbed to 2,124 and recoveries have reached 58,807 after 128 people recuperated. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 10,777 cases, followed by Mandi with 10,406 cases, and Kangra with 9,196 cases. Solan has 7,205 cases, Kullu 4,511, Sirmaur 3,883, Una 3,857, Hamirpur 3,327, Bilaspur 3,150, Chamba 3001, Kinnaur 1,395, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,259.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-351-new-virus-cases-hp-records-highest-single-day-spike-this-year-101616791352594.html
27-03-2021||Other||Punjab Cricket Association Trident Cup: Punjab XI walk away with title||In a thrilling finish, Punjab XI recorded a 12-run win over Rest of Punjab (Red) in the final of the PCA Trident Cup Triangular Series to emerge champions at the IS Bindra Punjab Cricket Association Stadium in Mohali on Friday. With this win, champions won a prize-money of ₹2 lakh while the runners-up got ₹1 lakh.Rest of Punjab (Red) won the toss and opted to field. Punjab XI openers, Prabhjot Singh (158) and Abhijit Garg (100), were involved in a brilliant 235-run opening stand. For Rest of Punjab (Red), Ikjot Singh Thind (3 for 55) was the main wicket-taking bowler. In reply, Rest of Punjab (Red) were bowled out for 323 runs in 49.4 overs. Gitansh Khera (82) and Vishwanath Pratap Singh (74) were the main scorers for the losing side. Prabhjot Singh was named man of the match, while Abhijit Garg was declared as best player of the tournament.Scores in briefPunjab XI: 335 for 4 in 20 overs (Prabhjot Singh 158, Abhijit Garg 100, Ikjot Singh Thind 3 for 55) beat Rest of Punjab (Red): 323 all out in 49.4 overs (Gitansh Khera 82, Vishwanath Pratap Singh 74, Kashish Pasneja 56, Gurnoor Brar 3 for 60) by 12 runs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cricket-association-trident-cup-punjab-xi-walk-away-with-title-101616791113926.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Shatabdi, Jan Shatabdi cancelled in Chandigarh; passengers stranded||Long wait ended in disappointment for passengers at the Chandigarh Railway Station, as the Jan Shatabdi and Shatabdi Express trains, along with several others through the day, were cancelled due to farmers blocking the railway tracks near the station.“Around 340 people were supposed to board the Shatabdi Express and another 400 were waiting for the Jan Shatabdi Express in the morning. But due to the protests, both the trains, along with many others scheduled till 6pm, were cancelled and the passengers were given full refunds,” said JP Singh, station superintendent.ALSO READ: Bharat Bandh: Mohali observes complete shutdown, farmers block roads“We had reached the station around 6am and waited patiently, but the train kept getting delayed till 10.45am and was finally cancelled,” said a passenger travelling to Delhi.CTU services crippledPassengers waiting for the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses were also a harried lot as the farmer protests affected its inter-state and tricity bus services.All long route buses to Haryana, Punjab and Delhi were affected, while the local CTU buses to satellite towns of Mohali and Panchkula could ply only till UT’s borders with these cities.Buses headed to Zirakpur and Dera Bassi dropped passengers at the Hallomajra light point. Similarly, most buses to New Chandigarh couldn’t run and returned from Sarangpur, while buses to Mohali were able to drop passengers till only YPS Chowk.Even buses headed to Panchkula had to return from Manimajra. People going to Kurali and Ambala also faced similar problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shatabdi-jan-shatabdi-cancelled-in-chandigarh-passengers-stranded-101616790813979.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Finally, Chandigarh admn releases ₹50 crore to MC for village development||With the UT administration finally releasing ₹75 crore to the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), the development works in the 13 villages, which were recently added to the civic body, will see the light of the day.Of the ₹75 crore, ₹50 crore have been earmarked for village development funds that were pending for more than a year now.After financial restrictions were imposed by the Centre in the wake of the pandemic, the administration had even ruled out releasing the funds.But in January this year, after a meeting among UT adviser Manoj Parida, new mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and MC commissioner KK Yadav, the administration had assured ₹90 crore dedicated funds for village development. Initially, it had committed to release ₹30 crore of the ₹90 crore within this financial year.“We requested the administration to increase the fund share for village development in this fiscal, and it released an additional ₹20 crore. The rest of the ₹40 crore will be released in the coming fiscal,” said mayor Ravikant Sharma.The MC has been struggling with a paucity of funds, particularly in the wake of the pandemic. The civic body had to acutely depend on the administration’s aid for even paying the salaries of its employees as it failed to achieve its own revenue targets. Against a target of ₹402 crore for 2020-2021, the MC will garner only ₹317 crore in its own receipts.Funds to help MC tide over own liabilitiesThe release of ₹75 will also help the MC tide over its own liabilities like salaries: ₹25 crore of the ₹75 crore have been earmarked to meet MC’s committed liabilities under revenue expenditure for the current fiscal (2020-2021).For the coming fiscal, the administration has approved ₹502 crore grant-in-aid; ₹469 crore is estimated to be generated by the MC on its own receipts like property tax, water tariff, estate, etc. “We will bring additional funds for the city for the coming fiscal too in addition to approved aid,” said Sharma.Sewage, water projects top priorityThere are 22 villages under the jurisdiction of the MC out of which 13—Bahlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas—were transferred in 2019.The MC General House had approved the proposal of ₹102-crore development works in these villages, which have a combined population of more than 50,000.The plan prepared by the MC engineering department includes a new road network, laying of stormwater pipes and sewer lines, electrical and horticulture works, supply of water and installation of more than 1,000 tube-wells.“Our top priority will be upgrading the sewage system and improving drinking water supply systems in these villages. The tender process will be completed within April and we are aiming to start work by April-end,” said Sharma.With MC elections slated for November-December this year, village development is also politically crucial for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party that has come under severe criticism for the lack of development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finally-chandigarh-admn-releases-50-crore-to-mc-for-village-development-101616790092256.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Dispute over fee: Notice to DPS, Srinagar, over barring girl from online classes||The J&K government issued a notice to Delhi Public School, Srinagar, for allegedly baring a Class-2 student from attending online classes after her parents did not pay for transportation fee and other annual utilities during the lockdown period. The Srinagar additional deputy commissioner has asked the school’s principal to appear before his court on Saturday to clarify his position and asked the school to restore online classes of the student. The parents of the student had filed a complaint with the education department. The student’s father, Wajahat Waseem, said, “For around 20 months since August 2019 when restrictions were imposed in Kashmir after abrogation of Article 370 and due to the Covid lockdown my daughter has not been to school. However, I still paid the monthly fee during the curfew and lockdown period amounting to ₹56,400,” Waseem said.The pending dues amount to of ₹24,000, which includes annual charges that the UT government has barred schools from charging during the lockdown period. “The pending sum includes transportation charges, a service that they did not provide and annual charges such as heating charges. When our child did not attend school, how are these charges justified? This is unscrupulous exploitation on part of the school,” he said.Waseem and his wife Nuzhat Wajahat had written to director school education, Kashmir, complaining that the school had violated provisions of Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, which is applicable post abrogation of Article 370 and also different circulars of the UT administration.They requested the director to direct the school management to restore his daughter’s online classes and stop them from ‘exploiting’ parents.“The management should also be directed to refund our admission fee amounting to ₹1,10,000 so that we are able to admit our daughter in another educational institution,” the parents wrote in the complaint.Waseem claimed that he had not been paid for seven months. “Right to Education is a fundamental right. How can DPS Srinagar bar a child from attending online classes? The government is still undecided on transportation charges and charging annual charges has been totally banned,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dispute-over-fee-notice-to-dps-srinagar-over-barring-girl-from-online-classes-101616789972192.html
27-03-2021||Other||Firing at Ludhiana’s Gurdev Nagar leaves 4 hurt; woman, daughter among 32 booked||Tension prevailed in Gurdev Nagar after a woman and her daughter opened fire in an attempt to take possession of a house illegally on Thursday night. In the incident, two teenage relatives of the owner of the house and as many accused have suffered injuries and have been admitted to hospital.After locals started gathering at the spot, the accused managed to escape, leaving their two vehicles — a Mahindra Scorpio and a Hyundai i-20 — on the spot.The Division Number 5 police have impounded the vehicles and registered an FIR against the accused, one of whom, Jaswinder Kaur — daughter of Sukhwinder Kaur — has been arrested.Others who are yet to be arrested are Sukhwinder, Palwinder Singh, Gurbir Singh, Gurmeet Singh and Kuldeep Singh. Their 26 accomplices have not been identified yet.The FIR has been registered following the complaint of Bhagwant Singh. His two nephews, Simarpreet Singh, 18, and Jaskaran Singh, 19, have sustained gunshot injuries and are undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.Two of the accused — Gurmeet Singh and Gurbir Singh — have also been admitted to a hospital with bullet injuries. The police suspect that the accused had fired at least 25 times targeting the victims. The police have also recovered six shells from the spot.The feudBhagwant said Sukhwinder and her daughter Jaswinder had been for the past eight years living as caretakers at the house of his aunt, who has settled abroad. His aunt wanted to sell the house and asked him to get it vacated. Bhagwant told the police that he even gave the women some money for vacating the house.He alleged that on Thursday night, the accused turned up there with their accomplices and tried to take possession of the house. When they intervened, the accused opened fire on them. They rushed inside the house to save themselves and raised alarm.The accused remained outside the house for at least 20 minutes till people started gathering and the police were informed.Division Number 5 station house officer Kuldeep Singh said a case of attempt to murder and attempt to grabbing house has been registered against the accused.We have arrested one of the accused and a hunt is on to nab others, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/firing-at-ludhiana-s-gurdev-nagar-leaves-4-hurt-woman-daughter-among-32-booked-101616789614864.html
27-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana hotel owner dies after clash with traders||A 60-year-old hotel owner died after a scuffle with some Kashmiri traders in Rari Mohalla on Friday evening, while his son suffered minor injuries. After the incident, the police have rounded up a Kashmiri trader, his son and an accomplice.The police suspected that the man died of cardiac arrest. The body has been sent to civil hospital for autopsy. The police are waiting for the postmortem report to take action.The deceased is Harinder Pal Singh. He was the owner of a hotel situated opposite the railway station. Kashmiri traders used to avail loan from him, the police said. Division Number 3 SHO Jarnail Singh said Amandeep Singh, son of Harinder, had gone to the house of Abdul Sammad Khan, who is also the president of Kashmiri Traders’ Association in Ludhiana, in Rari Mohalla, where he indulged in a scuffle with Khan, his son Kabir and another aide Habib over monetary issue. Amandeep said the accused attacked him with an iron rod. His father intervened in the matter, but the accused thrashed him as well. He said his father suffered a shock and collapsed. He rushed his father to a hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead.The SHO added that they have been scanning the footage of CCTVs installed in the area. The police are also recording statements of eyewitnesses for further proceedings.The cops said appropriate action will be taken after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-hotel-owner-dies-after-clash-with-traders-101616789613612.html
27-03-2021||Other||Bharat Bandh: Mohali observes complete shutdown, farmers block roads||Responding to the Bharat Bandh call by farm unions, various factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) organised chakka jams across Mohali on Friday, blocking major roads and highways, much to the chagrin of commuters. Massive traffic jams were witnessed in Kharar and Zirakpur till 6pm, while air passengers were forced to walk to the Chandigarh International Airport due to blockades on Airport Road. Several hapless passengers were seen walking, with their children and luggage in tow. No untoward incident was reported and the protest concluded peacefully, the police maintained. Showing solidarity with farmers, traders also observed a complete shutdown. All shops and business establishments, except banks and medical stores, remained closed in Mohali, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi, Lalru and Kharar. Though banks were open, they had no visitors. ALSO READ: Shatabdi, Jan Shatabdi cancelled in Chandigarh; passengers strandedProtesters started blocking major roads in the district at 9.30am, allowing only people with medical emergency, police, army and media to pass through. The worst effected was Kharar, where both the entry and exit points were blocked and serpentine queues of traffic were witnessed. Due to traffic jam on Banur-Kharar and Kharar-Landran highways, and also on Ambala-Chandigarh highway near Lalru, the police were forced to divert the traffic to alternative routes. Protests were also held at Singhpura crossing in Zirakpur and the toll plaza in Banur. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said police teams were present at all important entry and exit points to avoid any law and order situation. Commuters suffer for nearly eight hoursCommuters were at the receiving end of the protest for over eight hours as all entry and exit points between Mohali and Chandigarh were blocked.Office-goers and public buses were seen stranded in long jams, as protesters blocked roads with the help of tractor trolleys, JCB machines and cars. Most of the stranded buses were coming in from Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and other parts of Punjab. Vikas Nagpal, a resident of Kharar, said his relatives’ train got cancelled at the Chandigarh railway station in the morning, but he could not bring them home until after the blockades were lifted, forcing them to wait for nearly 10 hours.Parveen Kumar, from Kaithal, said he was in Mohali to visit a relative at a private hospital, but had to wait at a friend’s house in Zirakpur till 6.30pm before leaving for the hospital.Another commuter, Anita Verma, who works at a hotel in Zirakpur said she was left with no option, but to return home in Dera Bassi, as she was not allowed to cross the barriers set up by the protesters.Markets remain open in Chandigarh, PanchkulaMarkets in both Chandigarh Panchkula remains opened amid the call for Bharat Bandh. The traffic situation also remained smooth in Chandigarh, except for the routes connecting the city to Mohali and Zirakpur.However, in Panchkula, the traffic on the Shimla-Panchkula highway was brought to a halt as farmers and traders laid siege to the stretch. They also blocked the Zirakpur-Panchkula highway and Ramgarh-Mubarakpur road with the help of trucks. Farmers even prepared langar for people sitting on dharna that started at 6am. “I could not go to my office in Dera Bassi and had to return back from Zirakpur. There were not allowing any vehicle,” said Amardeep Singh. “I had a meeting in Chandigarh, but I am stuck here. I asked them to allow me to pass through, but they did not agree and so I had no option but to wait,” said Vikrant, who came from Shimla. Only students, headed for examinations, were allowed to pass. Several people were seen walking towards their destinations along the highways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bharat-bandh-mohali-observes-complete-shutdown-farmers-block-roads-101616789612556.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||395 test Covid +ve in Ludhiana, highest single-day spike in 6 months||Five people lost their lives, even as over 395 tested positive for Covid in the district on Friday, the highest single-day spike in over six months. On September 17 last year, 464 cases were reported, and it remained below 390 after that. The district has now reported over 300 fresh case for seven consecutive days.With this, the total cases reported from the district has reached 32,476 and 1,100 have succumbed so far. While 28,805 patients have recovered, there were 2,568 active cases.The fresh cases include a teacher and a student from BCM Arya School, Shastri Nagar. Also, two students from GMT School, Jalandhar Bypass, have tested positive.The patients who succumbed to the disease include a 52-year-old female from Payal, 57- year-old female from Sahnewal Khurd, 69-year-old female from Haibowal Khurd, 60-year- old female from Doraha and 77-year-old male from Manakwal village .Appealing the residents to take all the precautions and avoid moving out whenever possible, civil surgeon Dr Sukhjevan Kakkar said that 4,547 more samples were sent for testing on Friday.5,236 people get jabbedAs many as 5,236 people turned up to receive the Covid vaccine at various government and private health centres on Friday. This includes 1,915 senior citizens and 1,289 comorbid people aged between 45 and 59.Besides this, 314 healthcare workers came for the first dose, while 88 received the second dose. As many as 1,323 frontline workers also got the first dose and another 307 came forward for the second dose. So far, 1,32,936 people in the district have been inoculated.1-hr silence to be observed on SatIn view of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s appeal to citizens, silence will be observed from 11am to 12pm in Ludhiana district on Saturday to pay tributes to those who lost their lives to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/395-test-covid-ve-in-ludhiana-highest-single-day-spike-in-6-months-101616789553594.html
27-03-2021||Other||Markets shut, trade suspended: Bharat Bandh evokes good response in Ludhiana||The ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the farmers’ unions evoked ‘good’ response in the city with most of the market associations keeping the businesses closed on Friday. Roads and bazaars, which usually remain crowded during the day, wore a deserted look with farmers blocking highways and main chowks at different points, including Ludhiana Ferozepur highway, Jalandhar-Panipat Highway (NH-44), Bharat Nagar chowk, Samrala chowk, Dugri chowk, and Jalandhar bypass among others. Markets in Model Town, Dugri, Ghumar Mandi, BRS Nagar, and Pink Plaza among others stayed closed till 6pm with shopkeepers extending support to the farmers’ agitation. Various malls in the city also followed suit. President of Model Town Market association, Amarjit Singh, said, “We stand with the farmers in their fight against the three farm laws. They are struggling for their survival and our market association has decided to keep the shops shut till 6pm.”Shopkeepers said they were also facing a tough time due to the restrictions imposed by the government amid continuous spike being witnessed in Covid-19 cases, but the “economy of the state will be completely destroyed by these farm laws”.Similarly, President of Pink Plaza market association, Rubal, said, “We decided to keep the shops shut to show solidarity with the farmers, whom we are supporting in their fight against the injustice being meted out by the Union government.” Commuters, however, faced a harrowing time due to the roadblocks and even police had created diversions at different junctions. The commuters rued that the public should not be harassed by the protesters by blocking all the major roads of the city. Sukhpreet Singh, one of the residents of Dugri area, who was stuck at the canal bridge (southern bypass) on Ferozepur Road, said, “I have to reach civil hospital to meet my relatives, but the protesters have blocked the Ferozepur Road due to which cops are not allowing entry. The police asked me to take the diversion, but it will take much more time than usual to reach the hospital. The farmers should not harass the public during their protests.” Shopkeepers ‘forced’ to down shuttersIncidents were reported from few markets of the city, including Chaura Bazar, Mata Rani Chowk, Books market, and Mall Road, where the protesting farmers allegedly forced shopkeepers to close their shops to strengthen the agitation. The shopkeepers rued that the farmers had announced that they will not force them to shut the shops down. Sonu Nilibar from Ludhiana Cloth Merchants’ Association said, “We are supporting the farmers in their fight against the farm laws, but they should not harass shopkeepers by forcing them to shut down the shops. I had kept my shop closed to express support to farmers, but few other shop owners on Mall Road were forced to closed.”  ‘Industry suffers losses worth ₹500 crore’The Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) stated that the industry suffered losses to the tune of ₹500 crore due to the bandh on Friday. The members of the association had urged the Union government to resolve the matter at the earliest in the anticipation of huge losses. FICO president Gurmet Kular said, “Our economy depends on the farming sector and our economy will survive only by supporting the farmers and not by destroying the farming sector. The government should take note of the problem and resolve the issue at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/markets-shut-trade-suspended-bharat-bandh-evokes-good-response-in-ludhiana-101616789552326.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran man filed missing complaint after killing wife, arrested||A 31-year-old man was arrested on Friday for allegedly murdering his wife with the help of his mother at Sakkianwali village in Tarn Taran district’s Goindwal sub-division on March 22 night. The main accused, Jaswinder Singh, alias Babba, approached the police on Tuesday to file a missing complaint, saying she may have eloped with someone she had an extra-marital affair with, an official said. Jaswinder along with his mother Narinder Kaur, who was also taken into custody, strangulated Manpreet Kaur (29) to death before setting her body on fire and later threw the half-burnt remains in the Beas river near the village, the police said. A search was launched to recover the victim’s body. The two accused confessed to have committed the crime, the official said. Deputy superintendent of police (Goindwal) Sucha Singh said, “The victim’s parental family from Sathiala village in Amritsar said Jaswinder used suspect his wife of having an extra-marital affair. We also came to know that he and his mother often used to fight with Manpreet. They expressed doubt that his sister might have been kidnapped or killed by her husband. Vaironwal station house officer (SHO) Balwinder Singh said, “We are searching the body in the river with the help of the divers. We got 7-day police remand of the two accused from a local court.” A case under sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Vaironwal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-man-filed-missing-complaint-after-killing-wife-arrested-101616789372127.html
27-03-2021||Other||Punjab: Mohali clocks record 409 Covid cases in 24 hours||The daily Covid-19 cases in Mohali breached the 400 mark for the first time since the pandemic struck in March last year, with 409 people testing positive for the virus on Friday. This also pushed the active cases to a record 3,066 and the total to 25,215.Friday also saw one person losing the battle to the virus, taking the death toll to 419. Mohali city continued to report the bulk of the cases, with 298 infections cropping up here, followed by 56 in Dhakoli, 22 in Dera Bassi, 16 in Kharar, three in Kurali, and two each in Gharuan and Lalru. Meanwhile, with 171 patients being discharged, the number of those recovered climbed to 21,730. 480% jump in cases this monthWithin 26 days of March, the district has recorded a 480% spike in Covid-19 cases, with 4,873 people testing positive against 840 in February. The deaths have also increased from 20 to 34 – a 70% jump. Since March 20, the district has reported over 300 cases on five days.‘Wear masks, maintain distance’Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the entire state was witnessing this surge in cases. “The UK variant of Covid-19 has spread on a large scale, which is a serious concern for us. The urban areas are more affected, while the fatality rate is higher in rural areas. People must maintain social distancing and wear masks to bend the curve,” he said. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the UK variant had a high transmission rate and was spreading quite fast among the younger population, putting the elderly and other vulnerable groups at risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabmohali-clocks-record-409-covid-cases-in-24-hours-101616789252108.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC transfers 181 judicial officers||ChandigarhThe Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday shuffled 181 judicial officers in Punjab and Haryana, including Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court special judge, Panchkula, Jagdeep Singh, who had convicted Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim in rape cases in 2017.An official spokesman of the high court said that these transfers are part of annual general transfers effected by high court every year. Those transferred have been asked to join their places of postings by April 4.Those transferred include six District and Sessions Judges (DSJ) and 76 Additional District and Sessions Judges from Haryana and 99 in Punjab including eight District and Sessions Judges, 71 Additional District and Sessions Judges, and 20 Civil Judges who have been promoted to Additional District and Sessions Judges.Among the District and Sessions Judges transferred in Haryana are Deepak Gupta from Faridabad to Panchkula, Subhash Mehla from Panchkula to Sonepat, Surya Partap Singh (registrar judicial, high court) from Chandigarh to Gurugram as DSJ, Puneesh Jindia from Rohtak to Chandigarh as member secretary legal services authority, Aradhana Sawhney (Legal Remembrancer, Haryana) from Chandigarh to Jind and Yashvir Singh Rathore from Sonepat to Faridabad.As of transfers of DSJs in Punjab, Gurbir Singh has been shifted from Ludhiana to Chandigarh, Kishore Kumar from Kapurthala to Ferozepur, Mandeep Pannu from Mansa to Moga, Munish Singhal from Moga to Ludhiana, Amrinder Singh Grewal from SBS Nagar to Kapurthala, Harpreet Kaur from Tarn Taran to Amritsar, Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa from Pathankot to SBS Nagar. On promotions some officers have been appointed as DSJs. These include Sunita Kumari in Amritsar, Mohd Gulzar in Pathankot, Priya Sood in Tarn Taran and Navjot Kaur in Mansa. Jagdeep Singh, who has been given Z+ security cover after Ram Rahim conviction has been sent as additional district and sessions judge, Jagadhri. Sushil Kumar Garg special CBI judge in Chandigarh has been posted in his place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-transfers-181-judicial-officers-101616789072176.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Two held in multi-crore bogus GST billing scam in Ludhiana||The anti-evasion wing of the GST commissionerate, Ludhiana, claimed to have busted a fake invoice racket run by a Khanna resident and his accomplice through at least 19 firms. The accused, Baljinder Singh, alias Bunty, the kingpin, and Vishal Singh were arrested. An official said the fraudulently availed input tax credit (ITC) through the 19 shell firms amounted to ₹40 crore against a total bogus billing of ₹484 crore. “A search was conducted on Baljinder’s residence at Khanna. At the time of the raid, he climbed on the rooftop of his house and started throwing away bundles of cheques into nearby fields. The incident was recorded in the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed on his premises,” the official claimed.  ₹44.6 lakh in cash along with incriminating documents and digital devices were seized from the spot, he added. Vishal Singh, the proprietor in Giriraj Trading, also availed fake ITC of ₹2.5 crore and issued bogus invoices to the tune of ₹21.89 crore. A case under various Sections of the Punjab State Goods and Services Act was registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-held-in-multi-crore-bogus-gst-billing-scam-in-ludhiana-101616788592095.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||SAD demands judicial probe into ‘political shelter’ to Ansari||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday demanded a judicial inquiry into what it termed “a criminal conspiracy as part of which political shelter was given by the Punjab government to Uttar Pradesh gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari by keeping him as a state guest” in the Rupnagar jail for two years. Welcoming the Supreme Court judgment which has directed that Ansari be transferred to UP to answer for his crimes there, SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said the verdict had brought down Punjab’s image. “An impression has gone out that the Congress government in Punjab can stoop to any level to extend protection to a criminal. It must answer as to what was its motive to harbour a hardened criminal in its jail and why it went to the extent of spending a large amounts of money for hiring top lawyers to oppose Ansari’s transfer,” said the SAD leader. It’s a slap on Capt govt: BJP BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Friday said the SC order to shift Ansari is a “slap” on the face of the Amarinder Singh government. In a statement, Chugh said it is a moral victory for the law enforcement agencies in the face of blatant patronage granted by the Amarinder government to a criminal who is accused in the murder case. Chugh alleged it was because of AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi that Amarinder was not allowing Ansari to be shifted to UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-demands-judicial-probe-into-political-shelter-to-ansari-101616788533509.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi university row: No end to deadlock as meet between V-C and officials remain inconclusive||The meeting between Punjabi University vice-chancellor and top officials, who tendered resignation on Thursday, to break the deadlock remained inconclusive. Officials accompanied with representatives of Punjabi University Teachers Union (PUTA) held a meeting with vice-chancellor Ravneet Kaur for two hours on Thursday late evening after 28 officials, including second-in-command dean academic affairs and registrar resigned from their respective posts, citing alleged discrepancies in working of varsity V-C. The working of the university come to standstill as none of the officials attended their office on Friday. However, PUTA has written to Punjab governor and chancellor of the varsity VP Singh Badnore for his immediate intervention to resolve the issue. They also attached the list of officials who resigned from their administrative posts. “There is an atmosphere full of distress on the campus due to autocratic working of the vice-chancellor. The teachers, officials and employees of the university feel suffocated in such a kind of environment,” said PUTA president Nishan Singh Deol in a letter to the chancellor.“The teachers, officers and employees felt insulted in various meetings related to academic and administrative issues,” he stated.The letter further stated that the promotions and extensions of teachers, officials and employees have been delayed unnecessarily by imposing certain conditions even after the completion of the entire process as per the guidelines. “The chancellor’s intervention is not only necessary but also imperative for the future of the university,” Deol said.Meanwhile, V-C Ravneet Kaur, a senior IAS officer, said the issues were discussed in detail during meeting with officials resigned and PUTA representatives. “The meeting was held in a very cordial atmosphere. The issues will be resolved the positively at the earliest,” she said, adding that the next meeting will be held soon.“They have been apprised that the promotion cases will be discussed and approved in a systematic manner,” the V-C said. It may be mentioned that after former V-C Prof BS Ghuman resigned in November, the Punjab government had appointed a senior bureaucrat Ravneet Kaur as the officiating vice-chancellor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-university-row-no-end-to-deadlock-as-meet-between-v-c-and-officials-remain-inconclusive-101616788532234.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Train cancelled, locals serve langar to passengers at Barnala’s Tapa rly station||Following the Bharat Bandh call, the railways cancelled an intercity train when it reached the Tapa railway station, 23km from the district headquarters, on Friday. The decision was taken as the farmers had blocked the tracks in Barnala. The train en route to Delhi from Fazilka was ferrying around 400 passengers. However, locals served langar for passengers and arranged taxis for those wanting to go via road.Deepak Pandey (30), a passenger, said that he had to visit his home state Bihar for Holi. “I am working in the telecom sector in Muktsar and had boarded the train for Delhi. Neither I was aware about the Bharat Bandh nor did the railways inform me,” said Pandey.Sarna Rani, an elderly woman, said that she was going to Madhya Pradesh and caught the train from Muktsar to Kurukshetra but the train was stopped midway. “The government is responsible for this harassment. If the government could have accepted demands of farmers, we would have not faced this situation,” she added.Vipin Kumar, a social worker, said that they arranged langar of Tea, bread, roti for the passengers. “We also arranged taxis for passengers who wanted to go by road,” he said. Tapa station master Gurman Singh said that the train was cancelled due to Bharat Bandh. The ticket refund will be transferred in passengers’ accounts.Meanwhile, there was a complete shutdown in Sangrur and Barnala districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/train-cancelled-locals-serve-langar-to-passengers-at-barnala-s-tapa-rly-station-101616788292156.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Green energy option for power consumers in Maharashtra||Power consumers in the state can now opt for 100% renewable energy by paying an additional 66 paise per unit for green power tariff, an order issued by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) states.A senior power official said that the order is applicable for all utilities supplying power and all consumers in the state. This includes the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), Tata Power, Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited and the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking.“Consumers now have a choice to opt for complete green energy. The additional cost borne by the specific set of consumers will not be borne by others too,” the official said, on condition of anonymity. The state aims to create awareness among consumers on the use of renewable sources of energy and also promote it.For meeting the power requirement of such consumers, the utility will have to enter into a separate contract with power generation firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/green-energy-option-for-power-consumers-in-maharashtra-101616788172400.html
27-03-2021||Other||Bombay HC upholds life term for woman who got her ailing brother killed||The Bombay high court (HC), while expressing shock at the way in which a woman masterminded the elimination of her brother with the help of three other persons at Pune in 2013, rejected her appeal against the September 2014 conviction and sentence of rigorous imprisonment for life. After hearing the appeal, the court held that as the woman had been hatching a plan for three years to kill her brother, and had been in touch with one of the three co-convicts who carried out her plan by throttling the victim to death, she did not deserve any relief against the conviction and sentence. A division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice NJ Jamadar was hearing the appeals of the four persons against the 2014 conviction by additional sessions judge in Pune for their role in the murder of a software engineer at Bawdhan. The court was informed that the victim suffered from migraine and used to have regular bouts of vomiting and giddiness, and hence, was under treatment of Dr Hemant Manjrekar. The court was informed that on January 25, 2013, the software engineer, Paramjit Singh, was brought to Sahyadri Hospital, Kothrud, by his sister Jagjit, who was accompanied by three young men. The hospital informed the police that though Paramjit was brought in an unconscious state, he died before admission. An accidental death case was filed by the police. However, during the inquest panchnama, the police noticed abrasion marks on the body of the deceased, and hence, a post-mortem report was called for. The report indicated that Paramjit had died due to throttling. Thereafter, on February 20, 2013, a case of murder was registered against Jagjit. During the trial, though Jagjit had deposed as a defence witness and stated that on the day of the murder, she found her brother in an unconscious state on his bed. She called for an ambulance, and with the help of the building watchman and three other men rushed him to the hospital. The prosecution had examined 23 witnesses, including the doctor who was treating Paramjit, and the other doctors who had seen him on the day of his death. The doctors testified that Paramjit could not have throttled himself to death and it was done by someone else. The prosecution then checked the call records of Jagjit and found that she had been in regular touch with Golu Mustak Khan and Lalla Basheer Khan, accused number 2 and 3, who are Gwalior residents. They in Pune on the day Paramjit died. Based on the deposition by the accused, the trial court had arrived at the conclusion that Jagjit had planned to eliminate her brother with the help of the Khans and another person, and hence they were guilty of murder. On September 9, 2014, the court awarded them rigorous imprisonment for life. The court, however, did not dwell on the aspect of their motive. After hearing the submissions, the HC bench held, “The horrendous death of a brother at the hands of a sister is a stigma on the pure relationship between a brother and sister. It is believed that one does not choose a family and a bond between brother and sister is a gift of God. The present case destabilises this belief and shocks the conscience of the court.” The court further noted, “The conduct of accused no 1 [sister] during the prelude to the death of her brother, her association with accused 2 to 4 in the intervening night of 24th and 25th coupled with the false explanation offered by her before the court, leads to the logical inference that the accused no 1 had drawn a master plan to eliminate her brother for the best reasons known to her alone, and she was aided and assisted by accused no 2 and no 3 in executing the plan.” In light of the above observations, the court said that it was not inclined to interfere in the trial court judgment. However, as the prosecution had failed to establish the involvement of the fourth accused in the conspiracy, it extended him the benefit of doubt and acquitted him of all charges and punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-upholds-life-term-for-woman-who-got-her-ailing-brother-killed-101616788171949.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||916-ha of mangroves now a reserved forest||Mumbai: A total of 916 hectares (ha) of mangroves in Borivli taluka of Mumbai (suburban) district were declared a reserve forest under Section 20 the Indian Forest Act (IFA), via gazette notification on March 23.The mangroves are spread across Charkop, Borivli, Manori, Gorai, Goregaon Pahadi, Valnai, Malvani, Marve, Akse, Erangal and Darvali villages. Declaring areas as reserved forest grants them legal sanctity, and aims to conserve biodiversity by curtailing activities like harvesting of natural resources. This development comes three weeks after 409 ha of mangrove forests in Alibag taluka in Raigad district were similarly declared on March 5.This development is part of the state government’s broader campaign to bring all mangroves under the ambit of the IFA, which itself follows a directive of the Bombay high court that all mangrove areas on state land are to be handed over to the forest department for conservation.A little over 3,497 ha of mangroves in Kurla, Borivli and Andheri talukas have been proposed for notification under Section 20 of the IFA, which would indicate that all claims over the earmarked areas have been settled by an appointed forest settlement officer.Of the 3,497 ha, over 2,174 ha were notified in January and February, while 364.5 ha were removed due to claims over the land. Of the remaining 1,773 ha, 916 more hectares (across 11 villages in Borivli taluka) were declared as reserve forest this week. Notification of approximately 857 ha of mangroves remains in abeyance. This includes 21 ha of mangroves in Malvan, which have been kept in abeyance due to claims by the local fishing community, who use the area to store fishing equipment and nets. Officials confirmed that an enquiry in the matter is underway. Another 221 odd hectares are in abeyance for similar reasons across Mumbai suburbs, with the forest settlement inquiry yet to begin.In other cases, notification under Section 20 of the IFA has also been delayed as the ownership of the mangroves lies with organisations like the Navy, the salt department and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), officials claimed. The forest department has sought comments from the APCCF (mangrove cell) as well as the chief conservator of forests (CCF), Thane sub-division, in the matter.“It should be noted that not all remaining 857 hectares have been kept in abeyance. The work is under process to bring as much of it as possible under Section 20 of the IFA. Settlement inquiries, where required, will begin soon,” said Virendra Tiwari, APCCF, mangrove cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/916ha-of-mangroves-now-a-reserved-forest-101616788112519.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Private hospitals reluctant to join vaccination drive in state||Though the Centre has allowed all private hospitals to conduct round the clock vaccination sessions, lukewarm participation of private hospitals in Punjab is hampering the state’s vaccination drive amid the second wave of pandemic.As per state health department, 1,291 private hospitals, both empanelled and non-empanelled with Ayushman Bharat Yojana, providing access to healthcare to the people, have been registered in the state to give Covid-19 vaccine. However, only 300 (24%) of the total hospitals are organising regular vaccination sessions while the remaining are showing reluctance in joining the state government in containing the Covid spread.The central government had capped the cost of inoculation in private hospitals at ₹250 a dose while vaccination for people visiting government facilities is free of cost.Besides private facilities, 524 primary health centres, 152 community health centres, 42 sub-divisional hospitals and 22 district hospitals are also administering vaccines to the people across the state.Experts believe that due to lack of private hospitals’ participation, the state’s vaccination drive may be slowed further when a huge rush of population between 45 to 60 age groups will look out for vaccination sites from April 1.“Covid vaccination centres should have effective crowd management protocols in place, along with adequate space and facilities for seating, water, proper signage, etc. Hospitals need also to ensure adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour among the beneficiaries to start the vaccination process on their premises. However, not all private hospitals in Punjab have sufficient space and facilities to conduct the vaccination. Many hospitals have inadequate staff and manpower to handle the crowd of beneficiaries,” said state nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.He added: “In Punjab, 588 private hospitals are empanelled with the central government’s Ayushman Bharat scheme and such hospitals have enough space to vaccinate people and to keep them under observation for 30 minutes. Even though these hospitals can easily start the vaccination process, not many are coming forward to buy the vaccine from the state health department. Since the state will start administering jabs to people above the age of 45 from April 1, we are expecting more private hospitals to join the vaccination drive as they will get more benefit.”“The district administrations have been asked to act strictly against such hospitals as private hospitals need to join the government battle against Covid,” he said, adding that government facilities are receiving better response from people than the private hospitals.“My hospital has five rooms and we cannot spare three rooms for the vaccination process. A hospital must have a separate room for registering beneficiaries and for their identification, another room for inoculation and a third room for keeping people under observation. Also, many hospitals do not have enough cold storage facilities for keeping vaccine”, said one Amritsar-based private hospital owner. Hussan Lal, principal secretary health, Punjab, said: “Of the ₹250 capped price per vaccine dose, the hospital gets a benefit of ₹100 while they pay ₹150 to the government for purchasing the vaccine. However, due to commercial considerations, many private hospitals are not willing to start the vaccination process at their centres.”Acting on state government’s directions, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) of Amritsar, Himanshu Aggarwal said, “In Amritsar, 66 private hospitals are operating as vaccination centres. We are conducting regular meetings with the hospital owners and are convincing them to join the government’s efforts to control the second wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/private-hospitals-reluctant-to-join-vaccination-drive-in-state-101616788112055.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC issues notice to Punjab govt, PPSC on plea challenging PCS-2020 prelim exam result||The high court has asked the Punjab government and the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) to respond by March 31 on a petition alleging violation of reservation law for women in the Punjab Civil Service (PCS) exam 2020. A bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court also questioned as to why the exam process should not be stayed. The court acted on the plea of one Haridya Preet Kaur and one more woman candidate, who had submitted that in accordance with the Punjab Civil Services (Reservation of Posts for Women) Act, 2020, 33% quota for women had to be provided across the board. But the same was not followed in the Balmiki/Mazbhi Sikh category, they claimed. The applications were accepted under the category but when the result was declared, it came to light that no reservation was given to women under the same, the court was told. In June 2020, an advertisement was put out by PPSC for 77 posts and in December it was modified to 75 posts with provisions of the reservation for women as per the 2020 law. The prelims result was declared on March 12 but reservation was not given, says the plea. The high court has sought response by March 31 as it was told that mains exam is to take place anytime between April 1 and April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-issues-notice-to-punjab-govt-ppsc-on-plea-challenging-pcs-2020-prelim-exam-result-101616787994842.html
27-03-2021||Other||Maharashtra: Senior forest officer held for abetting suicide of his colleague||Amravati police on Friday arrested the deputy conservator of police (DyCF) Vinod Shivkumar for abetting the suicide of a Melghat Tiger Reserve forest range officer.The 32-year-old deceased was posted at Harisal under the Gugamal division of Melghat Tiger Reserve. She allegedly shot herself with the service revolver at her government residence on Thursday.The Amravati police arrested Shivkumar from Nagpur railway station from where he was trying to board a train to Bengaluru. He has been booked under section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code).Initial investigations revealed that the deceased was disturbed by the harassment meted out by her seniors including Shivakumar. Before taking the extreme step, she left a suicide note, in which, she made serious allegations against Shivkumar.According to the sources, the RFO was alone in her quarters when she ended her life. Her mother had left for Satara and her husband Rajesh was in Chikhaldara, where he works on deputation with the treasury department.While levelling allegations against Shivkumar, she mentioned that he used to abuse her in front of juniors, villagers and labourers without any valid reason. Moreover, the DyCF often used to call her to meet late at night and made indecent proposals. She had even complained against the DyCF to the Melghat Tiger Reserve field director M Srinivas Reddy and sought his intervention.After her mother left, she called her husband and told him about her decision to end her life. But before her husband could act, she died by suicide.She was rushed to Harisal Primary Health Centre, from where she was shifted to Dharni but was declared dead on arrival.Amravati district superintendent of police Hari Balaji said that the deceased has blamed the DyCF for taking the extreme step.Her colleagues said that the 32-year-old RFO was known as ‘Melghat’s Singham’, and given her daredevilry, no one believed she could take such an extreme step. She performed her duties fearlessly especially when it came to nabbing wildlife criminals and poachers.Several villagers and forest employees, particularly activists of Maharashtra Forest Rangers Association, on Friday staged a day-long dharna before the office of Melghat Tiger Reserve and demanded stern action against DyCF.Meanwhile, the Dy CF, Shivkumar was suspended from the post while the Field Director of the Melghat Tiger Project was shunted out from the post for not initiating any action on the victim’s complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-senior-forest-officer-held-for-abetting-suicide-of-his-colleague-101616787993661.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Four towns in Moga district to get sewerage, STPs to prevent groundwater contamination||The Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board will lay sewerage and install sewage treatment plants (STPs) in Nihal Singh Wala, Bhadni Kalan, Kot Isse Khan and Fatehgarh Panjtoor towns of the Moga district to prevent groundwater contamination due to discharge of untreated waste into water bodies. The estimated project cost is ₹120 crore, officials said. Currently, untreated waste water and sewage from these towns is being discharged into 12 ponds and a drain for lack of sewerage.The board has prepared detailed projects reports (DPRs) of STPs and informed the state-level monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) about this. A meeting of the NGT committee and board officials also took place recently.The board told the panel that sewerage and STPs were long-term measures to control pollution in these towns as part of plans to improve wastewater management mechanism in the Malwa region.The project cost for Nihal Singh Wala, Badni Kalan, Kot Ise Khan and Fatehgarh Panjtoor is ₹49, 13 crore, ₹20.50 crore, ₹43.48 crore and ₹8 crore, respectively, as per the DPRs.The NGT in its May 21, 2020, order had directed all civic bodies in the Malwa belt, viz. Moga, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Faridkot and Muktsar to ensure setting up of STPs and work on connecting all the drains and other sources of sewage to STPs. The order was issued after the tribunal found groundwater in Fazilka district contaminated due to accumulation of untreated water and sewage water in a pond.There are 6 ponds in Fatehgarh Panjtoor, 1 in Kot Ise Khan, 3 in Badni Kalan and 2 in Nihal Singh Wala, municipal officials said.Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board executive engineer Parul Goyal, said, “The project DPRs have been sent to the state government. We will start the work on setting up STPs once the funds are released.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-towns-in-moga-district-to-get-sewerage-stps-to-prevent-groundwater-contamination-101616787992590.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Hiran murder probe: NIA interrogates Vaze, Shinde and Gor||Delhi/Mumbai: National Investigation Agency (NIA) officials on Thursday night recreated the purported crime scene of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran’s murder at Reti Bunder creek in Thane district with the help of forensic experts, officials said. Hiran, whose body washed up ashore the creek on March 5, is linked to the Scorpio that was allegedly used by arrested Mumbai Police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze to plant explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25. The Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) on March 21 arrested two persons in connection with the murder, Vinayak Shinde (a convicted constable) and Naresh Gor (a bookie), named Vaze as the prime suspect in the case. The NIA took custody of the duo on March 24 after they were directed by the Union home ministry to take over the murder probe as it was it was linked to the explosives case. NIA officials cited above said they would interrogate Vaze together with Shinde and Gor on Friday to unearth the conspiracy. The federal agency was investigating the explosives case since March 9 and arrested Vaze on March 13. A special NIA court on Thursday extended Vaze’s custody to April 3. The agency also took custody of all documents pertaining to the murder probe on Thursday. Claiming that they had cracked the case, ATS chief Jaijeet Singh held a press conference earlier this week and said that Shinde had asked Hiran to meet him on the evening of March 4 by pretending to be a police officer named Tawde. The phone and SIM card that Shinde used to make this call were reportedly destroyed later. “It has come to light in the investigation that some of the 14 SIM cards obtained through accused Naresh Gor were activated and given to Shinde, who in turn had transferred the activated SIM cards to others involved in the crime and the SIM cards were used in commission of the said crime. Preliminary investigation has revealed that some of the SIM cards used in commission of the crime and some of the mobile handsets in which those SIM cards were used, were destroyed by the accused,” Singh said on Tuesday. A senior police officer clarified that of the 14 SIM cards procured from a person in Gujarat, five were allegedly used by Vaze in the commission of the crime. Two of these five SIM cards were allegedly destroyed, the officer said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The officer added that four phones were also used by Vaze, Shinde and Gor, of which one was destroyed and three were recovered during searches. The person who destroyed the phone has been identified and their statement recorded, the officer said, but did not give any further details of the person’s identity. Hiran’s wife told the ATS in her statement that her husband left the house on March 4, at about 8.30 pm after receiving a call from an officer named Tawde, purportedly a crime branch officer from Kandivli, who spoke to him for 11 minutes. Hiran did not return home after that, and at 11.30 pm, when his wife tried his phone, she found it switched off. Hiran’s body was found the following morning without any of his personal belongings, including his phone, wallet, and jewellery. Meanwhile, the NIA is trying to trace two more high-end cars, including an Outlander, purportedly used by Vaze. It is as yet unclear how the vehicles are connected to the crimes. The NIA has seized five vehicles, including a black Mercedes, and a Toyota Prado used by Vaze. It has also seized an Innova, which was used by the Mumbai Crime Branch, which tailed the green-coloured Scorpio that was found parked, with 20 loose sticks of gelatin, outside Ambani’s residence last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hiran-murder-probe-nia-interrogates-vaze-shinde-and-gor-101616787991407.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Daily Covid caseload hits all-time high in Punjab as 3,176 more test positive||Punjab on Friday broke all previous records of daily Covid-19 case count with 3,176 new infections detected in the past 24 hours. The state also witnessed 59 deaths, highest in a day this year. Punjab’s case fatality ratio (CFR) is 2.9% as compared to national average of 1.4%.The state had recorded the highest single-day spike of 2,896 cases on September 17 last year. The total case tally now stands at 2,26,059. According to a medical bulletin, Jalandhar reported a maximum of 494 cases, Mohali 409, Ludhiana 395, Amritsar 304, and Patiala 285 on Friday.The total active cases have also shot up to 22,652 with Jalandhar witnessing maximum 3,209 infections, followed by 3,064 in SAS Nagar and 2,568 in Ludhiana. The districts which saw deaths included Jalandhar (14), Hoshiarpur (14) and Ludhiana (5). A total of 1,816 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of those recovered to 1,96,831, the bulletin said. There are 25 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 304 are on oxygen support, it said. A total of 57,82,674 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/daily-covid-caseload-hits-all-time-high-in-punjab-as-3-176-more-test-positive-101616787934359.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Project to provide 24/7 water supply to Chandigarh will start from Feb 2022||Work on the pan-city 24/7 water supply project will start from February 2022.This is as per the project timeline finalised during the four-day visit of the representatives of the French firm Agence Française de Development (AFD) to the city.The Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) is get about ₹400 crore loan from AFD and around ₹100 crore grant from the European Union (EU) to execute this project.During their visit, which had started on March 23, the French team held multiple meetings with municipal corporation and CSCL officials to discuss credit and grant facility agreement. On the concluding day of the visit on Friday, the rollout plan for the ambitious project was finalised.As per the timeline agreed upon, the municipal corporation (MC) and the AFD will sign the project agreement in April. For this, an agenda will be brought for approval of the MC general house in April.Thereafter, the AFD and the central government will sign the final agreement in May, said KK Yadav, MC commissioner.The project tender documents will be released in September this year, and the technical assistant from the AFD will come by October.By December this year, AFD will release ₹43 crore and around ₹9 crore will be released by the EU as the first installment for the project, said Yadav.To speed up the project, the AFD has agreed to the MC’s request of starting some aspects of the project before the final agreement document is approved, which includes taking on board services of procurement experts and long-term technical consultants. “They have agreed to reimburse the amount and incorporate the provision for the same in the project agreement,” said Yadav.This will help the streamlining of the project’s technical aspects even as the process for the project agreement runs in parallel,” said a CSCL official.In the meetings spanned over four days, sessions with prospective bidders were also held to share with their capacities and requirements.The AFD under the government of France, in December, approved around ₹410-crore loan and the European Union (EU) sanctioned ₹96 crore grant for the Chandigarh MC for the first-of-its kind ambitious 24X7 water supply project and communicated the same to the Government of India. This is for the first time in the northern region of the country that any city has received this much money from a foreign agency for a project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/project-to-provide-24-7-water-supply-to-chandigarh-will-start-from-feb-2022-101616787932251.html
27-03-2021||Other||Man sent to Mumbai jail for not paying maintenance to wife and sons||A man was sent to Arthur Road jail for six months’ simple imprisonment after he failed to pay maintenance to his wife and two sons, despite court orders. In October 2019, the Bombay high court (HC) had found the man guilty of contempt of court and directed Pune Police to arrest him. However, as the police failed to comply, the wife had approached the court on March 12. The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht, while hearing the contempt petition filed by the wife, was informed by advocate SN Biradar that even though she had reminded the police of the court order in November 2019, they failed to comply. Biradar further informed the court that in May 2020, when the Supreme Court had upheld the HC’s arrest order, the wife had written to the police in January 2021, but as they had failed to arrest the husband, she had to approach HC again. In 2018, the wife had approached HC, seeking maintenance for herself, her two sons and rent for the house the three lived in. The husband, who is a fitness instructor, was directed to pay a monthly amount of ₹15,000 to the wife, ₹10,000 to each of the sons and ₹8,000 for rent. However, as the husband failed to abide by the order, the wife had filed a contempt petition. In 2019, the court was convinced that the man intentionally failed to pay the amount and passed the arrest order. On March 25, the man moved an application in HC through his counsel, seeking suspension of the sentence as he had handed over a demand draft of ₹5.45 lakh in his wife’s name to her counsel in the court. The man’s counsel submitted that he has already paid ₹1 lakh in addition to this amount to the applicant. However, his wife’s counsel argued that the total arrears till March 2021 was ₹12.9 lakh and not ₹6.45 lakh. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “The judgment delivered by this court on 11/10/2019 thereby directing respondent no 1 [husband] be sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment in civil prison for six months and be taken into custody and be sent to Arthur Road Prison has attained finality.” In light of this, the court directed Dighi police to arrest the husband within a week. On Monday, the police submitted a compliance report to the court stating that they had arrested the husband on March 16 and sent him to jail. The man has filed an interim application seeking the suspension of the sentence awarded to him, which the court will hear on March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-sent-to-mumbai-jail-for-not-paying-maintenance-to-wife-and-sons-101616787876073.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: Faridkot court issues fresh summons against ex-DGP Saini||After former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini failed to appear before the court in connection with 2015 Kotkapura firing case, Faridkot judicial magistrate Ist class (JMIC) Ekta Uppal on Friday issued fresh summons against him for April 16.The court also disposed of Saini’s application seeking exemption from personal appearance, terming it ‘not maintainable’. On October 10, 2020, Saini was named as accused in Kotkapura police firing case. On January 18, the special investigation team (SIT), probing the 2015 police firing incidents, filed a supplementary chargesheet against Saini naming him as a conspirator in Kotkapura firing case.Saini’s counsel filed an application seeking the exemption from personal appearance of the accused on Friday in the court on medical grounds. The defence also attached Punjab and Haryana high court orders putting stay on arrest of Saini. However, the public prosecutor opposed the application.“The Punjab and Haryana high court stayed the arrest of the accused till March 22 in the present FIR. Then vide the latest order of the high court, the earlier order has been modified, according to which only the arrest of the accused has been stayed. However, the state prosecution has been made at liberty to proceed with the matter in accordance with the law,” said JMIC Uppal. The prosecution said that Saini’s security officer refused to allow the serving official to meet him. “The summon was pasted and affixed outside the house of the accused being served by affixation,” they added.“The prosecution’s basic contention is that the accused is intentionally evading the service of summons and is fully aware about the proceedings, and the counsel is also appearing on his behalf so he can not present want of knowledge. On the other hand, the defence has not presented want of knowledge of the proceedings by the accused but their contention is that due to medical reasons the accused could not put in appearance and the prosecution did not make the personal service of the summons at New Delhi, where accused has been for medical reasons. A copy of medical record is there, as per which advisory of five days rest with prescription,” she said.“But as per the criminal law procedure, once the accused did not appear in the court in person, he cannot be appear through his counsel or anyone else unlike in the civil suit. So, as the accused has not appeared in person to date, question of his exemption from personal appearance for today does not arise. Hence, the application of the defence stands disposed of being not maintainable,” said Uppal.“Now proceeding further, from the application itself it is inferred that accused is well aware about the proceedings, so question of proper service by summons does not sustain at this stage but nevertheless the defence contention regarding medical reasons of the accused is also on the record. Hence, in these circumstances, once again fresh summons be issued to the accused,” she added.The prosecution requested for service of summons through some higher official, allowing the request JMIC said “the summons to the accused be issued for April 16 and the investigating agency may get it effected as per the procedure, for effecting the service.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-faridkot-court-issues-fresh-summons-against-ex-dgp-saini-101616787871934.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||PET exam: Students complain of tech glitches, Mumbai univ says process smooth||htmetro@hindustantimes.comStudents appearing for the University of Mumbai’s (MU) annual Preliminary Eligibility Test (PET) on Friday complained of technical glitches.“I logged in as per instructions of the university, but during the examination, the video fluctuated and each answer took over 30-40 seconds to change, even after hitting the submit button,” said one of the candidates who appeared for the exam on Friday. The PET exams are being conducted between March 25 and 27.While some students raised concern about facing internet trouble, a spokesperson for the university clarified that there were no network or technical problems reported by the service provider or the university on Friday. “This might be a result of poor internet connectivity at the candidate’s end,” said the spokesperson.As per figures shared by the varsity, 2,089 candidates out of 3,193 registered, assisted for the exam in the morning session for the humanities faculty for 29 subjects. Similarly, 1,391 candidates out of 1,995 registered, appeared for the exam in the afternoon session for commerce and management faculty for eight subjects. “We didn’t receive any complaints on Friday as both sessions were conducted very smoothly,” added the spokesperson.Students, however, complained that the university helpline didn’t function properly on Friday. “After trying for several minutes, I finally got through, but the official didn’t help much. I was asked to log off and log in again but in the meantime, I lost important time and didn’t manage to appear for the full two-hour exam,” said another candidate.These candidates are now planning to write to the university about their experience, hoping for help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pet-exam-students-complain-of-tech-glitches-mumbai-univ-says-process-smooth-101616787812059.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Class 10 and 12 students protest offline exams||With the state education department being firm on conducting exams for SSC (Class 10) and HSC (Class 12) offline this year, a large number of students have been protesting the move across the state.While students from Mumbai, Nashik and Nagpur protested the decision early this week, those from Pune assembled outside the state board office on Friday morning to express their disappointment with the move. “The government is playing with our lives by conducting offline exams. With the growing cases of Covid-19, it is a big risk for students to write their exams in the physical format. We hope that the decision is reconsidered, and online exams are allowed at least wherever possible,” said one of the protesting students from HSC.Anubha Sahai, president of Indiawide Parents Association, which has been writing to the department urging the cancellation of offline exams said, “Students are demanding 50% weightage to internal assessments at the school level and 50% to exams. Similarly, they hope for an increase in the number of objective questions and a syllabus reduction of 50%,” said Sahai.An official from the education department said that offline exams will not be cancelled. “Considering the issues of access to online exams, it is only logical to conduct exams offline. Students should not worry as all precautions concerning Covid protocols will be followed strictly,” said the official.While the HSC exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, SSC exams will be conducted between April 29 and May 20. Nearly 33 lakh students appear for the exams every year. Students will get their schools and junior colleges as exam centres as per an announcement made by the board last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-class-10-and-12-students-protest-offline-exams-101616787692066.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 5,515 cases, highest since March 2020||With 5,515 new cases of Covid-19 cases on Friday, Mumbai reported a daily caseload of over 5,000 for the third consecutive day. This is the highest number of cases recorded in the city since the pandemic began in March 2020. There are now 36,404 active cases of Covid-19 in the city and the recovery rate of 87%. Mumbai also reported 10 deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 11,633. The total number of cases in the city is 3,85,661, with a case fatality rate of 3%. Friday’s caseload follows 47,504 tests for Covid-19 conducted in a single day. The positivity rate — the number of positive cases reported as a percentage of total conducted tests — is 11.6% for Friday. Since March last year, Mumbai has carried out 3,888,873 tests. The overall Covid growth rate in the city has shot up to 0.98%, after falling to 0.20% last month. The doubling rate has dropped to 68 days, which had risen to 455 days last month. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also increased the number of beds in intensive care units (ICUs) and beds with ventilators in the city for critical and serious Covid cases. There are now 1,644 ICU beds in Mumbai compared to 1,539 such beds at the start of this week. Similarly, the number of ventilator beds has risen to 997 from 966. There are 8,209 beds with oxygen points and 12,326 beds for serious, moderate and complicated cases. For asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms, there are 2,416 beds. According to BMC, only seven out of 24 wards have fewer than 1,000 active Covid-19 cases. As of March 25, there are 33,961 active cases of Covid-19 in the city. K/West ward, corresponding to Andheri (West), has 3,107 active cases and the wards corresponding to Borivli, Kandivli and Andheri (East) have over 2,000 active cases each. There are 2,328 active cases in Andheri (East). B ward, which includes Mohammad Ali Road and Pydhonie, has the fewest active (117), followed by C ward (261), which covers Marine Lines. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said in a statement issued on Thursday, “Considering adequate health infrastructure and extremely low mortality rate, there is absolutely no cause for panic or worry in Mumbai, and BMC is in full control of the situation and confident of controlling the pandemic in due course of time.” According to the statement, between February 10 and March 24, Mumbai reported an average of 4.6 deaths per day, with a case fatality rate of 0.3% out of 56,220 cases reported during this time. BMC plans to increase the number of beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients to 21,000 over the next 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-5-515-cases-highest-since-march-2020-101616787211956.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||For rise, improved health infra too may not be enough: Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra recorded its highest one-day spike since the onset of the pandemic with 36,902 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday. The state government announced the decision to impose a night curfew from March 28 across Maharashtra. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has directed the state administration to impose strict measures to curb the spread of the infection.Night curfew is generally in force between 11pm and 6am and means a prohibition on more than five people gathering at public places. It is intended to prevent crowding, which increases the chances of Covid-19 being transmitted. The operation of essential services will not be affected by the night curfew. At present, there are no restrictions upon commuting to work or returning to Maharashtra from outstation travel. The state has not clarified how long night curfew will be in place. When it was imposed last year, it continued for 15 days, from December 22, 2020, to January 5 to prevent crowds during new year celebrations.Night curfew is already in force in Pune and certain Covid hotspots like Beed and Nanded are in total lockdown. The Kalyan-Dombivli civic corporation on Friday announced all shops except those selling essential items, offices, hotel and restaurants will remain closed every Saturday and Sunday. However, parcel facility will be allowed. Only 50% of shops will remain open in vegetable markets.As part of its efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19, the state is likely to shorten operational hours of shops and establishments. The CM has directed that malls should be shut down between 8pm and 7am. At present, malls in Mumbai are allowed to remain open till 9.30pm while food courts are operational till 11pm. New rules and guidelines from the state relief and rehabilitation department are expected today.Thackeray has asked district collectors to impose lockdown in districts where cases are rising rapidly, but with sufficient notice and appropriate reasons.The CM gave these instructions in a meeting on Friday, called to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. It was attended by divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners, superintendent of police, civil surgeons of all government hospitals, members of the state and district task forces, deans of all medical colleges along with health minister Rajesh Tope, medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and senior officials from concerned departments.“If the people don’t follow Covid-appropriate rules, we will have to impose strict restrictions in coming days… I did not wish to impose a lockdown but seeing the surge in cases there is a possibility that the ramped-up health infrastructure is also going to fall short. Considering this, all district administrations should focus on improving them further,” Thackeray told officials, according to a press release from the CM’s office.Thackeray also said that the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the state government must be strictly implemented and action should be taken against establishments found violating the SOP. He also instructed officials to conduct audits to assess fire safety of temporary hospitals treating Covid patients, following the fire in the makeshift Covid hospital in Bhandup in which 11 people were killed.On Friday, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 2,82,451, with Pune leading the state’s tally with 52,340 cases. Nagpur is second with 38,348 cases. There were 112 deaths in the state, bringing the total number of deaths to 53,907.Speaking in Pune, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said harsh decisions such as lockdown may be necessary if the Covid situation does not improve. “I want to tell the people of the state and Pune that the situation is turning serious and the government will be compelled to take some harsh decisions if cases continue to surge in the coming days,” he said. He urged citizens to follow Covid protocol and said that this time, there was less fear of the infection among the public despite the rising numbers. He also said the state hopes to ramp up its vaccination drive, provided it gets the necessary support from the Central government. “If the Centre supports the move to double the vaccination capacity in states that are hit worst with the pandemic, then maximum citizens from those particular states can be immunised and it will help to control the situation,” said Pawar.Pawar also said Maharashtra needs more vaccines and he has asked the chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and health secretary, Dr Pradeep Vyas, to submit an official demand for vaccines to the Centre. He said he had spoken to Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar on the issue and Javadekar had promised full cooperation.Dr Satyendranath Mehra, medical director at Masina Hospital in Byculla said the spike in Covid cases was due to a lack of precautions among the general public. “Citizens need to understand that taking vaccines increases immunity but does not mean they will not get infected. Antibodies tend to develop only after 14 days after getting vaccinated. People need to take precautions like wearing masks and observe social distancing,” said Dr Mehra.The state covered 5,265,462 beneficiaries as part of its vaccination drive after 2,14,123 people were inoculated on Friday. Of these, 1,98,386 received the first shot and 15,737 were administered second shots. From the general public, 124,632 are citizens who are above 60 years old and 34,197 are aged 45 years and above with comorbidities.Since the vaccination drive began on January 16, 9,51,219 healthcare workers (HCWs) have received the first shot and 4,57,621 have got the second shot. Among frontline workers (FLWs), 7,43,238 have got their first shot 2,25,489 have got their second shot. The total number of beneficiaries who are above 45 years with comorbidities and have got their first shot is 5,34,227 beneficiaries while 2,353,668 beneficiaries aged 60 years and above have got their first shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/for-rise-improved-health-infra-too-may-not-be-enough-maharashtra-cm-101616787152043.html
27-03-2021||Other||Some in Delhi attempting to form UPA-2: Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut||A day after stirring the pot with his remark that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar should be made the chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that process to form “UPA-2” is underway by some leaders in Delhi. He warned that Congress would be left with nothing if another UPA is formed. However, the Sena parliamentarian refused to name the people involved in floating “UPA-2”. Currently, the alliance is being headed by interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi. “For several years now, there has been drama over third and fourth fronts, but they failed. Therefore, it needs to be looked at how to strengthen UPA. Some people in Delhi are attempting to create UPA-2, and therefore, out of concern, I am saying that UPA needs strengthening... If UPA-2 is formed, then your [Congress’s] importance will become less and you won’t have anything,” Raut said in Delhi.Raut, without naming Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole, said that state-level leaders should not comment on national politics. Patole, irked over Raut’s remarks, had on Thursday questioned why Shiv Sena, which is not a constituent of UPA, is speaking about the Congress-led alliance.“If Sonia or Rahul Gandhi or any other leader speaks on this [Sena’s interference on the issue], then we will respond to them. But they haven’t spoken yet,” said Raut.The Sena parliamentarian said that Congress leaders in Maharashtra are not criticising him, but are criticising their party. He said that one does not need to be a part of UPA to speak about it. “One must understand that UPA is not a state-level issue, and therefore, leaders must not speak on it. This is an issue in the interest of the nation. If there has to be a strong Opposition coalition, then there has to be a discussion on what I have said. If leaders in Maharashtra don’t understand this, then they must study politics,” he said, adding, Raut reiterated that if the Opposition has to fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the national level, then UPA needs to be strengthened. “They [Maharashtra Congress leaders] are not criticising me, but their party. They should answer how they’ll defeat BJP unless there is a strong Opposition coalition? They should come to Delhi and answer this, not from Maharashtra,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/some-in-delhi-attempting-to-form-upa-2-shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-101616786431558.html
27-03-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt destroyed, tampered evidence in Hiran case: BJP MLA||Two days after the Mansukh Hiran death probe was transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from the anti-terrorism squad (ATS), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ashish Shelar on Friday alleged that state agencies including the police, government hospital doctors, etc have attempted to destroy and tamper the evidence in the case. Shelar said he has written to NIA, requesting it to carry out a thorough probe in the case.The former minister has alleged that the trader’s post-mortem report was fudged, and crucial information was not provided in the report. Shelar also alleged that a “big conspiracy” was hatched at the “behest of the state government, ministers and leaders.” “The state government’s ill-intention was to misdirect the probe by destroying evidence and fudging it… I’ve written to NIA demanding that doctors, lab experts, police, ministers and leaders be probed thoroughly,” he said, while holding a copy of the post-mortem report at a press conference.Pointing to some alleged lapses in the investigation and gathering of evidence, Shelar said that the fact that Hiran’s face was covered with handkerchiefs when his body was discovered from a Thane creek was not mentioned in the report.“The post-mortem report, which has to mention what was found on the person’s body, does not state the handkerchiefs. The handkerchiefs were not handed over [for post-mortem]. Who took them and why were they not mentioned in the report, and on whose orders? It is clear that it was an attempt by the police to destroy the evidence,” Shelar alleged, adding that the doctors who carried out Hiran’s post mortem on March 5 did not do complete the videography of the procedure, which he claims is a violation of the National Human Rights Commission guidelines.“The post-mortem report mentions the process took nearly two hours. It was expected of them to record the entire procedure, but only seven to eight [video] clips of a minute each were recorded. On whose order did the government hospital doctors manipulate the evidence? Who is that minister or leader?” he questioned.Alluding to a conspiracy that Hiran’s death had to be shown as suicide, Shelar said that doctors of forensic laboratories “tampered” with evidence by conducting the diatom test, which they are not authorised to carry out.Diatoms are single-celled algae, and this test is usually conducted to detect their presence in the body to indicate drowning. “A diatom test was done to suggest it was a suicide. Also, only authorised [forensic] laboratories can do the test. Kalina Forensic Lab said it was not authorised. The government sent the samples to Sir JJ Hospital, but they are not a designated lab to conduct the diatom test either. Then why did doctors there carry out a test? It is clear tampering of the sample, which was an important evidence,” Shelar said. Responding to the allegations, state housing minister from NCP, Jitendra Awhad said, “ATS has done its probe properly. Such allegations are baseless. It is wrong to just keep on alleging indiscriminately and in an unchecked manner. He added that are attempts to create a “doubt” and “point the needle of suspicion” on someone. A senior police officer attached to the state ATS said their investigation has revealed that the accused arrested in the Antilia security scare case and Hiran’s murder probe have destroyed some pieces of evidence such as CCTV footages of certain places. The officer, however, denied that any attempts have been made by any state authority to derail or affect the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-destroyed-tampered-evidence-in-hiran-case-bjp-mla-101616786192392.html
27-03-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur, Varanasi cities get first police commissioners||Additional director general (ADG), Agra range, A Satish Ganesh became the first commissioner of police (CP) of Varanasi city while ADG, UP 112, Asim Arun was appointed the first CP of Kanpur city as the state government shifted 43 IPS officers on Friday. The Uttar Pradesh cabinet gave its nod to implement the police commissioner system in Varanasi and Kanpur cities late on Thursday night. Asim Arun, a 1994-batch IPS officer, will be assisted by two deputy inspectors general (DIG) rank joint CPs Akash Kulhari and Manoj Kumar. Akhilesh Kumar and Anil Kumar Singh will assist Ganesh, a 1996-batch IPS officer, as joint CPs in Varanasi. Naveen Arora, who was posted joint CP, law and order, Lucknow, has replaced Ganesh as new IG, Agra range, and Piyush Mordia has replaced Arora in Lucknow. Arun has been replaced by ADG Ashok Kumar Singh as new ADG UP 112.ADG, Varanasi, Vijay Singh Meena has been made ADG vigilance and SK Bhagat has replaced him as new IG Varanasi range. Jyoti Narain has been made the new ADG traffic and Modak Rajesh D Rao has replaced him as new IG law and order. Ramit Sharma has replaced Rajesh Pandey as new IG, Bareilly, while Pandey has been made in-charge of election cell.Likewise, Pusphanjali Devi has replaced Sriparan Gongulee as new joint commissioner of police Gautam Buddh Nagar while Gongulee has been attached to police headquarters.14 districts get new police chiefs District police chiefs of Ayodhya, Aligarh, Agra, Ghaziabad, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Kushinagar, Gonda, Etawah, Pratapgarh, Bahraich, Sultanpur, Etah and Pilibhit districts have also been changed.Amit Pathak has replaced Kalanidhi Naithani as new DIG/SSP Ghaziabad and Naithani has been made SSP Aligarh. Similarly, Rohan P Kanay has been sent as SP Jhansi, Dinesh Kumar P as SSP Gorakhpur, Sachinendra Patel as SP Kushinagar, Muniraj G as SSP Agra, Santosh Singh as SP Gonda, Shailesh Pandey as SSP Ayodhya, Brijesh Kumar Singh as SSP Etawah, Akash Tomar as SP Pratapgarh, Sujata Singh as SP Bahraich, Uday Shankar Singh as SP Etah and Kirit Kumar Rathore as SP Pilibhit.DIGs of five police ranges changedJ Ravinder Goud has been made the new DIG Mirzapur range, Deepak Kumar is the new DIG Aligarh range. Similarly, Jogendra Kumar is the new DIG Jhansi range, Shalabh Mathur is now DIG Moradabad range and Preetinder Singh has been made the new DIG Gorakhpur range. Vinod Kumar Singh is the new DIG (security).Likewise, Bablu Kumar has been made new SSP Anti-Terror Squad, Jai Prakash has been shifted as Commandant of 32 PAC battalion, Arvind Chaturvedi is now SP vigilance while Sunil Kumar Singh has been attached to police headquarters in Lucknow. Besides, two IGs Subash Singh Baghel and Piyush Srivastava have also been attached to police headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-varanasi-cities-get-first-police-commissioners-101616786191043.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 65-year-old gets life term for sexually abusing daughter, granddaughter||A special court under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on Thursday sentenced a 65-year-old Bhandup resident to life imprisonment for raping his 22-year-old daughter and sexually abusing his 10-year-old granddaughter on several occasions in 2017.The complainant, daughter of the convict, said she lived with her children as her husband had left her, and that she would visit her maternal house often. She alleged that on May 11, 2017, the accused raped her and threatened to kill her children if she revealed the incident to anyone. Later, on June 27, 2017, the 10-year-old told the complainant that the accused attempted to sexually abuse her. The woman further alleged that on July 1, 2017, when she visited her mother, her father raped her again. She then reported the abuse to Bhandup police, setting criminal law in motion.The prosecution examined in all nine witnesses, including the survivors, and also relied on medical evidence to support its case.The accused, on the other hand, claimed that his daughter had falsely implicated him over property dispute within the family.The court declined to accept the defence and convicted him on the basis of evidence presented by the prosecution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-65-year-old-gets-life-term-for-sexually-abusing-daughter-granddaughter-101616786071512.html
27-03-2021||Lucknow||Covid review meet: Remain extra vigilant ahead of Holi, panchayat polls: Yogi||Amid rising cases of Covid-19 in different states, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said extra precaution should be taken and special vigil should be maintained in view of Holi and forthcoming panchayat elections. Reviewing Covid-19 situation at a high level meeting at his official residence here, the CM said effective arrangements should be maintained for protection and treatment of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh. “All necessary facilities should be provided in Covid hospitals and Covid helpdesk should be run effectively. Sufficient number of medical personnel should be posted in Covid hospitals and necessary medical equipment should also remain available and back up arrangements be made for oxygen at these hospitals,” he said. He said passengers should be tested for Covid-19 at bus stations, railway stations and airports and added that infrared thermometers and pulse oximeters should be used to identify suspected cases. Yogi directed officials to ensure that more than 1.50 lakh Covid tests were conducted every day and contact tracing be carried out effectively. The chief minister said information should be sought about those coming from other outside through monitoring committees both in urban and rural areas. “This would help in sending those found infected for quarantine and in their medical treatment as well,” the CM said. He said integrated command and control centre should remain active at district level and people should be consistently educated about measures for protection against Covid-19. He also asked for necessary steps to check assembly of crowd at public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-review-meet-remain-extra-vigilant-ahead-of-holi-panchayat-polls-yogi-101616786011024.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Indian aviation industry still at risk, has not learnt lessons from two airline fails: CAPA||While the Indian aviation industry is struggling to bounce back after running into heavy losses due to the pandemic, aviation consultancy Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA) said that Indian aviation industry has always presented higher risks than other major markets even during the pre-Covid era. This is due to a failure to solve structural issues since 2004, and this coupled with Covid-19 has resulted in seismic shifts in the industry. It also said Indian operators and all stakeholders are responsible for the absence of risk management.According to the consultancy, risks remain high as the industry has not learnt key lessons from two major airline failures — Jet Airways and Kingfisher — in the last decade.“Systems have not been implemented in the aftermath of these events to prevent further airline failures. All stakeholders are responsible for the absence of preventive risk management,” CAPA said.Domestic air traffic fell to about 30 million passengers during April and December 2020, from 108 million passengers compared to the year earlier. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday informed the lower House that airlines incurred a loss of ₹16,000 crore during that period, while airports lost ₹3,000.Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer, CAPA Indian subcontinent and Middle East, said a three-step process is required to reset the sector. “We are currently having a status quo approach. We need to engage in a highly coordinated and collaborative manner with all stakeholders across the industry and government to develop and execute a robust risk mitigation strategy with a clear approach and responsibilities.”Talking about the issues in the webinar hosted by CAPA, former chief executive officer (CEO) of Adani airports Sidharth Kapur said, “Covid-19 has made aviation even more complex than it already was. There is a critical need for aviation operators to formalise a structured risk management framework starting with the appointment of chief risk officers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-aviation-industry-still-at-risk-has-not-learnt-lessons-from-two-airline-fails-capa-101616785951640.html
27-03-2021||Lucknow||Holi gift: CM Yogi to inaugurate Gorakhpur zoo today||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will dedicate Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan Zoological Park (Gorakhpur zoo) to the locals on the eve of Holi on Saturday.“Gorakhpur zoo, the much-anticipated project of the Yogi-led government, is all set to open its gate for the people on March 27. It is a unique zoo in the country and will be the biggest in Eastern UP,” said a state government spokesperson.The project was conceived a decade ago in May 2011 but was abandoned by two previous governments of the state. It was revived soon after the Yogi Adityanath government came to power in 2017.Along with giving boost to tourism, the zoo will give thrust to employment in the Purvanchal region, said the spokesperson.Majority of animals in the Gorakhpur zoo have been brought from the zoos of Lucknow and Kanpur. Set of zebras from Israel will be a special attraction for tourists in the coming days.At present there are 153 wildlife enclosures here. The lions of Gujarat were brought in February from Etawah Lion Safari. Cheetah, leopard, hippopotamus, deer, swamp deer (barasingha), chital, jackal, python, Russell viper, bonnet macaque (a species of monkey), sambar, fox (fox), kakar (barking deer), Pada (hog deer), crocodile, Wild cat, tortoise, porcupine, parrot, peacock etc. have been brought here, he said.Two cafeterias, bus safaris, battery-operated golf car for the elderly and toy trains on PPP model will also be available for tourists in the zoo area. The ODOP (One District One Product) product has also been given a platform at the zoo in Gorakhpur. This will also provide tourists the facility to view and buy ODOP products here, he said. The spokesperson said the zoo was just confined to the papers until Yogi Adityanath came into power. Since 2011, Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam, looking after the work of the project, only kept transferring the project managers in the name of progress. As of January 2018, seven project managers were replaced.Layout approval, construction and inflow of animals have been supervised regularly by the CM. The foundation of the zoo was laid on May 18, 2011 during the then BSP government. The SP government was formed in 2012 and till 2016 the zoo project was completely neglected. The work of approving the layout from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), starting the construction work and completing the enclosure with wildlife was done by CM Yogi Adityanath himself.With an approval of ₹181.83 crore, the Yogi government launched the construction of the zoo in August 2018. To accelerate the work, the approval from the Expenditure Finance Committee was increased to ₹259.15 crore in January 2019. The work of finalizing the master layout of Gorakhpur Zoo in Central Zoo Authority (CZA) was also done in October 2017 under the direction of CM, he said.Serpentarium, Butterfly Park, 7D Theatre are the added attraction for tourists. “This is the first zoo with a huge 34 acre of wetland,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/holi-gift-cm-yogi-to-inaugurate-gorakhpur-zoo-today-101616785710894.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai dreams mall fire: Families of deceased in shock||A fire broke out on the first floor of Dreams Mall in Bhandup on Thursday night and spread to upper floors, killing nine patients in Sunrise Hospital which is housed on the third floor, Hindustan Times spoke to families of some of the deceased.Won battle against Covid-19, but lost life in fireGovind Lal Das, 70, was admitted at Sunrise Hospital for Covid-19 treatment on March 22. Within three days, he tested negative and was supposed to be released soon. However, even after winning the battle against Covid-19, he was not able to return home. His daughter, Archana, who met Das on Thursday night, alleged that while she was at the hospital between 6pm and 10pm, the fire alarm rang several times due to an apparent short circuit. But despite making repeated requests to check on it, hospital staffers did not pay any heed.“I would hear the fire alarm was ringing but the staffers said not to worry. I did not know that this would be the cause of the death of my father who was waiting to get discharged,” she said.After returning home, she had a video call with her father around 11pm. After a few hours, she was informed about the fire outbreak at the hospital and she immediately went to the hospital.“There was so much chaos...there was fire and smoke all around. No one knew where my father was. At the middle of the night, we rushed from one hospital to another, clueless. Then finally, we got to know that he was admitted at Agrawal Hospital,” she said.But after reaching there, she learnt that her father had succumbed. “We wanted to take him home, but a few of his medical parameters were still unstable. So, the doctors suggested we keep him at the hospital. If only I had taken him home, he would have been alive today,” she added.Transferred from jumbo Covid centre, man dies in fireShyam Bhaktani, 77, was admitted at Mulund jumbo centre on Monday after he tested positive for the virus. But considering he had cardiac ailments, he was referred to a private hospital as he needed treatment under a cardiologist. After hunting for a day, Bhaktani family found a bed at Sunrise Hospital on Thursday, but now they regret the decision. Within a few hours of admission, Bhaktani breathed his last on Friday morning due to the fire accident.“We got him discharged from Mulund jumbo centre and admitted him at Sunrise Hospital on Thursday afternoon. It took us almost 24 hours to find a bed in a hospital that had the facility to take care of cardiac patients with Covid-19. Finally, we left the hospital around 10.30pm,” said a family member.It was around past midnight when they got calls and found out about the fire. “We immediately started calling the hospital but no one responded. We were panicking. When we reached the hospital, we couldn’t track him,” said the relative.They ran from one hospital to another and finally identified his body in Agrawal Hospital.“Only if the jumbo facility had a cardiologist to look after him, we wouldn’t have to admit him at the hospital. We don’t know if he died because of the suffocation or on the way when he was being shifted to another hospital,” added the member.Found body after 10 hours After enquiring for 10 hours at different hospitals, family members of Ashok Waghmare finally found his body at a hospital morgue.Waghmare was admitted at BYL Nair Hospital earlier this week after he tested positive for Covid-19. The family alleged they were not satisfied with the treatment and care at the hospital. His son-in-law Pratik said, “Bedsheets were soiled, he wasn’t given food for 24 hours at the hospital. In fact, nurses did not pay any attention. No one would even provide water to the patients. So, we decided to shift him to a private hospital for better care.”On Thursday afternoon, the family found a vacant bed at Sunrise Hospital and admitted him there. It was around 6am in the morning when his daughter Priya got to know about the fire. They went to hospital but could not find Waghmare. “We didn’t know who was taken where. So, we went to Mulund jumbo centre, Rajawadi Hospital and the BKC centre but couldn’t find him. We reached Agrawal Hospital around 4pm when a hospital staff informed us about an unidentified body. Upon checking, we saw it was him,” he said.Waghmare’s body was taken to Rajawadi Hospital for post-mortem.Patient’s body found at hospital terraceHarish Sachdev, 60, was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Thursday and was admitted at Sunrise Hospital as his family members wanted to keep him near their house in Bhandup. But his sudden death within 24 hours of admission has left his family traumatised. Around midnight, they heard about the fire and rushed to the hospital. When they enquired about Sachdev, they were told by firefighters that patients were being taken to four to five hospitals.“We rushed to Fortis Hospital, Mulund jumbo centre and Agrawal Hospital. But his name wasn’t there in any list,” said his wife Pooja.Finally in the afternoon, they were informed that a body, with features similar to Sachdev, was found at the terrace of the hospital. “I don’t know how this happened. We want the culprit to be punished,” said Pooja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-dreams-mall-fire-families-of-deceased-in-shock-101616785651947.html
27-03-2021||Lucknow||UPSRLM helping SHGs prepare herbal gulal from flowers||The Uttar Pradesh State Rural Livelihood Mission (UPSRLM) is helping self- help groups (SHGs) to prepare herbal gulal from flowers collected from prominent temples of the state. The UPSRLM, a department of the state government, is providing flowers free of cost to these self-help groups. The Vindhyachal temple in Mirzapur, Devi Patan in Shravasti, Kashi Vishwanath in Varanasi, Khatu Shyam in Lucknow, Gola Gokaran Nath in Lakhimpur Kheri and other prominent temples across the state are providing flowers to the self-help groups selected by the state government in these respective districts. The flowers collected from these temples are mainly rose and marigold. “The self-help groups are preparing one kg herbal gulal by investing ₹50. They are selling it to other self-help groups engaged in marketing for ₹100 per kg. In the open market and on various online platforms it is available for ₹130- ₹140 per kg,” said Sujeet Kumar, mission director, UPSRLM. “We are providing all assistance to these self-help groups across the state to collect flowers from temples. Marketing assistance is also being provided to them,” said Kumar. The department has set a target of selling herbal gulal of ₹5 lakh to ₹10 lakh in each district. Across the state this target is ₹one crore. The collective profit is expected to be around ₹50 lakh to ₹60 lakh for self-help groups. According to the UPSRLM, in around 25 districts across the state self-help groups are preparing herbal gulal, colours, chips/papad and snacks for the festive occasion of holi. The state government has also roped in self-help groups for preparing masks and PPE kits last year at the time of Covid-19 pandemic. Khadi marks prepared by these groups are much in demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upsrlm-helping-shgs-prepare-herbal-gulal-from-flowers-101616785470883.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||9 killed in Dreams Mall fire in Mumbai||Nine Covid-19 patients, mostly senior citizens, were killed on Friday after a massive fire broke out at Sunrise Hospital, located inside the Dreams Mall in Bhandup, officials said. Six of the dead were on ventilators.The fire started on first floor of the mall on Thursday night and soon spread to the third floor, which houses the hospital. Officials from the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said the firefighting system, including sprinklers, were not functioning. A notice for non-compliance of fire safety norms was issued to the mall in November 2020, they added.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who visited the spot, ordered an enquiry into the incident, announced ₹5 lakh compensation to the family of the deceased, and asked for their forgiveness.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has ordered a fire audit of all the Covid-19 hospitals and health centres in the wake of the incident, and Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar has ordered an additional inquiry into how a Covid hospital was allowed to run inside a mall.“If there is any negligence or delay in it, it will be investigated and action will be taken against those who are responsible for it,” said chief minister Thackeray. “The hospital was functioning on a temporary permission that was due to end on March 31. Unfortunately, the fire started on the first floor [of the mall]. Many Covid patients were safely taken out of hospital.”Thackeray also pulled up the administration. “We wake up after such incidents and inquiries are ordered. I have already asked state authorities to carry out structural and fire audits of hospitals and Covid Care Centres and Jumbo facilities and ensure no such incidents happen. Some people who were on ventilators could not be saved. I ask for forgiveness for their families.”According to BMC, there were 78 patients in the hospital at the time of the incident. Two were already dead after failing to recover from Covid-related complications, and nine died due to the fire.The blaze was first reported at around 11.45pm on the first floor of the mall. MFB was yet to give details about the cause of the fire. Sunrise Hospital authorities contended in a statement that it responded responsibly to the incident, and called for an investigation to determine how the fire spread.“The fire was on the first floor of Dreams Mall, Bhandup, and not in the hospital. The smoke had reached up to Sunrise Hospital located at the top floor. All fire alarms beeped and hence all patients were safely evacuated due to the smoke to the fire refuge area .There were two dead bodies (due to Covid) which were also evacuated. There was no casualty due to fire. All patients were promptly shifted to Jumbo Covid centre (and some to other private hospitals). The patients were shifted alive, but there were few patients on ventilator and extremely critical. We believe that the casualties have not occurred due to fire, but either in transit or at other hospitals,” the hospital claimed.It further said that the hospital was started in “exceptional circumstances of Covid last year”, and was “functioning with all due compliances”.“The hospital staff did their best in safely evacuating patients on wheelchairs and beds to the refuge areas and by following the fire drills. The patients were then shifted with the help of local authorities... We have spoken to the authorities and request them to investigate and find the cause of the fire. The guilty need to be punished as the lives of people have been lost in the unfortunate incident,” the statement added.Hemant Parab, deputy chief fire officer, MFB, said the mall was in violation of safety norms. “In the backdrop of a fire last year in City Centre Mall, we had inspected this particular Dreams Mall. A notice was issued to them for non-compliance of fire safety violations due to certain concerns. During fire fighting also we observed that none of the fire safety mechanisms got activated inside the mall. We will conduct a detailed probe into the incident now.”Though the fire was brought under control by Friday afternoon, , firefighting was underway at the time of going to print. Till Friday evening, BMC had traced 46 patients who were evacuated from the hospital. Several of them shifted to nearby hospitals, whereas some opted to go back to their homes, the civic body said.A political slugfest also began after the incident, with the Bharatiya Janata Party blaming BMC of cutting corners to allow the hospital to function.“A case of homicide should be registered against the officials who allowed the operations of the hospital inside the mall. Despite repeated complaints by local BJP corporator Sakshi Dalvi, it was ignored due to political pressure. In reply to the complaint in writing, the Medical Officer Health Department of BMC said that they had issued a certificate of registration to Sunrise Hospital. The fire brigade also issued a no-objection certificate,” BJP corporator Prabhakar Shinde said.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who also visited the spot, said, “It seems that the authorities have not learnt from past incidents in Bhandara or even in Apex Hospital in Mulund last year. The government has not woken up even after similar incidents in the past. We cannot expect anything better from the BMC considering its system is filled with corruption.”The BMC, on its part, said it will probe if there were any other violations. “The hospital had occupation certificate and also the fire compliance to operate, but we are told there were fire violations inside the mall. However, that is under fire department’s purview, but I have asked my staff to investigate whether there were any other structural violations inside the mall,” assistant municipal commissioner V Acharekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-dreams-mall-a-firefighting-nightmare-101616785291830.html
27-03-2021||Other||Cong picks Satish Jarkiholi for LS bypoll||Bengaluru The All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Friday approved the candidature of Satish Jarkiholi, party’s sitting legislator from Yenkanmaradi, for the on April 17 Belagavi (Belgaum) Lok Sabha bypoll. Satish is a brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi, the former state minister who finds himself in the thick of an alleged sex scandal in Karnataka that has further pushed the chief minister B.S Yediyurappa-led state government to a corner. “He (Satish) has had good control over the district and has been in touch with all sections over the last two months. The scandal may have some perception issues, but it might not impact the votes by much since we are talking about issues like price rise, farm laws and other issues which have aggravated voters in the district,” Vinaya Navalgatti, a Congress leader from the district, said. The announcement came a day after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) declared its list of candidates for the three bypolls in the state, including for Belagavi Lok Sabha seat and Basavakalyan and Maski assembly constituencies. Satish Jarkiholi will contest against BJP’s Mangala Suresh Angadi, the wife of late Union minister for railways, Suresh Angadi, who died due to Covid-19 related complications in September last year. Political analysts said the BJP does not often replace one family member with another while handing party tickets. The party has, however, gone with Angadi’s wife, showing some cracks in its confidence, analysts said. They added that by naming Satish Jarkiholi, the Congress has shown some “imagination” and “willingness to give a fight”. Belagavi has been a stronghold of the BJP since 2004, making it harder for the Congress. But the district is also home to powerful families like Jarkiholis and Kattis. Residents have in the past favoured local equations and loyalties to the families over political allegiances, observers said. In 2019, Suresh Angadi won 63.12 % of the vote share securing 761,991 votes against Congress’s Dr Sadhunavar, who polled 370,687 votes, according to data from the election commission of India (ECI). Angadi had won the seat consecutively since 2004 while the Congress’s Amarsinh Vasantrao Patil had won it in 1999, according to ECI data. Interestingly, despite Satish Jarkiholi being from the Congress while his two brothers (Balachandra and Ramesh) are with the BJP, they are a tight-knit family and have come together in the past to thwart off any outside interference into the district, said a political observer. Known for his tactical skills, Satish was instrumental in helping former chief minister Siddaramaiah win from Badami in Bagalkote district in 2018, local leaders said. However, the BJP sounded confident of retaining the seat. “There is really no contest, and the BJP will win. There is a sympathy factor for the wife of Suresh Angadi and the Congress does not stand a chance,” Prabhakar Kore, a former Rajya Sabha member and senior BJP leader from the district, said. Basavakalyan seat fell vacant after sitting Congress legislator B Narayanrao died last year due to Covid-19 related complications. The Congress has fielded the wife of the late leader against BJP’s Sharanu Salagar, a first time MLA contestant. The JD(S) has announced Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri as its candidate for the bypoll to the seta, which, analysts and political leaders said, might split the minority votes of the Congress. In Maski, where bypoll was necessitated after Pratapgouda Patil — who had won on a Congress ticket in 2018 against Basanagouda-Turvihal of the BJP — defected to the BJP along with 17 others in 2019 and helped bring Yediyurappa to power. The Congress has named Turvihal as its candidate for the April 17 bypoll. A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University, said the bypolls being the first elections in the state after Covid-19, economic distress and the impact of Covid-19 could have a bearing on the outcomes of the bypolls. “Normally the ruling party has an advantage in bypolls held in the first half of the term, but this may not necessarily be true in the second half. These polls are in the second half of the term and are a good indicator to gauge the mood of the people both toward the Union and state government,” Narayana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-picks-satish-jarkiholi-for-ls-bypoll-101616784630731.html
27-03-2021||Lucknow||Domestic help of NR officer found murdered||Body of a domestic help of northern railways’ deputy chief engineer Puneet Kumar was found with throat slit in the servant room of the railway officers’ colony near Somnath Dwar under Cantt police station here on Friday afternoon, said Lucknow Commissioner of Police (CP) DK Thakur.Initial investigation suggested that Brij Mohan, 32, was murdered with the intention of loot as one of the rooms of the engineer’s flat was found ransacked. Thakur said it seemed the assailants searched the entire room and fled with cash and valuables.The CP said the servant was alive when the engineer’s driver had come to collect his lunch box at 1pm. He said caretaker of the guest house Vinay Tewari informed the police after spotting blood stains outside the flat at around 2pm. The crime was committed between 1 and 2 pm, he emphasized.He said the servant was alone in his room attached to a flat allotted to the engineer while the engineer’s uncle Chandra Bhan, 72, who has hearing problem, was in the drawing room of the flat. He said the assailants had locked him in the drawing room without letting him know about it.The engineer was in his office at Northern Railway headquarters in Lucknow at the time of incident.Thakur said the primary examination suggested that there were at least two assailants who were familiar to the servant. He said there is no forced entry in the room and the flat.The CP said the servant’s body was found lying in his room with his hands tied up and a wire cable of immersion rod was tied around his neck.He said the assailants strangled him to death after having some spat and later slit his throat before leaving the crime scene.He said the forensics team and crime branch sleuths were called at the spot and further probe is on to crack the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/domestic-help-of-nr-officer-found-murdered-101616784450632.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram bans Holi celebrations till Monday||Amidst the ongoing surge in coronavirus disease cases, the Gurugram administration on Friday prohibited any gatherings to celebrate Holi at public places still Monday.State home and health minister Anil Vij on Wednesday had announced that the state government had banned public celebration of Holi due to the rising number of cases.The order, issued by deputy commissioner Yash Garg, states that “the Covid-19 pandemic is again posing threat to public health” and the Haryana government has considered it necessary to take effective measures to prevent its spread.As per the daily Covid-19 bulletin of the district administration, the total number of coronavirus cases in the city on January 26 was 58076, 58875 on February 26, and 61727 on March 26.“Recently, there has been a surge in coronavirus cases. It is anticipated that gatherings, congregations and public celebrations during the upcoming Holi festival may pose a considerable threat to the spreading of the virus and may cause a setback to the appreciable gains made in the suppression of chain transmission,” said Garg.Garg, who is also the chairman of the district disaster management authority, further said that keeping this in mind, the administration has decided that public celebrations, gatherings, congregations for Holi will not be permitted till Monday.Garg in his order stated that places such as grounds, public parks, markets, religious places, community centres, clubs, farmhouses, banquet halls, hotels or any other such place where a crowd gathering can take place are barred for holding any Holi related event till Monday.The deputy commissioner said that in case any person is found violating the directions and is found holding an event at any of the locations mentioned above, the owners, managers, governing body members will be booked as per the provisions of section 51 to 60 in the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other applicable laws.Police commissioner, sub-divisional magistrates, executive magistrates, authorities of Municipal Corporation and Municipal Committees have been given the responsibility for enforcing the order across Gurugram district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-bans-holi-celebrations-till-monday-101616784331813.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||Nitika Tomar murder: Family to approach higher court for death penalty||Family of 21-year-old Nikita Tomar who was killed last October said they were disappointed with the life sentence awarded to her killers. They said they would move the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking the death penalty.On Friday, a Faridabad fast-track court said Touseef’s and Rehaan’s crime against the young woman could not be considered as a “rarest of the rare” case and could not be sentenced to death.When the judgment was delivered, anguished family members, activists and other raised slogans demanding capital punishment.Touseef and Rehaan had tried to abduct Nikita on October 26, 2020 from in front of her college in Ballabhgarh. When they failed, one of them shot her. The video of the incident went viral. Nikita’s father Moolchand Tomar on Friday said they were seeking the death penalty as the duo had brutally killed her in a planned and premeditated manner. “They roamed around my daughter’s college for four days with a plan to abduct her and killed her when she resisted,” he said.Nikita’s family were also disappointed that despite making a promise to name an educational institute after her, the state government had not yet done so. “Nikita fought for the honour of women and went down fighting. She must be honoured for her sacrifice,” said Navin Tomar, Nikita’s brother.The family said the government had also promised financial assistance or a job to one of them, which too had not been fulfilled.“I lost my job and spent ₹6-7 lakh in fighting this case. We had to hire a lawyer in Chandigarh to ensure justice for Nikita. My son’s career is also in the doldrums,” said Moolchand.Virender Gaur, a city-based social activist, who has been supporting the family said, “The authorities must come good on promises made by them.”A senior official of the Faridabad district administration said that all efforts were made to get justice for the victim due to which the accused were sentenced within five months of the crime. “The decision of naming of an institution can only be taken at state government level,” he said, on the condition of anonymity.“The first priority in this matter was to ensure justice was delivered to the victim. The police and the court have done their jobs meticulously. The remaining issues raised by family would also be resolved in due course of time,” said Amit Arya, media advisor to Haryana CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nitika-tomar-murder-family-to-approach-higher-court-for-death-penalty-101616784331340.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||For second Friday in a row, rightwing group attempts to prevent namaz at Gurugram park||For the second Friday in a row, a rightwing group attempted to prevent people from offering namaz at a sector 40 park. Police once again thwarted the bid and kept the situation from spiralling.While members of Bharat Mata Vahini claimed the gathering was illegal, police said members of the Muslim community had already applied for permission to offer prayer.Bharat Mata Vahini chief Dinesh Thakur and 30 others reached the park at 12.30 pm where the Muslims had gathered to offer their prayers. They chanted slogans against the use of a public park for prayers. Police swung into action and escorted Thakur out.Last Friday too, Thakur was escorted out after a similar protest.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Sadar) Aman Yadav said, “Namaz is offered routinely under police watch. After last Friday’s incident, we had strengthened the deployment at the park. Our forces ensured peace.”He said Thakur’s supporters were made to leave the site and no one was detained. “We had taken preventive action earlier as well. We explained to them that the members who wished to offer prayers had already applied and gotten permission for it,” said Yadav. On Thursday, Thakur had sought support over social media to prevent offering of namaz in public spaces across the city. He instructed people who supported him to reach the sector 40 park. He said that like last Thursday, this time too he had submitted a memorandum to the Gurugram Police protesting the issue claiming it was illegal.“Namaz is being offered in public spaces at multiple places. This is illegal. We raised the concern that it inconvenienced the common people. Earlier, no prayers used to be offered in the parks here,” said Thakur.Those who offered prayers on Friday alleged that the protesters threw slurs and abuses at them. “There were many men who were going around on motorcycles and in gypsies around the area where prayers were being offered. They hurled abuses, but we chose to ignore them,” said Altaf Ahmed, a city resident. “By threatening people every week, at different places, they want us to scare us into giving up our constitutional right of offering prayers. And these prayers hardly take 30 minutes.”Mufti Abdul Haseeb, the imam who led the Friday prayers, said that there had been efforts to disrupt their prayers since February. “There had been attempts at parks in sector 38, Manesar, and DLF phase 3. But since the police were around, the matter did not escalate,” said Haseeb. Haseeb said they were forced to use the park since there were no mosques in the vicinity. “The nearest mosque is 5 km from here. Most people who offer namaz here are poor labourers. They cannot afford to commute to other places,” he said, adding the park hosted prayers since 2014 and that they had police protection since 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/for-second-friday-in-a-row-rightwing-group-attempts-to-prevent-namaz-at-gurugram-park-101616784330657.html
27-03-2021||Gurugram||In Faridabad, 12 villages come together to fight civic bodies attempt to dump waste in Aravallis||At a mahapanchayat held in Faridabad on Friday, 12 villages resolved to take legal action against civic authorities for dumping waste on Aravalli land.On Wednesday the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) with the help of municipal corporation of Faridabad had begun dumping waste on the land, located in the middle of the Aravalli forest and 1.5 km from the Pali crusher toll. They suspended the move on Thursday following a police complaint against it.The villages that met on Friday surround this land.Jitendra Bhadana, a resident of Pali village and who complained to the Pali police against the dumping, said, “We will not let authorities build another Bandhwari (landfill) here. A case regarding the land is subjudice in the Punjab and Haryana High Court so this land cannot be used anyway by the municipal corporation.”On Friday, Hindustan Times went for a spot check at the site. Garbage, including plastic, was dumped on an approximately 500 metre stretch. Trees were cut and land levelled to make way for dumper garbage trucks too. But no dumping took place on Friday. At the mahapanchayat, the villagers said that the land was a common village land that the Faridabad municipality had forcibly taken from them. They said they had challenged the “takeover” in the high court and the case was pending.The mahapanchayat appointed lawyer Bhagendar Bhadana, also a resident in one of the villages that took part in the deliberations on Friday, to take the issue up in court. “It is not just the matter of the village common land being used,” he said. “It is also about how in the coming years, our underground water will be contaminated, the air will be even more polluted and the health of residents from all these villages will be affected. We will be submitting an application in the high court in this regard and also file a case in National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the cutting of trees and harm to the environment.”Karambeer Bhadana, resident of Pali village said, “For years now, we have anyway been breathing dust particles in polluted air from the crusher zone; we do not want to start drinking contaminated water at least.”Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) additional municipal commissioner Inderjit Kularia confirmed that no more waste was dumped after Thursday’s order. “As the matter is subjudice in the high court, the land won’t be used anymore and we are in the process of finding an alternative,” he said.At the mahapanchayat, over 100 villagers participated in the discussions. They came from Pali, Mohabatabad, Pakhal, Gotha Nayagaon, Bhankari, Sainik Colony and others surrounding the land. They alleged that around 200 truckloads had been dumped since Wednesday afternoon.Gurugram and Faridabad generate almost 2,000 tonnes of waste daily. With the Bhandwari landfill filled to capacity and the NGT ordering the MCG to find another space for the excess, the civic bodies had zeroed-in on this land in the Aravallis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/in-faridabad-12-villages-come-together-to-fight-civic-bodies-attempt-to-dump-waste-in-aravallis-101616784271026.html
27-03-2021||Other||Civic body issues notice, gives 7-day deadline for removal of ads in Manesar||HT Correspondenthtreporters@hindustantimes.comGurugram: According to a notification issued by the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) on Friday, people cannot put up hoardings or advertisements in the town without a prior permission of the civic body.The MCM has given a seven-day deadline to firms and persons concerned to comply with the order and remove their advertisements, following which they will be removed with an immediate effect, and the expenditure incurred for doing so and the penalty money will be recovered from the violator.According to the MCM officials, after Manesar came under a separate municipal corporation, the byelaws of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, also came into effect, and accordingly, no persons or firms were allowed to put up advertisements within the town without the MCM’s approval. This was formed by the Haryana government in December 2020.“Through a public notification, advertisement traders, firms, and manufacturers have been directed not to put up any advertisement within the MCM limits without an approval. All concerned stakeholders have been given seven days to comply with this direction, following which action will be taken against them as per the law,” said Munish Sharma, MCM commissioner.As per the MCM officials, if an advertisement is already on display, the person or firm concerned will have to remove it within seven days, along with the structure built for the advertisement. After the completion of the stipulated period, a penalty money will be recovered from the advertiser, the structure for the advertisement will be demolished, and action will be taken against the person or firm concerned under the Haryana Municipal Corporation Advertisement byelaws and the Haryana Defacement of Property Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-body-issues-notice-gives-7-day-deadline-for-removal-of-ads-in-manesar-101616784270421.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records over 1,000 cases for fourth day on the trot, positivity rate also up||With 1,534 cases of Covid-19 reported on Friday, Delhi added over 1,000 infections to its overall tally for the fourth day on the trot. While the city had conducted a high number of tests during these past four days, the increase in cases was not merely a result of that as the positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested -- had also kept rising. It has shot up from 1.31% to 1.80% in these four days, Delhi goverment data showed.On average, 85,300 tests were conducted daily during the past four days in comparison to nearly 76,000 tests conducted daily in the seven days before that and over 69,200 the week before that. Delhi has reported a positivity rate of more than 1% for the past seven days. The positivity rate – which is indicative of the spread of the infection in an area – had remained below the 1% mark in Delhi for 82 days, according to data shared by the Delhi government. But Friday’s 1.80% positivity rate was the highest since December 16, when it had touched 1.96%. Along with the high number of cases, the city also saw an increase in the number of deaths from Covid-19. On Friday, nine Covid-19 deaths were recorded in the city, which was the highest since January 24, the last day when nine deaths were reported. So far, 10,987 city residents have succumbed to the infection, the state health bulletin said. “Once the number of cases start going up, the number of deaths also increase after around 10 days. This is because the severity of the infection in a patient reaches its peak in the eighth to the 12th day. We have been reporting an increase in the number of cases for over two weeks now. Also, there is a misconception among the people that the virus is causing milder disease this time around, which is not true. We are admitting several people with moderate and severe disease manifestation and they need to be put in the ICU,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman, PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care. Delhi has seen an increase in the number of hospitalisations as well, with over 1,000 being admitted over the past three days, according to the health bulletin. The number of active cases or those living with the infection crossed the 6,000-mark as well. This is the highest since December-end. “I am expecting the number of cases to go up further because people are not following Covid appropriate behaviour. And, that is mainly because the number of cases had come down, and people thought that it is like any other infection. There was also the vaccine euphoria. Now, the government needs to strictly enforce norms like wearing masks in public,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine, Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-1-000-cases-for-fourth-day-on-the-trot-positivity-rate-also-up-101616784211329.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Thallium murder: Poison, fish were bought online||A 37-year-old resident of Greater Kailash, who was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly poisoning his wife and her family members with thallium, a toxic chemical, bought the substance online from a pharmaceutical firm in Haryana’s Panchkula on the pretext that his father-in-law needed it for research on homeopathic medicines, said police officers involved in the investigation. The accused, Varun Arora, a realtor, got the consignment delivered to his relative’s house in Gurugram. The police said Arora hoped that since thallium is a slow poison, the murders would be passed off as being caused by food poisoning.Investigators said that it did not appear that the relative who received the consignment knew what it contained, and added that they are looking to ascertain the identity of the person who helped Arora get the thallium from the pharmaceutical firm. “We are, however, yet to verify it with the pharmaceutical company if it sold the thallium to Arora after due verification or not. Any possible negligence is being looked into,” said a senior police officer who asked not to be named. Interrogators said that Arora also bought the fish, which he cooked for them, online. They also said that the suspect ensured that neither he nor his twin children ate the fish that he had laced and served his wife and in-laws on January 31 this year.The police arrested Arora for lacing his in-laws’ dinner with thallium on January 31, killing his mother-in-law and sister-in-law, and leaving his wife comatose. The man’s father-in-law and the domestic help recovered after treatment.Police earlier said that Arora claimed to have planned the poisoning after his wife aborted her pregnancy last year, and to exact revenge for “being humiliated”, because his construction business was not doing well. However, this alleged motive has now come into question.Police officers told HT that they are analysing Arora’s social media accounts to probe if the murders were a result of an extramarital affair. Arora is also learnt to have told investigators that he had believed his father would be reincarnated with his child, but was allegedly upset on learning that his wife had aborted the pregnancy. Arora told police that since thallium is tasteless and odourless, he mixed it with water and poured it over the fish. “He gave his four-year-old twins milk to drink right before dinner, so that the family members did not serve them the fish. He did not eat the fish himself, citing religious reasons,” the officer said. Meanwhile, Arora’s wife’s family members have told the police that they suspect Arora may have been involved in an extramarital relationship.A member of his wife’s family, who did not wish to be identified, said, “Arora’s father passed away about two years ago, and his lifestyle changed overnight. We have now learnt that Varun ill-treated his wife and that they had serious fights on a few occasions. He is misleading police by claiming that he was depressed or under financial stress. The family suspects he was in an affair outside the marriage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/thallium-murder-poison-fish-were-bought-online-101616784210624.html
27-03-2021||Lucknow||15 secondary edu directorate employees test Covid +ve, office sealed||Fifteen employees, including the deputy director, working at secondary education department’s directorate located at Park Road tested positive for Covid on Friday, prompting the district administration to seal the office, an official said. There are nearly 100 employees in the directorate of the secondary education department. The Covid test reports of 80 employees is still awaited. The district administration had carried out the Covid sample test drive at the directorate. Joint director education, Bhagwati Singh in a letter to additional chief secretary, secondary education, Aradhana Shukla said those who tested Covid positive included deputy director, education, Vikas Srivastava, Sriram Rawat, Ajit Singh, Prem Kumar Mehto, Sitaram Rajvanshi, an administrative officer, Sachindra Mishra, senior assistant, Hari Shankar, principal assistant, Sohan Lal and Ravi Prakash.The above nine tested positive after an antigen test was carried out on them. Six others tested positive after they went for RT-PCR test. They include additional education director Manju Sharma; deputy education director Prem Chand Yadav; deputy education director Vivek Nautiyal; finance officer Dinesh Kumar Singh Rathore; deputy director Deep Chand and administrative officer Prabhat Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/15-secondary-edu-directorate-employees-test-covid-ve-office-sealed-101616784150476.html
27-03-2021||Other||Despite teachers’ opposition, JNU approves appointment of new registrar||New Delhi: Despite opposition from the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA), the varsity’s vice-chancellor and members of its executive council (EC) approved the appointment of a new registrar in a meeting on Friday.On Thursday, the administration included an additional agenda item for the EC meeting, seeking “post-facto” approval of the appointment of Anirban Chakraborty as the JNU registrar — a move that JNUTA opposed, arguing that the “post-facto approval” undermined the EC’s powers JNUTA spokespersons said the registrar’s appointment should have been approved by the EC first. The teacher’s body said in this case, vice-chancellor Jagadesh Kumar had appointed the registrar and then sought “post-facto approval” during the EC meeting on Friday. Despite several attempts, Chakraborty did not respond to calls and texts sent for comment.On Friday, EC members approved Chakraborty’s appointment and the administration said he will “take care of the office of the registrar until a new registrar is appointed, for which an advertisement has already been issued.”The university said the appointment was done as per statute 8 (2) of the JNU Act which says, “When the office of the registrar is vacant or when the registrar is, by reason of illness or absence for any other cause, unable to perform the-duties of his office, the duties of the office shall be performed by such person as the vice-chancellor may appoint for the purpose.”“It is unfortunate that a few faculty members of JNU have tried to manufacture a controversy over an appointment which is otherwise a routine process,” read a statement issued by rector 1 Chintamani Mahapatra on Friday.Reacting to the development, JNUTA secretary Moushumi Basu said, “The EC agenda was changed twice in response to letters written by JNUTA and press reports. It was only Thursday evening that the registrar matter was brought up as part of the additional agenda. The university must explain their misdeed and misappropriation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-teachers-opposition-jnu-approves-appointment-of-new-registrar-101616784091038.html
27-03-2021||Lucknow||Aspiring model called for audition and raped, accused jeweller held||A 23-year-old aspiring model was allegedly raped by a city jeweller in a hotel under Vibhuti Khand police station limits here on Thursday night, police said on Friday. The jeweller had called the woman on the pretext of an audition for a video album and then raped her, police said. The victim alleged in her FIR that she was approached through Instagram and called for the video audition. She said the accused also promised her work in renowned production houses. Police have arrested the accused Vasu Soni alias Reyanshi alias Shivam and registered an FIR against him in connection with the case. Inspector of Vibhuti Khand police station Chandra Shekhar Singh said Soni, 30, introduced himself as Reyansh alias Shivam on the social media platform but his real identity was confirmed as Vasu Soni after his arrest. Singh said Soni was arrested from his house and booked under Indian Penal Code sections 376 for rape, 323 for voluntarily causing hurt, 504 for insulting and 506 for criminal intimidation. As per the FIR, the woman said Soni offered her work in a video album and called her for the audition at the hotel. She alleged Soni held her captive in the room after interacting with her for some time and then raped her. She said the accused even beat her up and threatened her with dire consequences if she reported the matter. She said the accused disappeared from the scene when she called some of her friends after coming out of the hotel room.She said one of her female friends was also allegedly raped in a similar manner around a week ago but she did not complain to police for fear of social humiliation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aspiring-model-called-for-audition-and-raped-accused-jeweller-held-101616783970557.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Sunanda could not have killed herself, hence no question of abetment, Tharoor tells court||Congress member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor on Friday told a Delhi court that the family, friends and son of his late wife Sunanda Pushkar have maintained that she was a strong woman and could not have died by suicide.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Tharoor, while arguing on the framing of charges in the death of Pushkar in 2014 at a hotel in the city, told special judge Geetanjali Goel that no case of abetment to suicide is made out against his client as she could not have died by suicide. “Her relatives and son say she was a strong woman and couldn’t have died by suicide. How can there be a question of abetment when she didn’t die by suicide,” Pahwa said adding that the police investigation has conclusively established by way of opinion from renowned doctors that she had not died by suicide.He also cited several judgments and sought the discharge of Tharoor from the case. The court put up the matter for further hearing to April 9.Pushkar was found dead in the suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014, following which the police had charged Tharoor with abetment to suicide, among other charges.Tharoor has consistently denied all charges, calling them “preposterous and motivated”.On May 14, 2018, Tharoor had tweeted: “ I have taken note of the filing of this preposterous charge sheet & intend to contest it vigorously. No one who knew Sunanda believes she would ever have committed suicide, let alone abetment on my part...If this is conclusion arrived at after 4+ yrs of investigation it does not speak well of the methods or motivations of the Delhi Police.”On March 17, during arguments, Pahwa had told the court that doctors have not been able to ascertain the cause of death or establish whether Pushkar had indeed died by suicide and, hence, the case of abetment to suicide against Tharoor was nothing but “a figment of imagination of the police”.He had earlier said the post-mortem examination and other medical reports have allegedly established that it was neither a suicide nor homicide. He had also said during the course of the investigation, there have been a plethora of reports by experts before the investigating officer (IO) but there was “no definite opinion on the cause of death”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sunanda-could-not-have-killed-herself-hence-no-question-of-abetment-tharoor-tells-court-101616783910998.html
27-03-2021||Delhi||Two suffocate to death while cleaning septic tank in Ghazipur||Two men suffocated to death after they were allegedly made to clean a septic tank without any protective gear at a banquet hall in east Delhi’s Ghazipur late Thursday night. Police have detained the housekeeping manager, general manager and the owner of the banquet hall for questioning but have not made any arrest till Friday evening. The deceased were identified as Lokesh Kumar, 35, and Prem Chand, 40 — both worked as caterers in weddings and lived in Trilokpuri, east Delhi.They were promised a meagre ₹1,500 per man for cleaning the tank, the police later said.Delhi had banned manual scavenging— defined as manually cleaning, carrying, disposing or handling human excreta from dry latrines and sewers—on August 21, 2017.Senior police officers said a call was received around 10.23pm at Patparganj Industrial Area police station stating that two men had died after entering a septic tank at Pearl HlGrand Emperor banquet hall. . Deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav said a team rushed to the spot and learnt that the men had been called in for cleaning the tank around 7.30pm by one Rahul (single name only), the housekeeping manager. “Later, around 10pm, Rahul found the men lying unconscious in the tank and alerted the police and other staff members of the hall. As soon as we received information, a crime and forensics team, along with teams from Delhi Fire Service, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and MCD Boat Club, reached the spot, pulled the men out of the tank and rushed them to a hospital, where they were declared brought dead,” Yadav said.The DCP said the identities of the two men were established following local inquiries. “Their bodies were sent to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital for autopsy. Preliminary probe suggests that the duo died of asphyxiation but we are waiting for a detailed autopsy report. Following the initial inquiry, a case has been registered under the IPC section 304A for causing death due to negligence and under Section 9 of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavenger and Their Rehabilitation Act against unknown people,” the officer said.Yadav said the general manager of the banquet hall, Amir Khan, housekeeping manager Rahul and banquet hall owner Jimmy Arora have been detained and are being questioned. “We are trying to establish the sequence of events that led to the fatalities. Adequate legal action will be taken,” the DCP said.Later on Friday, around 50 people from the two men’s families and those from Delhi sanitation workers unions gathered outside the banquet hall and staged a protest demanding the immediate arrest of the owner and the housekeeping manager.Chairman of the union, Sanjay Gehlot, said despite the government having provided machines to clean septic tanks and sewers, people use labourers as that is the cheaper option. “This is cruelty. The workers were not given any safety equipment or protective gear. We demand adequate compensation for families of the two men,” Gehlot said.Police said, while Lokesh is survived by his wife and two children, a 15-year-old daughter and a 12-year-old son. Prem Chand has a wife and two sons aged 15 and 9 years in his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-suffocate-to-death-while-cleaning-septic-tank-in-ghazipur-101616783790925.html
27-03-2021||Other||Doorstep delivery scheme face-off: Centre wrote to Delhi govt over ‘ration quality’ in city||New Delhi: A day before it red-flagged the Delhi government’s doorstep ration delivery scheme on March 19, the Union ministry of food and public distribution pulled up the state administration for “repeated delays” in submitting action-taken reports required to be filed on the use of electronic point of sale (e-POS) machines in ration shops and on improving the “quality” of subsidised foodgrains being disbursed in the Capital, according to government documents. The ministry wrote two letters to the government on March 18. While one was a reminder to submit a report on the quality of foodgrains being distributed and on steps taken to remove discrepancies in the city’s public distribution system, the other was about a delay in the trial of e-POS machines in Delhi’s 2,000-odd fair price shops (FPS). HT has seen the documents.A day later, on March 19, the Union ministry raised objections to the doorstep ration delivery scheme, saying its name, cost and method of delivery were not in accordance with the National Food Security Act (NFSA). The Delhi government said that the Centre was trying to block its flagship scheme, and altered the name of the programme on March 24 so that it could be implemented. However, the Union government later said that there were other problems related to distribution.One of the two letters sent by the Union ministry on March 18 read: “GNCTD (the government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi government) had informed this (the Union ministry of food and public distribution) department that the trial and testing of portability transactions under ‘one nation one ration card’ (ONORC) shall be done shortly. Further, during the meeting convened by the Union home secretary on February 23, 2021, GNCTD informed that the results of the trial and testing of portability transactions shall be shared within one week. The same are still awaited.”Another official said that Union food minister Piyush Goyal had written to the Delhi government, asking them to adopt the ONORCThe second letter sent to the Delhi government on March 18 was a reminder asking it to respond to an October 23, 2020, letter from Union food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey to chief secretary Vijay Dev, which said that routine inspections at 71 fair price shops showed that 30% of ration being distributed in Delhi was unfit for consumption. The letter said that 90 of the 138 samples were beyond the rejection limit (BRL) as mandated by the Centre’s uniform specifications of foodgrains (wheat and rice). The letter also contended that 42 other samples (18 wheat and 24 rice) were “unfit for human consumption.” Delhi food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain said, “As far as the use of the e-POS machines in ration shops is concerned, the ONORC and door-to-door ration schemes in Delhi will be ensured in all ration shops. The state cabinet took this call, and it has been brought to the Centre’s notice,” he said. Hussain also said foodgrains being sent from the Centre’s godowns were of “poor quality.”“During last year’s lockdown, we had complained to the Centre about the rotten ration we received from them. I even wrote a letter to the concerned Union minister, demanding immediate action. We had returned the rotten ration,” Hussain said. Delhi chief secretary Dev and secretary-cum-commissioner (food and civil supplies) Padmini Singla did not respond to queries sent by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doorstep-delivery-scheme-face-off-centre-wrote-to-delhi-govt-over-ration-quality-in-city-101616783730495.html
27-03-2021||Other||Vaccination pace still sluggish, lack of motivation keeping people away, say doctors||New Delhi The pace of Covid-19 vaccinations is sluggish in the city despite chief minister Arvind Kejriwal mandating that vaccination centres in Delhi will operate for 12 hours a day, from 9am and 9pm, in all Delhi government-run hospitals. The government had also directed its hospitals to run six vaccination centres each on their premises. Since the extended 12-hour vaccination drive began on Monday (March 22), on average, 34,027 jabs have been administered daily. On Friday, only 20,652 shots were administered across Delhi, of which 16,181 were first doses and the rest second doses. In comparison, around 46,769 jabs – both first and second doses — were administered last Saturday, two days before the extended vaccination timings kicked in, government data said. To scale up the capacity from 30,000 to 40,000 shots a day to 125,000 jabs daily, Kejriwal had announced that vaccination sites at Delhi government hospitals will run between 9am and 9pm from March 22. The government order from last Thursday read, “...all the Delhi Government hospitals will operate vaccination sites functioning in their premises up to at least 9pm.” Government analysis so far, however, has shown that there has been an uptick in immunisation in the government centres as compared to private ones. The turnout rate at government centres had increased March 16 onwards, with the centres seeing a 72% turnout (against capacity) on March 18, compared to 49% in private facilities, according to data seen by HT. Doctors from government hospitals, however, said the hospitals anyway had more capacity to vaccinate people. The challenge, they claim, lay in motivating people to come and get the shots. During a spot check earlier this week, HT found that the vaccination centre at two out of three hospitals that this reporter visited, had closed by 5pm. At trans-Yamuna region’s biggest Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, the tented waiting rooms outside its “walk-in” emergency department — it has now been converted into three vaccination centres — remained deserted on Tuesday. At 5:30pm, two staff nurses leaving the centre asked the reporter to return the following day between 9am and 5pm if she wanted to get the shot. “We have a capacity for vaccinating 600 people, but there were only 144 shots administered throughout the day. People are not coming even between 9am and 5pm, they need to be motivated,” said Dr RS Rautela, medical director, Guru Teg bahadur hospital. The “walk-in” emergency department had been set up in 2019 by the hospital to help triage patients outside its main emergency. Any patient who could walk by themselves and hence were thought to have a less severe problem could be treated at the one-hall structure. The structure now houses all three vaccination counters running at the hospital. According to a senior doctor at the hospital, the three sites itself have a capacity to inoculate 600 people. “However, we manage to vaccinate only about 300 to 350 people a day. The number hasn’t picked up despite increasing the capacity. The vaccination centres remain mostly vacant after around three in the afternoon. It is highly unlikely that people will come in at 7pm or 8pm to get their shots here,” said a doctor, on condition of anonymity. Elsewhere, at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, finding the vaccination centre itself was a challenge, with no proper signboard to guide beneficiaries to the vaccination centre behind the main hospital building. The tented waiting room outside was vacant and a lock hung on the door to the single-block vaccination centre at 6pm on Tuesday. A guard stationed at the neighbouring building asked the reporter to return before 5pm the next day. “Our vaccine doses haven’t been increased yet. The districts need to provide us with more manpower and furniture. We have only 200 doses allocated for the hospital and that usually runs out by afternoon. So, there is no point in running the centre till 9pm, just to have people come here and be turned away,” said Dr BL Sherwal, medical director, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital, Tahirpur. At the 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital, although all major gates to the staircase leading to the upper floors -- where the vaccination centres are located -- had been locked, a sign pointed to the one that remained open for Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesday at 7pm. Outside the site, there were nursing and police personnel who said anybody could get vaccinated 24x7 at the single operational site. Between 9am and 5pm, the hospital runs another vaccination centre at the same location, with a third centre at the super-speciality hospital in the same compound. The 24x7 vaccination centre at the hospital was not a new addition and has been functional for nearly a month now for administering shots to front-line workers who get off duty at odd hours. “We have one centre running at all times. Not many people come to the hospital at night time. Usually, only 10 or maybe 20 come after 5pm, and that too mostly police and CRPF (para military) personnel. Anyone who comes to the hospital at any time can get their shot at the centre,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital. The hospital vaccinates around 200 to 300 people a day, although it has a capacity to immunise over 600 persons. “We need to increase the pace of vaccination – it will help in preventing deaths and controlling the surge in infections. The government should vaccinate everyone over the age of 18 in the six states that have started seeing an increase in the number of cases. All the vaccines from other states should be diverted; the others can wait for it. And, we need to vaccinate our teachers and anciliary staff and open up schools and college,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.The Delhi government refused to comment on the issue, despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-pace-still-sluggish-lack-of-motivation-keeping-people-away-say-doctors-101616783731074.html
27-03-2021||Other||High end job scam that went for qualified people seeking managerial jobs with MNCs||New Delhi: Delhi Police has arrested five men who ran a “high-end job scam” in which they duped professionals looking for mid to senior managerial positions in multinational companies (MNCs), officers aware of the investigation said on Friday.The gang allegedly cheated about 500 jobseekers of nearly ₹7.5 crore. The gang’s kingpin, who was among those arrested, holds an MBA and a PhD in human resources (HR), police said.The group targeted people with an MBA or other postgraduate degrees, who had several years of experience, were earning six-figure monthly salaries, and looking to land senior posts such as senior manager or vice-president in leading private firms.The members of the group would gather the contact information of such jobseekers from their sources in recruitment agencies, police said.“An Uttam Nagar resident, who filed a complaint a few weeks ago, alerted us to the gang. He was duped of ₹20 lakh,” said deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy. He further said the fraudsters first posed as representatives of a reputed recruitment agency, and later as senior managers of an MNC that the victim was hoping to join at some point in his career. The man was made to deposit the money into various bank accounts on the pretext of payments for the selection process, document verification, profile completion, aptitude test, references, and other such expenses.Investigators analysed the phone numbers from which the victim received calls, and examined the money trail, before zeroing in on an alleged fake call centre operating from Gurugram. The five men who were arrested include the alleged mastermind, 44-year-old Manoj Hota, and two of his associates, Ashish Ranjan and Abhishek Kumar, both of whom have engineering degrees. The other two men, Sonu Rawal and Shaik Pintu, did not hold degrees and primarily kicked off conversations with jobseekers.Roy said Hota was a visiting faculty in various universities and colleges -- he did not name them -- and at one point had tried to start his own college. He was deep in debt when he planned the job racket.His targets were well-placed individuals looking for high-paying private jobs so that he could make more money by targeting fewer people, police said. “He hired men with strong communication skills so that they could pass themselves off as senior managers of MNCs,” said the DCP. Ranjan served as the primary manager for the call centre, while Kumar was the “star caller” who lured job seekers.The DCP said the suspects have been booked for cheating, impersonation and forgery.The police have seized seven computers and 14 mobile phones from them, which they will examine to gather more evidence against the suspects. Officers involved in the investigation said police will also attempt to identify more victims and try to recover the money duped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-end-job-scam-that-went-for-qualified-people-seeking-managerial-jobs-with-mncs-101616783610447.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Pune’s Fashion street, Camp, engulfed in flames on Friday||A huge fire broke out at Fashion street on MG road in Pune late on Friday evening. The fire department rushed 11 fire tenders to the spot. Several residents reported power cuts in parts of the Camp area, Pune. Amit Kumar , Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) CEO said that the entire fashion street was burnt down due to the sudden fire, the cause of which was unknown till the time of going to press. “It is an unfortunate incident which happened back to back after the Shivaji Market incident. The issue of fire safety at Fashion Street has always been a cause of concern before the administration.”The fire brigade had a tough time reaching the spot due to the congestion of the road leading to the market.No reports on injuries or casualties were reported at this time. More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-fashion-street-camp-engulfed-in-flames-on-friday-101616782950818.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s anti-conversion Bill hits legal hurdle||The much-flaunted Freedom of Religion Bill piloted by the BJP-led Haryana government has hit a legal hurdle with the state government’s law and legislative secretary raising serious objections on the proposed legislation.The proposed legislation, which state home minister Anil Vij likes to term a law against ‘Love-Jihad’, is primarily aimed at stopping forced religious conversions.The Bill which was planned for being introduced during the recently-concluded assembly session could not be tabled due to concerns raised by the law and legislative secretary or legal remembrancer (LR).The law and legislative secretary, who is tasked with legally vetting the draft Bill, said that not only it was in violation of constitutional scheme of private liberty and privacy of an individual; against the constitutional scheme in terms of fundamental duties enshrined under Article 51-A of the Constitution and against the provisions of Special Marriage Act, it also contains contradictory and legally weak provisions.Vij said objections raised by the law secretary were clarified by the advocate general.Haryana advocate general BR Mahajan said he has answered issues raised by the law secretary and recommended that the Bill can be tabled in the Haryana assembly.The law secretary, however, does not seem convinced with the clarifications given by the advocate general. In a March 16 communication, the law secretary said that observations raised by the law and legislative department regarding the Bill have not been dealt properly with reasoning.“Some observations of the department were not dealt with in depth and only general passing observations were made by the office of advocate general,” the note reads.OBJECTIONS RAISED BY LAW DEPTThe law secretary, in the note, has said that the substance material in the proposed draft Bill is contrary to the constitutional scheme, which confers every individual the fundamental right to profess, practice and propagate his religion, as it provided for penal provision of professing, practising and propagating another religion without the permission of a district magistrate even in the non-eventuality of marriage.The law department said that since the fundamental duties enshrined in the Constitution provided for promotion of harmony and the spirit of brotherhood among people transcending all religious, linguistic and regional diversities, the proposed Bill was against this constitutional scheme as well as against provisions of the Special Marriage Act which was enacted to enable marriages of couples of different religions.‘VIOLATES LIBERTY, PRIVACY OF INDIVIDUALS’“The proposed Bill violates constitutional scheme of private liberty and privacy of an individual. The fundamental right to privacy as envisaged under Article 21 protects an individual’s ability to make choices and decisions that are intimate. A Supreme Court’s nine-judge landmark judgment upheld the fundamental right to privacy and clearly said that it is upon an individual how she wanted to exercise her freedom to make those personal choices. Whether one’s partner would be of the same faith or not, is a private decision,” the law secretary said.Objecting to a provision in the Bill which provided that return of any person to his ancestral religion shall not be deemed to be conversion, the law secretary said that this expresses bias and arbitrariness and this provision may not withstand legal scrutiny.The law secretary said that another provision providing for filing of complaint by the parents or siblings or with the leave of the court by any other person even if the conversion is that of an adult, conveyed bad legal sense.Another clause of the Bill, which shifts the burden of proof upon the accused to prove that conversion is not fraudulent, is against the spirit of fundamental premises of Indian Jurisprudence and Evidence Act, the note said.Also, the proposed Bill nowhere has a provision for appeal which is against the principles of natural justice, the law secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-anti-conversion-bill-hits-legal-hurdle-101616776710034.html
27-03-2021||Pune||Pune dist sees 7,147 fresh Covid cases, 10 deaths||Pune district reported a spike with 7,147 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Ten deaths were reported in the district on Thursday, with six in Pune rural, three in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and one in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 258,728 cases and 4,693 deaths till Thursday whereas PCMC has reported 126,376 cases and 1,362 virus deaths. Pune rural has reported 116,436 cases and 2,200 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 501,540 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 440,896 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,304 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 52,340 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 17,019 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 2,300,056 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 87.2%.Across Maharashtra, 36,902 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 112 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.04%.The state health department stated that of 19,035,439 laboratory samples, 2,637,735 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 13.86% patients till Thursday.Currently 1,429,998 people are in home quarantine and 14,578 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-sees-7-147-fresh-covid-cases-10-deaths-101616774909272.html
27-03-2021||Pune||HSC, SSC students protest at Shaniwarwada in Pune, taken in custody and released||In a demand to conduct the forthcoming examination of Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) class 12 and State Secondary Certificate (SSC) class 10 exams online, around 100 students protested outside the Shaniwarwada main entrance gate. The protest was organised by students and not by any organisation or group. Since the protesting group did not have any prior police permission for the protest, the police stopped the demonstration. For a brief period, there was tension at the spot as some students were taken into custody but later released after counselling. “From the last one year, everything is online, our classes, studies, work from home for parents, webinars and everything. Our demand is that our exams also be held online. The number of Covid cases is again on the rise in our state and we don’t want to risk our lives as the examination is going to be offline,” said Vijendra Naidu, a protesting student.A total of 30 to 40 students gathered at the Shaniwarwada inside premises initially at 12 noon on Friday, however, the number rose to 100 slowly as the message of the protest spread through social media. “We simply want an answer from the state government, on one hand, they are imposing lockdown in some cities and then forcing us to come to give the examinations. This is playing with the lives of thousands of students, instead, they should conduct the exams online and for that, we are protesting today,” said another student Chinmay Hawaldar.As the numbers grew, local police came to the spot and started talking to students. They appealed to students to go away from the spot, but as students were not ready to move then some protesting students were taken into custody. Vijay Tikole, senior police inspector at Vishrambaug police station said, “Our policemen spoke to the protesting students, made them aware that they didn’t have police permission and as per the Covid restrictions, gathering of such large number of students won’t be allowed. After the appeal from police, the students went away from the spot and no complaint was lodged against anyone.”As per the Maharashtra State Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board, the SSC class 10 board exams will commence from April 29 and end on May 20 while that of HSC class 12 board exam will begin on April 23 and end on May 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hsc-ssc-students-protest-at-shaniwarwada-taken-in-custody-and-released-101616767408843.html
27-03-2021||Pune||CFR in Pune remains lower than previous Covid peak in 2020||As of March 24, the case fatality rate (CFR) in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is 2.1 per cent, whereas in Pune district it stands 1.9 per cent, as per the district administration. The CFR in Pune remains lower than the previous Covid peak in 2020, despite a major spike in cases this time. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief of the health department at the PMC, said, “Last year, the number of deaths was the same, but overall cases were fewer. This time, number of cases is high, but the number of deaths is the same; so the rate is not affected.” He added that last year, for many doctors the protocol of treatment was still evolving. “Now the doctors are trained. There is more awareness among patients as well, so they are seeking treatment in time. Due to all of this, the CFR is low,” said Wavare. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra chapter, said that the virus has mutated and 90 per cent of patients are asymptomatic. “Maximum patients are aged 20-40 years. As the numbers increase, the spread is faster, especially among patients with co-morbidity. So, even though the CFR is less right now, it will gradually increase,” said Dr Bhondwe. The positivity rate in Pune district as on March 24 was 17.9 per cent, whereas in PMC it is reported at 17.8 per cent. For Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) it is at 16.7 per cent, and for Pune rural, the positivity rate is at 17.9 per cent, as per the district authorities. “After varied experience, doctors from India and across the globe, have refined the treatment protocol thus giving more effective treatment to critical patients. Hence, the CFR may increase slowly, but it will not be very high,” said Dr Bhondwe. Dr Mahesh M Lakhe, consultant - Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Columbia Asia Hospital, Pune, said that one year into the pandemic we also have a better understanding of treatment modalities and preventing complications. “The increase in cases has been very sharp and sudden, which means that only in the past two weeks we have started witnessing a significantly higher number of cases. Since in most cases fatality happens after 15 days, we might witness an increase in CFR in the coming weeks. Increasing testing numbers and ensuring that all diagnosed get medical attention immediately can keep fatality rates low,” said Dr Lakhe. Case Fatality Rate (CFR) *Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) -- 2.1% *Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) --1.5% *Pune, Dehu and Khadki Cantonments -- 2.4% *Pune Rural -- 2.1% *Pune District -- 1.9% *Source: District administration||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cfr-in-pune-remains-lower-than-previous-covid-peak-in-2020-101616767288769.html
27-03-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Spaces, Inner and Outer||“A city isn’t so unlike a person. They both have the marks to show they have many stories to tell.” -Rasmenia Massoud; Broken Abroad If you happened to be a sleepy child in the back seat of your parent’s car in the Sixties, being driven home to Juhu at night after a long day in ‘town’, chances are, you would not have to open your eyes to know where you’d reached at any part of the journey. After all, navigating Mumbai’s north-south trajectory was an olfactory skill acquired by many children at that time. Through closed eyes, you would pick up the peculiar gas balloon-like effluvium that assailed your nostrils while passing through Prabhadevi; Bandra would announce itself with a tangy bouquet of Bombay duck left out to dry along its shoreline; and at the stretch connecting Linking Road to Juhu, after the car had turned left, the air would be redolent with the fetid whiff of illicit alcohol, brewing in the marshlands that flanked both sides of the road. But it was only when you crossed Juhu Tara and you breathed in the untamed, squally-salty tang of the open sea that you’d know you were on the homestretch and it would be only five minutes before strong, loving arms would carry you to your warm and waiting bed. Juhu, once an island — a long, narrow sand bar just off the west coast of Salsette, accessed during low tides by walking across the tidal inlet; presented along with Bombay as part of a Portuguese princess’ dowry; the early home of toddy tappers, salt traders and sundry cultivators; the proposed site of Jamsetji Tata’s most ambitious plans for an Eastern Venice, the iconic aerodrome to which his descendant JRD Tata would later fly after his maiden flight from Karachi; the refuge of Mahatma Gandhi during the high point of the Freedom struggle. Juhu, inhabited by fisher folk and film stars, royalty and rough necks, writers and airline crew, would be your habitat and homing ground, your realm and universe for the first 17 years of your life. “Cities, like dreams, are made of desires and fears,” wrote Italo Calvino in his meticulously-charted Invisible Cities, in which he examined the warp and weft of the places we live in and the intersections between the personal and the public. Indeed, the places we inhabit have geography and can be located by GPS, but to locate their culpability in who we ultimately become, often takes a lifetime. For some of us, who did our growing up in Juhu, its every stone and cranny, crack and crevice, holds meaning and memory. For instance, would you believe that this unprepossessing upmarket mansion was once the thatched cottage repository of all that was bright and beautiful in someone’s life? Home to a high-spirited clan, said to be too gifted for its own good, it proved to be a child’s first lesson in the merciless slings and arrows of fate that assail the guileless and open-hearted. And look, it was beneath this ancient tree that a star-crossed couple had made its first pledges of ardour, confident that their love would surmount all challenges; it was that unassuming thoroughfare, running parallel to the beach, through which regularly passed fulsome funeral corteges, the men be-hatted and the women forbidding behind veils, to the accompaniment of a brass band, on their grim passage to St Joseph’s Church at the end of the road. And at least three times a week, from this low-rent, seen-better-days structure, would emerge an out tune, My Bonny Lies over the Ocean, the midnight culmination of a jolly brood’s evening of a rum and sorpotel-soaked repast ; it was from an apartment in that tower that the first cries of anguish were heard from the family of an airline crew member when the news of the ill-fated Air India Flight 101 in 1966 first reached; this humble stairwell had sheltered four families of frightened neighbours during the earthquake of 1967; it was into that deep and narrow well that an angry father had threatened to throw himself, when his headstrong daughter had refused to get married, on the eve of her wedding; and this neglected sea side cottage had served as the rendezvous for the ageing, reclusive cinema heartthrob, when she had conducted her lyrical affair with her much younger co-star. Juhu, once the address of high-born Parsi blue stockings and swarthy, permanently-tanned Alpha males; of visionary millionaires and idealistic poets; the scene of fierce turf wars between rival gangs, where a dagger might easily be drawn; and hippy-trippy love-ins, at the homes of the flower-power potted generation. Juhu, the sandy tract dotted with sleepy cottages and overgrown vegetation which gave way to multi-rises, housing complexes, swanky department stores, shady rent-by-night hotels, ersatz bars and watering holes, and then later, malls, mansions and multiplexes. A coconut grove transformed in to a five-star hotel; an elegant sea-facing bungalow belonging to a high-minded spinster, became a builder’s fantasy Xanadu, a swampy marshland into the abode of superstars. Will we ever realise the extent to which the places we live in mold us or how one man’s everyday, ordinary surroundings, might have been the crux or crucible of another’s life? Or why, wherever we travel in the city we must tread softly, because we tread on dreams? Because, in the end, beneath it all, what else are we, gentle reader, but sleepy children on a journey, waiting for strong, loving arms to carry us to warm and waiting beds?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-spaces-inner-and-outer-101616762669442.html
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, Centre rushes high-level team to Chandigarh||The ministry of health and family welfare on Friday rushed a high-level multidisciplinary team to Chandigarh in view of surge in the number of Covid-19 cases being reported from the Union Territory. The central team will work with the UT administration to ascertain the reason/s for the surge, assist in undertaking gap analysis and recommend requisite Covid-19 control and containment measures. The team to Chandigarh is led by Vijoy Kumar Singh, additional secretary and financial adviser, ministry of textiles, with experts drawn from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi, and Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi. With 3,834 infections already this month, compared to 845 in February, Chandigarh has recorded a 354% spike in cases.This surge is also steeper than when the pandemic had hit its peak in September last year, as it took less than 45 days for the active cases to cross the 2,300 mark in February, against 60 days back then.The central team shall visit the hotspots in the UT to take a stock of on-ground implementation of public health interventions. It will share the key findings, recommendations and remedial measures to be taken up with the UT administrator. Also read: Amid Covid-19 surge, schools, colleges shut in HP till April 4Curbs in placeThe swelling cases had prompted the administration to introduce a slew of restrictions earlier this week, including closure of all educational institutions till March 31 and curbs on outdoor gatherings, including political, social and wedding events. Permission from the deputy commissioner (DC), who will decide the number of guests, is mandatory for such events.Restaurants, hotels and eateries can take the last order till only 10pm and have to bring down their shutters by 11pm, besides limiting their customers to 50% of their seating capacity. All state museums, libraries, auditoriums and theatres run by the Chandigarh administration have also been closed till further orders.There is a complete ban on public gatherings for Holi and no clubs, hotels or restaurants will be allowed to host any ceremonial gathering on the occasion. Besides, public gatherings are banned at Sukhna Lake, Sector-17 Plaza and parks, which normally see high number of Holi revellers. Residents celebrating at home are expected to follow all Covid-appropriate protocol||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-surge-centre-rushes-high-level-team-to-chandigarh-101616758348973.html
