28-03-2021||Other||In poll year, Punjab’s power utility takes U-turn on tariff revision; seeks 20-32% reduction||Sensing that power tariff will be a major poll issue in next year’s state assembly polls, the Punjab government has asked the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to seek reduction in rates for domestic consumers, and that too, a whopping 32% or one-third of the present charges. This is a U-turn from PSPCL’s December stance, when it had approached the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) for a 9% hike. Now, under government pressure, it has asked the regulator to decrease tariff. In the latest state cabinet meeting, ministers had objected to the ‘high tariff’ on electricity, an issue that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has already raised in Punjab, claiming that their Delhi model was superior. In its revised Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) petition, the PSPCL is claiming a deficit of ₹3,003 crore on current tariff for the next fiscal, but has not asked for tariff hike. The overall cumulative revenue gap at the end of 2021-22 is projected at ₹9,807 crore. In the revised petition, for domestic consumers up to 2 KW load, PSPCL has sought reduction of tariff for first 100 units from ₹4.49 to ₹3.2, a reduction of 32% from previous proposed tariff. There is reduction for domestic consumers ranging between 20% and 32%. The PSPCL, adopting the AAP government style, will recover this amount by imposing hike on industrial and non-domestic consumers. “The retail tariff approved in tariff order for 2020-21 doesn’t meet total revenue requirement for 2021-22, including past revenue gaps. The recovery of total revenue gaps in a single year would increase existing tariff substantially, this would lead to tariff shock for consumers. PSPCL doesn’t intend to give tariff shock to its consumers and we propose to recover ₹9,807 crore over the next 2-5 years,” reads the revised PSPCL proposal that HT has accessed. All-India Power Engineers Association Spokesman VK Gupta claimed that the PSPCL management was working under pressure. “On one side it is admitting that there is revenue requirement over last year’s tariff, but now it has asked for no revision. In power subsidy, it is short of almost ₹7,000 crore and is still not asking for recovery from power bills.”HT made repeated attempts to contact PSPCL chairman and managing director A Venu Prasad, but could not connect with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-poll-year-punjab-s-power-utility-takes-u-turn-on-tariff-revision-seeks-20-32-reduction-101616955703524.html
28-03-2021||Dehradun||With Mahakumbh nearing, Uttarakhand reports highest daily Covid-19 cases this year||Uttarakhand on Sunday reported 366 new Covid-19 cases, the highest number of daily cases this year so far. Previously, the highest number of single-day cases was registered on January 1, 2021, when the state had reported 361 cases. The fresh cases have taken the state’s tally of total cases to 99,881. Given the state had reported 27 fresh cases on March 1, this is a significant surge in Covid-19 infections in the state just within a month. The surge has been reported at a time when the state government has issued notification for the one- month long Mahakumbh fair in Haridwar. The mega event will begin on April 1 and nearly 3-5 crore pilgrims are expected to attend the religious fair. There are serious concerns that Mahakumbh can emerge as a Covid-19 super-spreader. Out of 99,881 who have tested positive for Covid-19 so far in the state, a total of 95,025 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 95.146 per cent. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 3.68.05 per cent while the case fatality rate stands at 1.71 per cent. Also read: ‘Covid under control’ - Uttarakhand govt as virus cluster emerges in RishikeshThere are 1,660 active cases in the state now, including 494 in Haridwar district. So far, 1,709 Covid-19 positive people have died in the state. On Sunday, however, there was no Covid-19 death reported in the state. On Sunday, 42 Covid-19 positive people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with a maximum, 40, from Dehradun district. According to the state health bulletin issued on Sunday, a maximum of 167 cases were reported from Dehradun district, followed by 59 fresh cases in Haridwar and 54 in Tehri Garhwal district. Chamoli and Champawat districts didn’t report any fresh case on Sunday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases (30,823), followed by Haridwar (14,947), Nainital (13,107) and US Nagar (11,749). The state health department has so far tested 27.14 lakh people of which results of over 6,300 are pending. However, despite a surge in cases, on Sunday, only 7,627 samples from across the 13 districts were sent for testing, including 2,791 from Haridwar district. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based think tank called Social Development for Communities, who has been analysing Covid-19 data in the hill state, said, 366 cases in a day is the highest so far this year. “The rising cases in the state is a matter of serious concern “In the past one week ending March 27, the state has reported over 1000 active cases after seven weeks and 1,000 plus positive cases after nine weeks. There is a need to increase testing and become more cautious given the surge in Covid-19 cases again. Samples sent for testing on Sunday were just over 7,600. This has to change and testing has to be increased manifold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/with-mahakumbh-nearing-uttarakhand-reports-highest-daily-covid-19-cases-this-year-101616954503440.html
28-03-2021||Noida||Noida: RT-PCR samples of vaccinated healthcare workers taken to analyse post-jab infection||NOIDA: To analyse the chances of people testing positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease post-vaccination, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has taken the RT-PCR samples of as many as 311 doctors and paramedics, who have taken both doses of vaccines, from three private hospitals on Saturday. The reports of the tests, however, are expected by Monday evening. District magistrate Suhas LY said: “As the standard genetic RT-PCR tests are considered the golden standard for Covid-19 tests, it will be the most accurate detector of infectious cases after the vaccination, if any. The results will also be a useful tool for mass screening programs in the district,” he said.“The district has achieved its target of inoculating 65,048 persons belonging to the senior citizen category and people over 45 years having co-morbidities. For the coming month, we have doubled the target as the government has allowed everyone over 45 years for vaccination from April 1,” he said.Echoing similar views, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that the Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method was preferred instead of the rapid antigen tests due to their accuracy. “Antigen tests can give results within minutes and are cheaper than genetic RT-PCR tests. But they’re not as sensitive as RT-PCR tests and can miss cases where people have low levels of the virus in their system. On an average, we are conducting 4,000 tests every day, which will be increased to 7,000 tests per day,” he said. The CMO further said that in the current situation, early and timely tracking of new cases is the main focus of the health department. “At present, most of the infected patients are under home quarantine,” he said. Ohri also said that out of the 400-odd random testing in bordering areas of Ashok Nagar, bus stands and metro stations in Botanical Garden since Thursday, no one was found Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-rt-pcr-samples-of-vaccinated-healthcare-workers-taken-to-analyse-post-jab-infection-101616953062877.html
28-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG, Gurugram health dept to start ops to curb spread of dengue, malaria in 10 days: Officials||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), and the district health department have increased anti-larvae and fumigation operations following a surge in the dengue cases since 2020. Several heads of these departments have given formal training to about 110 officials from the MCG and the health department for the operations in the past two days.We want to kick-start the operations within the next 10 days, said the officials.According to the officials, the health department is changing its strategy this year, and will recommend hospitals to carry out malaria and dengue tests for patients displaying common vector-borne symptoms such as high fever so that early diagnosis can help in taking preventive measures at the earliest.“The cases were much higher in 2020 as compared to 2019. We don’t want the trend to continue in 2021 and want to turn it around. So, we are starting preventive measures in advance. We aim to start taking anti-vector-borne measures on the ground within the next 10 days,” said Dr Ram Prakash Rai, district epidemiologist.Usually, the MCG and health department start such operations during May-end, before the pre-monsoon showers. About 51 dengue cases and four malaria cases were reported in 2020, and 22 dengue cases and 15 malaria cases in 2019.“Apart from keeping a check in the dengue cases, we also want to follow preventive measures taken last year. The lowest number of malaria cases have been reported in the past five years. The strategies for dengue and malaria are different, so we will make arrangements accordingly,” said Rai.Meanwhile, no chikungunya cases have been reported in Gurugram since 2018.Malaria is caused by mosquitoes that breed in dirty water, while dengue is caused by mosquitoes that breed in cleaner water. “We will identify areas where accumulation of water is common, especially during the monsoon season, and allocate our resources accordingly,” Rai added.Following the coronavirus-imposed national lockdown in 2020, the MCG and the district health department officials, too, took conventional measures like anti-larvae and fumigation operations to curb the spread of dengue and malaria, and put kerosene in collected water pools, introduced gambusia fish that feed on mosquito larvae in water bodies on large-scale in July.Based on the cases reported in 2020, the MCG officials are mapping areas — such as Wazirabad village — where the highest number of cases were reported and deputing more officials in such areas. “We will have a clearer idea of the areas from where cases have emerged through mapping. It is likely that localised accumulation of rainwater and drainage overflow are prevalent there, which lead to mosquito breeding. Once we identify the locations, we will depute more teams to those areas with hand-held fogging machines, and gambusia fish among others,” said a senior MCG official. In 2020, the MCG and the health department officials had found larvae from over 1,600 houses. Following which two new hatcheries were created for breeding gambusia fish in Wazirabad and Pataudi last year. Prior to this, the city had one gambusia hatchery in the district malaria office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-gurugram-health-dept-to-start-ops-to-curb-spread-of-dengue-malaria-in-10-daysofficials-101616953003400.html
28-03-2021||Other||GMDA seeks proposals to work on a Nagar Van||Gurugram The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is seeking proposals to start working on an urban forest — an extension of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park — that will be developed on a 100-hectare land in Gurugram, said the officials on Sunday. The authority started seeking proposals for the project, which will be undertaken as a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative, on Friday.According to the GMDA, interested agencies, companies or NGOs have to send proposals for the project, as development partners under the CSR Initiative, within April 12.As per the project description uploaded on the website, the GMDA is planning to develop Nagar Van (Urban Forests) at Sikanderpur or Chakkarpur Aravallis as per the guidelines of Nagar Van Yojana of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Government of India. “It will provide a healthy living environment to the residents of Gurugram, thus contributing to the development of a green, clean, healthy and sustainable city,” it said.Subash Yadav, divisional forest officer and head of urban environment division, GMDA, said, “We already have a biodiversity park, but we do not have an urban forest which is more accessible to the public. This park will focus on public utilities like a space for sitting, recreation, an interpretation centre for learning about plant species, and development of water bodies for groundwater recharge among others. We are planning to develop the forest over a 100-hectare area near Sikanderpur.”According to the Nagar Van scheme, the Gurugram authority is likely to carry out activities like fencing the area, establishing and maintaining wood blocks with emphasis on locally appropriate tree or shrub species, theme-based plantations like Smriti Van, Rashi/Nakshatra Vatika, and arboretum.The officials asserted that Gurugram needs an urban forest to work on issues like decreasing water table and improving air quality among others.“As the population is increasing, so is the pressure on natural resources. The demand for development of green spaces as per growing population is also increasing. The urban forest on the borders of the national capital in Sikander Ghosi and Chakkarpur will be an expansion of the already developed Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Nathupur, and will act as green lungs for the residents of the national capital region. It will also act as the centre of biodiversity conservation, recreation, water conservation (as recycled water is proposed for plantation activities), eco-tourism, and public awareness,” said a senior GMDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gmda-seeks-proposals-to-work-on-a-nagar-van-101616953002831.html
28-03-2021||Gurugram||Mercury soars to 38.7°C, to rise further||The maximum temperature in the city touched a season-high of 38.7 degrees Celsius on Sunday, which was six degrees Celsius above normal and a sharp spike from 35.9 degrees recorded the day before. As per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) weekly forecast, the temperature is likely to soar further on Monday and touch 39 degrees Celsius. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 17.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday. According to the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 39 degrees Celsius and 22 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Monday. A clear sky will also prevail on Monday, as per the forecast. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that while the temperature is likely to rise till Monday, it will dip again from March 30 (Tuesday) on account of strong winds. As per the IMD’s official bulletin, dust-raising strong surface winds (with speeds reaching 30-40 kmph) are likely over Haryana between March 30 and April 1. The city’s air quality entered the poor zone on Sunday, with the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin recording a value of 214. The air quality worsened from Saturday’s AQI reading of 183 that was in the moderate category. Experts attributed the deterioration in air quality to slower wind speeds that were not effective in the dispersion of pollutants. The concentration of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 204.02 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Sunday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 276.92µg/m³ on Sunday. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality over Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in the moderate to the poor category on Monday. The air quality is likely to be in the moderate category on Tuesday and subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate to poor category over the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mercury-soars-to-38-7-c-to-rise-further-101616952944091.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Coach booked for raping 14-year-old in Jind school||A wrestling coach was booked for allegedly raping a 14-year-old Dalit girl at the government school of a village in Jind on Saturday, police said. The victim is a Class-8 student in the same school. In his complaint, the victim’s father had said his daughter had been taking wrestling coaching after school hours. “My daughter had gone for wrestling coaching when the accused took her to a room and raped her. He also threatened to kill her if she told anybody about the sexual assault,” he said. Jind women’s police station house officer (SGO) Prem Kumari said they had booked the accused under Section 376(3) (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.“ We have launched a manhunt to nab the accused. An investigation has been initiated into the matter,” Kumari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coach-booked-for-raping-14-year-old-in-jind-school-101616952523541.html
28-03-2021||Kolkata||‘Make fool of BJP on April Fool’s day, we’d play Holi on May 2’: Mamata Banerjee||With just four days to go before West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee takes on BJPs heavyweight candidate Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in East Midnapore, the TMC supremo urged voters to make a fool of the BJP on April 1, also known as April Fool’s Day, and said that she would play Holi on May 2 when the results are declared. “April 1 is April Fool’s Day. Make a fool of them on April 1 and we would play Holi on May 2 with many colours like green and red,” said Banerjee while addressing a program on Dol Yatra in Nandigram. This was Banerjee’s first rally in Nandigram after she filed her nomination on March 10. The TMC supremo had to be rushed back to Kolkata after she sustained injuries on March 10. The chief minister and top TMC leaders had earlier alleged that it was a deliberate attack and a conspiracy to kill her. The BJP had then said that Banerjee had insulted the people of Nandigram. “Four to five people pushed me. People of Nandigram have no fault. I am not blaming anyone. I am grateful to the person who helped me with a pack of ice after I was injured,” she added. As the BJP has mounted an attack on Mamata trying to project her as an outsider in Nandigram, she tried to focus on her ‘bhoomikanya’ image. Also read: To Amit Shah’s BJP win in Phase 1 claim, Mamata hurls outsider barb“I would like to tell those who are underestimating me and tagging me as an outsider that I am bhoomikanya (daughter of the soil). I am your daughter now. This is my constituency and I am here to stay here for the next four to five days. I will leave only after the elections are held on April 1 and then come back later,” she added. The TMC supremo also said that she could have won by 50,000 votes had she contested from Bhabanipur, her traditional seat and home turf. “Do you think that I didn’t have a seat to contest? I would have won by a margin of 50,000 votes had I contested from Bhabanipur. I am the daughter of Bengal and could have contested from any seat and won. But I came to Nandigram to salute the soil,” she said.The chief minister mounted a veiled attack on her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari, who has vowed to defeat her by 50,000 votes, and his father Sisir Adhikari, who was recently seen at a rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi despite being a TMP MP. “I later came to know that police could not have entered Nandigram (in 2007) without the permission of the father and the son. I challenge this. Even I run a government and had gathered information later,” she said while referring to the police firing in Nandigram in 2007 in which 14 persons lost their lives. “Everyone knows what happened in Nandigram. People of Nandigram would give their response on April 1. Where was she when the Nandigram incident took place? It was I who brought her to Nandigram. Mamata Banerjee would have come to power had there been no Nandigram or Singur. If she has the guts and she comes from a decent family she should come in front of me and tell me on my face and I would reply,” Sisir Adhikari said.“No matter what drama she plays with a broken leg or a broken hand, I will defeat the Begum,” Suvendu Adhikari said while addressing a rally at Sagar island in South 24 Parganas. Banerjee also took on Union home minister Amit Shah who had told the media in Delhi that in the first phase, the BJP would win more than 26 out of 30 seats in Bengal.“I believe that after winning 26 seats in the first phase in Bengal, it will be very easy for us to win over 200 seats overall. The party workers and I have full faith in this,” Shah said in Delhi. “How can the Union home minister say that they would win 26 seats? Did he enter the EVMs or have rigged the machines? When the machines are opened (on counting day) you will see that there would be a game and everything would become zero. There would be only grass and flower (symbol of TMC),” she added. Earlier in the day, TMC MP Derek O’Brien had said that Shah was making such statements to boost the morale of the BJP workers. “Shah is a dhopbaaj (liar),” he added. Meanwhile, in Kolkata, the TMC sent a letter to the ECI alleging that the poll panel’s order of relaxing the rules for the appointment of polling agents was “arbitrary, motivated and biased”. The TMC urged the poll panel to withdraw the order. This comes a day after the TMC had released an audio clip in which the BJP’s vice president Mukul Roy could be purportedly heard telling another party leader Sisir Bajoria that they must approach the commission to get the rule relaxed. On Saturday, Bajoria had said that it is no secret as the BJP had given an official letter to the ECI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/make-fool-of-bjp-on-april-fool-s-day-we-d-play-holi-on-may-2-mamata-banerjee-101616951684015.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||Photo story: Mumbai stays home as night curfew rolls in||As the curfew to check the spread of the coronavirus disease cases in Maharashtra started, people in the Maximum City of Mumbai retreated indoors and places like Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Juhu Beach, Marine Drive, which are usually bustling with activity on a typical Sunday, appeared deserted. A state-wide night curfew has been imposed from Sunday till April 15, from 8pm to 7am. Under the curfew rules, a gathering of five and more people is not allowed and cinema halls, malls, restaurants, auditoriums, beaches are not allowed to remain open once the clock strikes 8pm.Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day increase in infections on Sunday night. The state recorded 40,414 new cases of Covid-19, taking its tally to 2,713,875. The capital city of Mumbai also reported its highest-ever spike in the daily tally of cases since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/photo-story-mumbai-stays-home-as-night-curfew-rolls-in-101616945205765.html
28-03-2021||Noida||Two Greater Noida authority officials among four arrested for cattle deaths||Noida: The Ecotech 3 police arrested four persons, including two officials of the Greater Noida authority, on Saturday in connection with the deaths of cattle at Kanha Gaushala in Jalpura. The issue had come to fore on March 25 after a video of starving or dead cattle went viral on social media. Several animal rights activists rushed to the shelter with fodder and medical aid. Activists alleged that the officials arranged food and medicines only after “being exposed”. Activists who had visited the cow shelter — which is run by the Greater Noida authority — had alleged that starvation and absence of proper medical facilities were the main reasons behind the deaths. They had also alleged that at least 20 bovines died between March 24 and 25, and that dozens had died earlier and were buried in a nearby field. However, authority officials claimed that only six bovines had died due to injuries, or due to polythene consumption.The animals were buried without an autopsy as the deaths were not suspicious, the authority officials had said.Following the circulation of the video, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had acknowledged the matter. Based on a complaint filed by Shiv Prakash Shukla, officer on special duty of the authority, a case was registered at the Ecotech 3 police station against a private supervisor and compounder of the shelter. The authority also named a vet and an engineer, in-charge of the shelter, of the authority in the case filed under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 201, 409, 429, 34 and 120B, and relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.The arrested persons were identified as Sheetal Prakash Tiwari, supervisor, Satendra Kumar, compounder, Dr. Prem chand, vet, and Ramesh Chandra, engineer.“We have taken necessary action, and all suspects named in the case have been apprehended,” said Bhubnesh Kumar Sharma, station house officer, Ecotech 3 police station.Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said, “We have removed the contractors in question, and they won’t be taking care of the bovine shelter now. We have formed a committee to probe the matter and directed the staff to improve the condition of the shelter at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-greater-noida-authority-officials-among-four-arrested-for-cattle-deaths-101616951023397.html
28-03-2021||Noida||Guard’s murder at cash firm: Former security manager arrested||Noida: A 33-year-old former security manager of a cash and logistics company in Sector 2 was arrested on Saturday night in connection with the killing of a security guard of the company more than a month ago. The suspect had also worked in the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) as an assistant commandant, police said, adding that he was fired by the Noida company in September last year. The incident had taken place on February 9 when Uttam Kesharwani, the security guard, was shot dead by a masked intruder in a robbery bid at the cash management company. The incident was caught in CCTV cameras, police said. “Teams had been formed to look into the case. We had obtained the data of former employees of the company as the case from the very beginning suggested the involvement of someone familiar with the layout of the premises,” said Kumar Rannvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police have identified the suspect as Arun Gehlot, a resident of Delhi’s Najafgarh. He was nabbed by Sector 20 police from near the Rajnigandha underpass, police said, adding that the revolver used in the crime was also recovered from him.“During the struggle of the suspect with the security guard, his mask had come undone. Worried that he would be recognized, he had shot the guard before fleeing,” said Singh.Police officials said that Gehlot had joined CRPF in 2003 and was relieved in 2014 as an assistant commandant, after which he started working as a private security head. He had joined the Noida company in 2018 as the regional security manager, they said.An employee of the company, on condition of anonymity, said that there had been complaints regarding Gehlot’s behaviour and when the firm did lay-offs during the pandemic, he was let go in September last year.Police said that Gehlot was incensed after getting fired as he claimed that he had helped the firm a lot financially, and wanted to get back at them for which he devised the robbery plan. “He was familiar with the security system. He came to Noida on late February 8, but while breaching the premises he was intercepted by the guard,” said Singh.The police officials said that the murder was not pre-planned and that the suspect does not have any other criminal history. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/guards-murder-at-cash-firm-former-security-manager-arrested-101616951022864.html
28-03-2021||Noida||Mercury may touch 39°C in Noida today, says IMD||Noida: Noida saw a spike in the day time temperature on Sunday, with the India Meteorological department (IMD) forecasting further rise in the mercury over the next two days. According to the IMD, the maximum temperature is likely to reach 39 degrees Celsius by Monday but fall from Tuesday to hover around 36 degrees Celsius for the rest of the week.On Sunday, Noida saw a maximum and minimum temperature of 37.7 degrees Celsius and 19.5 degrees Celsius, respectively, against 34.9 and 17.9 degrees Celsius a day earlier. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the national Capital region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 37.3 degrees Celsius and 17.9 degrees Celsius, respectively.“The wind speed was low on Sunday, with clear sky, leading to a rise in temperature. The mercury will further spike by 2 degree Celsius over the next 24 hours and maximum temperature may reach 39 degrees Celsius. From Tuesday onwards, however, the wind speed will pick up and the temperatures may fall,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. Meanwhile, the air quality of the region deteriorated slightly from ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Sunday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 227 against 179 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 276 against 197 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 273 on Sunday against 234 on Saturday.An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality may improve slightly after two days.“Surface winds are calm and forecasted to increase gradually. An increase in coarse dust contribution in suspended particles is expected. AQI is likely to stay in the ‘poor’ category for the next 48 hrs. High winds and better ventilation are forecasted from March Tuesday onwards. AQI is likely to improve the ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category on March Tuesday and Wednesday,” said a SAFAR statement on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-may-touch-39-c-in-noida-today-says-imd-101616950842712.html
28-03-2021||Noida||IIT-Delhi to help Ghaziabad, Noida tackle air pollution||Ghaziabad: The regional officials of UPPCB for Ghaziabad and Noida, which are among the 132 cities in the country selected for the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with experts from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi, who will help the twin cities combat the rising air pollution. The contract was signed in the presence of Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar at New Delhi on Friday. The NCAP is a long-term and time-bound national level strategy to tackle air pollution across the country in a comprehensive manner. It has targets to achieve 20% to 30% reduction in particulate matter concentration by 2024 with 2017 as the base year. As part of the programme, 132 cities have signed MoUs with expert institutions for executing planned action in a time-bound manner to tackle air pollution. Both Ghaziabad and Noida are also on the list of non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh having high levels of air pollution. Officials of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said abatement plans, comprising short-term and long-term measures, have been prepared to tackle air pollution. “The IIT experts will help the two cities with technical support and identify sources and methods required for tackling pollution. The action plans are all ready. The experts will help the authorities in prioritising the measures which can be taken up swiftly and also in a cost-effective manner. We hope officials start discussions so that some measures can be prioritized and implemented before winter,” said Dr Sagnik Dey, assistant professor from IIT- Delhi, who will be coordinating with the officials of the two cities. “Now that the MoUs have been signed, we will start with implementation of our air pollution abatement plan,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB, Noida, who was present when the MoUs were signed. UPPCB officials from Ghaziabad said they, along with officials of the municipal corporation, will hold discussions with IIT experts. “The experts from IIT Delhi will provide technical expertise and also help us fine tune our air-pollution abatement plan. We are expecting to implement the plan before winter,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad. A corpus of ₹60.5 crore has been provided to the Ghaziabad municipal corporation from the 15th Finance Commission exclusively for implementing measures and raising the infrastructure to reduce air pollution. M S Tanwar, commissioner of Ghaziabad municipal corporation, said the civic administration has formed an air- quality management cell and a city-level monitoring cell to implement the measures chalked out in the abatement plan and monitor the air quality. “Apart from the two cells, IIT-Delhi will be our technical partner in implementing the air pollution abatement plan. We are committed to procure infrastructure with the funds made available to us for air pollution abatement measures and hope that they are implemented before the graded response action plan comes into effect,” said Tanwar. As part of the air pollution abatement plan, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation has proposed redevelopment of 200 parks, development of city forest, roadside paving, besides purchasing jetting machines and anti-smog guns. Conversion of diesel vehicles to CNG and installation of 30 air-purifiers at major markets across the city are among the other measures that will be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/iitdelhi-to-help-ghaziabad-noida-tackle-air-pollution-101616950782823.html
28-03-2021||Other||Unemployed protesting teachers cane-charged in Patiala||Over 10 teachers were injured on their hands and knees after police cane-charged them twice on Sunday, while over 200 of them were protesting near the residence of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The protesters included unemployed BEd, ETT (elementary teacher training) and TET (teacher eligibility test) qualified teachers. The protesting teachers attempted to march towards Amarinder’s residence when they were stopped near the YPS Chowk, and asked to disperse or face a cane-charge. Over 200 protestors were detained by the police, but they were released later.State president of Unemployed TET-Passed ETT Teachers’ Union Deepak Kamboj said claimed that the district police resorted to lathi-charge, every time they attempted to protest near the CM’s residence. “We were holding a peaceful protest, when the police used force. The government has completely ignored our demand for jobs in government schools. Two of our members are protesting atop a water tank in Patiala City for the past week, but no one from the administration has reached the spot,” he claimed, adding that despite multiple assurances of recruitment, the government had failed to keep its word. The unemployed TET-ETT teachers are demanding a notification for recruitment for all 12,000 vacant posts of TET-ETT teachers and an increase in the upper age limit to 42 years.Similarly, unemployed BEd teachers are demanding a job notification for at least 15,000 posts and unemployment allowance of ₹2,500. They also want the government to end the minimum requirement of 55% marks in graduation for backlog posts in the handicap quota. Other teacher unions have condemned the action against ETT teachers.PROTEST IN SANGRUR TOO; CHANDIGARH-BATHINDA ROAD BLOCKEDSangrur Members of BEd Teachers’ Union, Punjab 873 DPE Teachers Union, 646 PTI Teachers Union Punjab, Unemployed Art & Craft Union Punjab and Unemployed Multi-purpose Health Workers Union Punjab blocked the Chandigarh-Bathinda nation highway on the outskirts of Sangrur town, seeking jobs on Sunday. The protesters alleged that they were holding an indefinite protest outside the residence of school education minister Vijay Inder Singla for 90 days, but the government had ignored them. Krishan Singh, one of the protesters, said meetings had not helped. He added, “We demand that the CM should intervene and resolve our issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unemployed-protesting-teachers-cane-charged-in-patiala-101616945683199.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||6,933 fresh Covid-19 cases recorded in Mumbai in highest spike since pandemic||Mumbai reported 6,933 fresh Covid-19 cases and eight fatalities, taking the tally to 398,724 and the death toll to 11,653 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin on Sunday. Mumbai also recorded 3,380 recoveries, taking the number of patients recovered in the city to 340,935. The active cases in the city reached 45,140.In order to check the spread, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has declared a night curfew across the state, including Mumbai, from Sunday, under its 'Mission Begin Again' program. Thackeray also instructed officials to be prepared to impose lockdown-like restrictions if people fail to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour.He said the coronavirus cases are surging as people are not taking the guidelines seriously. "That is why strict steps like lockdowns are being considered," he added.The state government has also decided to extend the Covid-19 restrictions till April 15.In view of the rising number of coronavirus disease cases in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to scale up testing, increase the number of beds and accelerate Covid-19 vaccination.The Maharashtra government has announced a ban on all gatherings. It has also ordered that restaurants, gardens and malls will remain shut between 8pm to 7am beginning Sunday night and people will also not be allowed to visit beaches between 8pm to 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/6923-fresh-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-mumbai-in-highest-spike-since-pandemic-101616943693338.html
28-03-2021||Other||Punjab school education board changes 11 books for Classes 6-12||The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has changed 11 textbooks in total for Classes 6-12 for the 2021-22 academic session that commences in April. Board officials say syllabus revision and changes in technology had necessitated this update in books. The books that have been changed include textbooks of Science and Mathematics for Classes 6 and 7; computer science textbooks for Classes 6-8 and Classes 11-12. English book for Class 8 and Class 10 social studies book has also been changed, in all languages. For science and maths books prescribed for Classes 6 and 7, the PSEB had been paying royalty for adaptation of books to the National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT). Last year, the board decided to prepare own books, though the syllabus has not been changed. The board has already prepared new books for Classes 6-7 and in continuation of the same, the Class-8 book has been prepared. Social science textbook for Classes 6-9 has been prepared under the National Curriculum Framework-2005 and this pattern continues in the Class 10 book as well. A computer teacher requesting anonymity, said, “Class 11-12 books have been totally changed and emphasis more practical work. For other classes, a few topics have been introduced according to need. Students will cover topics which are job-oriented.” PSEB chairman Yograj said, “We have changed textbooks as there was a need to update and revise these, according to the technology and the changing world. All books will be made available to students in the new session.” Sources claimed that the new textbook of Class 12 computer science and Class 7 Mathematics had reached board depots this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-school-education-board-changes-11-books-for-classes-612-101616944663304.html
28-03-2021||Other||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray asks officials to start preparing for lockdown||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the state officials to start preparing for another lockdown in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 patients and the failure of the citizens to adhere to the prescribed guidelines.Thackeray rued that the citizens were flouting all Covid-19 guidelines, hence the state would be forced to take this step.This was due to the recommendations of the Covid-19 task force which met on Sunday and recommended strict measures amid a sharp rise in Covid-19 patients as well the death toll.On Saturday, Maharashtra got 35,726 new patients with a death toll of 166. In Mumbai, it was the highest single-day spike with 6,130 new patients and 12 deaths.Thackeray blamed the citizens for this impasse saying that people were still not wearing masks, marriages halls were more than limited people, people were crowding the market and not observing social distances while private offices were employing more than 50 per cent of staff.The chief minister said since it was the responsibility of the government to take care of the health of the citizens, officials were instructed to start preparing for the same. He said in case of a lockdown, the officials need to ensure adequate food grains, medicines, essential services as well as medical care for the citizens. The local administration has been directed to ensure an adequate supply of oxygen and ventilators and deploy private doctors in this task.Health Minister Rajesh Tope said that since the citizens were not listening and the patients were increasing, the state administration was left with no other option.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-asks-officials-to-start-preparing-for-lockdown-101616943943166.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||1,881 fresh Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths reported in Delhi||Delhi on Sunday reported as many as 1,881 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the total infection tally went up to 6,57,715 in the national capital, a government health bulletin said. Nine more people succumbed to the disease, taking the toll to 11,006, it added.While over 639,164 have recovered from the virus, active cases stand at 7,545, the bulletin said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe city had recorded 1,558 cases on Saturday, 1,534 cases on Friday, 1,515 cases on Thursday, 1,254 cases on Wednesday and 1,101 cases on Tuesday -- the first time since December 24 that the number of cases crossed the 1,000 mark.Earlier in the day, the Delhi Police said patrolling will be intensified during Holi celebrations and those who do not follow coronavirus guidelines issued by the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) will be penalised. "Pickets will be placed by the district police in their respective areas. The patrolling will be increased during the festival. Police will focus on those who are involved in drunken driving and action will be taken against them," Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said, according to PTI.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 28th March 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/gDHWwymL5hOn Tuesday, amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the DDMA ordered that there would be no public celebrations in the national capital during upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navaratri.Meanwhile, health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday dismissed any possibility of imposing another lockdown in Delhi, but said that action will be taken against those found violating the directions issued for Holi celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1881-fresh-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-reported-in-delhi-101616943585450.html
28-03-2021||Other||Shopian encounter: Security forces gun down 2 militants||A soldier lost his life while security forces managed to kill the second militant during the night in the gunfight in south Kashmir’s Shopian district which had erupted on Saturday evening.Earlier on Saturday evening, a joint operation by police, the Army and the CRPF was launched by security forces on the information of J&K police in Wangam area of Shopian. Officials said that at around 7:00 pm, a cordon and search operation was launched in the village and at around 8:15 pm, the militants fired indiscriminately on the search party.One militant was immediately killed in retaliation and an M-4 rifle was recovered even as a soldier was hit seriously and was moved to 92 Base Hospital.Lieutenant Colonel Emron Musavi, PRO (Defence) Srinagar, said that late Havildar Pinku Kumar showed the “highest level of courage by returning effective fire,” in which he sustained a gunshot wound in the head and was grievously injured.Also read: Fix responsibility for non-establishment of model schools in J-K - CAG“His bleeding was controlled with combat first aid and he was immediately evacuated to 92 Base Hospital for treatment where he succumbed to his injuries on Saturday,” he said.As the gunfight continued, another soldier was injured while the security forces managed to kill the second militant around midnight.Besides the M-4 rifle, which was the second recovery this month of the American origin weapon, the security forces also recovered an AK rifle and a pistol from the site.Inspector-General of Police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said that the two militants killed in the gunfight belonged to terror outfits Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).“One of them is old, Inaytullah Sheikh, a resident of Shopian, who had gone to Pakistan in 2018 after arms training and had returned last week only. He was with HM,” IGP Kumar said.The second militant was Adil Malik, a resident of Anantnag, who belonged to the LeT.Meanwhile, the Army paid tributes to Havildar Pinku Kumar in a solemn ceremony at Badami Bagh Cantonment on Sunday.“Lt Gen DP Pandey, Chinar Corps Commander and all ranks paid homage to the gallant soldier on behalf of the proud nation,” Musavi said.Pinku Kumar, 38, had joined the Army in 2001. He belonged to Luhari village of Bagpat district in Uttar Pradesh and is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. “The mortal remains of Havildar Pinku Kumar were taken for last rites to his native place, where he would be laid to rest with full military honours. In this hour of grief, the Army stands in solidarity with the bereaved family and remains committed to their dignity and wellbeing,” said Musavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shopian-encounter-security-forces-gun-down-2-militants-101616943163198.html
28-03-2021||Other||Parents of Ambala man with rare genetic disorder seek affordable healthcare||A couple from Ambala met Krishan Bhardwaj, personal secretary to Haryana home minister Anil Vij, during the “janata darbar” organised at the PWD rest house in Ambala Cantonment on Saturday and demanded affordable healthcare for their wheelchair bound 19-year-old son, who is suffering from spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a rare genetic disorder.Ram Kumar, a farmer and Sushila Rana from Naraingarh’s Dehar village said that their son, Deepansh Rana, is suffering from Type-2 SMA and developed the symptoms when he was three years old. SMA is a genetic disorder causing loss of specialised nerve cells, which causes weakness and wasting (atrophy) in the muscles, making movement impossible.Dr Renu Suthar, associate professor of paediatrics neurology at the department of neurology, PGIMER, Chandigarh, said that the muscle weakness usually worsens with age and it is a lethal disease found in one out of 10,000 babies. “SMA mostly affects babies and children at a young age. In type-1 of the disease, the patient doesn’t live for more than one or two years. Children with type-2 and 3 live up to teenage years and adulthood, however, they are confined to wheelchair,” Dr Suthar said.  “He got infected with multiple diseases at an early age and we took him to PGIMER and later to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in New Delhi. In 2005, doctors confirmed the disease, but global research was in a very early stage at that time. Since then, he is on wheelchair and completely depends on me even for basic needs,” Sushila said. She was also representing Gurugram-based Cure SMA Foundation of India, as its Ambala coordinator. She said that there are more than 25 patients in the state battling this disease. Archana Panda, co-founder of the foundation said, “Now, there is treatment available for the disease in foreign countries and we want that the government should help us in avail of it through an economic model and arrangement of funds. Out of more than 25 patients in the state, most are from economically-challenged backgrounds.”Last month, a six-month-old baby girl from Mumbai, Teera Kamat, needed medication to treat the disease costing ₹16 crore. Taxes amounting to ₹6 crore was rebated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the parents got the amount crowdfunded.Dr Suthar said that there are three life-saving medicines for the disease approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, but none of them are available in India. She said that only one has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India (medication) which goes on for a lifetime.Bhardwaj said the issue will be forwarded before VIj for an early redressal. Vij was unavailable for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parents-of-ambala-man-with-rare-genetic-disorder-seek-affordable-healthcare-101616942803712.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Skeletons in Panipat house: Accused’s wife, son held for destroying evidence||Three days after an Uttar Pradesh-based carpenter was held for killing his second wife and her teenaged sons in 2016, the accused’s first wife and son were arrested on Sunday for allegedly helping him destroy the evidence. The accused, Noorjahan and her son Mohammad Sakir, were arrested from Jagaheri village of Muzaffarnagar. Police said the woman and her son knew that the primary accused, Ehsan Saifi, had killed his second wife Najneen, 35, and her sons aged 14 and 15 but they did not report the crime and helped him destroy evidence instead. Najneen had adopted the 15-year-old victim. “Noorjahan and Sakir had come to Panipat in January 2017. When they enquired after Najneen and her sons, Saifi confessed that he had killed them and buried their bodies in the room. Later, the duo took Najneen’s belongings, including a refrigerator, washing machine, and LED-display television to their house in Muzaffarnagar and destroyed her passbook and ATM card. The shocking incident had come to light on March 23 after three human skeletons were found from Saifi’s old house in Shiv Colony of Panipat when the present owner had the floor dug up to remove an insect infestation. Hours later, Saifi was arrested from Bhadohi of Uttar Pradesh. He has confessed to have committed the triple murders. “Saifi, who was already married to Noorjahan, married to Najneen through an online matrimonial website and moved to Panipat with her. However, after a few months of marriage, Najneen learnt that Saifi was already married and had three children. When she objected, he decided to kill her,” said Satish Vats, Panipat deputy superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skeletons-in-panipat-house-accused-s-wife-son-held-for-destroying-evidence-101616939922950.html
28-03-2021||Dehradun||Mahakumbh 2021: Seers, saints choose flowers over colours for Holi celebrations||To ensure effective compliance with Covid-19 norms, Akhadas, seers and social organisations in the Mahakumbh area in Haridwar are opting for flower petals instead of traditional colours for Holi celebrations. The apex body of Akhadas, the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, has announced that no colours or water spraying will be done at Akhadas and their Kumbh camps. Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri said that owing to the surge in Covid-19 cases, Akhadas and saints have decided to opt for flowers instead of colours as it will ensure social distancing and avoiding of touching one another. Akhadas will abide by the standard operating procedures for Mahakumbh for the Holi festival as well as for the Mahakumbh fair. “Safety of people is paramount. And with the blessings of Ganga and precautions by everyone, soon we will be able to diminish the impact of Coronavirus,” said Akhada Parishad president Shri Mahant Narendra Giri. BJP state president Madan Kaushik, who is the city legislator, is also making sure that flowers are used in the Holi functions that he is attending. In wake of the huge rush for the Holi festival, state roadways has increased the number of buses for Uttar Pradesh. Additional regional manager, roadways transport, Prateek Jain, said that on several routes like Lucknow, Moradabad, Muzzafarnagar, Bareilly, Meerut, the frequency of buses has been increased to meet the passenger rush on Holi festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/mahakumbh-2021-seers-saints-choose-flowers-over-colours-for-holi-celebrations-101616935843008.html
28-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka’s daily Covid-19 cases breach 3,000-mark, highest since start of 2021||Karnataka’s daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the 3,000-mark with 3,082 new cases, which have taken the state’s caseload to 987,012, according to the health department’s bulletin on Sunday. Sunday’s case count in Karnataka has been the highest in nearly five months. The last time these many cases were seen was on November 5, 2020, when 3,156 were detected.Twelve more people died and 1,285 discharges were added, the bulletin said. The death toll and the number of recoveries so far stand at 12,504 and 951,452 respectively, the bulletin added. Of the new cases, Bengaluru Urban added the highest (2,004) followed by Kalaburagi (159), Udupi (115), Mysuru (114) among others. Bengaluru Urban, which is the worst-hit district, is leading the list of infections in the state with 428,173 Covid-19 cases. The highest recoveries have also been reported from this district (407,709).The Karnataka government has made it mandatory for travellers across India to produce a negative RT- PCR test report before entering the Bengaluru from April 1.Karnataka reports 3082 new #COVID19 cases, 1285 discharges and 12 deaths today.Total cases 9,87,012Total recoveries 9,51,452Death toll 12,504Active cases 23,037 pic.twitter.com/uCgKeUBLcEBengaluru has also been witnessing a spike in the number of children testing positive for Covid-19. In March alone, more than 470 children below the age of 10 were found out to be infected, news agency PTI reported on Saturday. The news agency added that cases in children were initially limited to eight to nine per day in the early days of this month “but they have steadily risen to 46 on March 26”. Experts told PTI that this recent spike is due to children being more exposed to outdoor activities, public gatherings and social functions. The reopening of schools for certain classes is also a factor for this increase, they added.Also Read| Negative RT-PCR report must for all passengers arriving in BengaluruAs the cases in Karnataka have been going up since the start of March, state health minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday that the second wave has already started and urged residents to take precautions against the disease. Sudhakar added that all Covid containment restrictions have been imposed and the state government would take more strict measures in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-daily-covid-19-cases-breach-3-000-mark-highest-since-start-of-2021-101616934563713.html
28-03-2021||Lucknow||Adityanath flags off new Gorakhpur-Lucknow flight service||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Sunday flagged a new flight service from Gorakhpur to Lucknow. The chief minister also laid the foundation stone for the expansion of the Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath Airport terminal building. The ceremony was attended by state minister of civil aviation Nand Gopal Gupta Nandi, Lok Sabha MP Ravi Kishan and chairman of Airports Authority of India (AAI) Anuj Aggarwal.With the addition of the service from Gorakhpur to Lucknow, the number of flights from Gorakhpur to seven major cities including New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Prayagraj will go up to 12. Another aircraft will also be added to this list from April 12 as a Spice Jet flight will allow passengers to fly from Gorakhpur to Ahmedabad from that day.The introduction of the flight is part of the Centre’s regional connectivity scheme UDAN that aims to make air travel affordable as well as available to all regions and states of the country. The scheme is at the centre of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Civil Aviation Policy (NCAP), which was introduced by the ministry of civil aviation in 2016. The scheme is jointly funded by the Centre and state governments.The expansion of the Gorakhpur airport was one of the targets of the Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh as the airport has witnessed a significant increase in passenger numbers owing to which the terminal building of the airport will now be expanded. The extended terminal building will be able to handle 200 passengers during peak hours. The central government has approved ₹26.87 crore for it and AAI plans to equip the airport with 10 check-in-counters.Currently, the Gorakhnath airport has one runway which is designated 11/29 and has dimensions of 2,743 by 46 metres (9,000 ft × 150 ft). Including the newly inaugurated flight, Alliance Air operates two flights to Delhi and Lucknow, IndiGo operates six flights to Allahabad, Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai and SpiceJet operates three flights to Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/adityanath-flags-off-new-gorakhpur-lucknow-flight-service-101616933342096.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||'Be prepared for lockdown-like restrictions if...': Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday instructed officials to be prepared to impose lockdown-like restrictions if people fail to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour.The chief minister held a meeting with the Covid-19 task force and officials concerned to discuss the steep rise in infections that the state is witnessing in the past few weeks.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe said that the Covid-19 cases are rising because people are not following the guidelines seriously. "That is why strict steps like lockdowns are being considered," he said.The state has already imposed a night curfew from Sunday to curb the rising cases of the coronavirus disease "I do not wish to impose lockdown. But there seems a possibility of healthcare facilities falling short given the rise in the number of coronavirus patients," Thackeray said after announcing the curfew.The state reported 35,726 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 26,73,461. As many as 3,03,475 active cases and 23,14,579 recoveries have been recorded so far, while the number of people who have died of the disease went up to 54,073.Mumbai, one of the cities with the highest rate of infection in the state, reported 6,123 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest rise in a day since the pandemic began in March last year, taking the caseload to 3,91,751.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/be-prepared-to-impose-restrictions-similar-to-lockdown-if-maharashtra-cm-101616933490300.html
28-03-2021||Other||‘Kerala challenging federal structure by turning against ED’: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday came down heavily on the Left front government in Kerala for announcing a judicial inquiry against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials probing the sensational gold smuggling case. Addressing newsmen in the state capital, Singh said the government’s move was shocking and it will weaken the federal structure of the country. “It is an unfortunate development. How can a state government initiate probe against central agencies? It is against the federal structure of the country,” he said, reminding the government that central agencies came to the state after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The government had announced a judicial commission on Friday to probe the ED alleging the central agency was planning to implicate the CM in the gold smuggling case and portray the government in a bad light. “This is 100 per cent against the federal structure of the country. Instead of turning against the ED, it should have co-operated with the ongoing investigation to unravel the truth,” he said. Later he carried out a roadshow in Varkala (Kollam) and addressed several meetings for April 6 assembly election. But CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, who is camping in the state for the last few days, criticised the defence minister. “He has no idea about either the constitution or federal structure. How can a central agency carry out an investigation in the state without taking the government into confidence?” he asked. The gold smuggling case has become the latest flashpoint between the Centre and the state governments. Last week, the Kerala police filed a case against ED officials for allegedly forcing Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the smuggling case, to give a statement against the CM. On Friday, the government had ordered a judicial inquiry against the central agency for allegedly trying to implicate the CM in the case. But the agency has rejected the allegations. The smuggling case came to light in July last year after customs seized 30 kilograms of yellow metal from the UAE consulate in the state capital. Now, at least five central agencies are probing smuggling and money laundering cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-challenging-federal-structure-by-turning-against-ed-rajnath-singh-101616931822904.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||NIA takes Sachin Vaze to Mithi River; finds hard disk, vehicle number plate||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) took suspended Mumbai Police official Sachin Vaze to the Mithi River near Bandra-Kurla Complex to search for evidence on Sunday. After Vaze directed divers to several spots, they recovered two CPUs of computers, the number plate of a vehicle, two DVRs, and a laptop among other things.The agency reportedly took the former officer to the river after he confessed he tried to destroy evidence in the case against him.On March 13, Vaze was arrested by the NIA in connection with the security scare case related to industrialist Mukesh Ambani. He will remain in the agency's custody till April 3.Watch: Sachin Vaze taken from jail to river; divers find laptop, car platesVaze is also a suspect in the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran. Hiran was linked to the SUV in which explosives were found near Antilia, Ambani’s home, and was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5.Before being arrested, Vaze was in charge of the Hiren death case. "Initially, when Vaze was the investigating officer of the case, he got all the evidence in his custody and after Mansukh's murder when he realised that the case might go to some other agency, he tried to destroy them," people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-takes-sachin-vaze-to-bandra-river-finds-hard-disk-vehicle-number-plate-101616931125636.html
28-03-2021||Gurugram||Portion of under-construction elevated road on Dwarka e-way collapses, 3 injured||A portion of an under-construction elevated road on the Dwarka Expressway collapsed here on Sunday morning, injuring three workers, officials said.The Gurgaon Police said the portion collapsed around 7.30 am and three labourers sustained injuries.They are undergoing treatment at a hospital here, they said.A team of officials from the National Highways Authority of India, including the regional officer and the project director, also visited the site.When contacted, NHAI Member (Projects) Manoj Kumar said, "On first impression, it seems to be a case of mechanical failure. It is being investigated".Union Road and Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari had earlier this month visited the expressway to inspect progress of the 30-kilometre project which is being built at the cost of ₹10,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/portion-of-under-construction-elevated-road-on-dwarka-e-way-collapses-3-injured-101616927067081.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||No one should play spoilsport in coalition govt: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Sunday said no one should play spoilsport in a coalition government, after Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut called NCP leader Anil Deshmukh an accidental home minister.The allotment of cabinet berths is the prerogative of head of every ruling party in a coalition, Pawar, who is also an NCP leader, told reporters in Baramati town of Pune.Notably, former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh in a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20 claimed Home Minister Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect ₹100 crore monthly from bars and hotels.Deshmukh has dismissed the allegations against him.The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress share power in Maharashtra.In his weekly column Rokhthok in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', Raut on Sunday called Deshmukh an accidental home minister, claiming he got the post after senior NCP leaders like Jayant Patil and Dilip Walse-Patil refused the responsibility.Reacting to it, Ajit Pawar said the three parties have formed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra."The allotment of cabinet berths is the prerogative of head of every political party (in the coalition). No one should play spoilsport when the three-party government is functioning properly," the deputy chief minister said.He further said Sharad Pawar, being head of the NCP, takes all decisions including allotment of cabinet berths to the party leaders.A similar method is being followed by the Congress and Shiv Sena, Ajit Pawar said."It should be respected instead of making any unwarranted comments," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-one-should-play-spoilsport-in-coalition-govt-ajit-pawar-101616925246143.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Tensions prevail in Delhi's Tilak Nagar after death of Nigerian national||A Nigerian national died after he was allegedly assaulted by a Delhi Police personnel on Sunday morning.Following the death, tensions persisted in the area as a crowd gathered outside the Tilak Nagar police station. Police personnel in large numbers have been deployed to control the situation.Kin of the victim alleged that the Nigerian national died because of a lathi injury inflicted on him by a Delhi Police personnel in Tilak Nagar."Today morning, a Nigerian national was brought dead to DDU Hospital at around 3:30 am. The deceased used to live in Tilak Nagar. Two other Nigerian nationals who were with him alleged that he died because of a lathi injury on his head," the police said."Earlier today, 3 Nigerian citizens were stopped by Delhi Police officials for verification in the Tilak Nagar area. While being asked to show their ID proof, the trio immediately ran away and the policemen ran after them. Kins later allege that he died because of a lathi injury," the police added.According to the Delhi Police, the MLC of the person shows no fresh external injury on the body. Delhi Police is examing CCTV footage and the actual cause of death after the postmortem report. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tensions-prevail-in-delhi-s-tilak-nagar-after-death-of-nigerian-national-101616924758822.html
28-03-2021||Bangalore||Over 470 children below 10 years infected with Covid-19 in Bengaluru since Mar 1||Over 470 children below the age of 10 have been infected with Covid-19, since the beginning of this month in Bengaluru, as the city is witnessing a spike in infections.A total of 244 boys and 228 girls have been infected from March 1 to 26, official data showed.The cases among children were limited to eight to nine daily during the early days of this month but they have steadily risen to 46 on March 26.According to some experts, unlike in the past children are now vulnerable because they are more exposed to outdoor activities, functions and gatherings, as also schools reopening for a certain age group, which was not the case earlier due to lockdowns."There is more and more exposure of children because of the opening of schools, also a lot of functions and gatherings. Earlier they used to be protected, but since they are exposed to several of these events, the risk has also gone up considerably," Dr Giridhara R Babu Professor and Head Life course Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India told PTI.Also a member of the state Covid-19 technical advisory committee, the epidemiologist said, children in many cases may also be spreaders among family members."...children going to schools or indulging in outdoor activities on contracting the virus from others, there is a high possibility of them spreading to others, like family members, friends," he added.Officials also point out that children are also easily vulnerable as it is difficult for them to maintain physical distance and wearing masks for long.Though most children below the age of ten may not be going to school for now, they are likely to come in contact with other kids who are vulnerable during outdoor activities like in the playground or parks, they said."As one of the measures to control the spread among children, we have recommended closure of schools for students other than those who have public exams", Babu said, adding, "we have even recommended that they should be passed to the next grade without examination, but the government has to take a decision."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/over-470-children-below-10-years-infected-with-covid-19-in-bengaluru-since-mar-1-101616923456930.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||Whose favourite was Sachin Vaze, asks Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, calls Anil Deshmukh 'accidental' home minister||As the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh is facing heat over allegedly running an extortion racket in the state with the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanding his resignation from the cabinet, Deshmukh’s ally and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday called the NCP leader an ‘accidental home minister’.Expressing his thoughts on the ongoing controversy through his weekly column Rokhthok in Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana, Raut claimed that Deshmukh got the home minister’s post after other senior NCP leaders such as Dilip Walse Patil and Jayat Patil refused to take up the role. “That is why Sharad Pawar selected Anil Deshmukh for the post,” Raut added.He said that Maha-Vikas Aghadi-led government in Maharashtra did not have damage control machinery as no senior leader came forward to refute Param Bir Singh's claim that Deshmukh asked him to collect ₹100 crore per month from the bars and restaurants of the city.Also Read| ‘Truth will come out’: Anil Deshmukh on corruption probe by retired HC judgeRaut in his weekly column also questioned suspended Mumbai Police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze’s role in the extortion racket. “If a junior officer like Sachin Waze was running a (money) collection racket from the Mumbai police commissioner’s office, why was the home minister not aware of it? Whose favourite was he?” he said asking who gave so much power to him. Vaze is the prime accused in the Antilia bomb scare case and is also facing investigation in Thane-based businessman Manuskh Hiran’s death- whose SUV, laden with gelatin sticks, was found near Antilia- which is industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence.Raut also said that a home minister should speak less and facing cameras and ordering enquiries is not his job. “The (home minister’s) job is not only for accepting salutes but for giving a strong leadership. How can one forget that strong leadership requires honesty,” the Sena leader added.Meanwhile, NCP leader and Maharashtra minority development minister Nawab Malik on Sunday reacted to Raut’s editorial piece by saying that the shortcomings brought forward in the article should be taken in a positive manner. “There should have been strictness in handling the department (police) as some officers were acting as per their own will,” Malik told ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/whose-favourite-was-vaze-asks-raut-calls-deshmukh-accidental-home-minister-101616922282171.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal won't attend public Holi programmes due to Covid-19 spike||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he will not attend any public Holi programme in view of the increasing number of coronavirus cases and appealed to people to celebrate the festival with their families and avoid crowds."Cases of coronavirus have increased in the last few days. In view of this, I am not attending Holi programs being organised in public this time. I appeal to all of you to celebrate Holi with your family and avoid crowds. Follow the rules of coronavirus prevention," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.पिछले कुछ दिनों में कोरोना के मामले बढ़े हैं, इसी के मद्देनज़र इस बार सार्वजनिक तौर पर आयोजित हो रहे होली कार्यक्रमों में शामिल नहीं हो रहा हूं। आप सभी से अपील है कि केवल अपने परिवार के साथ होली मनाएं और भीड़-भाड़ वाले कार्यक्रमों से बचें, कोरोना से बचाव के नियमों का पालन करें।On Saturday, Delhi reported 1,558 new Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours - third day in a row when the tally went over 1,500 - taking the total number of cases to 6,55,834.Earlier on Tuesday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) ordered that there will be no public celebrations in the national capital during upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navaratri.On March 1, the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive began in the national capital. In the first phase, that started from January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, were vaccinated in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-won-t-attend-public-holi-programmes-due-to-covid-19-spike-101616921234157.html
28-03-2021||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah takes dig at Karnataka govt, police over Jarkiholi CD row||Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah on Sunday took a dig at state government and police department over the alleged CD case row in which Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ramesh Jarkiholi is accused of sexual harassment.Taking to Twitter, the former Karnataka Chief Minister said: "The police department and state government are responsible for pledging the pride of Karnataka in front of the whole country in the CD case. It is shameful that police could not trace the CD victim even after 20 days."He also said that the CD case is turning into a political blame game with new developments each day. It can reach a logical conclusion only when the victim reaches out to the police and give her version, the Congress leader said."The victim in the CD is constantly releasing her statements to the media through videos, reaching out to her parents and interacting with her lawyers. But the police are unable to track her. What does this mean? Is the police playing to the tune of the state government?" Siddaramaiah said.He also urged state Home minister Basavaraj Bommai to raise his concern over the matter."The videos released by the victim clearly show that the girl does not have confidence on both, the state government and the police department. It looks like she is of the opinion that police are involved in the conspiracy against her. Home minister BS Bommai should address this concern," he said.He also added: "This CD case is a classic example for the breakdown of administrative and police machinery in the state under the BJP government. What does it mean when police says that they are unable to trace the girl? Is she like Vijay Mallya or Nirav Modi hiding abroad?"A case was registered on March 2 against Ramesh Jarkiholi for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman after a purported sex tape surfaced showing him in a compromising position with a woman.Following the allegations, Jarkiholi resigned on March 3. He had denied allegations that he had sexually exploited a woman in return for a government job, saying that the scandal was a conspiracy against him and that the CD was "fake".Six ministers in the BS Yediyurappa government had on March 5 moved a Bengaluru court seeking a stay against media outlets from publishing or broadcasting anything defamatory against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/siddaramaiah-takes-dig-at-karnataka-govt-police-over-jarkiholi-cd-row-101616922073915.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Denizens plan to shift gears from ‘super spreader areas’ to shop indoors, stay safe||With Delhi government declaring malls, movie theatres, metros and religious places as super spreaders, denizens plan to be more vigilant with their choices such as opting for online shopping more, binging on OTT instead of going to the theatre for the present, and even travelling to work via bicycle than public transport. And while some are sulking at the thought of getting gift cards and not actual gifts, being safe is the right choice in the present scenario, isn’t it? Cinema hall? No, halt. Switch on OTT insteadMalls have dropped down in the list of go-to places for Delhi-based MBA student, Aniket Sircar, who loves to hang out and shop. But, online shopping has taken over the coveted spot. “And guess what, it’s only my thumb and fingers that feel a little sore instead of my feet after going around aisles,” he says, adding, “I recently visited a cinema hall to watch one of the latest flicks. But, after this news of malls being super spreaders, I don't think I’ll be catching the next one at the hall, and will just binge watch my fave shows or movies on OTT platforms. The new normal still consists of binging on OTT platforms as movie halls do pose a threat of spreading the virus since they are mostly closed and allow aerosol droplets to move around when people sneeze or cough. Call me sceptical, but I don’t want to be in a place that’s a super spreader for coronavirus, whether big or small.”Cycle your way to social distancing! When it comes to travelling within the city, be it to hang out or for work, denizens are again thinking of switching their choice of transport. “For commuting, Delhi Metro has always been my budget friendly mode to travel long distances without getting caught in the heatwave and also ditching traffic. Unfortunately, I may have to switch to cabs now as people are bent on ignoring the guidelines set by the metro authorities,” adds Sircar. Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder, Raahgiri Foundation, says this is the time to revive one’s love for cycling in all practicality. “Cycle is one mode that automatically drives (with) the social distancing norms. Cycling to work, cycling to shopping or cycling with family is the safest mode of commute. The best part is that I was practising it even before the Covid,” says Bhatt. Be safe, and then nothing to worry Although some say they will from now ditch the crowded malls and market and shop online, but not everyone seems to harness the Covid phobia! Donna Xavier, a final year Delhi-based student of Law, says, “There are certain limitations to shopping online. But, if we keep sitting inside, it’d just be depressing. I can’t skip socialising just because there is Covid, and miss going to the malls or theatre. Therefore, the best solution would be to take all precautions and carry on with life as it is.”And Ankrish Khanna, a corporate professional, says he’s all set to again shift his hang out spots to homes of friends and relatives. “I’m just going to go and meet friends at their respective houses. I won’t stay in either because my mental health doesn’t allow me, and I’m sick of staying home. And while I’ll be working from home, I’ll drive my own car, and that’s safe enough.”Happy birthday, akele akele “Lagta hai iss bar bhi birthday akele he manana padega, aur gift card aayenge instead of actual gifts,” says Shubham Vaish, a Delhi-based theatre actor, recalling how there was a lockdown last year around the same time, just before his birthday. “But friends to come to my house, I wonder if they would have been to these places that have been marked super spreader. Like I won’t be travelling by Metro, but what about others who visit me? Bahut duvidha hai!”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/denizens-plan-to-shift-gears-from-super-spreader-areas-to-shop-indoors-stay-safe-101616921388626.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: People throng Dadar vegetable market amid rising Covid-19 cases||Ahead of night curfew in Maharashtra, people thronged Dadar vegetable market on Sunday morning amid rising Covid-19 cases.Several people were seen flouting social distancing norms while purchasing groceries. Many of them even were without proper masks.In order to control the new infections, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has declared a night curfew across the state, from Sunday under its 'Mission Begin Again' program.Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday informed that six states--Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh -- account for 79.57 pc of new Covid cases."Six States--Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh continue to report a surge in the Covid daily new cases. 79.57 per cent of the new cases are reported from these 6 states. 62,258 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours," read the release by Union Health Ministry.Maharashtra reported 35,726 new positive cases, 14,523 discharges and 166 deaths on Saturday, as per the State Health Department.Earlier, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Saturday announced that residential societies with five or more Covid-19 cases will be sealed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Speaking to reporters here today, the Mumbai Mayor also said that a night curfew may be imposed in the capital city on March 28 from 10 or 11 pm, adding that hotels and pubs will remain shut during the night curfew with an exemption on essential services."Night curfew in Mumbai may start from 10 pm or 11 pm on March 28. Hotels and pubs to remain closed during the night curfew. Only essential services will be allowed. BMC will seal the residential societies with five or more cases. We are seeing a higher positivity rate in high-rises than in slums and chawls," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-people-throng-dadar-vegetable-market-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-101616920855027.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Animal lovers rejoice: Delhi Zoo to reopen in an artsy avatar!||Online tickets, visits for shorter intervals, a masked monkey mural greeting people at the entrance and much more is in place to encourage visitors to return National Zoological Park. Safety norms are set, mandatory sanitisation is being done, and colourful dustbins are stationed to discourage people from littering around. Delhi Zoo, which was closed for almost one year, is prepping to spring back in action from April 1, and Delhiites are overjoyed. Murals depicting brow-antlered deer, selfie spots depicting wildlife, await visitors after the hiatus. “Delhi Zoo has completed 61 years. It’s catering to the need of educating people in the field of nature and nature conservation. From last one year we’ve been focusing on animal welfare, health and hygiene issues. We were taking care of enrichment of enclosures, their food and giving them a feast. We decided that since we have come out of the bird flu time, now the time has come to open the zoo in slots, allowing limited people for a limited period of four hours. We have revamped our website and online booking will open soon,” Ramesh Pandey, director, National Zoological Park, Delhi.The authorities recently joined hands with Delhi Street Art (DSA), wherein over 70 volunteers painted over 40 dustbins over last weekend. “These bins were outside the building, at the entry point, and were ugly looking and untidy,” adds, Pandey, and Yogesh Saini, founder, DSA, says, adding, “The monkey mural (wearing a mask) is a humorous take on an otherwise serious topic and we hope will be an image that will stay with the visitors long after they’ve gone back from this wonderful venue...Now that the reopening is imminent, Covid-19 precautions will still be in place and artworks that we have created, will remind the visitors to not to let their guard down and continue to wear masks and maintain social distancing!”And residents waiting for the Zoo to reopen say they will visit even if it means wearing layers of masks and gloves! “Zoo opening soon already gave me chills,” says Hanisha Dua, a Delhi University graduate, adding, “It would be the same for so many us, and why not? I mean things are trying to get back to ‘new normal’ and we cannot wait for this place to serve us again with it’s lush greenery, chirping birds, beautiful animals there. I want to be around the people who share the same zeal as me when at Zoo and looking at all aspects of it, making this abode a pleasant one!”“Having a mask on is not enough, but wearing it consistently and properly, covering the nose and mouth is what I have to be cautious of, this goes a long way in serving precautions for others too. Sanitiser will be in my pocket at all times. Carrying my own meal and water would be an added option, but the sanitization happening at the Zoo has made me relaxed in that sense, I can be reliable here. I absolutely would be at a distance from others, making sure there is no crowd,”adds Dua.Arita Bharadwaj, a homemaker, who painted dustbins for the visitors, says, “People are going to love the art here, and especially kids when it opens. We’ve painted dustbins today depicting nature, and steps depicting an elephant. They’re going to conduct activities for kids here, too. I’m excited to be back, already.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/animal-lovers-rejoice-delhi-zoo-to-reopen-in-an-artsy-avatar-101616919181716.html
28-03-2021||Dehradun||‘Covid under control’: Uttarakhand govt as virus cluster emerges in Rishikesh||The Uttarakhand government said on Sunday that the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state is under control adding that border checks have been strengthened with special attention to people coming from Kerala, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Tamil Nadu- which are witnessing an increase in their daily Covid-19 cases.Speaking to news agency ANI, Uttarakhand’s health director Dr Trupti Bahugana said, “People going to Garhwal are being checked for Covid-19 in Rishikesh and those going to Kumaon are being checked at Ramnagar’s Tanda area and Rudrapur.” Thermal screening is also being carried out at Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Kausani areas of the state, Bahugana added.Uttarakhand has so far reported 99,515 cases and 1,709 related fatalities, according to the health department’s bulletin. The recoveries are nearing 95,000 while active cases have climbed to 1,339. On Saturday, 257 more people tested positive for Covid-19 while one person succumbed to the disease. Of Saturday’s case count, Dehradun added the highest cases (126), followed by Haridwar (73), Tehri (15) and Nainital (12). Daily cases have been on the rise in the state since February.Also Read| Covid-19: Six states contribute 83% of new deaths as single-day toll crosses 300On Friday, a prominent hotel in Rishikesh emerged as a Covid-19 cluster in Uttarakhand and was initially sealed for 48 hours after 16 of its employees were detected positive on Thursday. The Taj Rishikesh Resort and Spa still continues to be closed for tourists after 41 more cases were seen in the last 24 hours, PTI reported.Meanwhile, the state government has made it mandatory for all devotees attending the Kumbh Mela to produce a negative RT-PCR test report which is not older than 72 hours. The decision was taken by the Uttarakhand High Court on Wednesday, days after the newly appointed chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat removed all Covid-related restrictions for devotees arriving for the Mela- which will start from April 1. The Union health ministry said last week that huge gatherings during the festival could lead to a massive spike in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/covid-under-control-uttarakhand-govt-as-virus-cluster-emerges-in-rishikesh-101616917305624.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Truth will come out’: Anil Deshmukh on corruption probe by retired HC judge||Days after the Maharashtra government ordered a probe into corruption allegations against Anil Deshmukh, the state home minister said on Sunday that the investigation will bring out the truth in the matter. The probe will be done by a judicial commission and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has started the process to form the panel, people aware of the development said."In the last Cabinet meeting, I had asked the chief minister to investigate the allegations levelled against me by former Mumbai Police commissioner. He has agreed to it and the probe will be done by a retired high court judge. The truth in the entire matter will come before the people," Deshmukh said at the Nagpur airport.Former top cop Param Bir Singh, who was recently removed from his post, has claimed the state home minister indulged in extortion. Singh has claimed that Deshmukh met Sachin Vaze, arrested in connection with Mukesh Ambani bomb scare probe, in February and asked him to collect ₹100 crore a month from restaurants and bars in Mumbai.The minister, however, has denied the allegations and said that he was in home quarantine after he tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during the period stated in Singh’s letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Deshmukh has alleged that the former Mumbai police commissioner made the claims to save himself as his role in the Ambani bomb scare case was becoming clear.“We need concurrence of a retired judge who will probe the charges levelled against the home minister, which may take a few days,” said a MVA minister, on condition of anonymity after the meeting of senior ministers at Thackeray residence on Wednesday, where they decided to form a commission to probe Singh’s allegations.The commission is likely to be formed under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, which will give it powers to summon anyone for deposition, seek documents, and conduct hearings.The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has repeatedly demanded that the home minister resign. He has also claimed that this is not the first time that Deshmukh has been named in a corruption case and pointed to the alleged illegal transfer of IPS officers in the state. Fadnavis said that a report was submitted to the government in this regard but no action was taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/truth-will-come-out-anil-deshmukh-on-corruption-probe-by-retired-hc-judge-101616917778631.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination centre set up inside Delhi's Tihar Jail||The Delhi Prisons Department has set up a Covid-19 vaccination centre inside Tihar Jail to vaccinate eligible inmates, officials said on Sunday.A total of 326 inmates in the Delhi’s prisons are above 60 years, and over 300 are in the 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities. These two categories are eligible for vaccination in the ongoing nationwide drive.The centre was set up on Tuesday in the central jail hospital at jail number 3, they said.According to jail officials, around 70 to 80 inmates of Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails have been vaccinated so far.Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, if needed, a vaccination centre will be opened at Mandoli Jail too."Our teams from the central jail hospital in jail number 3 will visit the inmates at Rohini and Mandoli Jails to vaccinate them starting next week. If needed, a vaccination centre will also be opened at Mandoli Jail," Goel said.Earlier, Tihar Jail inmates were taken to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital for the vaccination.The vaccination drive for prison inmates started on March 18 and 13 inmates got the Covid-19 jab on day one.According to a senior jail official, family members of inmates eligible for getting vaccinated were asked to send the required documents through WhatsApp messaging app."We spoke to the families of the inmates… asked them to send the documents required for the registration through WhatsApp and then vaccinated them,” a senior jail official said.None of the inmates who have received the jab reported any complications, the official said.However, the officials said there are several inmates who do not have the required documents for the vaccination process."Due to which they were not selected for the shot. We are trying to figure out how they will be vaccinated," another official said.On March 1, the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive began in the national capital. In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, were vaccinated in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-vaccination-centre-set-up-inside-delhi-s-tihar-jail-101616918002677.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||Huge crowd at Mumbai’s Dadar vegetable market despite soaring Covid-19 cases||A huge crowd, not complying with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, was seen at the vegetable market in Mumbai's Dadar on Sunday even as the city is reporting a massive spike in daily cases. On Saturday, the city logged the highest single-day spike of 6,130 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease taking the total tally to 391,791.Maharashtra is contributing the most to the rising cases across the country. In the last 24 hours, the state added 35,726 cases, which is nearly 57% of the total new cases in the country.Mumbai: Huge crowd seen at Dadar vegetable market, amid rising COVID-19 cases in the StateNight curfew to be imposed in Maharashtra from tonight. pic.twitter.com/XEQKPZ4GO0Besides Mumbai, the other major areas that contributed to Saturday’s jump include Pune district with 6,591 cases, Nagpur district with 3,741 new cases, Nashik district with 3,515 and Aurangabad district with 1501. Close to Mumbai, Thane city and its rural areas reported 939 and 481 new cases, respectively. Navi Mumbai reported 827 new cases, while Kalyan-Dombivli reported 859 cases.Amid fears that a second wave of the viral disease may be worst than the first one, which was brought under control by November last year, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced a statewide night curfew from 8pm to 7am Sunday onwards.Following the possibility of increased spread of the virus due to the festival season, Maharashtra government has said those who flouted restrictions will be penalised ₹1,000. The state has also decided to shut beaches, gardens between 8pm and 7am.The restrictions will remain in place till April 15.As people fail wear follow Covid-19 protocols and come out in public places without wearing mask, the state will impose a fine of ₹500. At present, Mumbai imposes a fine of ₹200 but the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shall issue a separate order increasing the fine to ₹500, according to officials. The BMC is also expected to curb shop timings.Any person found spitting in public places in Maharashtra will be fined ₹1,000, according to the state government order. It added that all restaurants will remain closed from 8pm to 7am. However, home delivery and takeaway from restaurants will be allowed during the said time. Maharashtra has completely banned social, cultural, political, religious gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/huge-crowd-at-mumbai-s-dadar-vegetable-market-despite-soaring-covid-19-cases-101616914625630.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||Currently all local trains are functioning in Mumbai, says DRM on night curfew query||The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced a state-wide night curfew from 8pm to 7am in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases. The curfew came into effect from midnight of March 27. The night curfew order left everyone questioning the functioning of local train services in the capital city of Mumbai.Responding to people’s queries, the divisional railway manager of Mumbai said that all local trains are operating. The DRM-Mumbai responded to a tweet forwarded by the Western Railways. The tweet enquired if the Churchgate-Virar Mumbai local train will be running during the curfew time of 8pm to 7am.“Currently all local train services are functioning,” the DRM-Mumbai added in the Twitter thread.Currently all local train services are functioning.On Thursday, the additional commissioner of Mumbai Municipal Corporation Suresh Kakani on the reports of lockdown and local trains services had said there is no news of lockdown currently and we are only focussing on three things - increased testing, increasing infrastructure and speeding up vaccination. We have also formed squads at the railway station and these teams will be especially appointed for trains coming from other states. It is our endeavour to maintain the current capacity of local train operations and there are no plans to reduce it, Kakani added, reported Lokmat.A night curfew along with other restrictions have been imposed in the state of Maharashtra as Covid-19 cases in the state keep increasing at a fast pace.Also Read | From Delhi to Goa: Restrictions in place to contain Covid-19 ahead of festivalsOn Saturday, there was a slight dip in the number of cases, as Maharashtra reported 35,726 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. However, the number of fatalities from the disease reported on Saturday were 166, the highest since October 23.The state has the maximum contribution to the active cases reported by the country in 24 hours. The number of new coronavirus disease cases in Mumbai, which is one of the hotspots in Maharashtra, went over 6,000 on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/currently-all-local-trains-are-functioning-in-mumbai-says-drm-on-night-curfew-query-101616907542009.html
28-03-2021||Gurugram||2 injured as under-construction flyover on Gurugram-Dwarka Expressway collapses||At least two workers were injured as an under-construction flyover on the Gurugram-Dwarka Expressway collapsed near Daulatabad in Gurugram, news agency ANI reported Saturday.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2-injured-as-under-construction-flyover-on-gurugram-dwarka-expressway-collapses-101616902272473.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Gangster Kuldeep Fajja who escaped from GTB hospital gunned down by Delhi Police||Dreaded gangster Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja, who fled away from Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospital on March 25, died after an exchange of fire with the police early on Sunday morning, news agency ANI reported. Maan was wanted in more than 70 cases of murder; he was on the police's 'most wanted' list of criminals.According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Hindustan, the police got information that Maan is hiding in a flat in Rohini's Sector 14 for the past two days. When a police team reached the site, a exchange of fire began in which Maan was seriously injured.The police took him to Ambedkar hospital where he was declared brought dead.Maan escaped from the GTB hospital on March 25 after a gunfight between the police and those who had come to aid the escape of the notorious criminal.The fierce gunfight left one alleged criminal dead, two injured and triggered chaos with patients and their relatives running for cover. The police said that the assailants threw chilli powder on the faces of the cops who were involved in the shoot-out.Maan was taken to the GTB hospital after doctors at Mandoli Jail referred him to the surgery OPD for treatment of a stomach-related ailment.The shoot-out took place around 12.30pm when a four-member team of the third battalion of the Delhi Police reached the hospital, police said.Maan was a close confidant of jailed gangster Jitender alias Gogi. The members of the gang were involved in extortion, collecting ransom and protection money and committing car-jacking among others. Kuldeep had been arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police in March 2020 from Gurugram.Fajja carried a reward of ₹2 lakh on his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangster-kuldeep-fajja-who-escaped-from-gtb-hospital-gunned-down-by-delhi-police-101616901267847.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police book 9 for culpable homicide||The Mumbai police have booked nine people for culpable homicide not amounting to murder a day after nine Covid-19 patients, mostly senior citizens, were killed in a fire at Sunrise Hospital located inside the Dreams Mall in Bhandup.Those booked include directors of the mall and directors of Privilege Healthcare Services Private Limited, which owns the hospital. The mall directors include Rakesh Wadhwan and his son Sarang, promoters of Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), who are in jail in connection with the ₹6,670 crore Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank scam.“They have been booked under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code,” said deputy police commissioner Chaitanya Siriprolu.Also read | Slight dip in Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 tally, Mumbai records highest spikeThe fire started on first floor of the mall on Thursday night and soon spread to the third floor, which houses the hospital. Officials from the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said the firefighting system, including sprinklers, were not functioning. A notice for non-compliance of fire safety norms was issued to the mall in November 2020, they added.“It is not a case of negligence. There were serious lapses in terms of safety compliance. The biggest lapse is that the mall did not have fire permission. They have also violated the terms and conditions on the basis of which the BMC had given them a part NOC (no objection certificate). That is why we have booked the owners of the mall, hospital management, and the administrator, on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and are further investigating the case,” said deputy police commissioner Prashant Kadam.“The hospital had obtained permission to run a nursing home on October 1, 2020. Since January 2021, the facility has been functioning as a Covid centre. The hospital is owned by Nikita Trehan and one George Putting Shery is the chief executive officer of the hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-book-9-for-culpable-homicide-101616888671108.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||No possibility of a lockdown in Delhi, says Jain||State health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said that there was “no possibility” of enforcing another lockdown in the Capital and that people will have to “learn to live with” Covid-19 at a time when the city is recording a spike in daily new coronavirus infections, which are at their highest levels since mid-December.“There is no possibility of another lockdown in Delhi as of now. A lockdown had been implemented once and it was thought that since the incubation period for the virus was 14 days, if all activity was stopped for 21 days, the transmission would stop. The lockdown was extended again and again, but the virus did not stop. So, lockdown is not the solution,” said Jain in a press interaction on Saturday.Instead, he said, the city’s residents have to follow precautions to stem the spread of the viral outbreak and that “experts have been saying that one must not believe we would get rid of the virus any time soon and we have to learn to live with it”.Also read | Amid surging Covid-19 cases, Delhi issues fresh restrictions. Details hereExperts have repeatedly called for restrictions such as curtailing “non-essential” activities and large gatherings in the city, especially with the upcoming Holi festival on March 29, along with ensuring social distancing measures are followed.“I believe people have to exercise restraint themselves. They already know what to do, but have not been following the measures of late. During Holi, people should avoid going to others’ homes to wish them and do it over the phone instead. If they have to go somewhere, they must wear a mask and avoid hugging others or applying gulal,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Jain added, “In order to stop the increase in the number of cases, we have increased the rate of testing with around 85,000 to 90,000 tests being conducted each day. This is five times more than the country’s average. Isolation and contact tracing is also being done. For every positive case, over 30 contacts are traced and asked to remain in quarantine in order to contain it as fast as possible.”The Aam Aadmi Party leader also said that the Delhi administration has, since Monday, begun conducting random tests at railway stations and airports to prevent infections being imported in from other countries and cities.Also read | Delhi records 1,558 new Covid-19 cases, highest in over 3 monthsSpeaking of the state government’s preparedness, Jain said there was adequate availability of hospital beds to manage the current surge in cases.Jain also said that vaccination levels in the city are likely to increase from April 1, when the countrywide eligibility criteria is relaxed to include all adults above the age of 45.Currently, only those above the age of 60, and those between ages 45-59 with specific comorbid conditions can get the vaccine shots.Experts say the city’s vaccination drive has to be scaled up to curb the spread of Covid-19. The drive has so far been slower than planned, with 31,504 jabs administered on average each day through the week.On Saturday, 33,571 people were administered the first dose of the vaccine, and 4,163 were given their second shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-possibility-of-a-lockdown-in-delhi-says-jain-101616883285076.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt issues SOP for protection of interfaith couples; sets up 'special cell', 24-hr helpline||The Delhi government has issued a standard operating procedure (SoP) for the protection of inter-faith and inter-caste couples from harassment and threats and directed setting up of 'special cells', headed by deputy commissioners of police, to look into such matters.According to the SOP, the government will provide accommodation in its 'safe house' to those couples whose relationship is being opposed by their families or the local community or khaps.The government said the existing 181 toll-free women helpline of the Delhi Commission for Women will serve as a round-the-clock helpline to receive from inter-faith and inter-caste married couples complaints of threat and harassment and provide necessary assistance."The telecallers trained to handle distress calls and already aware about available services can provide necessary assistance/advice to the couple in distress. If required, they can be further trained to handle such calls," stated the SOP issued by the social welfare department.It stated that after hearing the couple, the DCP of the area concerned, who will perform as head of the 'special cell', will bring the entire facts to the knowledge of the district magistrate and convey their requirement for stay in 'safe house'.Earlier this week, violence had erupted at southeast Delhi's Harijan Basti in allegedly connection with an inter-faith marriage. The Delhi Police has arrested several persons for their alleged involvement in the incident."Adequate security shall be provided to the couple in form of PSO (protective service officer) and the 'safe house' will also be secured by the DCP of the area concerned."The couple shall be briefed about the threat to them and in no case they be exposed till the issue is resolved," the department said in SOP.In case the couple doesn't want to stay in the 'safe house', the special cell will provide protection to them in accordance with the threat perception at their place of stay.If preliminary enquiry ascertains the authenticity of threats, the DCP concerned will direct an ACP or sub-division police officer to register an FIR against those threatening the couple.According to the social welfare department, the government has established 'Safe House' at a state-run residential area in north Delhi's Kingsway Camp which can accommodate maximum three couples.It said in March 2018, the Supreme Court had directed the state to create 'special cell' in every district comprising the superintendent of police, the district social welfare officers and others to receive petition or complaints of harassment and threats to inter-caste and inter-faith couples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-issues-sop-for-protection-of-interfaith-couples-sets-up-special-cell-24-hr-helpline-101616879222486.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s daily Covid cases soar to 294, highest in six months||The city reported 294 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest daily tally in the past six months, pushing the number of active cases to 2,532.This is also the first time since September 24, when the pandemic had hit its peak, that the number of active cases has crossed the 2,500 mark.The virus also claimed two lives on Saturday, taking the toll to 374. The city’s case tally now stands at 25,898 cases, while the weekly positivity rate remains 11.3%, which is second highest in the country after Maharashtra.Amid the sudden spike in cases, the administration has already notified over 20 containment zones across the city, while the central government has also deputed a high-level team, which is expected to take stock of the situation from Monday next week.Even though health officials said the unexpected surge was attributed to public’s disregard to Covid-appropriate behaviour, they maintained that it may also be due to the transmission of new variants of the virus. However, results of samples sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, to confirm this are awaited.Slight dip in cases in MohaliMohali saw a dip in infections after reporting record 409 cases on Friday, with 374 people testing positive on Saturday.However, this was the fifth time in the past one week that cases remained over 300.With this, the district’s total count went up to 25,589, of which 3,224 cases are active. As many as 419 people have died due to the virus.100+ cases in Panchkula for third day in a rowPanchkula reported 100+ cases for the third consecutive day, with 152 people being found infected, which pushed the total to 12,579. The death toll also rose to 154 with two men succumbing to the virus. There are 880 active cases in the district after 11,545 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-daily-covid-cases-soar-to-294-highest-in-six-months-101616879260130.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Two people arrested as brawl breaks out between two groups in Delhi's Aerocity||A brawl broke out between two groups in Aerocity when one of their vehicles "slightly touched" another following which two men were arrested, police said on Saturday.Those arrested were identified as Taranjit Singh (31), a resident of Janakupuri who deals in sale and purchase of cars and Naveen Kumar (29), a resident of Chhawla village who is a property dealer. Both of them have no previous criminal history, the police said, adding other accused involved in the fight are being identified.The incident took place on late Friday night in a driveway where several cars were parked. Singh and Kumar were leaving after dinner when one of their vehicles "slightly touched" the other vehicle. They got into a fight and several other men also joined them, the police said.When the security guards and staffers there tried to intervene, the men attacked them as well.In the video of the incident, several men could be seen fighting with each other. They can be seen punching, slapping and hurling abuses. Two-three women can also be seen joining them and being manhandled.A senior police officer said the two parties involved did not file a complaint against each other."But we registered a case under sections of affray and other relevant sections for violation of COVID protocols," the officer said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Airport) Ranjeev Ranjan said, "We have registered a case and two of the main accused have been arrested. Further investigation is underway and we are trying to identify others who were involved in the incident."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-people-arrested-as-brawl-breaks-out-between-two-groups-in-delhi-s-aerocity-101616878479135.html
28-03-2021||Other||Covid surge: Chhatbir zoo to remain closed on Sundays||In the wake of surging Covid-19 cases, the district administration has ordered closure of Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, on Sundays.“The zoo receives high footfall on Sundays, making it difficult for the zoo staff to ensure that the public observes Covid-related protocols. Therefore, keeping in view the health of visitors, employees and animals, the zoo will be closed on Sundays,” said M Sudhagar, zoo field director. Besides, the zoo will also remain closed on Mondays, as is already the practice.Last year, after the pandemic broke out, the zoo was closed on March 16 and reopened only in December, causing losses to mount to nearly ₹4 crore. Even after the zoo was reopened, the number of daily visitors was capped at 2,700. Also, to ensure social distancing, zoo authorities had started online booking and staggered entry through shifts, but the high footfall defeated these efforts. The zoo is spread over 505 acres and is home to around 1,500 animals and birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-surge-chhatbir-zoo-to-remain-closed-on-sundays-101616879080107.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Pinjore man sets himself on fire, suffers 70% burns||Upset over a woman turning down his marriage proposal, a 26-year-old man immolated himself outside her house in Kalka on Friday night.A resident of Dharampur Colony, Pinjore, the man suffered 70% burns in the suicide bid and was admitted to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he remains critical.According to police, around 8.30pm on Friday, the man, who is currently unemployed, rushed into the 24-year-old woman’s house in Kalka. He doused himself with petrol on the first floor and set himself on fire. He grabbed the woman’s grandfather, who is around 70 years old, to burn him as well. However, the woman’s mother rescued the elderly man, who had suffered light burns on the arms and legs by then.The woman’s family said the man had visited their house on February 12 under drunken stupor and threatened to marry her by force. They had informed the police about this, but chose to drop the complaint on his parents’ request.Police have now booked him under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 309 (attempt to commit suicide) and 452 (house-trespass) of the Indian Penal Code at the Kalka police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pinjore-man-sets-himself-on-fire-suffers-70-burns-101616878780000.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sexual harassment at work: Panels can be altered sans violation of law, says HC||The constitution of committees constituted at workplaces to deal with complaints of sexual harassment can be changed if the situation warrants, but not in violation of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, a Punjab and Haryana high court bench has held. HC has dismissed a plea against constitution of a committee by Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala, which was challenged on the ground that it has to be presided over by a professor,as per the University Grants Commission (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual Harassment of Women Employees and Students in Higher Education Institutions) Regulations, 2015. But, in the law varsity’s committee, an associate professor has been appointed as committee head. HC found that an associate professor has been appointed as chairman, since there is no woman faculty member in the rank of professor. Therefore, the constitution of the committee cannot be declared bad. It is an undisputed fact that it is a small university and there is no women faculty member in the rank of professor, it added. It may be noted that the 2013 law is a Parliamentary Act and holds supremacy after the Constitution of India, the bench observed, adding that the UGC’s regulations are framed in exercise of the legislative powers conferred upon the executive body and are hence, referred as delegated/subordinate legislation. “Therefore, these regulations cannot supersede the parent/Parliamentary Act which is made by the legislature itself,” the bench said, rejecting the argument that 2013 law is a general legislation, whereas the UGC’s regulations are specific legislation and therefore, have to prevail over the 2013 law. “This court expresses its inability to accept the argument, particularly when the Parliamentary Act is applicable across the board and is a special Act enacted to deal with complaints of sexual harassment of women at workplace. The UGC’s regulations are to be read in consonance with the Act.In case of any repugnancy, it is the Parliamentary Act which has to prevail. Still further, once a field is occupied by a Parliamentary Act, the regulations, if any, framed by way of subordinate legislation, cannot supersede or overwrite the provision of the Act,” the bench said. To an argument that two contractual employees have been appointed as members in the nine-member committee, the court observed that there is no prohibition in the Act or regulations to include contractual employees in the committee. Out of the two contractual employees, one is a medical officer and the other is an assistant librarian, it said. The court also found that it is not mandatory that one member has to be from a non-governmental organisation or association. One member can either be from non-government organisations or associations committed to the cause of womenor a person familiar with issues relating to sexual harassment, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sexual-harassment-at-work-panels-can-be-altered-sans-violation-of-law-says-hc-101616878599979.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Drawing inspiration from Milkha Singh, Panchkula mountaineer makes it to Everest Base Camp||As a kid, Sandeep Kumar grew up reading about the achievements of India’s track-and-field legend Milkha Singh.Emulating Milkha’s commitment to fitness, Panchkula-based Kumar was always fascinated with mountains and wanted to climb them in his lifetime. He recently achieved a milestone when he completed the Everest Base Camp expedition at a height of 5,364 metres and 17,598 feet in Nepal in 10 days amid difficult conditions.“Everest Base Camp expedition is a dry run for Mount Everest. So I decided to go for it. The last two days were very challenging due to extreme weather. The oxygen level was very low at -10 degree temperature. The wind speed was averagely 40-60 km/hour. Due to the high altitude, I faced two sleepless nights and headache,” said the 39-year-old, who did mountaineering at Triund in Dharamsala, Himachal Pradesh, in October 2020.“I really enjoyed my stint in Triund and wanted to do something more challenging,” added Kumar, who works as a sales manager in an IT company.The journey for the expedition started from Kathmandu to Lukla by a small aircraft. Lukla is at a height of 2,850 metre and the average temperature there is around -2 to -5 degrees.Kumar covered 98-100km in 10 days: “I had rice, dal and boiled potatoes to maintain my carbohydrate levels. I also carried chocolates, biscuits and some homemade stuff to maintain energy levels as one doesn’t get anything from Gorak Shep to the Everest Base Camp. I practised yoga daily to maintain mental and physical health. Milkha Singh is my inspiration. At 91, he is fit and runs daily. My ultimate aim is to climb Mount Everest, however, I will need a lot of funds to achieve that goal,” shared Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drawing-inspiration-from-milkha-singh-panchkula-mountaineer-makes-it-to-everest-base-camp-101616878481558.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC upholds ₹3 lakh compensation to Chandigarh woman injured in mishap||The Punjab and Haryana high court has upheld ₹3 lakh compensation to a city woman who sustained injuries in an accident in October 2011 but chose not to file an FIR since a female was driving the offending vehicle.The accident was reported on October 14, 2011, when the claimant woman riding an Activa scooter was hit by a Honda City car in Sector 20 D, Chandigarh. No FIR was registered against the driver and only a daily diary entry of the incident was recorded.The claimant had filed a plea under Section 163A of the Motor Vehicles Act and was awarded a compensation of ₹1.09 lakh in 2013. However, the decision was challenged by the insurance firm in high court. In 2015, the high court found that her plea was not maintainable under Section 163A as her income was above the ceiling of ₹40,000 per year.The claimant filed another plea under Section 166 of the MV Act and was awarded ₹3 lakh compensation after it was found that the car that had hit her was being driven rashly. This decision was again challenged before the high court.The court said that simultaneous proceedings under different sections of the MV Act could not be undertaken. The remedy provided under Section 163A was on the basis of no-fault liability and had been inserted to cater to a claimant earning less than ₹40,000 per year, the court said, adding that there was no bar upon the claimant to file a petition under Section 166 of the MV Act.Had the claimant taken advantage of the relief amount passed on the petition under Section 163A and had then filed a petition under Section 166, the appellant would be right in contending the latter order, the court said. That not being the case, the contention of the firm was rejected. The court added that though no FIR was registered, the claimant did not state anywhere that there was no rash/negligent driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-upholds-3-lakh-compensation-to-chandigarh-woman-injured-in-mishap-101616878242982.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College inks pact with PGIMER for research||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) on Saturday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to promote research-oriented collaborative work between the two institutions.The MoU was signed by Dheeraj Sanghi, PEC director; professor Divya Bansal, PEC dean alumni corporate and international relations; and Dr Jagat Ram, director of PGIMER.The faculty members of both PEC and PGIMER will explore the possibilities of jointly writing grants, working as co-investigators for conducting collaborative research with Indian and foreign agencies, utilisation of lab infrastructure by each other’s staff and faculty so as to mutually transfer each other’s expertise.PEC also signed an MoU on Friday with the Agriculture and Water Technology Development Hub established by the department of science and technology, Government of India, in the framework of National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems (NM-ICPS) at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Ropar, established by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-engineering-college-inks-pact-with-pgimer-for-research-101616878059964.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||In absence of deans, research scholars of Panjab University suffer||The absence of deans of faculties at Panjab University is adversely affecting the work of any research scholars of the varsity.The one-year term of the deans of faculties had ended on January 31 without the selection of their successors since the elections of the senate and the syndicate were not held. Deans are elected by the senators, added members, professors and heads of departments.The research scholars are running from pillar to post to get their work done. Many of them are awaiting the research degree committees (RDC), which are chaired by deans, to approve their synopsis.A research scholar on the condition of anonymity said, “I submitted my synopsis in December 2019. As there are no deans, I do not know when my RDC will be conducted.”Problems in thesis submissionA number of research scholars of PU who have completed their PhD thesis are not able to submit it.“Just because I need a document for submission which is approved by the dean, I am not able to submit my PhD thesis that I have been trying to submit for the last one month. In the absence of faculty deans, the university should look for some other alternative so that our work does not suffer,” said a research scholar.PU dean of research, professor Rajesh Gill, confirmed that the research scholars and even some faculty members were facing problems: “We are extending all possible help to the scholars, but in the cases where the deans’ authorisation or approval is needed, we cannot help.”However, PU’s official spokesperson Renuka Salwan said, “This issue has already been taken care of and is under active consideration. Students are not affected and their interests are protected in the best possible manner.”PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “The governing body of PU should be constituted immediately otherwise the situation can worsen in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-absence-of-deans-research-scholars-of-panjab-university-suffer-101616877999841.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination drive losing steam in Chandigarh||The vaccination drive against Covid-19 is losing steam in Chandigarh, with the response by eligible people gradually waning, official data shows. While initially senior citizens and those with specific comorbidities turned up in enthusiastic numbers, reaching 8,065 in a week since March 1, their turnout has dropped by 30%, with only 5,646 coming forward last week. Overall, the number of beneficiaries, also including healthcare and frontline workers, rose to over 12,000 in the second week of March from 995 in the week after January 16, when the vaccination drive was rolled out nationwide. But, thereafter, the response has decreased by 35%, with only 8,182 people getting vaccinated last week (see graphic). Over two months into the drive, the turnout of health and frontline workers remains discouraging. While 29,722 health employees had registered initially, only 51% got the jab, while frontline workers fared a tad better, with 58% of the 25,173 registered beneficiaries receiving the shot. According to experts, the local administration needs to strategically plan outreach programmes to encourage more people to get inoculated. “The misinformation around the vaccine is decreasing. Earlier, people were concerned that it may have adverse side-effects, but those worries have been allayed with hardly any such cases being reported. But, people still need a push to come forward to take the jab by micro-planning the vaccination drive,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and School of Public Health at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). “We need to learn from previous experiences of polio immunisation programmes by going into the community, so that every person in the population is touched,” he said. Dr GD Puri, chairman of the Covid-19 management committee and head of anaesthesia department at PGIMER, said, “It is important that people understand the worth of the vaccine and safety precautions, as it will help reduce the need for hospitalisation and also bring down the fatality rate.” Misinformation about the vaccine in the public remained a challenge, said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT Health department. “The vaccination process is really smooth for the targeted groups. One just needs to turn up with the Aadhaar card at any of the private and government facilities offering the vaccine. Anyone having queries can call or visit the health department,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-drive-losing-steam-in-chandigarh-101616877942100.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Sagar Sarhadi’s denunciation of barriers lives on||For many, the first reaction on hearing of the passing away of writer and director Sagar Sarhadi (1933-2021) this week was surprise that he had still been alive all these years. Many thought that he had passed away several decades ago. Such is the exceedingly short memory of the glitz and glamour of the film world where there is a constant tussle to make news and money. For this refugee boy, Ganga Sagar Talwar, born in Baffla village near Abbottabad, it was a happy life exploring the hills, bathing in the river, learning Urdu in school and at times helping his liquor contractor father in the shop. It was a big village home with plenty of grains. But it all came to an end and the family fled during the Partition. In an interview, a couple of years ago, he had said: “There was a lot of anger inside me at forces that drove people away from their homes and made them refugees. That angst never really left me.” Moving on with life It was this displacement and anger that made him question the world and turn to writing to resolve this chaos around him. Dismayed by the communal politics and violence in the name of religion, he turned to the leftist ideology.After completing his schooling in old Delhi where the family lived in a small house in Mori gate, he moved to Mumbai where his brother had found work. As a first-year student in Khalsa College, Mumbai, Sarhadi was greatly enamoured by poet Gulzar’s resounding voice, in which he would recite couplets of Mir and Ghalib. Realizing that he was not well-versed in literature, he started reading furiously and this was a habit he adhered to till the very end. In the final year of college, he moved to St. Xavier’s to hone his skills in English so that he could read the world classics that were easily available then in English translation. In his youth, he allied himself with the Indian Progressive Writers Union and as a regular at their meetings he came into contact with some of the well-known Urdu writers of the time such as Sajjad Zaheer, Kaifi Azmi, Ismat Chughtai and others. Sarhadi emerged as a talented writer of short fiction and a playwright who staged his pro-people’s plays. Praising his contribution to literature and cinema, poet and lyricist Javed Akhtar said: “Sagar Sarhadi a veteran theatre and film writer who wrote films like Kabhie Kabhie , Noori and directed Baazaar has passed away. My heartfelt condolences to the late bachelor’s nephew Ramesh Talwar”. Pen name for a new world The story of his pen name for the changed world is an interesting one. Sarhadi was to recall later, “I did away with Ganga and retained the Sagar. The reason for adding Sarhadi was to retain the identity of the Suba Sarhad that was home for me.” It was with this name that he emerged as a writer choosing theatre as a medium for reaching out with his social messages. The first film that Sarhadi wrote dialogues for was Basu Bhattacharya’s offbeat venture ‘Anubhav’ featuring Sanjeev Kumar, released in 1971. A few years later Sarhadi’s nephew, filmmaker Ramesh Talwar, who was then assistant director to Yash Chopra, invited the latter to see his uncle’s play ‘Mirza Sahiban’ based on a dilemma of an Indo-Pak war. Yash was so impressed by the soulful and terse dialogues of the play that he offered his next film to Sarhadi for screenplay and dialogues. The film was the multi-starrer Kabhie Kabhie with Amitabh Bachchan, Rakhee, Shashi Kapoor, Rishi Kapoor and Neetu Singh, which proved to be a blockbuster winning as many as 24 awards and the lone Filmfare award to Sarhadi for its classic romantic dialogues. The films that followed with the unmistakable Sarhadi touch included Noorie(1979), Silsila (1981), Chandni (1989), Rang (1993) and Hrithik Roshan’s first film Kaho Na Pyar Hai (2000). The cult classic film BazaarSarhadi was hailed as the master of romance but the writer in him yearned for something more meaningful. And this happened with the cult classic film Bazaar (1982), in which Sarhadi chose to don the director’s cap. It was also Sarhadi’s first introduction to the city of Chandigarh when he came here for its trial run in KC Cinema, long demolished now.A director had arrived telling a heart-wrenching story of the plight of young girls in the lost splendour of the Nawabi city of Hyderabad, who were golden hens for poor homes and married to ageing Arabs for money. Starring Naseeruddin Shah, Smita Patil, Farooq Sheikh and Supriya Pathak, it stood its ground amid the new wave films of Shyam Benegal and Govind Nihalani. Sarhadi picked the best of Urdu ghazals for the film, including Mir Taki Mir, Makhdoom Mohinuddin and others and Khyayyam’s soulful musical score was to subvert the romance of the Urdu ghazal in the face of sad social reality. The film is still looked back with love. A greater acquaintance was made with Sarhadi through the film scriptwriter Amrik Gill, a friend from the Punjab University days in the mid-seventies. Amrik worked with Sarhadi in ‘Tere Shehar Mein’ and ‘Agla Mausam’ that were never released and ‘Chausar’ (2005), in which he had given the lead role to Nawazuddin Siddiqui in his days of struggle. Remembering him, Gill says: “I learned much working with Sarhadi,whose was a rare talent amidst the commerce of Bollywood. Even the one Bazaar he made makes him immortal and he will be remembered for all times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundaboutsagar-sarhadi-s-denunciation-of-barriers-lives-on-101616877940217.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: A serendipitous lesson in contentment||I had always been moved by the plight of a shabbily clad limping man who worked as a maali (gardener) in our neighbourhood. Though not a trained gardener, he could be seen wielding his khurpi (trowel), working in lawns and tending to flower beds in the locality. However, after lockdown was imposed, I did not see him for months together. It was only recently, when I was walking down to a nearby park, that I saw him working in a neighbour’s lawn. I stopped to catch-up and learnt that the poor fellow had lost his livelihood during the Covid-induced lockdown and had to return to his village. The pandemic and the subsequent lockdown has been a big blow to everyone, but workers in the informal sector have been among the worst-affected. The restrictions have somewhat relaxed but the pandemic seems to be here to stay and the ordeal of part-time workers continues as they have not been able to regain all their work. With honest curiosity and an intention to help the poor man, I asked him if his earnings were enough to meet his expenses. His composure surprised me as he raised five fingers to suggest he was able to make ₹5,000. He looked content, but I felt distressed. I wondered how he was managing with his meagre earnings. After all there was rent to pay, money to be transferred to his folks in the village. “What about your food expenses?” I asked, concerned. His answer left me stumped. With a glee apparent on his face, he shared his secret: three food packets comprising chapattis, pickle and a seasonal vegetable — his breakfast, lunch and dinner for ₹10 per meal, courtesy the Chandigarh administration with support of the Red Cross Society. ‘Content is a feast without end’I could not help be amazed at how satisfied he was. The satisfaction I saw on the face of a man getting just two (nay three) squares a meal, reminded me of a proverb from Judaism: all the days of poor person are wretched but contentment is a feast without end. I realised that a simple meal was no less than a treat for the poor fellow. Introspecting, I came to a rude realisation that we keep hankering after more and more riches and acquisitions and yet remain disgruntled and here was a man who had absolutely nothing, no possessions to his name but for a rickety cycle, and yet he was content. Without a trace of envy, jealousy, ambition or greed, he was facing the hardships of life head-on. ‘Discontent makes rich men poor’Ironically, I had stopped to extend help to the poor man, not knowing that I would be the one receiving a lesson in contentment from him. The serenity on his face, despite physical and economic challenges, was enough to remind me of the virtues of ‘santosh dhan’ —contentment is wealth, an asset in itself. Benjamin Franklin rightly says, “Content makes poor men rich; discontent makes rich men poor.” The writer is a retired associate professor at MCMDAV College, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-a-serendipitous-lesson-in-contentment-101616877459787.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Wild Buzz: Return of colour||Oft mistaken as a hummingbird by adoring householders, this purple pixie of our gardens is currently revelling in a new, waltzing wardrobe. The male purple sunbird has also found his Elvis Presley voice, which had been stilled by icy winter. In February, as the weather warmed, the male commenced his forays to exposed perches such as electricity poles from where he excitedly belted out his songs of yearning that went ‘cheewit-cheewit-cheewit’, thus heralding the breeding season. The dowdy female would listen quietly to her suitor’s arias while she diligently sucked nectar and gobbled insects in anticipation of the maternal burden.Last winter, the male in eclipse or non-breeding plumage was drab and coloured like the olive and yellow female but distinguished by a black, necktie-like stripe running down his wintering chest and a hangover of black and purple on the wings. As spring came and flowers unfurled like lips offering sweet nectar, the necktie filled out and the male was blushed over by dark colours highlighted by a filigree of purple iridescence. How could a female miss this swashbuckling colour spot so vividly described by Dr Salim Ali: “The breeding male raises and lowers his wings displaying the brilliant yellow and scarlet tufts of feathers under the ‘armpits’ (or the male’s pectoral tufts).”Holi hai bhai, Holi haiLarge carpenter bees can be seen visiting lush, flowering gardens across the tricity. These bees burrow deep into petals while seeking pollen and nectar and come off smeared with pollen like hues of Holi rubbed liberally onto humans in festive joy.These pollinators evoke both fear and fascination but, in truth, despite their loud buzzing sounds and intimidating look, they are next to harmless. The female bee seldom uses her sting. The carpenter bee is coy and wary and prefers to buzz off when approached by humans.Unlike honey bees, carpenter bees neither make honey nor do they live in hives. Often mixed with bumblebees, carpenter bees differ from the former as they do not have hairy abdomens. Carpenter bees nest by drilling holes in dead wood, bamboo or structural timbers. Their carpenter sounds can be mistaken for birds performing similar functions so much so that these bees have come to be quaintly known as ‘woodpecker bees’! Their nests are used to store nectar and pollen for the brood and for winter hibernation. Over 500 species of carpenter bees are found across the globe. They are solitary in their nesting habits, though in some species the female will co-habit a nest with her sisters and daughters. With a flourish of sounds, wheeling aerobatics and a dazzle of metallic blue, green and purple, the carpenter bee announces its arrival in spring’s carnival. The sounds of these large bees so charmed the acoustic imagination of Russian composer N Rimsky-Korsakov that he wrote the orchestral interlude ‘Flight of the bumble bee’ in 1899-1900. The flurry and dizzying pace of the interlude’s notes evoke the bee’s seemingly chaotic and varying flight movements. A popular ‘distraction’ in the rarefied repertoire of the European classical tradition, the interlude is a ‘must hear’ for lovers of music and of creatures less glitzy than tigers!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wild-buzz-return-of-colour-101616877281267.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays:The delusive world of influencers||The great delusion of life itself has bamboozled mankind for aeons. So besotted do we become with our own illusionary little worlds that we never ponder over the bigger questions of life. Why did we take birth in the first place? Why will we have to suddenly leave one day, with no time to pack our bags?And to add to our collective confusion, nowadays we have a battery of social media influencers trying to sway our minds us even more. The vice-like grip of social media upon our consciousness is unrelenting, and only a very balanced mind can remain aloof to its compelling magnetism. We tend to spend every spare moment, and very often our busy moments too, browsing through the latest posts, images, videos and messages on social media channels.The impact and influence of such posts and their creators upon our minds is already the subject of study of many a researcher, and has at times been referred to by this columnist too. People such as socialite Kim Kardashian and her sisters may have displayed no great talent to the world at large, but their social media fan following is legendary, and no laughing matter at all. But to dive deeper into the subject, let us examine the success of a few trendsetters who might well be small town simpletons, but are setting the internet afire with their ‘earth shaking’ posts.Kanan Gill is a ‘deluxe’ comedian, for instance, with half a million Instagram followers, while Kusha Kapila, a digital ‘creator’ has thrice as many followers. The latter often takes up serious issues with nonchalant ease and drives home her point almost effortlessly. And quite wittily, she declares that she is ‘kabhi authentic, kabhi synthetic’!Kenny Sebastian, a stand-up comedian, has a million followers on Instagram, and regularly tickles the funny bone of his audiences without batting an eyelid. Dolly Singh, with an even larger following, creates hilarious videos and spreads cheer with every post.All of them have undoubtedly scaled dizzying social media heights and struck gold in many ways by dint of sheer perseverance and ingenuity, but only because the world is consuming their posts almost hungrily. They have cracked the code of being genuinely and refreshingly different from a plethora of also-rans who are way behind them in the distance.The key to the zippy world of these influencers is their ultra-creative approach and mass appeal based on their ability to make common people feel connected to them. They are nowhere near as popular as mega stars Virat Kohli or Deepika Padukone, but have carved out a niche for themselves, in whatever manner.The upside is that they entertain and even inform the general populace who follow them almost blindly. The downside is, however, that youngsters across the land delude themselves into thinking that they will one day be just like them.Thus, legions of school-going or college-going youngsters are attempting to ape these social media ‘stars’ by attempting to highlight their own talents. Humour, food, fashion, wellness, music, dance, glamour, wit, sarcasm and naughtiness all qualify as popular realms wherein a social media influencer can hope to make a mark. The name of the game is to have enough followers to make advertising brands sit up and take notice, or to be paid for their popularity by giants like Google themselves.Health influencers like YouTube celebrity Vivek Mittal the “Fit Tuber” protagonist with five million subscribers are, on the other hand, doing a yeoman’s service to society by dispelling several myths about diet, fitness and health. The key, as always, is the discernment with which the consumer, the viewer, digests the fare dished out by these influencers. To be taken in inordinately by any influencer and to allow him or her to impact the mind and even the heart is by no means a good idea for anyone, young or old. But to be entertained and even advised by those who are genuinely talented or well informed is to make judicious use of their influence.The world is, after all, more delusive than it has ever been. And we need to be more sensible than we have ever been!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-the-delusive-world-of-influencers-101616876379742.html
28-03-2021||Other||HP high court orders probe against teacher couple for tampering with records||The Himachal Pradesh high court, while disposing of a transfer petition, directed the education department to initiate an inquiry against a government school teacher and her husband for misconduct, and imposed a penalty of ₹50,000 on her for “abusing the process of the court”. The teacher, who is the petitioner in the case, had challenged the transfer order dated December 14, 2020, of the respondent to Government High School, Jol, under the control of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhali, where she had joined on the said date after being relieved from Government High School, Draman (Kangra). However, during the course of hearing, it was revealed that on December 14, 2020, the principal of GSSS, Bhali, was on official duty and in his absence, the petitioner, along with her husband, had entered his office without permission, and marked the attendance in the Teachers’ Attendance Register herself. The petitioner had candidly admitted before the court that she had herself made the joining report and the noting portion, regarding her joining service as TGT Arts, was appended by her husband in the joining report. The division bench, comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia, observed that the conduct of the petitioner and her husband is unbecoming of a teacher and therefore they deserve to be charge-sheeted for their misconduct. The court also observed that the petitioner had not come to the court with clean hands and had filed a false claim to gain unfair advantage and abused the process of the court. The court observed that it is a lamentable state of affairs when teachers, who are considered as equal to God, fall from the highest pedestal to the lowest level by caring for their self-interest alone and not of the pupil(s). The court also observed that it is the educational institutions which are the future hope of this country. These lay the seed for the foundation of morality, ethics and discipline. If there is any erosion or descending by those who control the activities, all expectations and hopes are destroyed. Teachers, in our perspective, are of character, honesty, simplicity and dedication, but both the petitioner and her husband who happen to be the teachers in government school, have not done justice to their roles as ideal teachers, the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-high-court-orders-probe-against-teacher-couple-for-tampering-with-records-101616875959722.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bans gatherings, shuts malls, eateries between 8pm and 7am||In a bid to arrest the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Saturday issued an order, banning gatherings of five or more people and shutting public places, including restaurants, theatres and malls, between 8pm and 7am, from Sunday.The state said the curfew will be till April 15. Maharashtra on Saturday reported 35,726 fresh Covid-19 cases, while Mumbai recorded its highest single-day spike of 6,130 infections.Maharashtra also recorded its highest single-day toll since October 23, 2020, by adding 166 fatalities to take the toll to 54,073. Mumbai reported 12 deaths, while Nagpur district reported 20 casualties, including 18 from the city.Akola city reported 17 deaths and its rural parts reported three deaths. Nandurbar district reported 15 deaths and Pune district saw 14 more deaths. Of the deaths reported on Saturday, 101 were in the past 48 hours and 26 happened in the past week. The remaining 39 deaths were before last week.With festivals, including Holi, around the corner, the state had decided to restrict movement of people at night. The order, issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, said those who flouted restrictions will be penalised ₹1,000. The state also decided to shut beaches, gardens between 8pm and 7am.Also read | Slight dip in Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 tally, Mumbai records highest spikeTo combat the rising instancing of people not following masking in public places, the state will impose a fine of ₹500 on people found without a mask. Mumbai currently imposes a fine of ₹200. However, the civic body will issue a separate order increasing the fine to ₹500, officials said, in a bid to keep the fines uniform. The BMC is also expected to curb shop timings. The state order also said that any person found to be spitting in public places will be fined ₹1,000.All restaurants will remain closed from 8pm to 7 am. However, home delivery and takeaway from restaurants will be allowed during the said time. The state has completely restricted social, cultural, political, religious gatherings across Maharashtra. The order stated that auditoriums and drama theatres should not be used for conducting said gatherings.The state government has ordered all private offices, except those related to health and other essential services, to function at 50% capacity. In case of government and semi-government offices, the head of the offices will take a call on staff attendance, ensuring adherence to all Covid-19 protocol.The state has also decided to not allow visitors, apart from elected representatives, at government offices. Visitors, who have been called for meetings, will be given special passes issued by departments or head of the office.Also, the state capped the number of people allowed in wedding ceremonies and in funerals. Not more than 50 people will be allowed in wedding ceremonies, while not more than 20 people will be allowed for performance of the last rites, the order stated. Officials said that there were several instances where weddings saw 500-1,000 invitees—resulting in a super-spreader event during the pandemic—prompting them to cap the number of invitees.The order added that the trusts of religious places have been asked to decide and declare the maximum number of visitors allowed per hour. It shall be decided according to the availability of space for movement and gathering with proper social distancing. Temperature checks and entry with masks have been made mandatory before entry into any religious place.Also read | Maharashtra Covid-19 night curfew from Sunday: All you need to knowWith an aim to not disturb the recovery of the state’s economy, the manufacturing sector continues to be allowed to function at full capacity. The manufacturing units, however, have been advised to reduce workforce to maintain social distancing and increase working shifts. The units can operate with following restrictions including, no entry without masks, temperature checks, ensure nobody with a fever is allowed, etc.Besides Mumbai, the other major contributor to Saturday’s Covid-19 count include, Pune district with 6,591 cases, Nagpur district with 3,741 new cases, Nashik district with 3,515 and Aurangabad district with 1501. Close to Mumbai, tThane city and its rural areas reported 939 and 481 new cases, respectively. Navi Mumbai reported 827 new cases, while Kalyan-Dombivli reported 859 cases on Saturday.Meanwhile, active cases in the state surpassed the 300,000 mark. The active case count in the state stood at 303,475, while it was 39,869 in Mumbai.HOTEL OWNERS CRY FOULHotel and restaurant owners have condemned the Maharashtra government’s directions, asking them to close their establishments by 8pm, stating that it will serve as death knell for their businesses. The Hotels and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRWAI), a body of hotels, said the move will be devastating for their sector.“It is like a lockdown for us. Hotels currently don’t have business in the afternoon as workplaces are either closed or operating with limited staff. This rule will serve as a death knell for us,” said Pradeep Shetty, senior vice-president, HRWAI.The Indian Hotels and Restaurants Association (AHAR) said it was not feasible to conduct business by closing at 8.00pm.“We will see more hotels shutting operations in the coming days, and there will be huge layoffs in this sector. Hotels on rent will be forced to leave their premises due to lack of viability,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR.The Kosmic Group of Hotels, which has four outlets in the city, said it is planning to keep its establishments closed during the night curfew. “It makes no business sense [to keep establishments open], as consumers tend to arrive after 8.00pm. It’s better to close down till the situation normalises,” said Romi Chadha, owner, Kosmic Group of Hotels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bans-gatherings-shuts-malls-eateries-between-8pm-and-7am-101616875784199.html
28-03-2021||Other||J&K saw 53% increase in Covid-19 cases in March||Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir have already increased by 53% this month as compared to February. As many as 2,972 people got infected with the virus from March 1 to 26, as against 1,935 total cases in February – which was the lowest monthly total since June 2020. As against 21 deaths in February, March has already recorded 27 deaths so far.Majority of the increase this month has taken place in Kashmir which contributed to 2,379 of the total 2, 972 cases till March 26. The most affected district in the new wave is again capital Srinagar which has 767 active cases of the Kashmir’s total 1, 269 active cases.“The increase in cases is there but it is not a sharp increase like in Maharashtra. Nevertheless our Covid-19 facilities and infrastructure are intact and we are ready for everything,” said director health, Kashmir, Mushtaq Ahmad Rather.The overall active cases in Jammu and Kashmir have doubled in March to reach 1,681 on March 26 from 823 by the end of February. The UT had hit its lowest active cases since May 2020 to reach 593 on February 9.The UT has witnessed a sharp increase in fresh cases in the second half of March. From 1, 293 Covid-19 cases in the first half, the 11 days of the second half contributed 1,679 cases.For the past 10 days, the daily fresh Covid-19 cases have remained above 100, hovering between 126 and 210, while the lowest daily count this year was on February 8 when just 43 cases had been reported.Rather said that the health authorities and administration have increased vigilance so that Covid-19 SOPs are followed.As summer capital Srinagar is witnessing a steep increase in Covid-19 cases, the district administration is not only imposing fines on people but also subjecting them to Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) if caught without masks in public. “People have become lenient in taking preventive measures such as wearing masks, observing social distancing and hand hygiene. We need cooperation from people to control this second wave,” said Rather.When the pandemic began in mid-March last year, the infections had increased gradually from 55 Covid-19 cases in March last year to 5,051 cases in June and peaked to 37, 372 in September. The cases then began to decline with 19, 619 in October, 10,747 in December and plunged to the lowest of 1,935 cases in February 2021 after which the second wave hit the state. The total Covid-19 cases in the UT have reached to 1, 29,413 till March 26 while the death is 1984 with 1252 of the fatalities in Kashmir only.As many as 1, 25,748 people have recovered in the UT till March 26 taking the recovery rate to 97.16%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-saw-53-increase-in-covid-19-cases-in-march-101616875599768.html
28-03-2021||Other||India, Pak must move beyond secret talks, resolve issues through open dialogue: Omar||National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah on Saturday welcomed thawing of ties between India and Pakistan but stated that a lot of ground was still to be covered. He said that the two countries should move beyond secret talks and indulge in open dialogue.The former chief minister said that he won’t go into whether this was because of compulsion or sincerity on anyone’s part.“Whatever it is, it is good. We have always said that the friendship between these two countries is not only for the betterment of J&K but the whole of South Asia,” he said on the sidelines of a party function in Pulwama district in south Kashmir.Last month, Indian and Pakistan’s militaries agreed to strictly observe a ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control (LoC). Earlier this month Pakistan’s army chief general Qamar Javed Bajwa said it was time for India and Pakistan to ‘bury the past’ and move forward as that would help to ‘unlock’ the potential of South and Central Asia.“It is good that the two countries are now taking friendship instead of threatening each other but still a lot has to be covered,” said Abdullah.The turn in India-Pakistan relations comes around one-and-a-half years after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was revoked by the central government and the region split into two Union territories.Abdullah said that they have come to know about secret talks between the two countries. “We have heard that there have been secret talks. We want them to talk to each other openly across the table on all issues. The issues are plenty including J&K and all other issues. We want a solution to all issues through dialogue,” he said.Earlier this week, the moderate Hurriyat Conference faction led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq also welcomed India and Pakistan’s agreement to adhere to ceasefire on the Line of Control and stated that the subsequent statements and actions indicated a ‘positive shift’ in the relations between the neighbours.The Hurriyat said it welcomes the shift towards good neighbourly relations between the two countries, which was the first step in the direction of a meaningful dialogue for the peaceful resolution of the Kashmir conflict.On being asked about the Enforcement Directorate’s summons to PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti, Abdullah said that they have experienced these things in the past 6-8 years.“From J&K to Tamil Nadu, Assam to Gujarat, neither Mehbooba Mufti is first leader (to be summoned by Enforcement Directorate) nor would she be last. Unfortunately for the past 6-8 years we experienced that one has to bear the brunt of these agencies on opposing the central government. Wherever these actions are taking place they will be faced strongly,” he said. In J&K, he said that it was the work of the UT government to reassure people and bring them into confidence. “But unfortunately here we still are into governor’s rule. It is the duty of the LG and his officers to bring people here into confidence and assure them about their betterment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/india-pak-must-move-beyond-secret-talks-resolve-issues-through-open-dialogue-omar-101616875239650.html
28-03-2021||Other||Amarnath Yatra registration to start from April 1||The registration of pilgrims for the annual Amarnath Yatra is going to commence on April 1 for both the routes of Baltal and Chandanwari through 446 designated Bank branches of Punjab National Bank (316), Jammu and Kashmir Bank (90) and YES Bank (40), across the country, said officials. This year’s 56 day Yatra shall commence simultaneously on both the routes from June 28 and culminate on August 22—on the festival of Raksha Bandhan. This year the government has been making arrangements for six lakh pilgrims. Chief executive officer, Amarnath Shrine Board, Nitishwar Kumar has informed that the step-by-step procedure, application form and state-wise list of bank branches with complete addresses are available at the shrine board’s website. He said that to keep a check on fraudulent health certificates, only such certificates which are issued by doctors and medical institutes authorised by the state government / UT administrations concerned shall be accepted at the registered bank branches. For Yatra 2021, only those health certificates which have been issued after March 15 shall be valid. The steps which yatris need to follow in order to register for the Yatra, have been put on the Board’s website www.shriamarnathjishrine.com. It contains relevant information on how to reach the base camps, fee for yatra registration, tariff for ponies, palanquin and porters. The CEO further informed that persons under the age of 13 years or above the age of 75 years and women who are more than six weeks pregnant would not be registered for this year’s yatra. The CEO also informed that the Yatra Permits would be different for each day of the week and route, with a different colour coding for each day to facilitate the police personnel deployed at the Access Control Gates at Baltal and Chandanwari to regulate the Yatra for the relevant date and route. In this context, he cautioned the intending pilgrims against undertaking this arduous yatra without securing a Yatra Permit and the required compulsory health certificate. Kumar stressed that for ensuring effective security arrangements along the difficult tracks, only those yatris who are in possession of a Yatra Permit which is valid for a specified date and route, will be allowed to proceed beyond the base camps, and cross the entry gates at Domel and Chandanwari. Yatris who propose to travel by helicopter do not require advance registration as their helicopter tickets shall suffice for this purpose. However, they shall be required to produce the Compulsory Health Certificate (CHC) in the prescribed format issued by an authorised doctor, before they are allowed to travel by helicopter. Jammu DC calls for enhancing Yatri Niwas accommodation capacity to 5,000 Jammu deputy commissioner Anshul Garg on Saturday convened a meeting with the senior officers of various departments to review the arrangements being put in place here at Bhagwati Nagar Yatri Niwas for comfortable stay of pilgrims during Amarnathji Yatra. Yatri Niwas is the main base camp here at Jammu from where pilgrims embark on their journey towards Srinagar and then to Pahalgam and Baltal to undertake the trek to cave shrine nestled at a height of 13,000 feet in South Kashmir Himalayas. Garg reviewed the status of the available facilities like power, drinking water, sanitation, transport, security, barricading, mobile toilets, clock rooms, langar arrangements, parking facility, PAS and related services. The officers apprised him that Yatri Niwas has 13 halls with the capacity of catering to around 1, 500 yatris at a time with attached bathrooms and other facilities. Garg emphasized upon the officers to increase the per day accommodation capacity from current two thousand to five thousand. Regarding this, Garg was informed that a hall of 7000 sq ft having a capacity of accommodating 500 yatris would be constructed at an estimated cost of 174 lakhs by the Tourism department. He directed the concerned officers to gear up men and machinery to ensure adequate arrangements for the comfortable stay and onward journey of Yatris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amarnath-yatra-registration-to-start-from-april-1-101616874939682.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Taxi driver found dead inside car in Ludhiana||A taxi driver was found dead in a Toyota Innova car at Gurdial Singh Road at Mall road on Saturday morning. No injury marks were found on the body and police suspect that he died of a cardiac arrest.The deceased has been identified as Bharat Bhushan, 43, of Thareeke village. Police found a liquor bottle inside the car and suspect that he had consumed excessive liquor before his death.Sub-inspector Rajinderpal singh, station house officer (SHO) at Division Number 8 police station, said that Bhushan had borrowed the car from his friend, who lives in Kitchlu Nagar. He parked it and started drinking and his body was discovered by locals on Saturday morning.The body has been sent to civil hospital for postmortem. The doctors have sent the viscera of the deceased for chemical examination.Sukhwinder Kaur, Bhushan’s wife, stated that her husband was a habitual drunker. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under section 174 of CrPC . The deceased is survived by a son, a daughter and a wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/taxi-driver-found-dead-inside-car-in-ludhiana-101616874819700.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||As Ludhiana resigns to a subdued Holi, shopkeepers report 80% dip in sales||With fresh restrictions imposed on public celebrations of Holi in Punjab, shopkeepers across the city who had stocked their shops with a multitude of colours — organic and otherwise —and an assortment of paraphernalia such as water guns and balloons ahead of the festival of colours reported an 80% dip in sales. The shopkeepers said that with one day to go for the festival, sales had still not picked up. Forlorn stalls stocked with a wide array of colours can be seen at markets in Daresi, Ghumar Mandi, Jawahar Nagar. Shopkeepers say the footfall is significantly lower than previous years as cartoon-embossed water guns, priced between ₹50 to ₹400 to cater to children of all social strata, patiently wait for the traditional horde of children to gather around and clamour for these novel goodies. Nominal increase in price There has been a nominal increase in the price of products —colour packs of 50g and 1kg will cost ₹30, they were previously priced ₹25 and ₹60, respectively. The 10-kg pack will cost ₹700. A shopkeeper, who requested anonymity, said after the commissioner of police banned all gatherings at hotels, restaurants and malls due to a surge in virus cases, few customers turned up to purchase products. Sunil Kumar, who owns a toy shop in Daresi, said, “I have been in this business for 20 years and every year a people throng to purchase colours and water guns before the festival. However, the pandemic and sudden spike in cases has severely affected our business. Only two customers have shown up since morning, if this continues, I will not be able to clear my stock. I had purchased a variety of water guns made in India, and herbal colours but there are no customers.” Another shopkeeper, Gurjinder Singh of Jawahar Nagar, said, “We had stocked up on water guns, vibrant colours, and coloured smoke but over the last week, we are only able to sell merchandise worth ₹5,000, though we bought products worth ₹40,000. I had hired two additional employees to handle the rush before Holi but with few customers coming up, I will find it difficult to even pay their salaries.”Holi parties no longer all the rage Ishneet Sharma, a resident of Punjab Mata Nagar, said, “I attend Holi parties every year but this year due to an increase in virus cases, I will stay at home and celebrate the festival with my family. My friends plan to have a get together but I have decided to stay home and stay safe.”Despite surging cases, many residents were seen ignoring safety protocols, including social distancing and wearing masks, in markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-ludhiana-resigns-to-a-subdued-holi-shopkeepers-report-80-dip-in-sales-101616874219663.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Review plea rejected, EPFO recovers ₹6 cr employer’s share from BFUHS||Rejecting Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, plea seeking review of the pending amount of employers’ share, the regional office of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Bathinda, recovered the default amount of around ₹6 crore from the university.The EPFO had initiated an inquiry against the university after it was found committing a default in extending benefits under the Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, to its eligible employees.In the inquiry, it was found that over 250 employees of the university, working on contractual basis for more than last 10 years, were not covered under the PF scheme and subsequently were devoid of social security. The review plea of the university was rejected by assistant commissioner, provident fund, Ashwani Kumar Barik earlier this month after re-assessing the records and the BFUHS was asked to deposit the pending amount immediately.BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said that the university has deposited ₹6 crore employer’s share to the PF. “There is no irregularity or negligence in depositing provident fund of employees,” he added.The EPFO also ordered the university to deposit the penalty and interest imposed on the total default amount due to the delay in deposit. Following this, the university had filed a plea to re-check the amount of employers’ share to PF.BFUHS registrar Ruhee Dugg said the EPFO officer has calculated the amount of provident fund of the contractual employees to be paid by the university. “We had filed a review application to reassess the records as it could not be that much amount. However, it was not considered. Now, we have filed an appeal to re-check the order to confirm the due amount to be paid by the university. This assessment was conducted in January and we have objected whatever has been calculated,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/review-plea-rejected-epfo-recovers-rs-6-cr-employer-s-share-from-bfuhs-101616874159695.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers gherao BJP’s Punjab vice-chief in Barnala||Hundreds of farmers, including women and youths, under the banner of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), gheraoed BJP’s senior state vice-president Parveen Bansal and other leaders when they reached Barnala town to address the media to count ‘failures’ of the Congress government on the completion of its four years, here on Saturday. The farmers held a protest outside the PWD rest house on the Bathinda road near the district administration complex and raised slogans against three agriculture laws and the central government.Barnala block chief of BKU Ugrahan Balour Singh said that the BJP government introduced ‘black laws’ and farmers opposed these controversial laws.Bansal alleged that the Capt Amarinder Singh government has failed to fulfil its pre-poll promises but the Modi government wanted to double the farmers’ income. The government has never said it will abolish the minimum support price (MSP), he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-gherao-bjp-s-punjab-vice-chief-in-barnala-101616873979614.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||As pet registration deadline approaches, only 1,500 owners comply in Ludhiana||Only four days remain for registering cats and dogs with the municipal corporation without incurring penalty. However, only 1,500 residents have enrolled their dogs over the last nine months. While pets can be registered for a ₹400 annual fee, the civic body will impose a ₹4,000 fine on owners of all unregistered pets after March 31. No cat owners have shown up for registration so far. With the pet registration drive garnering a tepid response, the civic body had extended the last date to register pets by three months. However, as the second deadline draws to a close, the drive has yet again fallen short of the MC’s expectations. The task is all the more daunting for authorities as the MC does not have a count of pets in the city.The drive had commenced in June 2020 and residents had been initially asked to register their pets till December 31. After residents said they were facing difficulty in registering pets over the MC’s website mcludhiana.gov.in, the MC also commenced offline registration through suvidha kendras.MC’s senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “The civic body has received a good response with around 1,500 residents registering their pets. If any pet is caught without registration, the MC will impose a ₹4,000 fine, besides an additional ₹100 fine per day for the time the pet remains in our custody.”To register their pets, residents can either go to the MC’s zonal offices or visit mcludhiana.gov.in and fill in necessary details. Registered pets will receive a brass token, to be tied around the pet’s neck. Residents have to collect the tokens from MC’s Zone-A office (MC headquarters) near Mata Rani Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-pet-registration-deadline-approaches-only-1-500-owners-comply-in-ludhiana-101616873800571.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||BJP’s Abohar legislator thrashed, clothes torn by farmers in Malout||Protesting against agriculture laws, activists of farmer unions allegedly manhandled BJP legislator from Abohar Arun Narang and tore his clothes at Malout town in Muktsar district on Saturday afternoon. Narang reached Malout to address a press conference at BJP’s office. However, farmer unions had laid siege outside the office to hold protest against the three farms laws imposed by the BJP-led central government.Farmers gheraoed Narang when he reached outside the BJP office in his car. They also blackened his car with ink. The farmers allegedly attacked him and tore his clothes, when police personnel and BJP workers were trying to rush him inside a shop. Later, police took him to a safer place through the back door of the shop.BKU (Sidhupur) district president Sukhdev Singh said they had already announced that if any political leader will visit Muktsar district, they will strongly protest against him. “We do not support the incident of tearing clothes of the MLA, but it’s difficult to control a large number of people,” he added.He said that they will continue to protest like this against political leaders in future as well. During the ongoing farmers protest against agri laws, a number of senior BJP leaders including state chief Ashwani Sharma has faced strong protest from the farmers in the past few months.Police have registered an FIR against Lakhan Pal Sharma, Sukhdev Singh, Nirmal Singh, Nanak Singh, Kulwinder Singh Danewala, Rajinder Singh, Avtar Singh and 300 unidentified persons under Sections 307,353,186,188,332,342,506,148 and 149 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Malout police station.Terming the incident an attack on democracy, Narang said: “The stalemate on farm laws is to be resolved in Delhi, attacking me will not help them. The democracy is at its worse in Punjab as an elected representative is not safe, this is a failure of state government,” he added.After the incident Narang was admitted to the Abohar government hospital, where three-member board of doctors inspected him. Narang has only sustained minor injuries.Jakhar condemns attack Chandigarh: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar has strongly condemned the attack on Arun Narang in Malout saying such unlawful behaviour has no place in a democracy. He said that farmer protests will be weakened with incidents like these. In a statement, Jakhar, while terming the attack as highly unfortunate, said everyone should be allowed to present his views and every citizen should respect each other’s right to speak. No law and order in PunjabJALANDHAR: Former state BJP president, Manoranjan Kalia also condemned the attack on Narang and demanded imposition of President’s rule in Punjab. “Despite police presence, Narang was not only thrashed but his clothes were torn. If an elected representative is not safe, how can a common man feel safe in the state? The law and order has totally collapsed in Punjab,” he said.Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary Tarun chugh demanded the CM’s for his failure to maintain law and order in Punjab.Sukhbir seeks impartial probeChandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) termed the violent attack on Narang as deplorable and demanded an impartial inquiry into the incident to fix responsibility for the failure of the state police in protecting the dignity of an elected representative. The SAD chief appealed to everyone to exercise restraint to ensure the peace and communal harmony of the state was not disturbed. He also castigated the state police for failing to do its duty even as he maintained the Congress government had failed miserably as far as maintaining law and order was concerned. Sukhbir said violence did not have any place in civilized society and that such acts would only serve to weaken the farmers’ agitation. Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and school education minister Vijay Inder Singla also condemned attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjps-abohar-legislator-thrashed-clothes-torn-by-farmers-in-malout-101616873799478.html
28-03-2021||Other||UP to get fresh stock of 19.76 lakh Covid vaccine doses||Uttar Pradesh would get a fresh stock of 19.76 lakh doses of the Covid vaccines next week before inoculation of all people above 45 years of age started on April 1, a health official said.The arrival of the fresh stock will begin on March 30, first reaching nine state-level depots in Varanasi, Ayodhya, Lucknow, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Jhansi, Agra and Kanpur. The process is expected to be completed in three days after Holi.“We shall get the additional stock of 19.76 lakh vaccine doses by April 1. We have a current stock of about nine lakh doses,” said Dr Ajai Ghai, state immunisation officer.From the state-level depots, the vaccines will be distributed to 1300 cold chain points in 75 districts. Each district has a central and a local cold chain point identified to feed vaccination centres each day when the inoculation takes place.Uttar Pradesh has already received 74 lakh doses of the vaccines so far and over 56 lakh doses have been administered. The recipients include over 10 lakh people who have got their second dose as well.The number of vaccination centres will be increased from the current level of about 4500. Soon, the health and wellness centres (HWCs) in the state will also start giving the Covid jabs.“As the vaccination for all the people of 45 years and above starts, the number of beneficiaries will go up. We expect an increase in the rush for vaccination. Hence, HWCs are being prepared for vaccination so that the process remains hassle-free,” said a senior health official.The maximum doses given in the state in one day is over 3.5 lakh. Since January 16, UP has vaccinated over three lakh beneficiaries in one day on three different occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-to-get-fresh-stock-of-19-76-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-101616873678931.html
28-03-2021||Other||Migrants steel themselves to brave the odds||At around this time last year, migrant workers had shaken the conscience of the nation as fear of the unknown compelled them to walk miles — hungry and thirsty with blisters on their feet — to somehow reach home.They had been caught unawares when the lockdown was announced due to Covid-19 and there was a complete shutdown of all possible transport services.One year down the line, a majority of the migrants who had returned to the metros for work are better prepared – both physically and mentally. The rising coronavirus cases or the fear of lockdown does not disturb them enough to think of going back home now. Rather, they are ready to stay put, albeit with some preparation.In fact, the nightmare they went through about 12 months ago has given them the strength and wherewithal to brave the looming crisis as mounting Covid cases create a scare of another lockdown in some parts of the country. But this time, they are making arrangements and not rushing back home.Employed in low-paying menial jobs, many of the workers have stored food supplies, medicine and rent for a month to 50 days’ time.“Corona se kachu dar nahin hain bas lockdown ke chinta rahat hai (I am not afraid of contracting the coronavirus infection, but worry about the possibility of a lockdown),” said Harender Yadav, a migrant worker from Ballia district in UP who drives an auto-rickshaw in Thane, Maharashtra.Maharashtra has reported the maximum increase in fresh Covid-19 cases recently.Harender and over 40 other auto drivers, all belonging to various districts of Uttar Pradesh, live together in rented shanties in the Thane East area.“We hear about rising Covid-19 infection and the talk of a a possible lockdown every day (in Maharashtra). Some of us have already stored some food and rent in case a lockdown is announced. The others are also doing whatever they can to get by in the lockdown,” Yadav said.Almost a year ago, Yadav and other migrants left Thane amid the lockdown and drove their auto-rickshaws carrying their families back to their villages in UP. Many others returned in special trains, on trucks, rented vehicles or on foot.According to UP government data, over 35 lakh migrant workers travelled back to UP in a reverse migration during the lockdown last year. A majority of them belonged to districts in the less developed eastern Uttar Pradesh. Over half of the migrant labourers were found to be unskilled in a survey done by the government. This was also reflected in a spike in daily employment under MNREGA that went up by a record 57 lakh per day from an average of nine lakh per day before the lockdown.“Because of the limited skill sets of these workers and severe decline in jobs even in the unorganised sector, most of the migrant labourers who came to UP during lockdown had to return to their place of employment soon after the lockdown restrictions were removed,” said Brijesh Prasad Tiwari, a former economic advisor to the state government.“It is estimated that over 80 to 90% of these migrant workers returned.”“We remained in our villages for around six months almost till Diwali before returning here and starting work,” said Dinesh Kumar Singh, a mason from UP’s Mau district who lives close to Harender’s shanty in Thane.“I didn’t bring my wife and two children along when I returned. I have stored rice and pulses enough for a month and kept aside ₹5000 for rent in case a lockdown is announced,” he added.The migrants have made these arrangements despite their extreme financial constraints to avoid their biggest fear of losing work and returning home.While coming home last year, many of them planned to stay back and never return to the cities again. One of them was Kuldeep Pal, a helper at a garment factory in Jamnagar, Gujarat. He hitched a ride behind a truck cramped with labourers to go back home during the lockdown, pledging to never return again.“Socha to nahin tha par majboori thi (I never thought of returning, but conditions at home forced me to come back here). I tried to get a job in UP for over five months but failed. I was left with no other option but to return,” Kuldeep recalled.Kuldeep and five other migrant workers from his district who share a single room have pooled in ₹4,000 each to manage food and other expenses in case of a lockdown.“Almost every labourer who came back has made some arrangement. Nobody is ready for the hardship we faced while returning home last year,” Pal added.Along with the perilous journey back, the migrants expressed fear of the economic backlash they suffered because of the lockdown.“All of us are in debt. Some of us have to pay the pending EMIs on our autos, others have to return the money borrowed during lockdown. The money has not been returned till date due to loss of earnings. People are working from home. They don’t require us to take them to offices anymore,” said Harender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/migrants-steel-themselves-to-brave-the-odds-101616873498946.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Common Entrance Examination now on April 25||The Common Entrance Examination (CEE) for the post of soldier general duty that had been scheduled for March 28 has been postponed to April 25 due to the surge in coronavirus cases and on advise of the civil administration. Officials at Ludhiana’s army recruiting office said candidates who have successfully completed their physical and medical examination during the rally held in Khanna were to appear for CEE. Candidates from Ludhiana, Moga, Rupnagar and SAS Nagar (Mohali) will take the exam once the situation improves in the state. Last year, the recruitment rally had been conducted from December 7 to 27 at AS College ground, Khanna. Of 14,000 registered candidates, 10,000 candidates attended the rally, of which 1,832 candidates are eligible to take the CEE. Earlier, the CEE was scheduled earlier for February 28 at Guru Nanak Stadium, Ludhiana. However, it could not be conducted because of technical reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/common-entrance-examination-now-on-april-25-101616873439454.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana reports highest ever single-day spike with 497 cases||As the second wave of novel coronavirus infections engulf the state, Ludhiana district on Saturday logged 497 new cases — the highest single-day spike since the virus outbreak in March 2020. Five more people succumbed to the disease, taking the district’s death toll to 1,108. The last highest single-day spike was recorded on September 17 when the district detected 464 fresh cases. This is the eighth consecutive day when the total number of cases in the district has exceeded 300. The district’s case tally has touched 32,973, of which 29,089 patients have recovered and 2,776 cases remain active. The five patients who succumbed to the disease include a 47-year-old man from Lalton Khurd, a 65-year-old man from Bahadur Ke village, 37-year-old man from Gurdev Park area, 53-year-old woman from Mangli Uchi village, 52- year-old man from Kamalpura village. As many as 5,857 positive cases have been reported in the district this month till March 27, which is the highest in the last five months. The district reported 7,736 positive cases in September 2020, when the virus was its peak. Cases rise in schools Fifteen teachers tested positive in the district, of which seven were from Guru Nanak Public School (GNPS) in Sarabha Nagar, two from Government Senior Secondary School in village Manewal, two from Nankana Sahib Public School in Samrala and one from Government College For Girls near Bharat Nagar Chowk, and three from PAU Government School. Seven staff members of Guru Nanak Public School (GNPS) also tested positive. So far, around 1,32,936 people have been inoculated in the district including healthcare workers, frontline workers, senior citizens and comorbid people aged between 45 and 59.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said the administration has been continuously appealing residents to take precautions and avoid gatherings. “The UK-strain has been found in samples sent from the state and this strain more contagious. People need to take precautions and step forward to get themselves vaccinated,” he said. “The administration is making all efforts to expedite vaccination drive and camps are also being organised to provide vaccination at doorsteps, but people are still shying away. I appeal all the eligible residents to come forward for vaccination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-reports-highest-ever-single-day-spike-with-497-cases-101616872959475.html
28-03-2021||Other||Odisha RTI activist, BJP leader critical after bomb attack||A Right-to-Information (RTI) activist and BJP leader of Odisha’s Jajpur district was critically injured on Saturday evening when two miscreants hurled bombs at the vehicle he was travelling in.Sarbeswar Behura was returning home along with one Sushant Behera from Toaramuha village in a four-wheeler at around 9 pm when two bike-borne men accosted him at Imamnagar village and hurled bombs at him. The attack left him and his co-passenger seriously injured. Behura has been moved to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack city.Behura was known for his RTI activism in the district and had become an eyesore of several influential people due to his RTI applications that uncovered several irregularities in government schemes. After receiving information, the police reached the spot and sent the injured to the hospital.Earlier in January this year, Odisha Lokayukta had asked the vigilance department to probe whether Biju Janata Dal MLA Pranab Balbantray and other government officials conspired to blow up an irrigation embankment with dynamites that inundated 4,000 hectares of standing paddy crop in seven gram panchayats of Jajpur district after Behura lodged a complaint.In his complaint, Behura had alleged that during the construction work of the embankment, the MLA in collusion with a junior engineer took a huge amount of money from the contractor following which the contractor used sub-standard material in the construction work. He alleged that to cover up the sub-standard work, the MLA and the engineer hired miscreants to cause breaches in the embankment by using dynamites to give an impression that the embankment was washed away because of the strong current of floodwater.BJP state general secretary Lekhashree Samantsinghar condemned the attack on Sarbeswar Behura and sought the DGP’s intervention to arrest the culprits.In February last year, Ranjan Kumar Das, a 35-year-old RTI activist of Kendrapara district, known for filing multiple RTI applications into several irregularities, was found dead in suspicious circumstances about 2 kilometres from his home. Das’s body was recovered with multiple injuries on the face, along with his motorcycle, in a ditch by the road.In December 2019, a 48-year-old RTI activist of Kandhamal district was shot dead by unidentified persons in front of his home. RTI activist Abhimanyu Panda was standing in front of his home when two bike-borne miscreants came and fired a bullet at him.Pradeep Pradhan, leading RTI activist and convener of Odisha Soochana Adhikar Abhiyan, a forum of RTI activists, said RTI activists in Odisha are facing harassment and threats to family members over their RTI applications. “In the last 5 years, at least 40 RTI activists in the state have been attacked after their vested interests were exposed by the RTI activists. The RTI activists are harassed, tortured and mercilessly beaten up by powerful people as police do not take action on their complaints. Despite several complaints to higher authorities for an immediate investigation into FIRs lodged by RTI activists and ensuring their protection, the state government has not taken any steps in this regard,” said Pradhan.In 2017, Suresh Lenka, an RTI activist from Jagatsinghpur district faced a brutal attack after his RTI applications revealed that ₹1 lakh was allegedly misappropriated by the local Sarpanch and Panchayat Executive officer from NREGA fund. His RTI activism also uncovered huge irregularities in the distribution of houses under Biju Pucca Yojana and Indira Awas Yojana.In January 2015, Krupasindhu Sahu, an RTI activist of Nachhinga village in Cuttack district was murdered allegedly for procuring information that exposed corruption and financial misappropriation in the Bringing 2nd Green Revolution in East India (BGREI) funds. Sahu was killed a month after the murder of another RTI activist Ganesh Chandra Panda from Rangeilunda village of Ganjam district, over exposing corruption in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-rti-activist-bjp-leader-critical-after-bomb-attack-101616872539938.html
28-03-2021||Other||Airport expansion plans: Experts say pandemic-hit sector needs to revive for idea to take off||The government has in the past four years made various announcements to construct or revive around 150 airports, including some airstrips, in the country. In the 2017-18 Union Budget, it announced the revival of 50 airports/airstrips at the cost of ₹4, 500 crore. Again on February 1, 2020, while presenting the budget, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the construction of 100 more airports under the central government’s regional connectivity scheme, Udey Desh ka Aam Naagarik (UDAN), by 2025. This announcement came a day before India reported its first confirmed case of Covid-19 in Kerala. While the government had started screening passengers from China/Honk Kong at Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai airports from January 18, 2020 itself, by March, the procedure was extended to passengers from all the other countries across every airport.As per the latest data made available, India’s domestic passenger traffic dipped to a seven-year low to 61 million in 2020, while the international passenger volume declined by 90.56% in the March-December period of last year as compared to previous years. As per DGCA report issued on March 17, February saw 7.8 million domestic fliers, which is 36.71% less as compared to the same period last year.The decline in the passenger traffic has raised questions over the government’s ambitious airport expansion plans, though the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) believes that its plans remain on track.“The government’s airports’ expansion plan is a well-thought idea for future travel, and seems to be in the right direction. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, airlines are currently running into losses, which was unexpected. This could cause a delay in the actual implementation of these plans,” said a former Airports Authority of India (AAI) board member, on the condition of anonymity.The pandemic has hit the aviation sector globally due to visa and travel curbs, and this has led to some airlines going out of business, while others are heavily trimming their operations. In India too, while the commercial passenger flight services on domestic routes were allowed from May 25 after a two-month halt, commercial passenger flights on international routes remain suspended till date since March 23 last year. This has, in turn, impacted the airports’ business and lower passenger traffic has not only squeezed their aeronautical revenue but also non-aero revenue.Though domestic travel has gradually started picking up, the international traffic amid the ongoing restrictions is expected to take at least two years to get back to the pre-Covid times. Passenger traffic at Asia-Pacific airports, according to the international airports body Airports Council International (ACI), is expected to return to the pre-Covid levels by 2023.“The aviation industry has almost recovered, as people have started travelling by flights. Domestic flights are flying with over 90% load. Looking at the growing domestic travel, the government will come up with around 20-25 greenfield airports by this year,” said additional director general and MoCA spokesperson Rajeev Jain.“Air connectivity across the country is essential, and the government is ahead of its plans to construct/revive airports/airstrips,” Jain added.According to ACI, the recovery path in the Asia-Pacific and the Middle East regions will be slow and uncertain, with a diverse demand recovery pattern. However, as per Asia-Pacific forecasts for 2020-2040, over the next 20 years, these two regions will be the fastest-growing globally, with the total passenger traffic expected to grow fast at a compound growth rate of 4.7% and 5.2%, respectively.According to ACI Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Iran, Indonesia, India, Vietnam, Philippines and China are among the top 10 fastest-growing countries by compound growth rate – from 2019 to 2040 – with over 50 million passengers.ACI’s forecast, related to the recovery of passenger traffic, is under the baseline scenario, the global traffic is expected to recover to 2019 levels in 2024, mainly driven by the recovery of domestic passenger traffic, but slightly dampened by a slower recovery of international travel (globally, domestic traffic accounted for 58% of the total passenger traffic in 2019).Domestic passenger traffic is expected to reach 2019 levels in the second half of 2023. With governments introducing more restrictive steps, creating new lockdowns and travel restrictions, it is going to severely hamper efforts to resume the pre-pandemic operations. ACI also said that in the long run, it is predicted that the global traffic may take up to two decades to return to previously projected levels (pre-Covid-19 forecast). A structural change (traffic never returning to pre-Covid-level) is also a possibility.While the government is setting up goals for regional travel, the pandemic has brought in an unimaginable financial crisis in the sector.In mid-January, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri minister said that the government had set a target of operationalising 100 unserved and under-served airports, besides starting at least 1000 air routes under the UDAN scheme, launched about four years ago, with a budget of ₹4,500 crore.“The air traffic will bounce back in a year, after the vaccines prove successful. Although the idea of coming up with new airports is good and a much-needed one, the government should slow down its pace, as coming up with new airports is practically not feasible this year,” said VP Aggarwal, former chairman, AAI.Pitching for connecting UDAN flights to the main city airports for better accessibility and reliability, Aggarwal said, “Sometimes airlines book slots, conduct inaugural flights and are not then able to fly as per schedule.” The country needs airports like Jewar and Navi Mumbai for better connectivity to the new/smaller airports to operate in the regional connectivity scheme, he added. According to MoCA, as many as 56 airports have been upgraded and over 700 air routes awarded, of which 311 routes have already commenced under the UDAN scheme.“While the government has laid down an ambitious target of 100 airports/ airstrips by 2025, the level of achievement would depend upon their ability to mobilise resources through monetisation of the existing ones (in tier-2/3 cities as announced in the Union Budget) as well as the interest of private sector in participating in public-private partnership projects, which in turn are also linked to their ability to mobilise finances,” said Anupama Arora, vice-president and sector head for corporate ratings, ICRA Limited.Overall, given the under penetrated air traffic market in India and the evidence of steady passenger traffic growth between financial year 2010-11 and financial year 2019-20, the growth prospects for aviation infrastructure in the long- term remains healthy, as the sector grapples with dampened traffic in the near-term on account of the pandemic, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/airport-expansion-plans-experts-say-pandemic-hit-sector-needs-to-revive-for-idea-to-take-off-101616872299572.html
28-03-2021||Other||INLD starts 40-bed quarantine facility near Tikri border||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) has started a 40-bed hospital near Tikri border where farmers have been camping against Centre’s three farm laws since November 26. A team of seven doctors, including Dr Jasmeen Chautala (daughter in-law of former Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala), is supervising the medical facilities at the hospital.The hospital was inaugurated here on March 24 by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait.Arjun Chautala, INLD leader and son of Abhay Chautala, said that they have started quarantine and isolation facilities for Covid-19 infected farmers at this makeshift Jan Nayak Chaudhary Devi Lal Kisan Hospital.“We have provided 40-bed facilities and 10 more beds will be added by this week. A team of seven doctors, including a general physician, a dentist orthopaedic and cardio experts, are treating the farmers. Three wards have been set-up, two for men and one for women. A special ward has been set up for women where gynaecologists are also available. My wife, Dr Jasmeen, is looking after the entire medical process along with six other doctors, all of whom are working free of cost. The team of doctors is from our medical wing and have come forward to help the farmers voluntarily until the farm laws are repealed,” Arjun said.Jhajjar principal medical officer Dr Sanjay Dahiya said that less than 20 farmers have received the Covid-19 vaccine jab by Friday.“Farmers want to receive the vaccine shot but are waiting for their leaders’ consent. They are appearing to get other medical aides but don’t want to talk about vaccination. Some farmers even said that there is no Covid-19. We are making all efforts to appraise them and give them the vaccine shots,” the Jhajjar PMO added.One being asked about less farmers receiving the jab at Tikri border, INLD leader Arjun Chautala said they have asked the local health department to provide them vaccine shots and are planning to organise vaccination awareness camps at Tikri.“We are not underestimating the virus and will start a vaccination drive at our hospital after receiving the vaccine shots,” he added.Joginder Nain, head of Ghanshi Ram Nain faction of BKU, said that there is no Covid-19 and farmers will not go for vaccination.“Our immunity is tough and none of us got infected. Government is creating fear of rise in Covid-19 cases to cause panic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inld-starts-40-bed-quarantine-facility-near-tikri-border-101616871879265.html
28-03-2021||Other||Another rice mill sealed in Karnal for not returning custom milled rice to govt||Continuing its crackdown on defaulting rice mills, the Haryana food and civil supplies department has sealed another rice mill in Karnal for not returning custom milled rice of ₹3.25 crore to the government.As per information provided by officials of the district food and supplies department, Taraori-based Akshar Overseas was allotted 18,980.85 quintal paddy under the CMR policy in 2014-15 and the mill was to deliver 12,717.17 quintal rice to the government, but it delivered only 2,424.67 quintal rice and did not return the remaining 10,293 quintal.Karnal district food and supplies controller Nishant Rathi said in the past five years, multiple reminders and notices were issued to the rice mill but they failed to return the rice.He said that as per government policy, an FIR was registered against owner of the rice mill, Rohit Seth, and the guarantors. Their properties have also been sealed for recovery of the defaulting amount.The Karnal district food and supplies department has taken strict action against many defaulting rice mills in district. Last month, the district administration had decided to conduct physical verification of 63 rice mills in district, for failing to return 1.28 lakh MT rice under the CMR policy of the Haryana government.The state government had allocated 13 lakh MT paddy to 288 rice mills in Karnal and as per the CMR policy, they had to return a total of 2.05 lakh MT rice to the government and 50% of the rice by January 31. But 63 rice mills were unable to return 50% rice and now total 1.28 lakh MT rice is due.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-rice-mill-sealed-in-karnal-for-not-returning-custom-milled-rice-to-govt-101616871711184.html
28-03-2021||Other||Andhra govt changes exam pattern in Autonomous colleges||Hyderabad: The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to change the examination pattern in autonomous undergraduate and post-graduate colleges by cancelling the existing system which allowed these colleges to set their own question papers for various degree and PG courses. The colleges will now have to follow the examination papers prepared by the universities under whose purview they are located. The evaluation of answer papers would also be done by the respective universities. This was decided at a high-level meeting convened by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office in Amaravati on Friday. State education minister Adimulapu Suresh said there were in all 109 autonomous colleges under the purview of various universities. These colleges design their own syllabus for various courses, prepare question papers on their own and conduct examinations for students as per their own schedule, while the degrees are awarded by their respective universities. “It has come to our notice that some of these colleges had been indulging in large scale irregularities in the conduct of examinations, taking advantage of their autonomous status while enjoying the concessions being given by the government like fee reimbursement scheme,” the minister said. Stating that such irregularities had resulted in poor quality of education in these colleges, Suresh said the government has decided to act tough with these autonomous colleges and take stringent action against them, if they didn’t mend their ways. “As part of reforming the system in these autonomous colleges, the state government has decided to conduct an academic audit in these colleges and evaluate their academic standards. In the first step, we have decided to do away with the present system of allowing them to prepare question papers on their own for various courses,” he said. Hereafter, these autonomous colleges would have to follow the examination papers prepared by the universities, which would also take up evaluation of answer sheets. “We shall take up the issue of these autonomous colleges with the University Grants Commission, the nodal agency to grant autonomy for the colleges,” he said. The minister said since education was a concurrent subject, the state government has every right to take decisions with regard to autonomous colleges. “They cannot take decisions according to their own will. If anybody wants to go to court challenging the government’s decision, they can go. We are ready to counter their move,” he said. At the review meeting, the chief minister instructed that all the autonomous engineering colleges would follow the same question papers set by Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU) for non-autonomous colleges in the state. The JNTU itself would take up the evaluation of the answer papers. “These steps are being taken to prevent malpractices in the exams and improve the educational standards in the colleges, so that the engineering graduates would get better job opportunities,” Jagan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-govt-changes-exam-pattern-in-autonomous-colleges-101616871638865.html
28-03-2021||Other||German botanist who made B’luru bloom all year through||Bengaluru: It’s March and Bengaluru has been transformed into a ‘pink city’, with flowers like Tabebuias and Jacarandas seen in full bloom across parks and streets, providing the much-needed joy after a dull year marred by the Covid-19 pandemic. Christened as Garden City, Bengaluru, is dotted with varieties of flowers throughout the year and this amazing feat is widely attributed to contributions from erstwhile rulers, government officials and most importantly a German botanist. Interestingly, the story of how Bengaluru eventually got the Garden City tag dates back to 1760, when erstwhile ruler Hyder Ali commissioned the development of Lal Bagh, which was inspired from the Mughal Gardens in Delhi. Though commissioned by Hyder Ali, the garden was eventually completed by Tipu Sultan. According to the horticulture department, Lal Bagh is home to a tree planted by Tipu himself.The development was taken over by the British after their conquest of the city, but it was a German horticulturist Gustav Hermann Krumbiegel who changed the way the city looks today. In 1908, the Maharaja of Mysore offered Krumbiegel the job of redesigning Lal Bagh after witnessing his work in Baroda. In his book `The City Beautiful’, TP Issar, former chief secretary of Karnataka and chairman of the Urban Arts Commission wrote that Krumbiegel worked not only in developing Lal Bagh but several other gardens in the city as well. “Many of the lines and clusters of Cassias, Gulmohars, Tabebuias and Bougainvillea, which we see today, are enduring manifestations of Krumbiegel’s dreams of a blossoming Bangalore,” he wrote. Between1908 and 1932, Krumbiegel introduced several species of flowers including Tabebuias, which are native to tropical America. Krumbiegel also introduced a system called ‘serial planting’ to ensure that all streets in Bengaluru would be planted with seasonally-flowering trees so that the city would bloom all year through. “He planned the trees in such a way that Bombax Ceiba will bloom in January, Pongams in February, Pink Tabebuias and Purple Jacarandas in March, Cassia Javanica in April, Scarlet Gulmohar in May, Pink Bauhinias in June, Rain Tree in July, Colvillea Racemosa in August, Golden Cassia in September, Amherstia in October and November, and fragrant white Millingtonia in December,” says author Shobha Narayan. Interestingly, the man who changed Bengaluru’s face was imprisoned by the British Army and was deported back to Germany. However, the Maharajah of Mysore managed to get him out both the times, according to records. Krumbiegel stayed on in the city as a consulting architect and advisor in horticulture and town planning till his death in 1956. Over the years, several more trees were added by the city administration. However, according to activists, this tree cover is slowly getting lost. Vijay Nishant, an environmentalist, who is also known as the tree doctor, said that during his surveys he found that the recent development work has changed the ecosystem in the city. “We were used to trees blooming throughout the year in the 1990s but now, it has changed drastically. We are seeing more of certain flowers. We are conducting a survey, which we hope will shed some light on which trees needs to be planted to balance this change,” he said. At the same time, Harini Nagendra, a Bengaluru based ecologist, said that there is a need for variety in trees planted in the newly developed areas in Bengaluru. “If you compare with other cities, we have always had a wide variety of trees and flowers, many of them were exotic flowers brought from abroad thanks to Krumbiegel. But in the new areas that are developing, there are just two or three varieties of trees that are planted. This needs to be looked at,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/german-botanist-who-made-b-luru-bloom-all-year-through-101616871579280.html
28-03-2021||Chandigarh||Over 2,000 jail inmates in Haryana get parole extension||The Haryana government has decided to allow extension of parole or interim bail to 2,017 convicts and undertrials, facing trial for offences which stipulate maximum imprisonment of up to seven years or those sentenced up to seven years. The extension will be till May 31.These convicts and undertrials were earlier released under the orders of a high-powered committee. The decision was taken during the 13th meeting of the committee held under the chairmanship of Punjab and Haryana high court’s justice Rajan Gupta.A home department spokesperson said the committee also reviewed reports submitted by the jail authorities regarding surrender of convicts under Phase 1, 2 and 3 in the meeting. “It was found that of 879 convicts, 851 had surrendered, eight were given extended parole by the HC, one was released prematurely by the government, 11 had died, and eight are absconding,” the spokesperson said.The committee directed the undertrials to seek regular bail in accordance with law, if they are so advised. It has also allowed Covid-19 vaccination to all inmates eligible under the criteria fixed by the central government on voluntary consent.On account of difficulties being faced by the jail authorities in conducting interviews, the committee has accepted the recent proposal of the prisons department for holding interviews of inmates with their family members, the spokesperson said.The committee has permitted maximum of 80, 120, 150 and 180 visitors per day, per jail, on all working days up to 4pm in jails having capacity up to 1,000, 1,001 to 1,500, 1,501 to 2,000 and 2,001 or more, respectively. Counsels for inmates have been allowed to meet prisoners between 4pm to 5pm on all working days.The committee, in its last meeting held on February 11, had directed the jails authorities for readmission of 2,580 convicts who were involved in heinous offences, from February 23, in staggered phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-2-000-jail-inmates-in-haryana-get-parole-extension-101616871529216.html
28-03-2021||Other||Will help pilgrims from Haryana visit Pakistan as part of our jatha: SGPC||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Saturday announced that it will pursue cases of people from Haryana, wanting to visit Pakistan’s Sikh religious places as part of its pilgrimage jatha (group), the same way as it processes applications from Punjab’s residents. It has also opened a special centre in Kurukshetra district for collection of passports from pilgrims, who want to go to Pakistan to observe the martyrdom day of Guru Arjun Dev and the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in June.Sikh jathas go to Pakistan on four occasions in a year. These are Guru Nanak Dev’s Prakash Purb; Baisakhi; Guru Arjun Dev’s Shaheedi Purb and Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s death anniversary.“Sikh pilgrims from Haryana will now be able to deposit their passports at the SGPC’s Haryana sub-office in Kurukshetra to join the Pakistan-bound jathas, from where visa processing will take place,” said SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur.“Due to the separate quota for pilgrims from Haryana, they had to complete the visa process themselves by approaching district administrations. The SGPC would now provide facilities to the sangat of Haryana on a par with the pilgrims from Punjab,” Kaur said, appealing to the Haryana sangat to submit passports for jathas going to Pakistan in June.A spokesperson of the gurdwara body said only a few small societies are working in Haryana and due to which many pilgrims had not been able to complete the process for getting visas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-help-pilgrims-from-haryana-visit-pakistan-as-part-of-our-jatha-sgpc-101616870979967.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi may experience a very warm Holi: IMD||The maximum temperature in the city shot up to 35.3 degrees Celsius on Saturday — three notches above normal — with scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting that the mercury levels may shoot up to 38 degrees Celsius mark by Monday.“The mercury levels will rise till March 29. It is likely to be one of the warmest Holi that the city has ever seen,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.On Saturday, the minimum temperature recorded at Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official weather marker for the city, was 16.4 degrees Celsius-- two notches below what is considered normal for this time of the year.Scientists said while temperatures will rise in the coming days because of clearer skies in the entire northwest region, there will be a slight respite from March 30.Also read | Stay indoors or face action, govt, police urge residents before Holi festivities“There is a forecast of strong winds on March 30 and 31. This will help bring down the temperature again. From Tuesday, the maximum temperature is expected to be around 31-32 degrees Celsius,” said Srivastava.The strong winds are also expected to keep the air-quality under control. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that while the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi deteriorated marginally, it continued to remain in the ‘moderate’ zone. On Saturday, the overall AQI was 199, as against Friday’s 150.The IMD forecast said the city’s air quality will improve again from Tuesday once the wind speeds pick up and ventilation improves in the city. After a brief deterioration on Sunday and Monday, the AQI is expected to come back to the ‘moderate’ category by Wednesday, said scientists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-may-experience-a-very-warm-holi-imd-101616868578501.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Stay indoors or face action, govt, police urge residents before Holi festivities||The Delhi government and the city’s police force on Saturday appealed to the people to avoid public gatherings on Holi and celebrate the festival at home in compliance with Covid-19 safety guidelines in place. Any breach of protocols will attract strict action, they warned.The appeal comes in the backdrop of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on March 23already having banned Holi festivities in the city in view of the rising number of Covid cases.Talking to reporters, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said both the district administrations and the police have constituted a number of teams to crackdown on those violating the orders of DDMA.The DDMA, which is headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and has chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as its vice-chairperson, on Tuesday had prohibited celebrations and gatherings in public places in view of the upcoming festival, while asking officials to start random Covid-19 tests for passengers entering the Capital from airports, railway stations and inter-state bus terminals.Also read | No possibility of a lockdown in Delhi, says JainA day before Holi festivities are scheduled to begin in the city, health minister Jain on Saturday reiterated that residents must stay indoors so as to avoid coming in contact with people.“I would like to appeal to one and all that we must celebrate the festival within our homes. If 50 people meet and out of them even two are Covid positive, then that becomes a risk for everyone involved. Such events must be avoided,” he said.The minister further said the government was creating a number of teams that will keep a watch against public gatherings on Holi. “District magistrates (DMs) and the police are creating district wise teams. Strict penal action will be taken against violators,” Jain said.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, public places will also include grounds and clubs inside residential apartments.“No gatherings or celebrations are allowed at such places as well. We are appealing to the people of Delhi to celebrate Holi with their families inside their homes and not come out for any social gathering. Police teams will strictly enforce DDMA guidelines and take strict action against violators,” said Biswal, adding that there is no restriction on selling colours, commonly known as gulal, and other Holi-related items at shops.DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said several teams in vans and on bikes, along with flying squads, will be patrolling the streets as well as residential neighbourhoods to check for violators.“Surprise checks will be conducted in residential societies to ensure that residents are not violating guidelines. We will adopt a strict zero tolerance policy against violators,” said DCP Thakur.Also read | As cases spike, city caps guests for weddings, other gatheringsApart from the local police, the Delhi Traffic Police personnel will also be present on roads to ensure the safety of motorists and keep a check on incidents of drunk driving, and other violations.As per directions of the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety, in cases of drunken driving, red light jumping, using mobile phone while driving, dangerous driving and speeding, the driver’s licence will be seized and may be suspended for three months, apart from them being slapped with a penalty.Meenu Choudhary, joint commissioner of police (traffic) said action will also be initiated against the registered owners of vehicles whose vehicles are found to be driven by minors/unauthorised persons, performing stunts, driving without license and so on.“We appeal to the public to celebrate Holi indoors, wear face masks, maintain social distance and not to spit in public places,” she added.Delhi traffic police officials said that while alcometer tests for drink driving is yet to be started, fearing Covid-19 infection, visibly drunk drivers will be sent to nearby government hospitals for blood alcohol tests.Delhi police chief SN Shrivastava has also directed all police personnel to remain extra alert to ensure that public celebrations and gatherings during Holi and Shab-e-Barat are not allowed.Meanwhile, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said: “On the day of Holi, March 29, (Monday), Metro services will not be available till 2.30pm on all lines, including Rapid Metro and Airport Express Line. Metro train services will start at 2:30 pm from terminal stations on all lines and will continue normally thereafter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stay-indoors-or-face-action-govt-police-urge-residents-before-holi-festivities-101616868520104.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Gangster who escaped custody stole bike outside hospital: Cops||The investigation into Thursday’s shoot-out at Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital — in which one alleged criminal was shot dead and another injured, even as notorious gangster Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja managed to escape police custody during the incident — has revealed that Fajja was one of the two men who fled on a motorcycle after snatching it at gunpoint from a couple near Gate Number 7 of the hospital.On Thursday, around noon, a four-member police team was escorting Fajja, a key confidant of jailed gangster Jitender Gogi, to the GTB hospital lock-up after his medical check-up, when a group of seven to eight men threw chilli power at the policemen and opened fire, leading to a commotion, during which Fajja fled. The policemen returned fire and killed one assailant, who was later identified as Ravi Malik, while another suspect, Ankesh, sustained two gunshot wounds to his abdomen.CCTV footage and statements of eyewitnesses, who identified Fajja from a set of pictures shown to them, confirmed that Fajja had escaped on a motorcycle, the police said on Saturday. Police are yet to catch the gangster or his accomplices who were involved in his escape plot.“Fajja rode the motorcycle, while his accomplice, who had come to release him along with the others, rode pillion. The associate, whose identity we are trying to establish, fired three bullets in the air to disperse the crowd near the hospital gate,” a police officer associated with the investigation said, requesting anonymity.The police said CCTV footage of the escape route showed that the two fled towards Nand Nagri in east Delhi. They were last spotted on a CCTV camera in Nand Nagri chowk.“Prime facie, it appears that the assailants had planned everything in advance and had also done extensive reconnaissance of the escape routes,” said a second investigator, who also asked not to be named.Fajja belongs to Gogi’s gang, which recently joined hands with a gang led by Sandeep, alias Kala Jatheri, and the police suspect the involvement of both the groups in Fajja’s escape.Malik, who died in the gunfight, belonged to Haryana’s Jind and had links with a key member of Jatheri’s gang who was recently arrested from Rajasthan’s Jaipur, the second investigator said.When Fajja was arrested from Gurugram in March 2020, he carried a reward of ₹2 lakh on his arrest. He is involved in several cases of murder, extortion and robbery, among others.Interrogations of the injured suspect Ankesh, who hails from Delhi’s Mundka, revealed that he his handler directed him to meet two men at a hotel in north-west Delhi. “Ankesh claims that he was not given the names of those men but only their physical and attire descriptions. He denies knowing Malik or meeting him before. We are verifying his statement,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospital-shoot-out-gangster-fajja-escaped-custody-fled-towards-nand-nagari-on-stolen-bike-confirm-police-101616868519595.html
28-03-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot hits out at Centre over GNCTD Bill, says it’s against spirit of democracy||Rajasthan chief minister (CM) Ashok Gehlot launched a scathing attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Centre for introducing the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and said the Centre’s attempt to curtail the rights of the Delhi government and give sweeping powers to the lieutenant-governor (L-G) is a “murder of democracy.”BJP leaders dismissed the allegations and said they were made only to gain political mileage and were completely devoid of facts.Gehlot said, “The GNCTD Act passed by Modi government to curtail the rights of the Delhi Government is murder of democracy. Abolishing the power of an elected government is against the spirit of democracy. Earlier, the SC had clearly ruled that the elected government is the real head of Delhi.“Also read | Rajasthan govt to roll out health insurance coverage scheme on May 1The CM further said, “Modi government wants to run the country in a fascist manner. Electoral malpractices, horse trading of elected MLAs, and when failing in both, it resorts to passing such a dictatorial bill on the strength of its majority in Parliament. This is how the Modi government rules.”He said the Modi government can abolish the powers of the state government by bringing such laws if the BJP loses the elections in any state. “This dictatorial decision of the Modi government should be opposed at the national level by rising above the party line,” Gehlot said.He further said while in opposition, the BJP used to demand more rights by giving full statehood status to Delhi, but now they have brought such a law. The Prime Minister advocates cooperative federalism but in reality, the NDA government is imposing decisions on state governments by introducing bills like the GNCTD, Gehlot said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal thanked Gehlot for his stand on the GNCTD Bill.“Thank you Gehlot for supporting the people of Delhi against the unconstitutional bill of the Centre. The constitution and democracy of the Indian Republic are paramount. Our struggle to bring back its strength to the public will continue,” said Kejriwal.Also read | Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal says passage of GNCTD Bill 'insult' to people of DelhiTerming Gehlot’s allegations “baseless”, Delhi BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said, “The tweets were made just to gain political attention. Nobody is taking away any power from the Delhi government”The GNCTD (Amendment) Bill, 2021, cleared by 83-45 votes in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, says the “government” in Delhi will now refer to the L-G in the context of all laws passed in the national capital, and the opinion of the L-G will be mandatory before any executive action is taken. The bill was approved by the Lok Sabha on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gehlot-hits-out-at-centre-over-gnctd-bill-says-it-s-against-spirit-of-democracy-101616868518527.html
28-03-2021||Delhi||Septic tank deaths: Four of Ghazipur banquet hall arrested||Delhi Police on Saturday said they have arrested two directors, a housekeeping in-charge and the general manager of a banquet hall in east Delhi’s Ghazipur, where two men, both catering labourers, had allegedly suffocated to death while cleaning a septic tank on Thursday.Police said the housekeeping in-charge of the banquet knew one of the two labourers and had asked the duo to get inside the tank and clean it.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav confirmed that the police have arrested housekeeping in-charge Rahul (single name), general manager Amir Khan, directors Jimmy Arora and Girish (single name). They have all been booked under section 304A of the Indian Penal Code for causing death due to negligence and under section 9 of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavenger and Their Rehabilitation Act.Also read | “The banquet hall was run by a firm where Jimmy Arora is a director. Preliminary enquiry has revealed that Rahul, knew one of the labourers, Lokesh Kumar. It was Lokesh who had brought along Prem Chand, as they both lived in Trilokpuri and had known each other. We have also invoked the SC/ST Act in the case,” the DCP said.Both Lokesh and Prem Chand died from asphyxiation on Thursday night after they entered the septic tank of the Pearl Grand Emperor banquet hall to clean it. The duo had been promised a sum of ₹1,500 each for the job.Lokesh’s brother-in-law, Deepak Kumar, said he knew Rahul. “Rahul was a distant relative of Lokesh. They were cousins and belonged to the same village in Uttar Pradesh. Rahul often used to call Lokesh for catering work and other jobs at the banquet hall and at other places. It was on his pursuance that the two entered the tank on Thursday. Though they were inexperienced, they had been threatened of a wage cut if they did not clean the tank. All the arrested men are responsible for my brother-in-law’s death and they must be punished,” said Deepak, who is a sanitation worker.Following the news of the death of the two labourers, members of Delhi sanitation workers unions and family members and relatives of the deceased had gathered outside the banquet hall on Friday and staged a protest demanding immediate arrest of the owner and the housekeeping manager.The chairman of the union, Sanjay Gehlot, who had visited Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital — where the two bodies were kept for autopsy — on Friday said that despite the government providing machines to clean septic tanks and sewers, people still use labourers, as it is a cheaper option. “It is cruelty. The workers were not given any safety equipment or protective gear. We demand adequate compensation for the families of the two men. Those responsible must be brought to justice,” Gehlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/septic-tank-deaths-four-of-ghazipur-banquet-hall-arrested-101616868459762.html
28-03-2021||Kolkata||CM Banerjee says ‘scrap PM’s visa’ after Modi’s Matua temple visit in Bangladesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Dalit Matua community’s most sacred temple at Orakandi in Bangladesh on Saturday created a stir in West Bengal amid the first-phase assembly polls. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged that the PM violated the election code of conduct by wooing a community that is important in the local elections. His visa and passport should be scrapped, she demanded.Banerjee, while addressing a rally in West Midnapore district, cited the example of Bangladeshi movie star Ferdous Ahmed whose visa was cancelled by the Ministry of Home Affairs for attending a Trinamool Congress (TMC) rally at Raigunj in north Bengal before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He was blacklisted too.Modi, who is on a two-day trip to Bangladesh, met the Matua community members at Orakandi in Gopalganj where their most sacred temple is located. He said he received great affection from the community in West Bengal, especially from Binapani Devi, the community’s head who died in 2019, during his visit to the Matua headquarters at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas district.The Matuas are part of the larger Dalit Namasudra community. Originally from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh), most of the Namasudras came to India during the partition and after the creation of Bangladesh in 1971 to escape religious persecution. The Namasudras can influence the results of the ongoing elections in around 80 of Bengal’s 294 seats. In 2019, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wrested two Lok Sabha seats where the Namasudras are present in large numbers. The party won 18 of the state’s 42 seats that year.“I was waiting for this opportunity for many years. When I visited Bangladesh in 2015, I had expressed my desire to visit Orakandi,” Modi said in his speech on Saturday and announced that India will upgrade one middle school and set up a primary school in Orakandi.A couple of hours later, Banerjee flared up at her rally in Kharagpur town.“When elections are on, he (Modi) has gone to Bangladesh and making a speech on West Bengal. This is totally a violation of the election code of conduct. Law cannot be discriminative. A film star named Ferdous came here during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He went to one of our rallies to express his best wishes. The BJP moved the Bangladesh government. The Indian government cancelled his visa so that he cannot come here anymore,” she said.“You scrap a Bangladeshi actor’s visa for attending a rally. What action is being taken when a Prime Minister is visiting a foreign country after the polls are notified and talking about people who matter in the elections here? You went to the US and held a meeting in support of Trump. Your visa and passport were not cancelled. When elections are on you have gone to Bangladeshi to tell lies to a certain section of people for votes. Why shouldn’t your visa and passport be cancelled?” said Banerjee.“We will complain to the Election Commission of India. How can a foreign country play a role in the internal matters of another country? Rules apply to us but not to you. What has Bangladesh got to do with elections in Kharagpur? Sometimes you allege that Mamata has brought all the infiltrators from Bangladesh and now you have gone to Bangladesh to market yourself. Who is right and who is wrong? We will go to any extent to get an answer,” said Banerjee.In April 2019, The Union home ministry cancelled the visa of Ahmed who triggered a controversy after being seen campaigning for TMC candidate from Raiganj, Kanaia Lal Agarwal, in north Bengal. He was asked to leave India for violating visa norms. The actor was also blacklisted which barred him from applying for an Indian visa in the future.The People’s Representative Act 1951, which governs how elections are conducted in India, does not expressly deal with foreign nationals campaigning for a party but visa rules forbid foreigners from participating in political activities in India. Ahmed was in India on a business visa.Reacting to Banerjee’s allegation, BJP’s Bengal unit vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said, “The chief minister needs to study law. Ahmed violated Indian law while the Prime Minister is visiting Bangladesh to strengthen bilateral relations. He did not violate any law by addressing the Matua community.”In 2019, the BJP wrested the Bongaon Lok Sabha seat in North 24 Parganas by fielding Binapani Devi’s grandson Shantanu Thakur against his aunt and the then sitting TMC MP Mamata Bala Thakur. The BJP also won the Ranaghat seat in Nadia where the Hindu Dalit community comprises a sizeable section of the population.In his Orakandi speech, Modi referred to Shantanu Thakur who has demanded immediate implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act in West Bengal. The BJP has promised in its Bengal election manifesto but has remained silent on the issue in Assam where polls are also being held.Kolkata based professor of economics and political analyst Sarthak Roychaudhury said, “Modi’s Bangladesh visit is a strategic one. While he could have easily visited the famous Kali temple in Dhaka, he went to the Jashoreshwari temple which has an old connection with the Matua community. Also, he talked of participating in a struggle in support of the Bangladesh Liberation War. It seems he wants to strengthen ties with Bangladesh in view of the situation in Myanmar, the Rohingya problem and India’s relation with China.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cm-banerjee-says-scrap-pm-s-visa-after-modi-s-matua-temple-visit-in-bangladesh-101616866359089.html
28-03-2021||Other||Tricity Buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Chandigarh SSP milks bucketful of publicity A picture and video of Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal milking a buffalo is doing the rounds on social media and winning him praise. Chahal, who comes from a family of farmers from Ujhana village in Jind district of Haryana, shared the picture on Friday on Facebook in which he’s seen milking a buffalo. He captioned it: “No matter where life takes you, never forget where you come from.” Back home, Chahal would help his father, Sadhu Ram, who is a farmer, and his mother, a homemaker, with household chores. He takes pride in his rural roots. By Saturday, the picture got over 38,000 likes and more than 4,000 people commented on it, appreciating the officer. The picture has also been doing the rounds on WhatsApp groups and has become the talking point in police circles. Now, that’s virtually milking a bucketful of publicity. Strictly by the book, we’re in Chandigarh With the spike in Covid-19 infections in Chandigarh and a push from the Centre to tighten curbs, the UT administration is looking to increase testing. It’s even roped in the private sector for expanding the testing capacity. But, that hasn’t help scale up the testing significantly. “People are not coming forward to give samples then how can testing be increased?” says a senior UT official, requesting anonymity. But can’t the administration follow the Mohali practice where people are being tested if they don’t wear a mask in public. “That’s illegal. Under which law are people being forced to give samples. We can’t follow this in the Union Territory, where we go by the book. Testing has to be voluntarily. It can’t be meted out as a punishment,” the official says. Mohali civil surgeon injects hope for Covid vaccination The response to the ongoing vaccination drive against Covid-19 in Mohali district has been poor, prompting civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur to reach out to residents on social media and FM radio. Appealing to people to give up their hesitancy and get vaccinated, Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur reiterates on air that the vaccine is safe. “It will save your life from the virus,” she says. Ever since the vaccination drive began, only 58% of health workers in the district have taken the vaccine. The response of senior citizens in the second phase has not been encouraging either. Now, all eyes are on the third phase beginning from April 1 when people above 45 years will be eligible to take the shot. Green warriors see red over fairy lights on trees Chandigarh is home to tree-lined avenues and many a resident is proud of City Beautiful’s green heritage. But our green warriors were up in arms last week when trees in front of Panjab University’s Night Food Street opposite PGI were seen wrapped in fairy lights. The Greening Chandigarh Action Plan bars such decoration as the fairy lights chained around tree barks can mess with the flowering cycle and affects birds, too. City-based environmentalist LR Budaniya said, “I got in touch with the municipal corporation authorities, who got the lights removed the next day. Some parts of the city, including Sector 22, have put up such decoration, which is harmful for trees. Awareness is needed.” The MC authorities said no challans were issued. Former syndicate members continue to grace PU website Even though the term of the Panjab University syndicate ended on December 31, the official website of the varsity reflects the names of last year’s members under the heading, Syndicate for the year 2020. No fresh syndicate elections were held in the absence of a senate, the apex governing body of the university. It’s time the university website’s updated. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-ssp-milks-bucketful-of-publicity-101616841157509.html
28-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ACP Nangare, Dharavi’s Covid hero dies of cardiac arrest||Ramesh Nangare, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sakinaka division, who was praised for his good work and excellent management for containing the spread of Covid-19 in Dharavi, died of cardiac arrest on Thursday morning, two days after he took the second dose of accident for Covid-19.Senior police officers said the health department has ruled out any link of his death with his vaccination.The 1989 batch police officer, Nangare was recently posted with the Sakinaka division. A police officer said on Wednesday he completed his day’s duty and stayed back for the night duty. In the night, he felt discomfort and therefore returned to his Gorai home at 5am. Around 10am he suffered a heart attack. His family members then rushed him to a hospital where he breathed his last.Nangare is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter.“The doctors have opined that he died of cardiac arrest. For now, there nothing to link his death to the vaccine. His family has also not complained of anything,” said Dr Maheshwar Reddy, deputy commissioner of police of zone 10.His colleagues and seniors remember Nangare for his extraordinary work for controlling the spread of Covid-19 in Dharavi, which was a Covid hot spot until recently. At the relevant time, Nangare was posted there as senior police inspector at Dharavi police station.Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Niyati Thaker Dave, who was zonal DCP for the Dharavi area at the time, and is now on central deputation, said Nangare was an outstanding, fearless and dedicated officer.“He has played a pivotal role in strict enforcement of lockdown rules, distribution of masks, sanitisers and food grains to Dharavi residents during the pandemic. He walked through the lanes and raised awareness about Covid. He handled the migrants’ issue during the pandemic and also became an inspiration for his colleagues and subordinates. He was featured in NatGeo’s documentary for his outstanding work to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the densely populated slum pocket. His death is a huge loss to the police department,” Dave added.Additional commissioner of police Viresh Prabhu said Nangare was one of the most dedicated and bravest officers. During the peak of the Covid pandemic, Nangare would always be seen either addressing the public and spreading awareness about Covid-19. He singlehandedly managed the Covid-19 situation in Dharavi and would not go home for days, as he always kept his duty at the top of his priority list. He was a well-disciplined officer and was very fit physically. News of his untimely demise is devastating,” Prabhu added.ACP Kailash Awhad, a close friend and colleague of Nangare, said, “Everyone in our families is in deep shock due to his untimely and unfortunate death.”Nangare, who was to retire in 2024, was honoured by Governor BS Koshyari and home minister Anil Deshmukh for his outstanding work as a Covid warrior.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-acp-nangare-dharavi-s-covid-hero-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-101615485754878.html
