29-03-2021||Kolkata||‘BJP planning communal disturbance in Nandigram’: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged for the first time that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has plans to create communal tension in East Midnapore district’s Nandigram assembly constituency where she is contesting against her former cabinet colleague Suvendu Adhikari. Addressing a rally at Nandigram’s Amdabad area on Monday evening, Banerjee, who appeared at three rallies and a roadshow in her wheelchair during the day, said, “I have been observing since yesterday that four or five associates of the gaddar (traitor) are sitting outside local temples. Their plan is to drop animal meat inside the temples and blame the Muslims. That would lead to a fight between Hindus and Muslims. Protect these places. Be on your guard. I am asking my Muslim brothers and sisters not to fall for any provocation.” Amdabad, where Banerjee addressed the audience, has a village named Kamalpur where the Muslims are in majority. Kamalpur is located between Hindu-dominated villages. Also read: ‘TMC Pvt Ltd’ - Suvendu Adhikari slams Mamata, her nephew Abhishek in NandigramIn all her speeches during the hectic day-long campaign, Banerjee referred to Adhikari as “gaddar” (traitor) while her bete noire branded her as “begum” (Muslim empress) and said voting in her favour would lead to the creation of “a mini Pakistan.” With about 27 per cent of the 2,57,299 Nandigram voters being Muslims, religion is being seen by the BJP as a deciding factor in the elections to be held in the second phase on April 1. The assembly segment’s total population is 3,56,382.“Our Hindu brothers and sisters must remember that I am a Hindu too. If you have faith (in me) do not let riots take place. This place has never seen riots,” said Banerjee who also recited some Sanskrit hymns dedicated to Hindu deities. As Banerjee and Adhikari addressed back-to-back rallies there was tension between TMC and BJP workers in some areas. At one of these locations, TMC workers surrounded Adhikari’s car and central armed police personnel had to chase them away. On Monday, Banerjee also alleged that Adhikari was behind the attack on her at Nandigram on March 10 when she sustained an injury on her left ankle. The Election Commission of India (ECI) however conducted a probe and declared that it was an accident. Adhikari, on Monday, reiterated that the chief minister was completely fit and the episode was a “drama.”Reacting to Banerjee’s allegation that the BJP was planning to create communal tension in Nandigram, Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “Whenever the chief minister runs out of excuses and issues, she first projects herself as a victim of political violence and then plays the communal card. She is polarizing the 27 per cent Muslim voters in Nandigram. This proves her desperation.”Chairman of the West Bengal Imams Association, Muhammad Yahiya told HT that he formally warned clerics of all mosques more than two weeks ago against possible efforts to carry out sacrilegious acts at places of worship. “We feared long ago that communal tension might grow during the Bengal polls. We must stop fundamentalist forces. It is time for people from all religions to stay united,” Yahiya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-planning-communal-disturbance-in-nandigram-mamata-banerjee-101617041686888.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi police issues 3,282 challans for traffic violations on Holi||The Delhi Police issued over 3,000 challans for various traffic violations in the city on the occasion of Holi, officials said on Monday.These include 100 challans issued for drunken driving, they said.“A total of 3,282 challans were issued for various traffic violations and a majority of these were issued to motorists riding without helmets,” an official said.No fatal accidents were reported, he said.According to the data shared by police, out of the total 3,282 challans issued, 1,255 challans were issued to those found riding without helmets, 170 challans for triple riding, 100 challans for drunken driving, 121 challans for dangerous driving and 1,636 challans were issued for other traffic-related violations.The Delhi Traffic Police has made elaborate arrangements to check incidents of drunken driving, over-speeding, among others, on the occasion of Holi."Special checking teams have been deployed at major intersections and vulnerable points to detect and prosecute traffic violators. Special traffic police checking teams along with PCR and local police teams have been stationed on various roads and strategic locations or intersections across Delhi," Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Choudhary had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-issues-3-282-challans-for-traffic-violations-on-holi-101617038577292.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Relish refreshing thandai, with a twist!||What’s Holi without some good old thandai! A festive favourite, this beverage has, however, evolved vastly in taste and variety. “There are various flavours such as peda thandai, green apple thandai, pineapple thandai, ice cream thandai and coconut thandai, one of the most popular,” says chef Nishant Choubey. If you wish to revel in the flavour of the season, here are some recipes you can try. Barley Thandai Ingredients 1/2cup almonds1/2cup cashewnuts1/2cup unsalted pistachios25 black peppercorns10 cardamom pods2 tbsp poppy seeds2 tbsp fennel seeds25 to 30 saffron strands4 tbsp rose petals1 tsp nutmeg powder1/4 cup soaked and boiled pearl barleyMethodAdd all the said above ingredients into a blender and ground to a coarse powder. Mix 2 tbsp of thispowder in a glass of chilled milk.Add honey to your taste and Blend it. Garnish it with rose petals and saffron strandsAdd your boiled barley to the made thandaiBy culinary expert and food stylist, Vindhya KarwaThandai IcecreamIngredientsOne tub (500 ml) of Pure Vanilla with assorted nuts and black raisins2 cups milk¼ cup Cashewnuts¼ cup Almonds½ tablespoon Cardamom Powder10-15 Peppercorns2 tablespoons Melon Seeds2 tablespoons Fennel Seeds1 small bowl Dry Rose Petals1 tablespoon Poppy Seeds½ tablespoon Saffron strandsProcess1. Make a smooth thandai powder by grinding together all the nuts, spices and seeds.2. Keep ice Cream at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.3. Take a pan, add 2 cups milk with soaked saffron and thandai powder. Boil for 5-7 minutes. Let it cool.4. Mix this paste well with ice Cream and freeze it for 7-8 hours.5. Scoop and serve with toppings of dry rose petals. By chef Prerna PuriKesariya Thandai Ingredients:Whisky – 60mlSaffron honey - 20 mlCrushed almond - 1 spoonThandai - 20 mlPistachio milk - 90mlGarnish- FigMethod:1. Add all the ingredients together and stir it well.2. Top it up with crushed ice.3. Garnish with Fig.By Akhilesh Sheoran, Bar Manager, Saga, GurgaonCoco-Cold Panna CottaServes: 12For Paste:•3 tablespoons pistachios•3 tablespoon melon seeds (magaz) •2 tablespoons of almonds•2 tablespoons cashews •1 tablespoon fennel seeds•1 tablespoon dried rose petals•Few strands of Saffaron•2 pinches of black pepper •200 ml coconut water For Gelling:•10 grams of gelatine•40 ml of cold water •750 ml milk•300 ml cream•210 gm sugar •450 ml coconut milkFor Garnish:•6 fresh figs, sliced thin•Pistachio halves•3-4 dried roses, ground into powder with pinch of sugarFor the paste mix all the spices and nuts together with the coconut water and soak overnight. Next morning blend into a smooth puree. Set aside. Bloom the gelatin in cold water by soaking it for 5 minutes and set aside. In a saucepan add the thandai paste, milk, heavy cream and sugar. Bring it to a boil. Remove from the heat and add the gelatine. Next add coconut milk to this and mix well. Transfer to the desired dishes and set in the refrigerator for min of 4 hours. Garnish with chopped pistachios, fresh figs and dried rose flower dust.By chef Suvir Saran||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/relish-refreshing-thandai-with-a-twist-101617036709394.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Pune reports 277 new cases every hour for two days, state data shows||PUNE At least 277 Covid cases were reported every hour on an average in the Pune district in the last two days of the festive season, according to the state health department.On Sunday, the district saw a record 8,324 new cases and 11 deaths due to the infection. While on Monday, the number of new cases came down to 4,972 new cases and three deaths in 24 hours. Over 13,200 new cases were reported in just two days from the district, according to the state health department.Monday saw a little less than 5,000 new cases because it was a public holiday and as most labs are shut on Sunday.As of Monday the progressive count of the district stands at 5.21 lakh out of which 4.53 lakh have recovered, 8,332 have been declared dead and 59,475 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation.Pune has the highest count of active cases in the state, followed by Mumbai at the second spot with 46,248 active cases and Thane at the third spot with 35,264 active cases.Pune city’s progressive count now stands at 2.69 lakh cases and the death toll at 4,706. Pune rural has reported cumulative 1.20 lakh cases and 2,208 deaths, while Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMCP) has reported 1.31 lakh cases and the death toll stood at 1,369.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-277-new-cases-every-hour-in-two-days-state-data-shows-101617035985937.html
29-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Lockdown can be avoided, if…’: Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Monday stressed the state “cannot afford another lockdown,” adding that it can be avoided if people follow rules to check the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | Nagpur’s Covid-19 tally rises by over 3,000 again, death toll nears 5,000“We can’t afford another lockdown. We have asked the CM to consider other options. Due to the rising cases, he has directed the administration to prepare for lockdown but that doesn’t mean a lockdown is inevitable. If people follow rules, it can be avoided,” Malik told news agency ANI.We can't afford lockdown. We've asked CM to consider other options. Due to rising cases, he has directed administration to prepare for lockdown but that doesn't mean that lockdown is inevitable. If people follow rules, it can be avoided: Maharashtra Min & NCP leader Nawab Malik pic.twitter.com/Hbkq0ZITABEarlier in the day, Chandrakant Patil, the president of the state unit of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also opposed a possible lockdown. “Lockdown is not an answer to the increasing Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. If it is imposed, the state government will not give any relief package. How people lived in the last one year cannot be understood by sitting inside Matoshree,” Patil remarked, as per PTI.Matoshree is the family residence of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.With daily cases of the coronavirus disease rising in the state, CM Thackeray on Sunday asked officials to start preparing plans for the implementation of another lockdown. Thackeray has repeatedly urged citizens to follow Covid-19 norms and warned of a shutdown in case norms are not followed or are violated. A night curfew also came into effect in the state from Sunday night.Also Read | Maharashtra's daily tally dips with 31,643 fresh Covid-19 casesMaharashtra last recorded less than 30,000 new coronavirus cases on March 23, when its tally went up by 28,699 infections. The western state’s infection tally is the highest in India, and currently stands at 2,745,518 and its death toll is at 54,283. Its active caseload of 336,584 is also higher than that of any other state or Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-can-be-avoided-if-maharashtra-minister-nawab-malik-101617033973120.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Chemical gas leak fills up basement parking of mall||The Pune city fire brigade officials were called after a suspected chemical leak was reported from the basement parking of the Central Mall near Garware grounds in Deccan area of Pune on Monday afternoon. The gas was formed after a powder and a liquid in two bags reacted with each other and filled the basement. The gas spread rapidly and affected visibility and breathability of the air in the basement, according to fire official Gajanan Patrundkar of Kothrud fire station. “The call came around 12:05pm and the first response was from Erandwane division. Then we reached there and tried to enter but the visibility was next to zero. When we tried to enter, we found the situation with a concentrated form of the gas had gathered inside. It was like winter fog has filled inside. They had kept the air exhaust blowers on. So, we asked for the exhaust fans to be shut down and called for Breathing Apparatus (BA) set van and six of us dawned the BA sets before entering. The mall, located in close proximity of Sanjeevani Hospital, had around 300-350 people in it, according to fire brigade officials. The people had started coming out of the mall and the remaining were evacuated immediately. “We finally blew water on it and then the reaction calmed down. The gas was corrosive and probably poisonous in nature. We have developed scratching sensation in the throat and have a heavy head. We took a sample to check whether it is flammable with the help of a matchstick. But it was not flammable, but it was corrosive and when the liquid and powder was mixed outside in small quantities, it created the same effect,” said the fire official. The incident was recorded at Deccan Gymkhana police station. The sample of the powder and liquid will be sent for testing at a government facility. The materials are suspected to be organic but not used for any cleaning or routine purposes, according to the fire department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chemical-gas-leak-fills-up-basement-parking-of-mall-101617034365885.html
29-03-2021||Mumbai||BMC to release asymptomatic patients to ensure beds for needy||As Covid-19 cases are going up rapidly in Mumbai, the city civic body on Monday decided to discharge asymptomatic patients at the earliest to vacate beds for the patients with more serious symptoms.The civic body has also decided to place the order for procuring 1.5 lakh injections of antiviral drug Remdesivir and other medical equipment to avoid any potential shortage of medicines at hospitals, a senior official said.In its order, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that no asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patient without any comorbidities will be allotted a Covid bed in any public or private hospital.It described the "needy" patient as the one with "mild or serious symptoms or a Covid-19 patient with comorbidities".Mumbai on Sunday reported the highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases by adding 6,923 new infections, taking the total tally to 3,98,674.BMC commissioner I S Chahal has empowered assistant commissioners to take decisions at the ward level and stressed activation of war rooms at the ward level for better management of available beds, ICU beds, ventilators among others, as per the order.Chahal stated all admissions should be routed through the ward level war rooms to avoid any chaos experienced during the first wave of coronavirus when several patients ran from the pillar to post to get a bed.The civic chief also pointed out that direct admission in any Covid Care Centre or private hospitals will not be permitted without prior intimation to the ward war room."No asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patient without any co-morbidities be allotted Covid bed in any public/private hospital to ensure prompt availability of beds to the needy. Urgently discharge any asymptomatic Covid positive patients admitted to any Covid hospital to vacate the beds," Chahal said.The order stated that 80 per cent of the total beds and 100 per cent of ICU beds in private hospitals shall be kept reserved only for the allotment through the ward war rooms for Covid-19 patients."No direct admissions on these reserved beds to be taken by hospitals," the order said.Chahal directed all hospitals in the megapolis to charge patients as per the rates notified by the Maharashtra government."All the bills will be audited by the municipal auditors," the commissioner said.Chahal also directed officials to immediately assess the structural stability and fire audit of all Covid facilities.As on March 25, there are 8,466 non-ICU beds and 931 ICU beds being operationalised at the hospitals run by the government and the BMC, the order said.Meanwhile, the BMC has also decided to place the order for procuring 1.5 lakh injections of antiviral drug Remdesivir and other medical equipment to avoid any potential shortage of medicines at hospitals.A senior official said a sizeable number of new cases are being reported from high-rise buildings."We are worried due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city, which is a hub of major industrial and financial institutions. To treat coronavirus positive patients, we need to buy as many 1.5 lakh vials of Remdesivir injection so that we can cover maximum patients."We want to avoid any shortage of medicines by hospitals or treatment centres," said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), BMC. Remdesivir is a broad-spectrum anti-viral medication. Because of a steady rise in new cases, the Maharashtra government recently decided to purchase additional oxygen cylinders and ventilators for various Covid treatment centres.Maharashtra on Sunday reported 40,414 coronavirus positive cases, the highest rise so far in a single day, taking its tally to 27,13,875, just two days after the caseload reached 26 lakh, as per the state health department.In a meeting held with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Health Minister Rajesh Tope and other officials on Sunday, principal secretary to state health department Dr Pradeep Vyas had predicted a "tremendous stress" on the availability of beds, oxygen supply, and ventilators, which could fall short if the cases continue to go up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-release-asymptomatic-patients-to-ensure-beds-for-needy-101617033347177.html
29-03-2021||Other||‘Dastardly act’: Srinagar Mayor condemns militant attack in J-K’s Sopore||Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu termed Monday’s militant attack in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sopore a “dastardly act”.A municipal councillor and a policeman were killed while another councillor got injured after militants opened fire inside the municipal council office in Sopore on Monday afternoon.“Strongly condemn the dastardly attack in Sopore where a Municipal Committee Councillor and a Policeman have lost their lives in the line of duty. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. Allah Jannat Naseeb Karey. Ameen,” Mattu tweeted.Locals said that unidentified militants barged into a building at Sopore that houses the office of municipal council among other business establishments. The militants opened fire on the councillors and policemen outside one of the rooms of the council when a meeting of the councillors was underway.Councillor Riyaz Ahmad and policeman Shafkat Nazir Khan were killed while another councillor, Shamas din Peer, sustained bullet injuries. Militants fled from the spot soon after the attack.“Terrorists fired at Municipal Office Sopore. In this terror incident, police personnel Shafqat Ahmad & councillor Riyaz Ahmad got martyred & councillor Shams-ud-din Peer got injured. Injured shifted to hospital for treatment. Area cordoned off & further details shall follow,” tweeted a police spokesman.Inspector-General of Police, Vijay Kumar, said that a local and a foreign militant were involved in the attack.Soon after the attack, the police launched a search operation in the area to track the attackers and established several nakas on the roads.Former chief minister and NC leader Omar Abdullah also condemned the attack.“News coming in of a militant attack on the municipal office in Sopore. My unequivocal condemnation of this attack together with my sympathies for the deceased & prayers for the injured,” tweeted NC vice president and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dastardly-act-srinagar-mayor-condemns-militant-attack-in-j-k-s-sopore-101617033946554.html
29-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Work hours of Maharashtra subordinate courts restricted||Due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, work hours of all subordinate courts in the state have been restricted.As per a notice issued on Monday by Bombay High Court Registrar, the Chief Justice of Bombay HC, Dipankar Datta, and the HC Administrative Committee have directed that subordinate courts in Maharashtra will function from 11am to 1.30 pm and 2pm to 4.30 pm on all working days from March 30.Last week, Justice GS Patel had given lawyers and all parties with cases listed in his court the choice to attend hearing through a video conferencing interface.The notice issued by HC earlier this week also said that lawyers and parties from outside of Mumbai should not travel here and must "invariably" opt for video-conference hearings.The rest of the courts in the principal bench of Bombay HC are still conducting physical hearings for most matters.On Saturday, the Bombay Bar Association had written to the CJ seeking hearings through video-conference or a combination of physical and online hearings amid the spike in Covid-19 numbers.After the nationwide lockdown imposed in March last year, all benches of Bombay HC had stopped physical hearings, and were conducting hearings for urgent cases through video conferencing.However, in December last year, the principal bench resumed physical hearings on four of the five working days of a week.On Fridays, a few designated courts hear such matters through video-conferencing where the lawyers or parties are not based in Mumbai.Earlier this month, the Nagpur and Aurangabad benches of HC reverted to online hearings owing to the rising Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-work-hours-of-maharashtra-subordinate-courts-restricted-101617032264790.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Five dogs poisoned to death in Erandwane||An FIR under prevention of cruelty of animals’ act was filed against two unknown persons who poisoned five dogs in Erandwane on Saturday. The blur CCTV footage confirmed that the dogs in MIT college back side area died after eating poisonous food which was given by two unidentified persons who came on a bike and left the food in the area. “After the complaints of Shilpa Gokhale and animal adoption and rescue team, we have filed an FIR and now further investigation is going on,” said Rahul Yadav, assistant police inspector, Erandwane police station. Shilpa Gokhale, a dog feeder acted after she came to know about the incident. “At first I thought only one dog has died but while inquiring about the dog in the locality we found a total of five dogs dead,” said Gokhale who informed the police and animal adoption and rescue team. “When we visited the spot, stink of chemicals was coming from the food. We could not get the vehicle number in the CCTV footage,” said Sumit Tarte, animal rights activist, animal adoption and rescue team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-dogs-poisoned-to-death-in-erandwane-101617032565881.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Mula-Mutha river project estimate cost reaches ₹1,511 crore due to delays||The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) funded pollution abatement of Mula-Mutha river project estimate cost has reached ₹1,511 crore due to the delays. Now, the PMC will have to bear a minimum amount of ₹668.53 crore to complete the project in three years. It is the second major project in the country which has received a huge amount after Namami Gange to control river pollution. The project was sanctioned by the Central government under the National River Conservation plan (NRCP) in 2015. In this plan, the Central government covered 31 rivers in 75 towns of 14 states. The amount sanctioned was ₹4,514.83 crore. Of that, the Central government sanctioned a maximum amount of ₹990.26 crore to Mula-Mutha river in January 2016. It is the second highest sanctioned amount for the project after Namami Gange ( ₹20,000 crore). However, the project was delayed due to the inflated tender cost of the project of which neither the Central government nor the PMC is taking onus. The PMC also requested permission to retender the project. After four years, the Central government gave a nod to call a fresh tender including Operating and Maintenance (O&M) of the project for 15 years. Now, the PMC has tabled a proposal in the standing committee to give approval to an estimated amount of four packages and float the tender. The decision will be taken in next week’s committee meeting. There are a total of six packages and work of two packages has already started. Jagdish Khanore, project head of JICA said, “In the earlier tender, we have not mentioned the O and M component. Now, we have included it in the project as per Central government directives. The period of O&M is 15 years, and it is ₹261 crore. There is an escalation in project costs due to the delay.” “The actual project cost is ₹990.26 crore. The Central government will give 85 per cent of the actual project cost, which means ₹841.72 crore and the PMC will have to pay the remaining 15 per cent amount. We have estimated a cost of ₹1,511 crore. After floating the tenders, we will get the actual amount which the corporation will have to bear in three years of the period (period starts from issue of actual work order) to complete the project.” Under the JICA project, the PMC will construct 11 new sewage treatment plants (STPs) in different parts of the city to reduce the pollution of Mula-Mutha. The project will create an additional treatment capacity of 396 million litres per day (MLD) over the existing treatment capacity of 477 MLD, laying of 113.6 kms of sewer lines and renovation/rehabilitation of four existing intermediate pumping stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mulamutha-river-project-estimate-cost-reaches-rs-1-511-crore-due-to-delays-101617032445800.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Residents wary of the increasing number hoardings in Hinjewadi||The hoardings that have sprung up along both sides of the Hinjewadi road in Wakad have raised concerns among residents and social activists after one such hoarding collapsed on March 22 at the Wipro Circle due to gusty winds. Although no human causality occurred in the incident, one four-wheeler and two-wheeler were damaged. After the incident, many commuters have approached the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the Hinjewadi gram panchayat. Tanay Patekar, social activist who works with NGO Angolichi Goli said, “I have written about this issue to the Hinjewadi gram panchayat many times, yet no action has been taken on the illegal hoarding and even on cutting of trees. Wherever you will see hoardings, the tree in front of it is trimmed or cut. On both the issues, only panchnama is done and nothing after that.” The complaints from residents of Wakad on PCMC smart sarthi app have always gone unattended. “I have been raising these concerns on the helpline number many times but never got a response from PCMC. Hoardings keep on increasing every month, now the situation has gone worse as even in 100 metre space there are two hoardings,” said Tanuja Apte, Wakad resident. Residents also claim that Hinjewadi police and gram panchayat are also not taking any prompt actions. “I have been following up since November 2020 with the Hinjewadi police and gram panchayat but both of them have failed to take any action. During the last year, the number of hoardings were less and now it has doubled up from what it was,” said Patekar. Tulshiram Raykar, village development officer, Hinjewadi gram panchyat said, “It is hard to say which of them are illegal and legal. We will do an inquiry and take the action.” The hoardings which are legal have a license number plate above the hoarding, which is mandatory from the sky and license department, PCMC. The spot visit from HT confirmed that most of the hoardings on the Hinjewadi road do not have a license number plate along with the hoardings. “One can notice many empty hoardings as well which are more dangerous. I have observed that few hoardings are already tilted which should be removed completely. I remember in 2018, four people were killed, and several got injured due to an empty frame collapsing near Juna Bazaar. It was tragic, the administration should not take an increasing number of hoardings lightly,” said Aditi Shah, IT professional. Mangesh Chitale, head of sky and license department and deputy commissioner, PCMC, said, “The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is going to conduct a big drive on hoardings in the next 15 days. We have formed a team which will have one member each from the regional area, one from respective ward and one from the agency which we have hired for the demolition work.” “The team will identify illegal and as well as legal hoardings and will put marking on them. Once the identification process is completed all the illegal hoardings will be demolished. In the last standing committee, our proposal has been given a green signal from the administration. The work will be starting soon,” added Chitale. Pavanjit Mane, Maharashtra state president of Forum of IT Employees (FITE) said, “The hoardings which are there on the roads in the Hinjewadi IT park are too big which make it more dangerous. IT employees have complaints regarding the same and they fear while commuting on roads. The audit should be done to find out which are legal and illegal hoardings and guardian minister Ajit Pawar or Supriya Sule should look into this as it is a big issue. The gram panchayats and local administration alone are not capable of solving this problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-wary-of-the-increasing-number-hoardings-in-hinjewadi-101617032385856.html
29-03-2021||Other||14 crew members of cargo ship at Odisha’s Paradip port test positive for Covid-19||At least 14 crew members of a cargo ship, that had anchored at Paradip port in Odisha, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. This comes as the state reported 208 new Covid-19 cases and 1 death on Monday. Paradip Port Trust health officer Rajendra Panigrahi said cargo ship ‘Yasa Mars’ with 28 people on board had reached the Paradip port three days ago from Tuticorin port in Tamil Nadu.“Around a dozen members of the ship were symptomatic for Covid when they submitted the self-declaration form as per the guidelines. Later, a special team of doctors conducted an RT-PCR test of all the staff and reports of 14 of them turned out to be positive,” the health officer said.All infected patients have been moved from Paradip to a Covid hospital in Bhubaneswar. The rest of the staff of the ship have been kept in isolation and a strong vigil has been kept on them. The ship has been sanitised.Meanwhile, the spread of infection across Odisha’s educational institutions continued with 32 students in a private residential college in Kalahandi district testing positive for the infectious disease. Of the 32 who tested positive, few are symptomatic.Over the last few days, more than 60 students in different educational institutions of the state have tested positive for the virus. On Sunday, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation had sealed an engineering coaching centre in the city after 20 students there tested positive.Ten students at IIT Bhubaneswar have also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14-crew-members-of-cargo-ship-at-odisha-s-paradip-port-test-positive-for-covid19-101617032267421.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Demu train services between Pune to Phaltan begin today||The Central Railways (CR) is going to start new Demu train services between Pune to Phaltan from March 30. This new route and train services is going to be beneficial for thousands of daily commuters on this route which includes farmers, office going people, students and others while the Demu train services will actually begin from March 31 and its detailed timetable will be declared by the railways. Piyush Goyal, union minister of railways, commerce and industry, consumer affairs, food and public distribution will flag off the Demu train from Phaltan to Pune via Lonand on Tuesday, March 30 through video conferencing in the presence of Prakash Javadekar, union minister of environment, forest and climate change, information and broadcasting, heavy industries and public enterprise.Also, the state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and other ministers from the state government will be present on the occasion virtually. “This new Demu train services will help the people of this region in general and agriculturists to reach new markets, students to reach educational institutions of their choice and workers to seek more green pastures in particular. Phaltan is an agriculture as well as industry-based area. Sugar cane, pomegranate, capsicum, okra are produced here. Also, well known sugar factories and other companies are situated in the area near Phaltan. Owing to the above produce and companies, there is much movement of commercial traders and aggregators from Phaltan to Pune and other cities. Railways, being the cheapest mode of transport and the direct connectivity between Pune to Phaltan via Lonand will be a boon to their aspirations.” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. While the residents of Phaltan who are working in various private and government sectors, pursuing education in Pune will get a direct passenger train connectivity from Phaltan to Pune and back. “We are so happy that this new Demu train service is starting from Phaltan to Pune, as daily hundreds of people travel between these routes for various kinds of work. Travelling by railways is always cheaper and safe for common public,” said Mukesh Bagal, a resident of Phaltan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demu-train-services-between-pune-to-phaltan-begin-today-101617032205888.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Scorching heat: Pune records 39.3 degrees Celsius on Monday||On Monday, Pune reported a maximum temperature of 39.3 degrees Celsius at Shivajinagar, the second warmest March since 2008 whereas at Lohegaon, the day temperature was reported at 40.1 degrees Celsius. Pune city reported 40.1 degrees Celsius, the highest maximum temperature for March in the year 2017. Also, the all-time record for the maximum temperature in the month of March is that of 42.8 degrees Celsius in 1892 as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In the last three days, the day temperature has witnessed a gradual increase. On Saturday, the day temperature was at 38.1 degrees Celsius and on Sunday, it slightly increased to 38.3 degrees Celsius. On Monday, there has been an increase by one degrees Celsius to 39.3 as per IMD. The night temperature on Monday was reported at 18 degrees Celsius at Shivajinagar and 20.3 degrees Celsius at Lohegaon. The weather was as forecasted by IMD. Towards the evening, the city was engulfed with clouds in some parts. However, the day temperature was 2.6 degrees Celsius warmer than normal as per official data. “The day temperature in Pune city may remain at 39 degrees Celsius in the next few days. The sky is likely to remain clear and the day will be sunny. The minimum temperature will be around 18 degrees Celsius in the next few days,” said IMD officials. Along with Pune, cities like Jalgaon, Malegaon and Solapur in Madhya Maharashtra also crossed the 40 degrees Celsius mark on Monday. Many places in Vidarbha also reported the day temperature over 41 degrees Celsius. Parbhani in Marathwada also reported 41.1 degrees Celsius on Monday. “Heat wave conditions are likely in Vidarbha on March 30. Thereafter, there are dry weather conditions all over the state until April 2,” said IMD officials. The highest maximum temperature reported across Maharashtra was at 43.3 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri and the lowest minimum temperature was reported at Pune city at 18 degrees Celsius on Monday. Box March Maximum Temperatures in Pune Year----Temperature (in degree Celsius) 2017--40.1 2021--39.3 2016 and 2012-- 39.1 1892 (All Time record)-- 42.8 *Source: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/scorching-heat-pune-records-39-3-degrees-celsius-on-monday-101617032145796.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Deshmukh, Pawar make surprise visit to Fashion Street, seek further reports||Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has ordered the tehsildar, police and the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) to prepare their individual departmental reports on the Fashion Street fire case to be put up before deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday where he is expected to issue directions to the effect. Deshmukh said that Pawar carried a surprise visit at the spot with him and took stock of the situation. Pawar along with collector Deshmukh held a surprise visit to the Fashion Street and interacted in detail with the stall holders. Over 600 shops were completely gutted after a major fire broke out at the famous Fashion Street market in the Camp area of Pune late on Friday night. Deshmukh said “I visited the Fashion Street with deputy chief minister today evening and it was a surprise visit. I have directed the PCB, a tehsildar and the police to submit their individual reports regarding the fire incident by Friday when I will be briefing the deputy chief minister about the reports. Deputy chief minister Pawar will issue directions after we submit our reports to him. There are issues related to some court cases, PCB issuing notices and other legalities. The area where the market was located belongs to PCB. The details regarding further course of action regarding rehabilitation and compensation will be decided by the deputy chief minister.” It is learnt that PCB officials will be meeting Deshmukh on Friday. PCB CEO Amit Kumar could not be reached for comments. While there were no casualties in the blaze, the head of the Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) fire department Prakash Hasabe was killed in a road accident while returning home after dousing the fire. The iconic Fashion Street adjacent to MG road was a famous `window shopping’ destination that houses small outlets selling garments, shoes, goggles and other accessories. There were 448 registered shops and over 200 unauthorised outlets located in the market. The clothes and other material in the market were gutted in fire, and it took six hours for the fire brigade to douse the blaze completely using 45 water tankers. The cause of what triggered the fire has yet not been ascertained. Even though the market was shut, the fire brigade had a tough time negotiating the narrow lanes, which were encroached and had vehicles haphazardly parked. The PCB administration in a statement stated , “There is no cantonment electricity connection and all stallholders obtained electricity connections from MSEDCL. The cantonment has only provided street lighting in the parking area. Some stallholders have taken electricity connections through one common connection of the MSEDCL, and others have taken individual connections. The board has not issued any No Objection Certificate (NOC) for obtaining electricity connection for MSEDCL.” According to the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), a report was submitted in 2018 highlighting the “risk” of similar incidents and possible difficulty to deal with it at Fashion Street due to the congested nature of the area. The joint fire audit report submitted by the chief fire officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), and the fire brigade superintendent of PCB was discussed at the special board meeting held in 2018 under the chairmanship of the then PCB president brigadier Rajiv Sethi. The audit report says the market does not have sufficient exit points in case there is a fire and people will have to be evacuated. Fashion Street Traders Association urges PCB to allow only 448 persons to conduct trade The MG road hawkers and Pathari Seva Sangh has maintained that the said market was started originally for only 448 hawkers as per the compromise between PCB and the hawkers’ union. MV Akolkar, advocate said that only 448 hawkers are authorised as per court order and have petitioned PCB in this regard. In the current circumstances, if the board wants then the unauthorised hawkers numbering 121 who have occupied other spaces may be shifted to other locations. Those who are carrying out trade illegally must not be allowed to carry out business at the current location .Only 448 traders must be allowed to start business again, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/deshmukh-pawar-make-surprise-visit-to-fashion-street-seek-further-reports-101617032026477.html
29-03-2021||Other||Death of Covid patient at COEP Jumbo centre sparks complaints by docs||PUNE Within a week of its reopening, the Jumbo facility set up at COEP is riddled with complaints from ICU doctors. The doctors have now written a letter to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar mentioning their difficulties. Earlier too, the Jumbo centre had come under fire when it first opened last year. The doctors have written to Pawar stating that in addition to a shortage of beds, untrained doctors are attending to severe patients as the management refuses to recruit competent staff. In their letter, the doctors have claimed that the 250 Oxygen beds and 25 ICU beds are not insufficient, given the number of increasing Covid-19 patients in the city.The letter states, “Untrained doctors have been recruited as ICU doctors, which is why the case fatality rate is now going up. We would recommend that the same staff which was recruited during the first five months of the Jumbo facility, be recruited again. The same old team must be recruited, who already have the experience of running the Jumbo facility during the first wave.”A doctor working at the facility said, “The incompetence of the current staff, who although are professional doctors, do not have the experience to handle ICU patients, is now affecting the patients. We had a patient on Sunday night who was critical and needed critical care. However, as the doctors on duty failed to take the right decision in time, the patient died even before he could be admitted to the ICU. Earlier, ICU doctors were paid ₹60,000 per month, which has now been brought down to Rs45,000; and doctors are not willing to work at a lower salary.”Dr Shreyansh Kapale, director of Medbros, which is running the facility, denied all the allegations made by the doctors. “That particular patient died of cardiac arrest which was a sudden death and infrequent in Covid-19 patients. The doctors complaining are some of those who were not recruited this time. They are using the situation to get their jobs back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/death-of-covid-patient-at-coep-jumbo-centre-sparks-complaints-by-docs-101617032025823.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Minor among five apprehended for gang rape and attempted murder||A minor was among five people apprehended in a case of attempted murder and gang rape of a minor girl in Pune city. However, after his arrest, he was found to be Covid-19 positive during his medical test mandated by the law after arrest, according to officials of crime branch. He has now been kept in home quarantine while four others have been identified in the case. The series of events which happened around the first week of March started coming to light when the Unit 2 of Pune police crime branch arrested a man named Shrikant Rajendra Kale (23), a resident of SRA Mhada building I Warje Malwadi area of Pune. He was found near the local graveyard in the area. Kale has a history of a case of attempted murder. The Covid-19 positive minor along with his minor friend and one other adult person raped the 14-year-old girl in Kale’s SRA room. The adult man is identified as Niranjan Shinde (20), a resident of Warje. After the three people had allegedly raped the girl, she tried to leave when the now-infected teen shot one round at her. “We had arrested Kale for being in possession of a domestic made weapon after we recovered a weapon from him on March 26. We started taking stock of all the rounds that were fired and he then told us that one round was fired by a minor boy on a minor girl after him, and two others, had raped her in his house in SRA Warje,” said senior police inspector Mahendra Jagtap of Unit 2 of crime branch. The man was found in possession of one domestic made weapon and three live cartridges. He was arrested in a case registered at Warje Malwadi under Section 3(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1)(3) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act. “The girl tells us that she tried to leave and had put her phone in her blouse when one of the five people fired at her. The bullet pierced through the phone and caused a shallow injury on her chest. Fortunately, she was not hurt,” said senior police inspector Krishna Indalkar of Dattawadi police station. One other person who was allegedly present in the house when the series of events occurred was identified as Krushna Ovhal (24), a resident of Hadapsar, Pune, according to senior PI Indalkar. Shinde and Ovhal have been remanded to police custody of Dattawadi police station; Kale is in custody of Unit 2 of crime branch; one minor accused that raped and fired at the girl is in home quarantine; the police are verifying the exact age of the second minor who raped the girl. A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 376(D) (gang rape), 307 (attempted murder), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code; Sections 4, 5, 6, and 16 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act; Section 3(25) of Arms Act; and Section 37(1) with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Dattawadi police station based on the minor girl’s complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-among-five-apprehended-for-gang-rape-and-attempted-murder-101617031965860.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Labour contractor robbed by duo who claimed to be cops||A 47-year-old labour contractor was robbed by two men who claimed to be police officers and started a scuffle with him while accusing him of stealing a police diary on Sunday morning at a city bus stop. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Tarachand Khandagle (47), a resident of Yamuna nagar in Viman nagar area of Pune. The incident happened around 11am on Sunday when the complainant was waiting for a PMPML bus to go to work. Two unidentified men approached him while he was standing at the bus stop on Shri Krishna chowk in Viman nagar. The two arrive at the spot and made him believe that one of them was a “saheb” (a senior officer) in the police force. They then accused him of stealing one of their diaries and as the man got scared, they stole his gold chain worth ₹20,000. They came on a scooty and one of them was speaking in Hindi. The victim is a labour contractor and was heading to a construction site. We do not have suspects, but we are on a trail and will find them soon,” said police sub inspector Sachin Jadhav of Vimantal police station. The two used the false allegation of the complainant having stolen their dairy to get physically close and get in a scuffle with him before snatching his chain and fleeing the spot. A case under Sections 392, 170 (personating a public servant), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vimantal police station. Within 50 minutes of this incident, around 12 noon, a 77-year-old woman was robbed of her mangalsutra worth ₹87,000 in Bibwewadi. The police suspect the same people who robbed the 47-year-old in Viman nagar to have committed the crime in Bibwewadi. A case under Sections 392 and 34 of IPC was registered at Bibwewadi police station. The incidents come at the foot of two incidents where two senior citizens were robbed by people claiming to be police officials from crime branch. In all four cases, no arrests have been reported yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/labour-contractor-robbed-by-duo-who-claimed-to-be-cops-101617031785815.html
29-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka govt allows re-opening of stone-mining, crusher units||Karnataka government has decided to allow resumption of operations in stone-mining and crusher units, mines and geology minister Murugesh R Nirani said on Monday.He said the state Exchequer suffered a loss of more than ₹300 crore due to closure of quarries and crusher units following the recent blasts.The mines and geology department issued a circular allowing stone-mining in quarries, an official press release said here.For resuming the units, the owners of quarries and stone crushers have to give an undertaking to the authorities by stating they would abide by the rules and submit an NoC (no- objection certificate) from Centres Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) to use explosives within 90 days, the release said."Owners of stone quarries and crusher units must obtain permits from the DGMS. They must also submit an undertaking to the authorities over safe use of explosives in the mining areas," the Minister said.He said the closure of stone quarries and crusher units resulted in revenue loss.Almost all stone quarries and crusher units stopped operating following tragic incidents in Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur districts. The state Exchequer has suffered a loss of more than ₹300 crore due to closure," he said.Allowing the resumption of stone-mining would create employment opportunities, he said.Construction activities were affected as the government laid more emphasis on safety measures following the two tragic incidents, the Minister said.Owners have been laying off a large number of workers as they were unable to maintain the stalled units, he said.The prices of raw materials suddenly skyrocketed in the market due to the closure of stone quarries and crusher units, he said.The general public was finding it difficult to purchase these materials due to this situation, he said.According to the department, there are over 2,500 stone quarries and stone crushing units in the state, and less than 10 per cent of them have NoC from DGMS.For use of explosives of less than 2 kg and less than five acres, DGMS certificate is not needed.Noting that it is mandatory to obtain permits from the DGMS but the owners are finding it difficult to purchase, store, use explosives due to tough conditions, Nirani said the Mines and Geology Department has decided to ease the process by changing the present guidelines and obtaining undertaking for resuming operations.He further said the government has been taking steps for optimum use of the district mineral fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-allows-re-opening-of-stone-mining-crusher-units-101617024976334.html
29-03-2021||Other||PMC orders 23 pvt hospitals to reserve 80% of beds for Covid patients||PUNE As Pune records higher Covid-19 cases each day, numbers never seen since the start of the pandemic last year, hospital beds are now a scarcity. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Monday, issued an order to 23 private hospitals acquiring 80% of operational beds for Covid-19 patients. This at regulated rates as had been done during the first wave in September 2020.This acquisition will increase the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients in the city to 3,395. Relatives are left helpless currently, searching for plasma donors and critical care at hospitals now has a long queue for use of ventilators. The order issued by the PMC states that before March 31, the 23 listed hospitals must reserve 80% of its beds for Covid-19 patients. These must include isolation beds, oxygenated beds, ICU beds and beds without ventilators. “All non-Covid patients undergoing treatment in your hospital must be shifted to the remaining 20% of the beds and henceforth, only critical non-Covid patients must be admitted. This is the second time that the administration has been forced to take such a decision; the first time, in May 2020, the state government had regulated prices for Covid-19 treatment and local authorities had acquired 80% of beds following the state government resolution. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We have issued the order to acquire 80% of beds from 23 private hospitals. Earlier, we had acquired 50% of the beds, but looking at the current surge we need more beds.” A circular issued by Noble hospital in Hadapsar states that only those with moderate-severe symptoms and with an HRCT score of 7/8 and requiring O2 support must be admitted. “Those with a lower score could be admitted considering the age and underlying comorbidities. No asymptomatic or mild symptoms must be admitted. On discharge, patients must be advised to follow up in case of new symptoms or if symptoms worsen,” the circular reads.Dr H K Sale, executive director of the hospital, said, “There are absolutely no beds available and we have to unfortunately say no to at least six patients every day.”The request for plasma donors on social media sites and through messages has also gone up as relatives keep searching for suitable donors. The PMC has also increased the number of ambulances and hearses for Covid-19 patients. Currently, there are 62 ambulances of which 45 have oxygen supply. The remaining 17 have been reserved for non-Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-orders-23-pvt-hospitals-to-reserve-80-of-beds-for-covid-patients-101617030105802.html
29-03-2021||Other||Trader assocs, MCCIA unhappy with new rules; opposed to lockdown||PUNE After the state government’s new guidelines about shops, markets and restaurants being closed between 8 pm and 7 am, the Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP), expressed its unhappiness, adding that it would oppose a lockdown in Maharashtra. The association has sent a letter to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) demanding the restoration of normal business hours for shops, as these have already suffered financially in the last one year. As per new orders, shops and restaurants will be open till 8 pm, post which, assembly of five persons or more, has been prohibited. Besides the traders union, the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture, and the Pune hoteliers’ association have also opposed a lockdown, saying it will spell doom for the hospitality sector. The opposition came a day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked the administration to prepare for a lockdown across state. “Since last year traders have suffered financially and till today, they have not recovered. At present, business is less than 50 per cent. If we are forced to close the shops by 8 pm, again business will be affected. Small hoteliers are dependent on daily business. Similarly, all other shop owners are going to be affected. We are also opposing a lockdown,” said Fatechand Ranka, president, FTAP. The association has asked for a clarification about whether small industries in Pune working in night shifts will have to be shut. “It is also not clear whether public transport will be available or not. Some staff members stay far away and for them, the only source of transport is public transport. If the public transport is closed then it will be a huge problem for staff. At present, the number of female staffer is greater, and there will be huge problems for them to reach home,” said Ranka. MCCIA president Sudhir Mehta said rather than a complete lockdown, authorities should enforce norms already in existence. According to Mehta, the decision taken by the state government to impose new restrictions looking at the increasing number of Covid cases is appreciated, but at the same time there should be more focus on maintaining social distancing in public places and increasing vaccination numbers as fast as possible. On a possible lockdown, Mehta said, “We oppose a lockdown in the state as it won’t be the solution. There are many other ways to curb the spread and also thousands of migrant workers have come back for work to Pune. We strongly oppose it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trader-assocs-mccia-unhappy-with-new-rules-opposed-to-lockdown-101617027045642.html
29-03-2021||Bangalore||Review panel as Bengaluru accounts for over 60% of Karnataka’s Covid-19 cases||Authorities in Karnakata’s Bengaluru, which is witnessing a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), have constituted a panel to review the situation and take action to control the rise in infections, news agency ANI reported on Monday. ANI said a coordination committee of eight Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, along with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike commissioner, administrator and officials, has been formed.Read more: Karnataka rules out lockdown despite sharp Covid-19 spike, bans protests and rallies for 15 daysThe Bengaluru Urban area accounts for 2,004 of the more than 3,082 Covid-19 cases, which came after a gap of about four months, the state recorded on Sunday, news agency PTI cited an official as saying. The cumulative caseload in the state stands at 987,000 and the death toll stood at 12,504. Bengaluru Urban also headed the list in the number of deaths, accounting for seven deaths of the 12 fatalities on Sunday.Dr K Sudhakar, minister for health and medical education, said that the situation was alarming and the state was taking all the necessary precautions to curb the spread of the coronavirus infection. "Karnataka is also seeing a steep surge. In 30 days, I can see almost 10 times more than in the initial days of March. We saw only 300 cases on March 1, March 2 and March. But by the end of March we are seeing almost 3,000 cases, predominantly in Bengaluru itself," he said.Read more: Karnataka Covid-19: Cluster outbreak, spread among children, lockdown | 5 pointsAlthough he added that despite the rise in cases, lockdown or curfew measures will not be taken in the state. "We need to inhibit, regulate certain activities for sure. Any form of congregation whether religious or political should be discouraged irrespective of caste, creed, religion, politics - because this is the only way forward," he said.Out of the eight states that accounted for 84.5 per cent of the 68,020 new Covid-19 cases reported in India on Monday, Karnataka stood at the second position, only after Maharashtra. India's active caseload reached 5,21,808 on Monday which constituted 4.33 per cent of the total infections. The cumulative recoveries stood at 11,355,993 as 32,231 recoveries were added in the day. 291 deaths were reported which took the death toll to 161,843.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/review-panel-as-bengaluru-accounts-for-over-60-of-karnataka-s-covid-19-cases-101617024339893.html
29-03-2021||Bangalore||K’taka rules out lockdown despite sharp Covid-19 spike, bans protests and rallies for 15 days||The Karnataka government announced on Monday there will be no lockdown in the state as of now to curb the surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) but strict action will be taken against those who don’t follow protocols, according to news agency ANI. It added that no protests and rallies will be allowed for the next 15 days.Pointing out that the number of Covid-19 cases in apartments has been increasing, the government said no parties or celebrations will be allowed from Monday, ANI reported. The SNN Raj Lake View apartment in Bengaluru saw more than 100 Covid-19 cases in mid-February after a function was organised in the complex’s clubhouse.Karnataka has so far recorded 987,012 Covid-19 cases and 12,504 deaths, according to the state health department’s bulletin. On Sunday, 3,082 fresh cases were seen, which were the highest since November 5 last year when 3,156 cases were reported. The recoveries from the disease are nearing 952,000 while active cases have climbed to 23,037. Karnataka along with neighbouring Maharashtra, Kerala and other states such as Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh accounted for 84.5 per cent of the new cases that India reported in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Monday.The Karnataka government also announced on Monday that schools and colleges will not close at present adding that a suggestion to close schools has been taken into consideration. “It will be reviewed after exams that will finish in 15 days,” the government added.Schools reopened for Classes 6 to 8 from February 22 with all Covid-related restrictions in place. However, schools for Classes 1 to 5 continue to remain closed. Amid reports that several schools in Karnataka were holding physical classes for students of Classes 1 to 5, state education minister S Suresh Kumar on March 16 called for stringent actions against such institutions. He ordered department officials and superintendents to urgently issue a circular for creating inspection teams and prosecute schools that were found holding offline classes for students till Class 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-rules-out-lockdown-despite-sharp-covid-19-spike-101617025733766.html
29-03-2021||Other||BJP, Congress declare candidates for Salt bypolls in Uttarakhand||Ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition Congress declared their respective candidates for the upcoming bypolls in Uttarakhand’s Salt constituency of Almora district on Monday.The assembly seat was lying vacant after BJP MLA Surendra Singh Jeena succumbed to Covid-19 last November. The voting for the bypolls would be held on April 17 with its results to be declared on May 2. While BJP declared Jeena’s elder brother Mahesh Singh Jeena as their candidate, Congress declared the name of Geeta Pancholi who had lost to Jeena in the 2017 state assembly elections. By declaring Mahesh Singh Jeena as the candidate, the ruling party has attempted to play the sympathy card to garner votes. The party chose him from the panel of total six probable candidates which was sent by the state leadership to its parliamentary board in Delhi to take the final call.The Congress, on the other hand, handed the ticket to Pancholi who is considered to have a strong hold in the area as she was also the party’s candidate against Jeena in the 2017 assembly polls to whom she lost by about 2,900 votes. She was chosen over Vikram Rawat, son of former MLA Ranjit Rawat who was once considered former CM Harish Rawat’s close aide.After declaring their candidates, both BJP and Congress laid their claims to win the bypolls which is considered as the litmus test for both parties before next year’s state assembly polls.BJP state unit in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam said, “The party is fully confident of winning the bypolls with a big margin because people of the state are aware of the development works done by our government in the past four years of our tenure. After winning this bypoll, we will repeat the feat in next year’s assembly elections.”The Congress, however, refused to give BJP a cakewalk in the bye-elections and said it will fight the elections “with all its might.”Party state unit in-charge Devendra Yadav said, “The party is very serious about the bypolls as it will give an opportunity to test the mood of the people ahead of 2022 state assembly polls. We will fight it leaving no stone unturned and win it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-congress-declare-candidates-for-salt-bypolls-in-uttarakhand-101617025786776.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Corporator’s son allegedly dies by suicide in Pimpri-Chinchwad||PUNE The son of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator from Pimpri-Chinchwad allegedly died by suicide after shooting himself with a licensed revolver, police said on Monday.Officials said the incident took place in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Sunday night.The deceased, Prasanna Shekhar Chinchwade (21), was the son of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC’s) corporator Karuna Chinchwade.No suicide note was found at the spot, a police official said.“The incident took place around 9.30 pm on Sunday when the entire family was on the lower floor (of their house) after dinner and a gunshot was heard,” said Sudhakar Kate, inspector, Chinchwad police station.The bullet was shot in the head, the official said. “The man was rushed to a hospital where he died during treatment,” police said.The police have registered a case of accidental death and a probe is underway to ascertain the reason behind the extreme step, the official said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/corporators-son-allegedly-dies-by-suicide-in-pimprichinchwad-101617022545493.html
29-03-2021||Kolkata||Bengal coal scam: CBI summons key accused Anup Majhi for questioning tomorrow||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has summoned kingpin Anup Majhi alias Lala, the main accused in the multi-crore rupees coal smuggling scam in West Bengal, for questioning tomorrow. News agency ANI reported that Majhi has been asked to appear before the CBI at the agency's Kolkata office.For a while now, sleuths have been in close pursuit of Majhi, who is currently absconding. In addition to issuing a look-out circular against Majhi, the CBI had raided several of the accused's premises in the city and in the coal-bearing belt of Asansol and Ranigunj.On March 13, the West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department (CID) made the first arrest in connection with the case — Randhir Singh, who is said to have been involved in the scam and working for Majhi, was arrested by the state CID from the Paschim Bardhaman district.The case is being jointly probed by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), while the West Bengal CID has also formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT). Sleuths believe that the coal pilferage scam, arising out of illegal mining from abandoned mines of Eastern Coalfields, runs into several thousands of crores of rupees and part of the crime proceeds had been transacted through the hawala route.Last week, the CBI had summoned businessman Amit Agarwal, a close aide of Majhi's, for interrogation. It also sought the permission of a designated ED court in Delhi for the custody of Trinamool Youth Congress leader Binay Mishra's brother Bikash, who is currently in the ED's custody after being arrested from the national capital on March 16.Moreover, Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira and his sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir were also questioned by the CBI in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-coal-scam-cbi-summons-key-accused-anup-majhi-for-questioning-tomorrow-101617020903809.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s daily Covid-19 tally breaches 1,900-mark; highest since Dec 12 last year||Delhi reported the highest daily increase in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in more than three months on Monday, with 1,904 new infections in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin. The last time the cases went over the 1,900-mark was on December 12 last year, when 1,935 people had tested positive for Covid-19. The Capital also saw six more fatalities on Monday, which have taken its death toll 11,012 and its caseload is 659,619, the bulletin showed.The recoveries in Delhi have climbed to 640,575 with 1,411 patients cured of the viral disease on Monday and the active cases are above 8,000, the bulletin showed. As many as 68,805 tests were conducted on Monday of which 52,490 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat while the remaining 16,315 are rapid antigen tests, it added. The bulletin also stated that 4,639 patients continue to remain under home isolation while the total containment zones are almost 1,850.Even as the cases are on the increase in Delhi for more than a month, health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday ruled out the possibility of imposing another lockdown, saying it was not a solution to curb the spread of the disease. Jain pointed out that during the earlier months there was a logic behind a lockdown as no one was aware of how the virus spread. “Authorities kept on extending the lockdown, but the virus did not die. I don’t think lockdown is a solution,” Jain told news agency PTI.Delhi reports 1904 new #COVID19 cases, 1411 recoveries and 6 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 6,59,619Total recoveries 6,40,575Death toll 11,012Active cases 8032 pic.twitter.com/HnQsMXhsYKWith the entire country celebrating the festival of Holi on Monday amid strict Covid-19 measures, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said that no one was found violating the guidelines brought in by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The authority last Tuesday ordered that no public celebrations for Holi along with upcoming festivals such as Navratri and Shab-e-Barat will be allowed in Delhi.Also Read| No violations of DDMA Covid-19 guidelines reported so far: Delhi PoliceThe streets of the Capital wore a deserted on Monday look and police personnel were seen patrolling areas, making announcements through loudspeakers about Covid-related measures and checking incidents of drunk driving, speeding etc. The police earlier appealed to all residents to stay at home and celebrate Holi with their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-tally-breaches-1-900-mark-highest-since-dec-12-last-year-101617020798166.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Strict action against people flouting Covid-19 protocols on Holi: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Monday said patrolling has been increased and strict action will be taken against those who do not follow coronavirus guidelines issued in view of Holi.Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had on Tuesday ordered that there would be no public celebrations here during upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navaratri.Delhi reported 1,881 coronavirus cases on Sunday, the highest in around three-and-half months, while the positivity rate rose to 2.35 per cent, according to the health department.Patrolling has been intensified during Holi, Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal said."Pickets have been placed by the district police in their respective areas. Patrolling has been increased. Police are focusing on those who are involved in drunken driving and action will be taken against them," he said."As public gathering is not allowed this year during Holi celebrations, strict action will be taken against those who do not adhere to coronavirus protocols. Delhi Police appeals to the public to celebrate Holi with their family members at home," Biswal said.Police personnel, besides patrolling, are also urging to people to stay in their homes in view of rising coronavirus cases and making announcements through loudspeakers about guidelines and safety protocols.The Delhi Traffic Police has also made elaborate arrangements to check incidents of drunken driving and over-speeding among others."Special checking teams have been deployed at major intersections and vulnerable points to detect and prosecute traffic violators. Special traffic police checking teams along with PCR and local police teams have been stationed on various roads and strategic locations or intersections across Delhi," Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Choudhary said.In cases of drunken driving, red light jumping, using mobile phone while driving, dangerous driving and over speeding, the driving license will be seized and it will be liable for suspension for a period of minimum of three months, police said.Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev had earlier directed authorities to ensure strict compliance of the DDMA order.On Saturday, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava had instructed his officers to ensure optimal visibility of the force and follow safety guidelines while strictly enforcing the DDMA orders amid the Covid-19 pandemic.In view of consecutive festivals in the coming week, he had stressed that the DDMA guidelines regarding Covid-appropriate behaviour should be strictly adhered to and enforced on the ground.The police commissioner had also instructed his staff to follow safety guidelines while enforcing the DDMA orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/strict-action-against-people-flouting-covid-19-protocols-on-holi-delhi-police-101617016018501.html
29-03-2021||Dehradun||Taj hotel in Rishikesh closed for 3 days after 76 people test Covid-19 positive||A five-star hotel in Uttarakhand’s Rishikesh was closed for three days by the district administration after 76 people tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported on Monday quoting a senior police official. “The hotel was sanitised and has been closed as a precautionary measure,” senior superintendent of police Tripti Bhatt was quoted as saying by ANI.Last Thursday, 16 employees of the same Taj Rishikesh Resort and Spa tested positive for Covid-19 after which the hotel was closed for 48 hours, fully sanitised and the entire staff was tested for the viral infection.Read more: ‘Covid under control’: Uttarakhand govt as virus cluster emerges in RishikeshThe fresh cases come at a time when the state government is preparing for the Kumbh scheduled to begin on April 1, in which thousands of devotees from across the country participate. In view of the religious gathering, the Uttarakhand government made it mandatory for devotees to carry a negative RT-PCR test report which is not older than 72 hours or a coronavirus vaccination certificate with them. Uttarakhand has also increased thermal screening on borders for people who are entering the state.Read more: With Mahakumbh nearing, Uttarakhand reports highest daily Covid-19 cases this year﻿Uttarakhand has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases and the state recorded its highest single-day spike in coronavirus infections with 366 fresh cases on Sunday. With this, the cumulative cases in the state stood at 99,881, and the active infections reached 1,600 in the Himalayan state. Although, the state has not reported any Covid-19 in the past 24 hours and the death toll in the state stood at 1,709. Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases in Dehradun, the administration on Monday declared two areas as containment zones—the Nehru Colony area of Dehradun city and the Gumaniwala area of Rishikesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/taj-hotel-in-rishikesh-closed-for-3-days-after-76-people-test-covid-19-positive-101617019602530.html
29-03-2021||Other||Oliver Crawford beats US-teammate Zane Khan to win the $15K Pune ITF tourney||PUNE Walking out in the dry heat of Pune to play tennis or going to the Poona Club golf course to enjoy a few golfing sessions, Oliver Crawford from the USA has enjoyed his two-week stay in the city. Winning a trophy on the penultimate day makes his trip memorable.The 21-year-old Crawford required an hour and eight minutes to defeat country-mate Zane Khan 6-3, 6-0 in the $15K KPIT–MSLTA ITF men’s tennis championships at the Deccan Gymkhana tennis courts on Sunday.“It is not that hot. It is dry heat and it is not that bad. I am used to tougher conditions where I play in Florida, which is very humid,” says Crawford on getting acclimated to Pune’s weather conditions with a maximum temperature of between 36 degrees Celsius and 38 degrees Celsius during the tournament week.“This is my favourite week in India. I am heading to New Delhi to play a $15k ITF on Monday,” said Crawford.Coming in a week ahead of the tournament helped Crawford improve his serve and returns on the quicker Deccan Gymkhana courts.“I focused on serve and return and handled both of them in a much better way than the previous two tournaments. These courts are quicker so the emphasis on serve and return was important,” added Crawford who lost in the second rounds at the Indore and Lucknow ITFs respectively.Crawford, who travelled to Pune without a coach, has due respect for his opponent Zane, and described him as a “wonderful player”.“I will not say it was an easy final. I will say Zane had played a bunch of matches in row now and I guess it was his 15th (match in a row) and he was a bit tired and was not playing his best tennis. I just stuck to playing the game very aggressively and it worked,” said Crawford after winning his second ITF title. He had earlier won the ITF title in Santo Domingo (15k) in 2020.Crawford defeated four Indians players to reach the final – Manish Sureshkumar (semifinal), Arjun Kadhe (quarterfinal), Dev Javia (second round), and Atharva Sharma (first round).Crawford got $2,160( ₹1,56,500) and 10 ATP points, while the runner-up Zane Khan received $1,272 ( ₹92,000).180 Covid tests – all negativeThe Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association managed to host the Women’s $25k and Men’s 15k in a virus-free environment, as not a single Covid-positive case occurred during the two tournaments.A total of 35 foreign players and 80 Indian players attended the tournaments and 180 Covid tests were done, all negative.“We were working hard for the success of these tournaments and even if we had found one positive case, then it could have had the worst impact on the tournament,” said Sunder Iyer All India Tennis Association, joint secretary and MSLTA secretary.Results:4-Oliver Crawford (USA)bt 8-Zane Khan (USA)6-3, 6-0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oliver-crawford-beats-us-teammate-zane-khan-to-win-the-15k-pune-itf-tourney-101617018825303.html
29-03-2021||Other||Drone surveillance at Pune railway station ready to roll||PUNE Suspicious movement and illegal crossing of the railway tracks at the Pune railway station will now be monitored by two drones which are to be deployed by the Pune railway division.Pune has received the two drones, with cameras, from the Central Railway (CR), which will now be used for vigilance in and around the Pune railway station premises. According to the Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Pune division, these drones were received a few days back, and 10 RPF policemen were trained to operated the drones. Once all necessary permission to use the drones has been taken by the railways, vigilance will start at the Pune railway station. Various parts of the station will be covered by the drones: passenger circulation, railway tracks, parcel office area, Pune railway yard and the nearby workshop. There will be a separate room for drone operations at the RPF police station at the Pune railway station. “We have got two drones from the headquarters and some of our policemen were trained on how to operate it. This will certainly benefit our overall vigilance at the station premises,” said Ashwini Kumar, senior police inspector, RPF and in-charge of Pune railway station RPF police station. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, a total of 200 train operations were carried out from the Pune railway station, with two lakh passengers travelling daily. After the unlock process started and train operations resumed from May 2020, slowly the number of train operations started increasing from the Pune railway station. Currently, 100 train operations are done from the station with 40,000 passengers traveling daily. “To keep a watch on suspicious persons, security of the railway’s property, standing trains at the platforms in the night and even during the emergency and festival seasons this drone vigilance will be very useful for us. These drones can fly up to 2km from the network and battery backup is 25 minutes. It also has real-time tracking which is beneficial for the RPF policemen,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. Chunk --- None --- Add Secondary Section + Homepage Stick to Homepage Chunk --- None ---topdont-misseditors-pickmost-popular ElectionState --- None ---Jharkhand Chunk --- None --- Add Secondary Section + Homepage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drone-surveillance-at-pune-railway-station-ready-to-roll-101617017745287.html
29-03-2021||Other||Water-less Holi for residents of div no 9: Pashan, Baner, Balewadi||PUNE Residents of Pashan, Baner, Balewadi and Sutarwadi, woke up to a water-less Holi on Monday, literally. Since Saturday, many of the taps in societies in these areas, all under division nine of the Pune municipal corporation (PMC), have been dry. “We are without water supply and relying on tankers. Our society has 129 flats,” said Rajendra Chuttar, resident, Padmavilas society on the Baner-Pashan link road. When we called the PMC’s water department, we were told that this is due to a technical fault. Sometimes we need five tankers at the cost of ₹800 to 1,000 per day,” he added. Aathashree, a senior citizen’s home in the Baner-Pashan area has also been affected. “We have almost finished using our stored water supply. Many of the 270 residents are speculating that it must be because of Holi, and people tend to misuse water. We are without water even for daily use,” said Hari Sunderesh, a resident of Aathashree. Yogita Bhambre, junior engineer, water supply department, PMC, said, “Since Saturday, the water supply line as well as the gravity line from Warje, which supplies water to division nine, which includes Pashan, Sutarwadi, Baner, Balewadi, and Vidhate vasti, is not operational. Water supply has been shut. We relayed the message to the corporation. We are doing our best to make sure water supply begins. Until then, we are providing societies with water tankers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/waterless-holi-for-residents-of-div-no-9-pashan-baner-balewadi-101617016485205.html
29-03-2021||Pune||NFAI acquires treasure-trove of Marathi cinema including rare films ‘Pavanakathacha Dhondi’ and ‘Tai Teleen’||In one of the major acquisitions, the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has added 89 film prints in the 16mm and 35mm format to its collection. Most of the films acquired belong to the golden age of Marathi cinema from the 1950s to the 70s and there are some important Hindi films as well in the collection. With 23 black and white films, this is a significant acquisition of the old era of Indian cinema.The highlight of the collection is two rare Marathi films ‘Tai Teleen’ (1953) and ‘Pavanakathcha Dhondi’ (1966), which were considered to be lost.‘Tai Teleen’ is a historical film made by Aaryan Film Company starring well-known artists like Shanta Apte, Sudha Apte, Nalini Borkar and Zuzarrao Pawar. Directed by KP Bhave and Anto Narhari, the music was composed by Master Krishnarao.Another major film considered to be lost till now, Anant Thakur’s ‘Pavanakathcha Dhondi’ had won the Best Marathi Film in National Film Award in 1966, the 14th edition of the award. Thakur had earlier directed Raj Kapoor starrer Chori Chori in 1956 and this was his first film as a director in Marathi. The film, produced by Usha Mangeshkar under the Shri Mahalakshmi Chitra banner, starred renowned Marathi stars Jayashree Gadkar, Chandrakant and Suryakant in the leading roles. It was one of the rare instances where real-life brothers Chandrakant and Suryakant played brothers on- screen.As part of NFAI’s aural history project, Suryakant had reminisced that it was an emotional moment for both of them to share screen space as siblings. The film was based on the popular novel by writer GN Dandekar and the music of the film was composed by Hridaynatah Mangeshkar.Another highlight of the collection is a Ram Gabale film ‘Dev Pavala’ (1950). The film starring Damuanna Malavankar and Vishnupant Jog was shot in the iconic Prabhat Studio in Pune.“We are delighted to receive this significant collection of films belonging to the golden era of Marathi cinema and a few well-known Hindi films. The exciting thing is there are few rare films including Tai Telin (1953) and Pavanakathcha Dhondi (1966) which were believed to be lost, but now they are part of NFAI,” said Prakash Magdum, director, NFAI.The other notable Marathi films are ‘Rajan Kumar’s Bhaubejj’ (1955), Madhav Shinde’s ‘Antaricha Deeva’ (1960), Datta Dharmadhikari’s ‘Subhadraharan’ (1963), Vasant Painter’s ‘Bara Varshe Saha Mahine Teen Divas’ (1967), Raj Dutt’s ‘Dhakti Bahin’ (1970), Keshav Toro’s ‘Pudhari’ (1972), Govind Kulkarni’s ‘Banya Bapu’ (1977), Raja Bargir’s Deed ‘Shahane’ (1979), Susheel Gajwani’s ‘Rakhandar’ (1982), and Kanchan Nayak’s ‘Kalat Nakalat’ (1989).The collection also includes films by some key Marathi filmmakers such as Bhalji Pendharkar’s ‘Sadhi Manse’ (1965), Raja Thakur’s ‘Rajmanya Rajashri’ (1959), ‘Ekti‘ (1968) and ‘Gharkul’ (1970), and Ramesh Deo’s ‘Chhand Priticha’ (1968) and ‘Jeeva Sakha’ (1991).Along with the majority of Marathi films, the collection also consists few significant Hindi films such as Shakti Samanta’s black &amp; white venture ‘Naughty Boy’ (1962) with Kishore Kumar as the Hero, Mohan Kumar’s ‘Aman’ (1967), which features rare cameo appearances by Ghazal maestro Jagjit Singh and British Nobel laureate Bertrand Russell.Other notable titles include Guest House (1959) by Ravindra Dave, ‘Taj Mahal’ (1963) by M Sadiq, ‘Shikari’ (1963) by Muhammed Hussain, ‘Do Yaar’ (1972) by Kewal Mishra, and Uttam Kumar starrer ‘Bandie’ (1978) directed by Alo Sarkar.“I take this opportunity to appeal to film producers, distributors and individual collectors to come forward and submit films as well as film publicity material for preservation, to safeguard our cinematic heritage,” said Magdum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nfai-acquires-treasure-trove-of-marathi-cinema-including-rare-films-pavanakathacha-dhondi-and-tai-teleen-101617015645818.html
29-03-2021||Mumbai||People have lost trust in Maharashtra govt: BJP leader as Covid-19 cases spike||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Amar Sable on Monday hit out at the Maharashtra government over the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state and alleged it has failed to control the second wave of infections. “The second wave of Covid-19 in Maharashtra has created havoc. Saving lives and giving relief to the public should be the topmost priority of the government,” Sable said in a video posted on Twitter.Sable pointed out that people in Maharashtra have been left at the mercy of the gods due to a decline in the state’s healthcare and law and order infrastructure. “Whether it is health facilities or law and order situation, people of the state have lost trust in the Maharashtra government,” the former Rajya Sabha member was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Maharashtra on Sunday registered 40,414 Covid-19 disease cases and 108 more fatalities, taking the caseload and death toll to 2,713,875 and 54,181 respectively, according to the state health department’s bulletin. Sunday’s case count in Maharashtra has been the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year.Also Read| With 40,414 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra records highest daily infectionsMore than 17,800 people were discharged on Sunday and the recoveries have now climbed to 2,332,453 while the active cases are nearing 396,000. The Union health ministry said on Monday that Maharashtra along with seven other states including Punjab and Karnataka, contributed 84.5 per cent of the new cases which were recorded across India in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra has also been adding the most towards the total active cases in the country, the ministry added.As cases have been spiking in Maharashtra for nearly two months, the state government had already ordered a night curfew which started on Sunday and will be imposed till April 15 from 8pm-7am.To further control the spread of the disease, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday instructed officials to come up with a plan for implementing a lockdown, which will have minimum impact on the state’s economy, a statement said. The decision was taken after Thackeray had held a meeting with Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, other officials and members of the state’s Covid-19 task force. “There should not be any kind of confusion among the people once a lockdown is announced,” the chief minister said, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/people-have-lost-trust-in-maharashtra-govt-bjp-leader-as-covid-19-cases-spike-101617013056068.html
29-03-2021||Kolkata||85-year-old woman dies a month after ‘assault’ in Bengal; BJP targets TMC||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attacked the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Monday, three days before the second phase of polling in Bengal, after Shova Majumdar, an octogenarian woman and resident of the Nimta area of North 24 Parganas district, died at her home. Majumdar was allegedly assaulted by some men, who the BJP claimed were TMC supporters, on February 27. She was admitted to the hospital and released three days ago. Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu told Hindustan Times that the death certificate was signed by Archana Majumdar, a doctor, who is also a BJP leader and a candidate in the ongoing election from the North Dumdum assembly constituency in the same district. Also Read | NCW writes to DGP, seeks action over ‘attack’ on Bengal BJP worker’s mother“The death certificate mentions marks of injury. Dr Majumdar and I went to the Nimta police station and demanded that a murder case be registered immediately. We will also write to the Election Commission of India (ECI) to bring the matter to the attention of Vivek Dubey, the special police observer of the ECI,” Basu said. Last month, the BJP accused the TMC of attacking the woman because her son is a party supporter. Photos of her swollen face went viral on social media. On Monday, Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP national president JP Nadda and other top leaders took to social media to corner chief minister Mamata Banerjee whose main election slogan is “Bengal wants its daughter”. BJP workers staged an agitation outside Nimta police station, demanding the arrest of the accused men. Banerjee will face her former cabinet colleague Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s most high-profile candidate in the Bengal polls, at Nandigram in East Midnapore district where election will be held on April 1. Banerjee was holding roadshows and rallies in Nandigram when the BJP started the agitation after Majumdar’s death. “Anguished over the demise of Bengal’s daughter Shova Majumdar ji, who was brutally beaten by TMC goons. The pain & wounds of her family will haunt Mamata didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters & mothers,” tweeted Shah. “Every death is tragic. However, the ‘tourist gang’s’ attempt to malign #Bengal and politicise the death of an 85 year-old woman is despicable. Death has nothing to do with politics. BJP leader giving gyan about #WomenSafety. What is their own track record? Take a look,” tweeted TMC’s leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, attaching some data on crime against women in BJP-ruled states. TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “TMC workers were not involved in the alleged attack in any way.” Officers of the Nimta police station refused to comment. “If the woman died of injuries, as alleged, then a post-mortem examination has to be conducted to start a murder case. We are consulting higher authorities,” said a senior district police official who did not want to be quoted. In February, the BJP said the woman was the mother of Gopal Majumdar, a local party worker, who was attacked by TMC supporters. In a video on social media, the woman could be heard telling a news channel that TMC supporters barged into her house and assaulted her and her son. She said that she could not identify the assaulters. “They told me not to disclose who did this,” the woman said. The TMC leadership alleged that the BJP was spreading fake news to gain political mileage before the assembly elections. Education minister Partha Chatterjee said in a tweet that the woman was the victim of a family feud. He also tweeted a video in which a man who identified himself as Gobinda Majumdar, the grandson of the woman, was seen talking to another news channel. “There is no truth in this. My grandmother has been bedridden for three years. When I heard about the alleged assault I went to her house. I asked her how can the TMC be dragged into an internal feud of the BJP. Nobody assaulted my grandmother,” he said. HT could not independently verify the veracity of both videos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/85yearold-woman-dies-a-month-after-assault-in-bengal-bjp-targets-tmc-101617012105583.html
29-03-2021||Mumbai||Four of family charred to death in Maharashtra’s Palghar||Four members of a family, including two women and two children, were charred to death when a fire gutted their shop and house in Brahmangaon, Mokhada, Palghar district, on Monday around 2.30am. A neighbour broke a window and rescued two other children who were stuck inside the house.According to the police, Ananta Moule ran a grocery store and stayed in the same shop with his wife, Dwarkabai (47), mother Gangabai (78), and four children. On Sunday, the family went to sleep inside their store with the shutter half rolled down while Ananta Moule slept in another room near the store. Around 2.30am, a huge fire broke out, and Ananta Moule rushed to the store. The store was gutted in the fire and the women and two children were charred to death. A neighbour managed to enter the store and rescue the other two children. They are being treated in Nashik and Mokhada government hospitals. Ananta Moule suffered head injuries while trying to rescue his family, said a Mokhada police official.Also Read | 5 suspected Maoists killed in an encounter in Maharashtra’s GadchiroliThe Mokhada police have registered a case of accidental death and are waiting for the autopsy report while locals suspect the fire could be due to a short circuit. But Kiran Nagaonkar, superintendenting engineer, MSEDCL, Palghar, said the fire could have started from the adjaent kerosene store and they were investigating the exact cause of the fire. “We are coordinating with the Tehsildar, Mokhada in this regard,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-of-family-charred-to-death-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-101617007125521.html
29-03-2021||Mumbai||5 suspected Maoists killed in an encounter in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli||At least five suspected Maoists, including two women, were gunned down in an exchange of fire with police in Khobramendha jungle under Kurkheda tehsil in Gadchiroli district, bordering Chhattisgarh, approximately 350km from Nagpur on Monday morning. Deputy inspector general police, Gadchiroli range, Sandip Patil said that the Kurkheda police station had received a tip off regarding the presence of several suspected Maoists in the jungle for a training camp. Based on the information, a group of C-60 jawans, an elite anti-Naxalite squad, conducted a combing operation in the area and came across the camp. Also Read | Maoists kill panchayat member in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur districtWhen the they saw the police forces, they reportedly opened fired indiscriminately. They then fled the spot after the security forces returned fire. “At least five suspected left-wing extremists were killed in the encounter that last over an hour,” said Patil. After the exchange of fire, the bodies of five persons along with arms, ammunition and Maoist literature were recovered from the spot. They are yet to be identified. “We are bringing all the bodies to Gadchiroli for autopsies,” Patil said. The police have intensified the anti-Maoist operations in the area after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-suspected-maoists-killed-in-an-encounter-in-maharashtra-s-gadchiroli-101617005325509.html
29-03-2021||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar to undergo surgery for gallbladder stones||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has been diagnosed with gallbladder stones and is likely to be operated upon at Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai on March 31, party officials said. All his scheduled meetings have also been cancelled till further notice.Pawar complained of abdominal pain and was taken to Breach Candy Hospital for a check up on Sunday evening. He was diagnosed with gallbladder stone and was advised immediate surgery.“Pawar saheb was on blood thinner medication but it has been stopped following doctors’ advice. On March 31, he will be admitted to the hospital for an endoscopy followed by a surgery the same day,” said Nawab Malik, chief spokesperson, NCP.Also Read | NCP leader Nawab Malik denies meeting between Amit Shah, Sharad PawarParty insiders said that Pawar is stable and is resting at home.NCP had declared that Pawar will travel to West Bengal on a three-day visit from April 1. Pawar had planned to campaign in West Bengal in support of Mamata Banerjee by holding rallies and meeting her and Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers at Trinamool Bhavan.Assembly elections began in West Bengal from March 27 and will take place in eight phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-to-undergo-surgery-for-gallbladder-stones-101617004965700.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||No violations of DDMA Covid-19 guidelines reported so far: Delhi Police commissioner||Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava on Monday said that no violation of guidelines put in place by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), restricting celebrations for Holi, has been reported so far.In the wake of rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital, the DDMA had issued guidelines that prohibited celebrations for Holi and other festivals like Shab-e-Barat and Navratri at public places.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19“As per Delhi Disaster Management Authority guidelines, no celebrations for Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri, have been allowed at public places. I am happy to inform you that no violation of guidelines has been reported, so far,” news agency ANI quoted Shrivastava as saying.The Delhi Police has made extensive arrangements to make sure no public celebrations take place in the capital city amid the rise in Covid-19 cases. Intensified patrolling, deployment of special teams by the Delhi Traffic Police at strategic locations as well as police personnels asking people to remain at their homes via loudspeakers are some of the measures taken by the police to assure the adherence of Covid-19 guidelines of the DDMA.“Special checking teams have been deployed at major intersections and vulnerable points to detect and prosecute traffic violators. Special traffic police checking teams along with PCR and local police teams have been stationed on various roads and strategic locations or intersections across Delhi," news agency PTI quoted Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Choudhary as saying.Delhi on Sunday reported 1,881 new Covid-19 cases, highest in nearly three and a half months. It is also one the top ten states reporting a surge in the number of daily coronavirus cases, according to the Union health ministry data.Shrivastava on Saturday had also instructed the police officers to ensure high visibility of the force and follow the guidelines while ensuring strict enforcement of the disaster management authority's order for Covid-19 safety in the week of festivals, reported PTI.Many other states have also imposed strict rules against the gathering at public places to celebrate Holi, like the civil authorities in Maharashtra have banned Holi celebrations in both public and private spaces. Uttar Pradesh had ordered people coming from different states for Holi to undergo Covid-19 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-violations-of-ddma-covid-19-guidelines-reported-so-far-delhi-police-commissioner-101617001792667.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Video of brawl at Delhi’s Aerocity goes viral, two arrested||A video of a brawl between two groups of persons, which took place on Friday night near the Delhi Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), has gone viral on social media. Police said a passerby called the control room about a “quarrel between two groups” at World Mark-1, Aerocity, around 2.30am on Friday. The caller told police that the men involved in the incident were visibly drunk and abusing each other. While the two groups had left by the time a police team reached the spot, an investigation revealed that at around 2am on Friday, Taranjit Singh, 31, a resident of Janakpuri, and Naveen Kumar, 29, from Chhawla village, had visited a restaurant in Aerocity.Police found that after the two men left the restaurant after dinner, Kumar’s vehicle accidentally hit Singh’s in the parking lot. Also Read | City gangster shot dead by cops in Rohini apartment“This sparked an argument between them, during which Singh threw water on Kumar. Both of them exchanged abuses and started fighting. Locals and the mall staff intervened. A passerby then informed the police control room informed about the matter,” said a senior police officer. The video shows about 15-20 men (only few wearing masks) from hurling abuses, punching and assaulting each other. Witnesses told police that most of the people involved in the brawl were visibly drunk. The video also shows two women engaging in a fight, even as private security guards of the mall and the hotels nearby try to pacify them.Delhi Police confirmed that the viral footage is of the brawl that took place on Friday at Aerocity near the Delhi airport. As Covid-19 cases increase across the national Capital, the Delhi government has strictly enforced safety norms, including a ban on public gatherings around the festival of Holi. In the video, however, several men and women, a majority of them without masks, are seen fighting on the street.According to police, by the time a team reached the spot, the groups had dispersed. No one filed a complaint either. On Saturday, when the video went viral on social media, police registered a case and arrested two men, one of whom is a used car dealer and the other a property dealer, for not adhering to social distancing measures. Police are trying to identify the other persons in the video. Deputy commissioner of police (IGIA) Rajeev Ranjan said, “A video of the incident showed that no Covid-19 safety norms were followed. After a detailed verification, both Taranjeet Singh and Naveen Kumar were identified. They have been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 160 (for committing affray), 270 (for their act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (for disobeying public order). They have both been arrested.”The DCP said that the other persons seen in the footage were security staff trying to pacify the two men and disperse the crowd. Neither Singh nor Kumar has a criminal history. No one has filed a formal complaint so far. We are identifying if anyone else was accompanying the two men and was involved in the incident,” Ranjan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/video-of-brawl-at-delhi-s-aerocity-goes-viral-two-arrested-101617001665260.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi's air quality deteriorates to 'poor' category||The overall air quality of the national capital deteriorated to the 'poor' category with the Air Quality Index (AQI) being recorded at 245 on Monday morning, according to the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).However, several areas of Delhi including Chandni Chowk and ITO recorded 'poor' air quality, with the AQI values standing at 280 and 278. While Lodhi Road stands in the 'moderate' category with AQI at 101, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data.The concentrations of PM 2.5 and PM 10 stood at 104 in the 'poor' and 243 in the 'moderate' category respectively.According to SAFAR, the AQI is likely to improve to poor to moderate category on March 30 and 31."The overall Delhi air quality is in the Poor category. Surface winds are calm and forecasted to increase gradually. An increase in coarse dust contribution in suspended particles is expected. AQI is likely to stay in the Poor category for the next 48 hrs. High winds and better ventilation are forecasted from 30th March onwards," it said in its bulletin.As per government agencies, an AQI within the range of 0-5 is regarded as 'good', 51-100 is 'satisfactory', 101-200 is 'moderate', 201-300 is 'poor' and 301-400 is 'very poor' and 401-500 is considered 'severe'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-deteriorates-to-poor-category-101616987834165.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders closed, traffic diverted||A day after protesting farmers burnt copies of the new farm laws at protest sites to mark Holi, Tikri and Singhu borders—connecting Delhi and Haryana—remained completely closed on Monday as farmers continue their agitation against the three farm laws on the 123rd day of the agitation. One carriageway of Ghazipur border, however, remained open for those heading to Ghaziabad from Delhi, as the farmers continued blocking the other road of the elevated highway. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu against the three farm laws since November 2020. Also Read | After Punjab BJP legislator is thrashed, BKU issues a clarificationThe Delhi Traffic Police in its advisory asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The Delhi-Noida Chilla border is also open for commute on both carriageways. The entry and exit points between the national Capital and Haryana—passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh—continued to remain closed on Monday.The traffic police also advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-closed-traffic-diverted-101616987084866.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Mercury likely to touch 38°C in Delhi today; very warm Holi on the cards||A day after the maximum temperature shot up five notches above normal, Delhi is likely to witness one of the warmest Holi on Monday as per an India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast last week. On Sunday, while the city’s minimum temperature stood at 17.8°C, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, rose to 37.3°C—five notches above normal. The maximum temperature at Najafgarh rose to 39.2°C—seven notches above normal. Mercury levels are expected to rise on Monday as well. Maximum temperature is predicted to be at 38°C while minimum temperature is forecast to be at 19°C. Scientists also said because of clearer skies in the entire northwest region, there may be a slight respite from the heat from Tuesday. Also Read | Mercury jumps to 40.9°C in Mumbai, temperature to dip from Monday“The mercury levels will rise till March 29. It is likely to be one of the warmest Holi that the city has ever seen,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, had said Saturday. “There is a forecast of strong winds on March 30 and 31. This will help bring down the temperature again. From Tuesday, the maximum temperature is expected to be around 31-32 degrees Celsius.” Delhi’s air quality remained in the poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 237. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 233. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". On Sunday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “AQI is likely to stay in the ‘poor’ category for the next 48 hours. High winds and better ventilation are forecasted from March 30 onwards. AQI is likely to improve from ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category on March 30 and 31.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-likely-to-touch-38-c-in-delhi-today-very-warm-holi-on-the-cards-101616986784649.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A sherbet stall like no other||Nobody bothers to deck up street-side roohafza stalls. In Delhi’s brutal summer, this icy-cold rose sherbet doesn’t need marketing to make itself appealing. The drink works as an elixir, instantly soothing down the heat-oppressed body.But the roohafza shack outside Jama Masjid (gate no. 2), in Old Delhi, is arranged with great care. It’s just a table, and yet, here in front of the Mughal-era monument, it looks grand. Sherbet bottles stand symmetrically on both sides of the table. In the centre, two glasses with long stems have been filled with the drink. Just behind presides a large block of ice, glistening under the bright sunshine.This is Mehboob Alam’s 20-year-old stall, which sells roohafza in the summer and momos and carrot halwa in the winter. It never looked different from any other sherbet stall, with its hodgepodge of bottles and glasses. Its aesthetics changed only this season.The reason is Fauzia, his daughter. She likes to do things beautifully, she says, “so I arranged the glasses and bottles into a decoration.” She adds—“Papa is unwell, so I’m at the stall.”At 19, Fauzia is the only woman in the vicinity to manage a street food establishment all by herself. Otherwise, the adjacent biryani stall has a man. The chhole bhathure stall has a man. The chai stall has a man. The sattu drink stall has a man. Does she know she is special?She smiles, insisting she only wanted to help her father. Now, a group arrives for sherbet. Two of the men start squabbling, each insisting he must pay. Fauzia patiently observes them with an amused expression.A school dropout, she explains that “problems at home” prevented her from continuing her studies. “And my heart too wasn’t in books.” But her two younger brothers attend school, and they come to replace her at the stall at 4pm, after finishing their classes.“This is when I go home to rest while mummy cooks us food,” she says.The stall stays open from morning to evening. The sherbet is delicious but the prime reason to celebrate it is because these days it is manned by an extraordinary woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-sherbet-stall-like-no-other-101616971555215.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||1,881 infections: Biggest 1-day spike since Dec 13||The Capital recorded 1,881 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the biggest single-day jump in 105 days, and the overall death toll in the city crossed the 11,000 mark, as the fourth wave of infections continued unabated in the city ahead of the festive season. State government officials implored residents to avoid gatherings and keep up Covid-appropriate behaviour like mask-wearing and social distancing, while experts urged authorities to step up testing and clamp down on norm violations.Before this, the highest one-day infection spike was on December 13 last year, when the city added 1,984 new cases.Cases have surged in the national capital over the past few weeks, as India entered its second wave of infections. Coronavirus disease cases in India are rising at a rate not seen since May last year, and the daily infections in two states — Maharashtra and Gujarat — have already hit record highs, indicating that the country’s second wave may be worse than the first wave, despite the ongoing vaccination drive.The seven-day average of new cases, also known as case trajectory, has more than doubled in the city over the past week. Delhi logged an average of 1,390 new cases every day over the previous week, as against 613 cases in the week ending March 21. The city had logged an average of 371 cases each day in the week ending March 14.Also read | Active Covid cases cross half a millionWorryingly, the test positivity rate, which is regarded as a metric to gauge the scale of infection spread, hit a 104-day high on Sunday, with 2.35% of the 79,936 samples testing positive for Covid-19. This number, which was below 1% in Delhi for 82 days, crossed the 2% threshold for the first time since December 14.Further, Sunday’s case spike came on the back of significantly fewer tests. Saturday’s bulletin showed that Delhi had conducted 91,703 new tests, 11,767 more than on Sunday.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said the situation in the Capital is “under control,” but appealed to residents to wear masks, and to abide by distancing measures.“I urge people to avoid gatherings, events and celebrating festivals in public areas in the coming days,” he said.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal made similar appeals.The daily health bulletin on Sunday added nine more deaths to the city’s tally. The infection has now claimed 11,006 lives in the Capital. The city added an average of seven Covid-19 deaths every day over the past week, up significantly from the two deaths added every day in the week ending March 21.As on March 1, Delhi had 1,404 active cases. The number has now increased to 7,545, government records showed. The case trajectory of the city was the lowest for the week ending February 12 when Delhi recorded 125 new cases per day.Even though the government has so far ruled out the chances of a lockdown in Delhi, it has, over the last week, issued orders limiting the number of guests in marriages, funerals and social gatherings, and prohibited public celebrations of festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat and Navratri. The government has also started conducting random RT-PCR tests at entry points to the Capital such as airports, railway stations and bus terminals.Watch | Covid update: Putin vaccine side-effects; Maharashtra lockdown warning﻿In 2020, Delhi witnessed three distinct waves of severe spikes in Covid-19 cases. At the peak of the third wave, which has been the most severe in the city, Delhi added 8,593 new cases in a single day on November 11. Around the same time, the positivity rate was around 15% and the number of deaths in a day often crossed the 100-mark.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “There is a steep increase in numbers in this particular phase of spike in cases. This strongly suggests that variants of the virus may be playing a role... Delhi needs to scale up contact tracing and tests, especially RT-PCR tests, which are more accurate.”Of the 79,956 tests on Sunday, 53,422 were RT-PCR tests. The others used the rapid antigen method, which is faster, but less accurate than RT-PCR tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1881-infections-biggest-1-day-spike-since-dec-13-101616969159661.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||City gangster shot dead by cops in Rohini apartment||The Delhi police special cell gunned down gangster Kuldeep Mann alias Fajja in an alleged encounter at a flat in an apartment building in outer Delhi’s Rohini in the early hours of Sunday, less than 72 hours after he escaped from custody following a shootout at GTB Hospital.Police arrested the flat owner, Yogender Dahiya, and an alleged criminal, Bhupinder Mann alias Bhuttan, for harbouring Fajja who was allegedly a close associate of jailed gangster Jitender Gogi.Pramod Kushwah, deputy commissioner of police (special cell), said at least eight rounds were fired by Fajja while the cops responded by firing around 10 bullets. “Two of our policemen were saved by their bulletproof vests,” Kushwah said about the impact on his officers.Police said the autopsy report would determine how many times Fajja was hit but it appeared that bullet wounds to the stomach killed him.Fajja, whose 11 past criminal cases included five murders and three robberies, was being escorted by a police team from Mandoli Jail to GTB Hospital for treatment on Thursday afternoon when several armed men allegedly fired at the police to free him. The police fought back, shooting dead one assailant and injuring another.Since then, several police teams, including those from the special cell, were hunting for Fajja.Also read | Gangster who escaped custody stole bike outside hospital: CopsKushwah said that on Saturday, his team learnt that Fajja was hiding somewhere in Rohini. Police worked on inputs to arrest Bhupinder Mann around 9.30pm on Saturday.Bhupinder allegedly revealed to police that Fajja was hiding in Rohini Sector 14, in a two-bedroom flat on the ground floor of Tulsi Apartments, a gated residential society consisting of 176 flats.By around 1.30am, a police team arrived at the apartment complex.“The three security guards on duty later told us that they showed their identity cards to the police who took over their security cabin and confiscated their mobile phones. The residents were asked to stay inside their houses and switch off their lights. No one dared to come down,” said Rajesh Gupta, joint secretary of the apartment’s management committee.While the security guards were not available for a comment, police said their phones were not confiscated.Kushwah said around 1.45am when the cops tried to enter the flat -- located very close to the guards’ room -- Fajja opened fire. Over the next few minutes, a resident who did not wish to be identified, said firing sounds kept emerging.“There was also a lot of screaming from inside the flat. We didn’t know what exactly was happening, but we didn’t come out,” said the resident.The police said there were two persons inside the flat -- Fajja and the owner Dahiya. Dahiya was also found with a gun -- an offence for which he has been booked under the Arms Act -- but he did not fire any shots, police said.Fajja was taken to Dr BSA Hospital but he succumbed to his injuries.His brother, Lalit Mann, later in the day, accused police of killing him in cold blood. “This was a clear case of murder. There was no firing from the inside by my brother. It were only the police who fired. The encounter scene and the circumstances of his death must be investigated impartially,” said Lalit.A police officer, who didn’t want to be identified, said the encounter would see a magisterial inquiry anyway. “The apartment is also covered by lots of CCTV cameras,” said the officer.Neighbours said the flat in which the alleged encounter happened was purchased in the 1990s by a man who passed away a few years ago. “The family now lives somewhere in Prashant Vihar and the owner’s son sometimes comes down to check the flat,” said Gupta.According to police, Dahiya runs a gymnasium in Rohini. While he is accused of intentionally harbouring Fajja, police are investigating his background.On Fajja’s escape, police said it was executed to help revive Gogi’s gang. “We also have inputs that the gang run by Kala Jathedi played an important role in the escape,” said an investigator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/city-gangster-shot-dead-by-cops-in-rohini-apartment-101616966044627.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL predicts power cuts during paddy sowing season this time||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has predicted outages in the upcoming paddy sowing season when the demand for electricity is expected to reach an all-time high. In a communiqué to the Northern Region Load Dispatch Centre (NRLDC), PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad has demanded increase in total transfer capability (TTC) and available transmission capability (ATC) of the state to bring more power from outside Punjab. In the letter that was written a fortnight ago, Prasad said, “It may not be out of place to mention that on account of transmission constraints Punjab may not be able to provide uninterrupted 8-hour power supply to farmers and it may also affect round-the-clock electricity for central government’s projects if TTC and ATC limit is not enhanced.” He said the TTC and ATC limit of Punjab be increased to at least 8,000 and 7,400, respectively before the start of the paddy sowing season from June to September so that uninterrupted power supply can be ensured to farmers. “In 2020, the maximum demand of the state was brought down to 13,145 MW in July due to Covid-19 even as the PSPCL’s projection was 13,615 MW. As per the corporation’s estimates, the peak demand in the upcoming paddy season is expected to touch 14,371 MW,” said a senior PSPCL engineer. Officials said the total available power at the PSPCL’s disposal from all sources, including external, is 13,909MW, and there is a shortfall of 462MW. This demand is expected to touch 15,013 MW in 2022, it is learnt. Since no generation capacity has been added by the corporation in the recent years the only solution to manage an increased power demand is cuts during the peak summer season. Prasad said, “The NLDC has given nod to Punjab for increasing transmission capacity by 100MW and we hope that more will be allowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-predicts-power-cuts-during-paddy-sowing-season-this-time-101616964763856.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Attari illicit liquor racket was running under ruling Congress sarpanch’s patronage||The illicit liquor manufacturing racket busted in Amritsar district’s Attari block was being run under the patronage of Chak Mishri Khan village sarpanch whose son has also been arrested in the case, senior police officials said. The Congress sarpanch, Balwinder Kaur, is said to be a close of state cabinet minister Sukhbinder Singh Sukh Sarkaria. Nearly 115 tonne lahan and 400 litre illicit liquor were recovered from at least 20 houses, including that of the sarpanch’s, during a 3-hour-long search-and-cordon operation in the village. Other recovered items included 10 stills, 16 tarpaulins, a water tank of 1,000 litre capacity, 20 drums, seven LPG cylinders and a car. About 510-kg lahan, 40 litre illicit liquor and a still were found in Kaur’s house, a official said. A senior police official investigating the case said, “The villagers involved were running the illicit business without any fear as they thought they had the sarpanch’s patronage. We could not arrest other members of Kaur’s family due to some political pressure.”Virsa Singh, a Jamhuri Kisan Sabha leader from the area, said the illicit liquor trade was being run in the village since the Congress came to power in 2017. “Residents of the area had filed several complaints with the excise department and the police, but no action was taken. Balwinder Kaur was elected sarpanch unopposed,” he said. Deputy superintendent of police (Attari) Gurpartap Singh Sahota said they were probing the role of all those involved directly or indirectly. “We are also identifying properties which the accused have amassed through illegal business for attachment,” he said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya said, “Over 50 per cent of the state’s total Excise Act cases have been registered in Amritsar in the last few months. Our teams are working round the clock to break the illegal chain.”Minister Sarkaria didn’t respond to repeated calls and text messages. Congress’ Amritsar (rural) district president Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar said, “It is the party’s clear-cut instruction that anybody involved in any illegal activity should be dealt as per the law. We appreciate the police’s action.”A senior cop blamed the excise department officials for not taking action against the accused even as the racket was being run for more than one year.“The five back-to-back rackets that we unearthed in less than a month were being run for more than one year. What were the excise officials doing?” he questioned. Deputy commissioner (excise) Jaspinder Singh said, “All the recent operations were conducted by the police jointly with our department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attari-illicit-liquor-racket-was-running-under-ruling-congress-sarpanch-s-patronage-101616964464154.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Handa-Nagarkoti-Duggal panel wins 8 of 9 Chandigarh Press Club seats||Defeating Ramesh Handa of Punjab Kesari by a close margin of 11 votes, Nalin Acharya of Him Prabha has become the new president of the Chandigarh Press Club at the annual elections held on Sunday. The remaining eight positions were clinched by members of the Ramesh Handa panel.Total 294 votes were polled for Acharya as against 283 for Ramesh Handa. For the post of senior vice-president, 349 votes were polled for independent journalist Saurabh Duggal who beat Sandeep K Sharma of The Tribune by a margin of 123 votes. For the post of secretary general, Rajinder Nagarkoti of the Times of India beat Rakesh Gupta of Haryana News by a margin of 105 votes.For the post of vice-president 1, Mona of The Tribune beat Aarti Agnihotri of Dainik Bhaskar by 65 votes. For the post of vice-president 2, Rajesh Dhall of Dainik Jagran beat Amar Singh Walia of Punjabi Tribune by 34 votes.Dushyant S Pundir of The Tribune was elected as joint secretary 1; Karnail S Rana of Punjab Kesari was elected as joint secretary 2; Mansa Ram Rawat of Punjabi Tribune was elected as the secretary; and Umesh Sharma of News 18 was elected as the treasurer.The club, established in 1980, has been holding elections annually since 1984 without a miss. The elections this year were held with all Covid protocols in mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nalin-acharya-new-president-of-chandigarh-press-club-101616964225514.html
29-03-2021||Mumbai||NIA divers fish out Vaze’s hardware from riverbed||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday took former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to a spot near the Mithi river in a bid to recover crucial evidence with the help of professional divers, even as officials said the suspended policeman tried to destroy proof related to investigations into an explosives-laden car found near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence and the death of a man linked to the vehicle.The development came on a day Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said a retired high court judge will conduct a probe into allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who was removed amid investigations into the two cases that have also triggered political slugfest in the state.NIA investigators recovered two digital video recorders (DVRs), two CPUs, a laptop and two vehicle registration plates with the help of divers, a police official said on condition of anonymity. The central agency is probing the cases of the recovery of the car outside the south Mumbai residence of Ambani and the subsequent death of businessman Mansukh Hiran.Watch | Sachin Vaze taken from jail to river; divers find laptop, car platesVaze was arrested on March 13 for his alleged role in planting the explosives-laden car. He has also been accused of masterminding Hiran’s murder.“During interrogation of accused Sachin Vaze, he disclosed willingly to show the place where he threw the material used in the crime and destroyed the evidence. Accordingly, two independent witnesses were called and his voluntary statement was recorded. Further, accused showed the place as Mithi River, BKC, Bandra (East), Mumbai,” an NIA official said on condition of anonymity.“The said place was searched with the help of divers. NIA recovered one laptop, one printer, 2 hard disks, a pair of number plates, 2 CPUs, 2 DVRs, etc. The said articles were identified by rightful owners/custodians from whom accused Sachin Vaze had collected them illegally without proper documentation. Also, the laptop and printer recovered was used by Sachin Vaze in his office. A visible effort was made by the accused to destroy the same as hammer marks are present on them,” the official added.This is one of the most important recoveries made in the investigation so far.“A group of 10 divers conducted search around three hours and recovered crucial evidence,” another NIA official said on condition of anonymity. The NIA team, comprising six to seven officials, took Vaze to a Mithi river bridge from where he allegedly discarded the evidence after damaging it with the hammer, the official added.The NIA probe team reached the spot at 3.15pm and the search was conducted till 6pm with the help of local divers, the second NIA official said. The DVRs were allegedly removed from the housing society in Thane where Vaze lives.“NIA is taking the help of professional as well as local divers who know the Mithi river well. More evidence is likely to be recovered,” a third official said.It is suspected that assistant police inspector Riyazuddin Kaazi told NIA during his interrogation that the evidences were thrown into the Mithi river, according to news agency Press Trust of India.Also read | To Raut’s ‘accidental home minister’ remark on Deshmukh, Nawab Malik’s defenceAn official told ANI that the DVRs have a recording of Vaze’s society where the car was parked between February 17 and February 24 before it was planted.Vaze was initially the investigating officer in the case; he got all the evidence in his custody and after Hiran’s murder, when he realised that the case could go to some other agency, he tried to destroy the proof, the official said.According to people familiar with the developments, Vaze tried to destroy most of the evidence systematically as he knew they would implicate him. The recovered items, which Vaze allegedly attempted to destroy or destroyed, are being sent for forensic examination.NIA also learnt that a lot of evidence collected by Vaze as the investigating officer was not recorded in the case diary, as the main aim was to destroy it to save himself, said another officer, asking not to be identified.Hiran, linked to the car that was found containing explosives outside Ambani’s house, was found dead on March 5 in Thane.Investigations into his death were being carried out by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) until the Union home ministry handed over the probe to NIA.Vaze was earlier in NIA custody till March 25 for his alleged role and involvement in planting the explosives-laden vehicle. Later, a special NIA court on March 25 allowed the agency his custody till April 3.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-divers-fish-out-vaze-s-hardware-from-riverbed-101616963339199.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University students demand physical classes, boycott online lessons||Demanding the resumption of physical classes, the students of a few departments at Panjab University have started boycotting online classes.Students of the departments of Indian theatre, public administration and Punjabi studies have submitted representations to the varsity demanding that classes should either be held entirely offline or in blended mode.Moreover, student representatives at University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS) have also started a student survey asking their opinions on the mode of teaching, after which they will take the decision.This comes at a time when PU students and research scholars have started an indefinite strike on campus demanding the reopening of the AC Joshi library for. PU administration has said that it was not possible to reopen the varsity in the present situation. Also, the Chandigarh administration has closed all schools and colleges in the city till March 31 due to the recent surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases.‘Unable to get qualitative output from masters course’The department representative of the public administration department has also written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar requesting him to resume offline classes: “We have already faced so many problems during our third semester as we were not able to get qualitative output that we expected from this masters course,” reads the letter.According to the varsity’s revised academic calendar, online classes for the even semester for the ongoing batches started from March 24.While boycotting classes, the students at the Punjabi studies department have requested for allowing them to attend physical classes.‘Theatre is a performing art’The students at the department of Indian theatre have also written to the V-C stating that their course was practical, which was not possible to study online mode. “Theatre is a performing art which requires studio and stage. We need the physical presence of co-artistes to practise,” the students have said.A department-level meeting was also held to discuss the matter. According to the officials in the department, many students were still attending online classes.Many other departments are considering boycotting online classes in coming days.PU’s dean university instructions (DUI) VR Sinha said, “We request the students not to boycott online classes given the present situation. Students should abide by the decisions taken by the varsity in the light of Covid guidelines.”Reopening of PU library: Students continue protestStudents and research scholars demanding the reopening of the AC Joshi LIbrary at Panjab University continued their protest on campus for the fifth day in a row on Sunday. The library was closed by the PU administration last week in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases.On Sunday, students got into a heated argument with the varsity’s officials. They reiterated that if their demands are not met, they will intensify the protest by reaching out to a wider section of students and civil society. Protesting students appealed to the other students to boycott online classes and join the indefinite strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-students-demand-physical-classes-boycott-online-lessons-101616964104309.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||New parking at Punjab and Haryana HC: Process for environmental clearances starts||Before the construction of the multi-level parking in Punjab and Haryana high court begins, the UT administration has started the process of getting environmental and eco-sensitive clearances.“The UT engineering department has floated tenders inviting firms to prepare an environment impact assessment study, which will be done for obtaining environmental clearance and eco-sensitive clearance from the ministry of environment,” said a department official.The proposed parking site falls within the eco-sensitive zone around the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary that was notified in 2017. It is also within the buffer zone of UNESCO World Heritage Site of Capitol Complex in Sector 1.As per the layout submitted with the HC in January this year, three underground floors have been planned. In the first phase, the parking lot will have space for over 2,800 cars. In the second phase, installation of stacks has been proposed.Parking could be expandable to 5,000 carsWith that, the parking could be expandable to over 5,000 cars. The ground-level will be a green area. Ramps for exit and entry of vehicles to the basement parking spaces will be the only construction on it. The tentative size of the proposed basement parking is 434 ft x 810 ft. The approximate covered area of one floor is 3.72 lakh sq ft and for three floors, it is 11.17 lakh sq ft.At least 10,000 lawyers come to the HC daily and nearly 8,000 cars are brought by litigants and lawyers. But the HC has a parking space for only 800 cars.On December 20, 2019, the HC had directed the UT administration to submit the layout for the multi-level underground parking lot, opposite the high court museum, within four weeks.The HC directions had come after the administration official had submitted that the site fell within the eco-sensitive zone. The bench, however, was of the view that if parking couldn’t be constructed, how could a tourist information centre come up on the same site. It further observed that amendments could be made in the master plan, and questioned as to how a green belt could come under heritage status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-parking-at-punjab-and-haryana-hc-process-for-environmental-clearances-starts-101616963986134.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||BJP stages protests in Punjab against attack on Abohar MLA||Leaders of the BJP’s Punjab unit along with their supporters on Sunday staged protests at various places in the state against an attack on party’s Abohar MLA Arun Narang in Muktsar district’s Malout town a day earlier. In state capital Chandigarh, senior party leaders, including Union minister of state Som Parkash, Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik, former cabinet ministers Madan Mohan Mittal and Tikshan Sud, national spokesperson Iqbal Singh Lalpura and others, held a demonstration outside the residence of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. They also removed their shirts and raised slogans against the state government. The demonstration continued for nearly an hour and the protesters offered to court arrest when a team of Chandigarh Police asked them lift the sit-in. Earlier, a party delegation led by state president Ashwani Sharma called on Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore and submitted a memorandum highlighting the “increasing attacks on BJP workers and leaders at the behest of the Congress government” in the state. Sharma said the party cadres and leaders will not be cowed down by such tactics. “We have sought a reply from the CM for yesterday’s incident. The Congress government has failed to maintain law and order in Punjab. What happened to our MLA is nothing short of lynching. In the memorandum to the governor, we have demanded dismissal of the Amarinder Singh-led government,” said Sharma.Capt’s effigy burnt The BJP workers on Sunday burnt the effigy of CM Amarinder Singh in protest against the Malout incident in various cities.In Amritsar, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) state vice-president Salil Kapoor said, “The Amarinder government could not fulfill the promises made to the people of the state while crime graph has gone up. No one has been arrested for the violence yet.” In Jalandhar, BJP leaders led by district president Sushil Sharma staged a protest at Company Bagh chowk. Senior leaders, including former minister Manoranjan Kalia and KD Bhandari, also took part in it. They also demanded action against the police for their failure to protect the MLA.In SBS Nagar, BJP leaders led by district president Poonam Manik held a protest. In Kapurthala district, there was a face-off between farmers and some BJP activists who came to protest against the government but the police intervened. In Sangrur, party district chief Randeep Singh Deol said, “If the Punjab Police under the command of Amarinder Singh is unable to protect us, we will guard ourselves. The attack on our MLA is a shameful act. We demand strict action against the culprits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-stages-protests-in-punjab-against-attack-on-abohar-mla-101616963925025.html
29-03-2021||Other||Mohali’s Mullanpur stadium named after Maharaja Yadavindra Singh||The Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) stadium under construction at Mullanpur has been named Maharaja Yadavindra Singh Cricket Stadium.In the PCA annual general body meeting held at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali on Sunday, the decision was unanimously approved. PCA president Rajinder Gupta chaired the meeting and lauded the efforts of Maharaja Yadavindra Singh as a test cricketer and administrator.Patiala royal late Maharaja Yadavindra Singh, who was the father of Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, had played a test match for India in 1934. The nomenclature was announced last year by the PCA president.The house resolved to complete the Mullanpur stadium within this year and constituted a new stadium construction committee. In addition to this, justice HS Bhalla was appointed as the ombudsman-cum-ethics officer of the PCA. It was also approved that all PCA affiliated districts will be equal and the concept of minor and major districts was abolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohalis-mullanpur-stadium-named-after-maharaja-yadavindra-singh-101616963863958.html
29-03-2021||Other||Rajasthan doctor booked for raping patient in Mohali hotel||The district police have booked a Rajasthan doctor for raping his patient at a private hotel in Sector 82 here.As per information, the accused identified as Subhash Rajodiya is a private doctor based in Sri Ganganagar, Rajasthan.Investigating officer Baljeet Kaur said the victim, who is from Mohali, had gone to her relative’s house in Sri Ganganagar two weeks back and had suffered a back injury there. She had visited the accused doctor’s hospital, who had taken her phone number.On March 25, the doctor called her stating that he had come to Mohali and was staying at a private hospital in Sector 82. He asked her to come there and bring her medical reports. At the hotel, the accused gave her some medicine, after which she fell unconscious and he raped her. The doctor even offered her ₹10,000 to keep quiet.A case under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. The investigation officer said the doctor was at large and would be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajasthan-doctor-booked-for-raping-patient-in-mohali-hotel-101616962964219.html
29-03-2021||Other||Punjab Police make changes in syllabus for B1 test||The Punjab Police has changed the syllabus for the basic proficiency test (B1 test) for the promotion of constables to head constables. The test is scheduled for April 4. The exam comprises five sections: the Indian Penal Code (IPC) (30 marks), Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) (15 marks), PP Act (5 marks), Punjab police rules( 25 marks), and general knowledge (20 marks).According to the officials, it will help in upgrading the skills of head constables. Though the department has reduced the syllabus, aspirants will now have to study and explain Sections 326-A and 326-B (acid attack), 166-A (police responsible for delays in registering an FIR after a victim makes a complaint), and 187 (Omission to assist public servant when bound by law to give assistance) of the Indian Penal Code. These sections were not a part of the section earlier.Similarly, changes have been made in the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which consists of 15 marks. The major change which the department has made in the syllabus is adding Section 41 ( when police may arrest without warrant) in it.A constable preparing for the test said that everything is new for them as they are at a junior level in the force. While performing duty, they used to read and get to know about various sections from their seniors, but the rest of the sections need to be studied seriously, they said.Constables who get maximum marks become eligible for the promotion.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said that it was a general procedure of the department and that the change in syllabus would be beneficial for the constables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-police-makes-changes-in-syllabus-for-b1-test-101616962783857.html
29-03-2021||Other||Asked to surrender licensed weapon, CITU leader protests at Raikot police station||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) state secretary Daljit Singh Gora who had survived a militant attack in the 90s’ staged a protest at the Raikot police station as he went to surrender his licensed rifle on Sunday.Gora, along with his supporters removed their shirts and marched to the police station, stating that he and his family are under threat but cops have been forcing him to deposit his weapon under political pressure. Raikot police booked him and his supporters for disobeying the orders of a public servant and stopping government employees from discharging their duties.Gora said that he had raised his voice against the discrepancies in ration distribution among the needy during lockdown. This had not gone down well with some politicians who were trying to suppress his voice. He alleged that he had also been implicated in a false case, which cops were using to force him to deposit his weapon. The CITU leader also stated that the deputy magistrate had not cancelled his arms licence yet, but the police are harassing him.Raj Jaswant Singh, tehsil secretary of CITU, said police have learnt no lesson from murder case of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Bikhwind who was shot dead by two assailants in October 2020. Balwinder Singh had fought militancy in 1993 and when police had withdrawn his security, the assailants murdered him.When contacted, inspector Ajaib Singh, Sadar Raikot station house officer, said that Gora was asked to deposit the weapon as he was booked in a criminal case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/asked-to-surrender-licensed-weapon-citu-leader-protests-at-raikot-police-station-101616962604967.html
29-03-2021||Other||Man held for raping home-alone minor girl in Dera Bassi||A 32-year-old married man was arrested for raping his 10-year-old neighbour while she was alone at home in Dera Bassi on Sunday. The minor girl’s father told the police that he and his wife were at work, when their neighbour, who lives on the second floor of their building, entered their house and raped his daughter. When his wife returned home, their daughter complained of stomach pain and revealed she was sexual assaulted by their upstairs neighbour. The parents approached the police, who arrested the accused soon after. “He has been booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act. We will produce him in court on Monday,” said inspector Satinder Singh, SHO, Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-raping-home-alone-minor-girl-in-dera-bassi-101616962603851.html
29-03-2021||Other||Chandigarh gets direct air connectivity to Indore||Chandigarh on Sunday got direct connectivity to Indore with enforcement of the summer flight schedule at the Chandigarh International Airport. Though no new international flight was added in the plan, the Sharjah flight by Air India Express will now be operating twice a week, instead of only once earlier. The Dubai flight will remain suspended due to low response amid the Covid-19 pandemic.However, the number of flights has been increased from 38 to 47, of which 28 will be operated by IndiGo Airlines.On Sunday, the maiden Indore flight by IndiGo departed at 6.35am and reached its destination at 8.35am. Later, it left Indore at 12.05pm to arrive at Chandigarh by 1.55pm. The flight will be operational through the week with the same timings.The summer schedule features 10 flights to Delhi by various airlines and eight to Mumbai. The airport has also resumed its twice-a-week Leh flight.“We are also adding two more new destinations from Chandigarh – Jammu and Jodhpur. The Jammu flight will start on May 1, while the launch date for the Jodhpur flight has yet to be decided,” said Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer (CEO) of the airport. No new international flightsWhile 24x7 operations at the airport became a reality from April 10, 2019, no new international flight has been added since. In the past 10 months, the airport has incurred a loss of nearly ₹40 crore on various accounts amid the pandemic. Before the lockdown, the airport saw at least 12,000 passengers, both at arrivals and departures, daily. The number has since come down to around 7,000. The airport’s main source of revenue is the aeronautical category, whereby ₹800 per passenger is charged from the airlines. For instance, a Delhi-bound flight with 80% occupancy pays about ₹65,000 to the airport. The other sources of revenue are retail shops, office spaces, vehicle parking, and advertisements, which brought in around ₹30 lakh daily before the pandemic struck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-gets-direct-air-connectivity-to-indore-101616962243759.html
29-03-2021||Other||Posing as excise officials, miscreants dupe trucker of his vehicle near Samrala||Impersonating as excise and taxation officials, miscreants duped a truck driver of his truck laden with iron rods worth ₹11 lakh near Samrala Chowk on the pretext of checking, in the wee hours of Sunday. The truck driver, identified as Roda, said he had reached near Samrala Chowk around 3am where some men, claiming to be excise and taxation officials, stopped him and asked him to produce the bill. After inspecting it, the men told him that the bill is undervalued and asked him to accompany them to their office. The accused then drove him around in their Mahindra Bolero vehicle and took him towards Moga but after two hours, they fled after dropping him near Samrala Chowk. On reaching there, he found his truck missing and immediately sounded the iron trader, Ambrish Kumar of Khanna, who further informed the police.Police have traced the location of the truck to Phagwara and dispatched a team to arrest the accused.Inspector Jarnail Singh, Division Number 3 station house officer, said an FIR has been lodged against the unidentified accused and police would arrest them soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/posing-as-excise-officials-miscreants-dupe-trucker-of-his-vehicle-near-samrala-101616962183723.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Principal, 2 teachers booked for thrashing Class-10 student in Panipat||Two teachers and the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Goela Khurd village, Panipat, have been booked for allegedly thrashing a Class-10 student.The accused are principal Bhola Ram, Hindi teacher Tejbir and Sanskrit teacher Bijender. The incident took place on February 26. A complaint was registered with the district child welfare committee (CWC), which filed a police complaint on March 15 and an FIR was registered on March 26.Police officials say the accused have refuted the allegations. The teachers told the CWC that they had neither tortured nor beaten up the 17-year-old. They said the complainant had on February 10 kept a gift in the bag of a Class-9 student. When the girl complained, the teachers asked him for a clarification, but he ran away from school and did not turn up till February 26. The teachers also brought the matter to his father’s notice. On February 26, when the student returned to school, he alleged that he had been beaten up by the teachers.The boy’s medical examination has been conducted and his statement was recorded before the CWC, following which the teachers have been booked under Sections 294 (obscene acts or words in public), 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 ( criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act.The CWC has directed the school in-charge to support the child during his final examinations. Bapoli police station in-charge Hari Narayan said an FIR has been registered but no arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/principal-2-teachers-booked-for-thrashing-class-10-student-in-panipat-101616961163565.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||1,392 new virus cases in Haryana, 9 fatalities||Haryana on Sunday reported nine coronavirus fatalities that took the death toll to 3,141, while the total coronavirus case count rose to 2,87,719 with 1,392 fresh cases, a health department bulletin said.While two deaths were reported from Rohtak and Kurukshetra districts, a fatality each was reported from Kaithal, Sirsa, Yamunanagar, Karnal and Ambala districts.Among the districts that registered a big spike in cases were Gurgaon (324), Karnal (180), Panchkula (169), Ambala (139), Faridabad (116) and Kurukshetra (112), the bulletin said.The number of active cases in the state is 9,120. The recovery rate is 95.74 per cent, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1392-new-virus-cases-in-haryana-9-fatalities-101616960863729.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hits another high with 296 Covid-19 cases||In no let-up, as many as 296 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Sunday, the highest since September, when the pandemic had hit its peak.This pushed the number of active cases to 2,663, also the first time since September 22, last year.The virus also claimed three lives on Saturday, taking the death toll to 377.The latest fatalities include a 68-year-old man from Sector 25, a 64-year-old man from Sector 12 and a 54-year-old man from Sector 14.With the fresh cases, the city’s tally has reached 26,194, while the weekly positivity rate stands at 12%, which is second highest in the country after Maharashtra.Highest cases in Panchkula in six monthsPanchkula also reported the highest cases in the past six months with 169 new infections, which took the total to 12,748.This is the fifth consecutive day to witness 100+ cases in the district, where 964 patients are still infected. As many as 154 have lost the battle to the virus, while 11,630 have recovered.Cases decrease further in Mohali After cases dipped from 409 to 374 between Friday and Saturday, Mohali reported a further drop in cases with 287 people testing positive on Sunday.However, four people succumbed to the virus, which took the toll to 423. The district’s total cases stand at 25,880 cases, of which 3,301 patients are still infected, highest in the tricity area.Majority of Sunday’s cases, at 213, were from Mohali city, followed by 29 from Dhakoli, 15 from Kharar, 12 from Dera Bassi, 10 from Banur, five from Lalru and three from Kurali.Till now, 21,156 have recovered in the district.Amid the latest surge, Mohali has recorded 5,498 cases and 38 deaths in March so far, up from 840 and 20, respectively, in February. The district has been reporting 200+ cases for the past three weeks, with six days witnessing over 300 cases.Ambala MP, mayor contract infectionAmbala member of Parliament Rattan Lal Kataria and city mayor Shakti Rani Sharma were found positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Both the leaders announced contracting the infection on social media and were admitted to Medanta Medicity in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hits-another-high-with-296-covid-19-cases-101616960803980.html
29-03-2021||Mumbai||Amid Covid spike, Maharashtra plans another lockdown||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked state officials to begin preparing an implementation plan for another lockdown on Sunday, when the state reported record 40,414 cases of Covid-19 amid a nationwide surge in infections that have prompted the authorities to consider stricter guidelines to control the spread.In a meeting with chief minister Thackeray and Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, members of the state Covid-19 taskforce expressed apprehensions that the state could report 40,000 fresh infections over the next 24 hours, according to an official statement.Thackeray said the citizens were flouting all Covid-19 guidelines and the state would be forced to take this step. The chief minister’s announcement came soon after the state’s Covid-19 taskforce recommended strict measures including a lockdown to counter the alarming surge in infections and deaths. The chief minister then asked officials to prepare a detailed plan for the implementation of a lockdown which will have minimum impact on the economy of the state, the release said.“There should not be any kind of confusion among the people once a lockdown is announced,” the CM was quoted as saying.Also read | Active Covid cases cross half a millionOn Sunday, Maharashtra reported 40,414 new Covid-19 cases and 108 deaths. On Saturday, it recorded 35,726 cases and 166 deaths (the highest single-day fatalities since October 23). With the daily positivity rate exceeding 22% for the last eight days, Maharashtra’s cumulative cases stood at 2,713,875 on Sunday, more than twice that of Kerala, India’s second-worst-affected state. Maharashtra also crossed 300,000 active cases on Saturday. “24,619 cases had been reported on a single day in September, 2020. However, on March 27 this year, the state reported 35,726 new cases in a day. This number could touch 40,000 in the next 24 hours,” the release said, quoting members of the taskforce.Thackeray blamed the citizens for the situation, saying that they were not wearing masks and weddings had more than the stipulated number of people, with markets also being crowded. He said since it was the responsibility of the government to take care of the health of the citizens, officials were instructed to start preparing for a lockdown. He said that in case of a lockdown, the state’s officials will need to ensure adequate supply of foodgrains, medicines and essential services, including health care.Watch | Covid update: Putin vaccine side-effects; Maharashtra lockdown warning﻿The taskforce recommended that there be a limited-period lockdown and that all steps be taken to ensure its strict implementation. It also wanted Covid-19 patients to opt for institutional quarantine rather than home isolation so that they could be monitored effectively.Maharashtra health minister Tope said that since the citizens were not listening and the patients were increasing, the state had no option left but to impose a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-covid-spike-maha-plans-another-lockdown-101616960262869.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam to review advance consumption deposit||The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam ( DHBVN) has decided to review the Advance Consumption Deposit (ACD) made by all its active electricity consumers based on the average billing for the previous financial year.An official spokesperson said this decision had been taken because it is mandatory for all active consumers to pay advance security amount equal to two average billing cycles in a financial year as per the instructions of Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC).The spokesperson said that due to the outbreak of the pandemic in the financial year 2020-21, the power distribution corporation had postponed the review of the advance consumption deposits of electricity consumers. It has now been made effective from March 24 as per the instructions of HERC. Keeping in view the norms of the commission, the above review amount will be charged or refunded in two instalments to the consumer’s account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dakshin-haryana-bijli-vitran-nigam-to-review-advance-consumption-deposit-101616960623772.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Tie BJP-JJP leaders to pole, if they come to Haryana villages: Abhay Chautala||A day after a BJP legislator from Punjab was allegedly beaten up by a group of protesting farmers in the Malout area of Muktsar, Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala on Sunday alleged that the incident had taken place to defame farmers, who have been protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws.Speaking at the Makrauli Kalan toll plaza here, the former Ellenabad MLA asked people to treat ‘BJP-JJP leaders in the same way Punjab legislator Arun Narang had been treated.’“If any BJP-JJP leaders try to enter your villages, tie them to a pole. A BJP legislator from Punjab had gone to address a press conference in Malout on Saturday even after farmers asked him to cancel his conference. The angry farmers tore his clothes amid high police security, you should also do the same,” he said, adding that he had warned Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and other BJP-JJP MLAs that people will tear their clothes if the farm laws were not repealed before resigning.“Whatever I had said in the Haryana assembly has taken place in Punjab and similar incidents will occur in Haryana if the ruling party leaders tries to enter our villages. It is due to the farmers’ anger that the BJP government was not conducting panchayat elections. People are determined to oust the BJP,” he said.‘Was told not to resign as farmers’ stir was almost over’Targeting his guns at his uncle Ranjit Chautala, who is jails and power minister in the Haryana government, Abhay said Ranjit had called him after violence erupted in Delhi on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor march.“He told me that there was no need to resign from the Haryana assembly as the agitation had ended. However, I told him that after my resignation, the farm stir will get a new energy. I had resigned on January 27 when the farmers’ agitation has almost ended,” he said.He also urged villagers to send the elderly to the protest site during wheat harvesting so that the number of protesters does not swell.JJP leaders, who claim to be farmers’ well-wishers were exposed after my resignation and are now confined to their homes, he said, adding if need be farmers would continue to fight for the next four years, if farmers’ laws were not repealed.“ The result of the West Bengal elections will reveal the importance of farmers’ unity and the BJP will face defeat. The BJP has divided people on the lines of caste and religion and harvested the crop of it,” Abahy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tie-bjp-jjp-leaders-to-pole-if-they-come-to-haryana-villages-abhay-chautala-101616960205333.html
29-03-2021||Other||30 arrested for partying at Mohali club despite night curfew||As many as 30 people were arrested for drinking and partying at Walking Street night club in Phase 11 till 2am on Sunday, despite the night curfew in Mohali.The club was found hosting the party even though it was sealed by the district administration on August 4, 2019, after a 23-year-commando was shot dead outside the premises during a brawl. Hard drinks were also being served despite cancellation of the club’s liquor licence. Around 2am on Sunday, following a tip-off, a police team, led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Deep Kamal and Phase-11 station house officer (SHO) Jagdeep Brar raided the club and found youths consuming liquor and partying amid loud music. As many as 30 revellers, including two women, were arrested on the spot, while club owner, identified as Sajan Mahajan, fled the spot as the cops arrived. The police also impounded seven vehicles, all SUVs, belonging to some of those arrested. “The club had opened access through the back door, while the front door remains sealed. On spotting the police, the club owner escaped, but the revellers were arrested and later released on bail,” said DSP Kamal. He said, “There was a large gathering in the club despite imposition of night curfew in the district, that too beyond the midnight deadline for commercial establishments. Liquor and hookah were also being served inside the club. The owner will be arrested soon.” The police official added that they were looking into how the club was operating despite being sealed in 2019. For now, police have registered a case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 269 and 270 of the Disaster Management Act at the Phase 11 police station. Club of controversiesAugust 4, 2019: A 23-year-old commando, Sukhwinder Kumar, was shot dead outside the club following a brawl. The accused, Charanjit Singh, alias Sahil, of Amritsar, shot him point blank in the chest with a pistol and fled in his Audi car.Following the shooting, the club owners were booked for serving liquor beyond midnight, the permissible deadline. The club was sealed and its liquor licence cancelled permanently. August 2018: Here too, the club owners were booked for running the establishment beyond 12am in violation of the deputy commissioner’s order, and for serving liquor meant for sale in Chandigarh only. On July 22, too, the owners were booked for the same violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30-arrested-for-partying-at-mohali-club-despite-night-curfew-101616960204280.html
29-03-2021||Other||Congress misguided people on Solan MC issue,says Jai Ram||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday urged people of Solan to elect BJP candidates in the municipal corporation election on April 7. At a rally, he assured people that the state government would fulfil all the promises made in the BJP’s ‘Vision Document’s for Solan MC.He also extended Holi wishes to the people and wished for their happiness and prosperity.Thakur said the successive Congress governments did not constitute even a single new gram panchayat for ensuring the participation of common people in the development process. He accused the Congress of misleading the people on the issue of formation of Solan municipal corporation. He said government was committed to protecting the interests of all and no tax will be levied for five years from the residents of the rural areas merged in the MC. Thakur said demand for special funds for development of towns like Solan would be made from the central government. He said that a master plan would be drafted for the planned development of Solan and special attention would be given to cleanliness, beauty, proper sewerage and modern infrastructure in this master plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-misguided-people-on-solan-mc-issue-says-jai-ram-101616960146480.html
29-03-2021||Other||J&K logs 309 Covid infections, highest daily count since Dec 19||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 309 coronavirus cases, the highest daily count since December 19, taking the tally in the UT to 1,29,993. The death toll reached 1,989 with four new fatalities. As many as 246 cases were reported in the Kashmir division on Saturday, the highest daily count this year, while 63 fresh cases were reported from Jammu division.The officials said Srinagar district recorded the highest number of 123 new cases, which includes 35 travellers, followed by 49 in Jammu district, 46 in Baramulla, 27 in Kupwara, 22 in Budgam and 12 in Pulwama.Five districts, all of them in Jammu division, did not report any cases, while nine others detected new cases in single digits.The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily this month, crossed 2,000 on Sunday to reach 2,001 in the union territory, officials said.There was a decline in the number of cases in January and February. The highest cases last earlier than Sunday were on December 18 at 388.There are 1,488 active cases in Kashmir division, including 873 in Srinagar, while there are 513 active cases in Jammu division.As many as 126,003 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 96.93%.Over 5.95 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-logs-309-covid-infections-highest-daily-count-since-dec-19-101616960145457.html
29-03-2021||Other||Tourism takes a hit in Himachal amid second wave of Covid||Just when the tourism in Himachal Pradesh was showing signs of revival, the second wave of Covid-19 spelled doom for the industry with the hoteliers staring at another year of loss and workforce fearing about job loss. Last year, they had somehow managed to survive despite the big Covid spike, but if the situation spirals out of control this time, many would be left with no option but shut their operations while others would have to further lay off the staff, the hoteliers fear.The circumstances are such that the occupancy in hotels in major hill stations is again on a downhill slide. “The occupancy is almost nil except for sporadic arrivals at the weekends,” says Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Dharamshala. The advance bookings have been cancelled, he said, adding that if the situation doesn’t improve soon, this year would be tougher than the preceding. “Last year, we, by some means, managed expenses of staff but it would be impossible this year,” said Gandhi.It would eventually result in job loss in the hotel industry, he added. Vijay Inder Karan, another Dharamshala-based hotelier, said the occupancy which had reached 40%-50% December onwards has again come down below 10%. “There are no advance bookings. There is only walk-in tourist,” said Karan.He said the hospitality is the most neglected sector and there is no support from the government. Industry is staring at bankruptcy, closure of businesses and mass unemployment, he added. Karan said last year before the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown, he had employed about 30 people in his unit. The losses in the business forced us to lay off the staff and now there are 14 people left. If this situation continues, I would not be able to sustain more than four to five staffers, he said.Not only the hoteliers have been hit, but the people in the allied sectors were also bearing the brunt.The president of Manali Hotel Association, Anup Thakur, said industry ascended from October onwards but took a plunge with the spike in Covid-19 cases.He said the occupancy in Manali hotels was down to 15%. The income of travel agents, tour guides and taxi drivers and others has also been wiped out. Many travel agencies have shut their businesses and sacked their employees. Meltdown of such magnitude has never hit the industry in the past. While the hotels were closed in March last year, our business was shut much earlier, said Viren Kumar, who runs a travel agency in Kangra district. “We are getting negligible bookings. Flight bookings have almost stopped. There are no tour packages,” he added. “The business revived a bit early this year but things have again returned to square one due to surge in Covid-19 infections,” he said.As per the state economic survey, tourism was the hardest hit sector by the pandemic. It saw a contraction of 81.33% in foreign and domestic tourist arrivals in 2020. Trade, hotel and restaurant sectors showed a contraction of 9.2% during 2020-21 as against a growth of 4.6% in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tourism-takes-a-hit-in-himachal-amid-second-wave-of-covid-101616960143716.html
29-03-2021||Kolkata||Political clashes in Bengal, at least 56 bombs recovered from Narendrapur||Clashes broke out between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in multiple areas across West Bengal since Saturday when 30 constituencies in five districts went to polls in the first phase. Meanwhile, police recovered around 56 crude bombs from a hideout in the middle of a bheri (fish farm) in Narendrapur. “Acting on a tipoff, we raided a hideout in the middle of a bheri and recovered 56 crude bombs on Saturday night. The bombs were diffused on Sunday. We have initiated a case against the owner of the fish farm and raids are going on,” said Kamanashish Sen, superintendent of Baruipur police district. In another incident, around a dozen crude bombs were found in a bag at Niyamatpur in Paschim Bardhaman’s Kulti area. Police also recovered a cache of crude arms and busted an arms factory at Kultali in South 24 Parganas. “Five firearms, equipment to manufacture crude firearms and a few unfinished firearms were recovered. Raids are going on,” said a senior police officer. At Kanthi Dakshin, where elections were held on Saturday, post-poll clashes broke out in the evening. “Clashes were reported from two places – Pura Sreerampur and Darua village. In all, around 18 persons were injured. We have sent the report to the poll panel. Meanwhile, raids are being conducted to nab the accused persons,” said a senior police officer of East Midnapore district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/political-clashes-in-bengal-at-least-56-bombs-recovered-from-narendrapur-101616959303884.html
29-03-2021||Other||Biker dies after man attacks him with brick in Samrala village||A 25-year-old man died after an alleged drug addict attacked him with a brick with the intention of robbing him in Dhilwan village of Samrala on late Saturday night.The victim, identified as Jasvir Singh alias Joga, 25, was returning home from Manki village, where he had gone with his brother-in-law to buy some medicines when the incident took place.His brother-in-law, Ajay Kumar of Dhilwan village, also suffered injuries in the incident.Kumar has identified the accused as Kuldeep Singh alias Deepa, who is believed to be a drug addict and a resident of Dhilwan village.In his statement to the police, Kumar said that they were returning home on a bike on Saturday night when the accused intercepted them near the cold store in Dhilwan village. He said the accused hurled a brick at them, which hit Joga on his head and he lost control over the bike. “We both fell off the bike and tumbled down into a field, four feet below the road level. Before I lost consciousness, I saw Kuldeep searching Joga’s pockets,” said Kumar. He added that he gained consciousness the next morning and saw Joga lying in a pool of blood and rushed him to a hospital after informing the family members. Joga was declared brought dead at the hospital. Samrala station house officer (SHO), inspector Kuljinder Singh said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. The accused is currently on the run. Cops are also checking to see if he has been involved in any other crime in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/biker-dies-after-man-attacks-him-with-brick-in-samrala-village-101616959183571.html
29-03-2021||Other||10 more lose battle to virus as Ludhiana records 437 new cases||Ten more people lost their lives to Covid-19 even as 437 more people tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Sunday. This is the highest single-day count of casualties as well as fresh infections since the district witnessed its Covid peak in September last year.It is for the ninth consecutive day that the district logged more than 300 daily cases.The new fatalities took the district’s toll to 1,118, while cumulative case count has climbed to 33,410. A total of 29,439 persons have so far recovered, leaving 2,853 active cases.Since the beginning of the year, the district has recorded a total of 6, 294 positive cases. The fatalities include a 66-year-old man from Salem Tabri, a 75-year-old man from Jagroan, a 76-year-old man from Shivaji Nagar, a 50-year-old man from Macchiwara, a 60-year-old man from BRS Nagar, a 62-year-old man from Sahnewal, a 70-year-old woman and a 60-year-old woman from Tibba Road, a 56-year-old woman from Sahnewal and a 82-year-old woman from Haibowal Kalan.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands to keep themselves as well as others around them safe.He said that on Sunday, over 4, 669 samples were sent for testing and 500 persons were sent for home quarantine. The number of persons currently under home quarantine in the district is 5, 207. Five teachers among those infectedThe new cases include five teachers in various schools of the district. The teachers are from SBD School, Dadahur, Government School, Rajewal, NM Jain Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar and two from Gurusar Sudhar College.1,000 cases added to tally in 3 days aloneThe district has added 1,000 cases to its tally in merely three days. It was on March 25 that the Covid count had crossed the 32,000-mark.4, 792 received the vaccine today On Sunday, a total of 4, 792 people showed up for vaccination at various government and private health facilities in Ludhiana. The vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 this year. Since then, 28, 151 healthcare workers have received the first shot and 16, 612 got the second dose. Over 27, 616 frontline workers have also got the first dose, while 5, 048 have been immunised with the second dose as well. As many as 43, 098 senior citizens have turned up for vaccination since March 1, while the number of inoculated residents, aged between 45 and 59 and having comorbidities, is 22, 907.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-more-lose-battle-to-virus-as-ludhiana-records-437-new-cases-101616958943994.html
29-03-2021||Dehradun||About 10k security personnel take oath at Ganga ghat for security during Mahakumbh||About 10,000 personnel from various paramilitary and police forces deployed at Haridwar Mahakumbh took oath for “fulfilling their responsibilities and duties with honesty and integrity” at Har ki Pauri Ganga ghat on Sunday in Haridwar.The oath was administered by director-general of Uttarakhand police Ashok Kumar after offering prayers at Ganga ghat.About 10,000 security personnel from paramilitary forces, including Sashastra Seem Bal, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Border Security Force and state police, have been deployed in the Mahakumbh which is scheduled to start from April 1.Apart from the paramilitary forces, one team of National Security Guards - also known as Black Cat Commandos - three teams of Uttarakhand Police bomb disposal squad and anti-terrorist squad each, one team of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s anti-sabotage team, 10 companies of Uttar Pradesh Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and four companies of Uttarakhand PAC are deployed to ensure the security arrangements in the mega religious event.Speaking on the security arrangements for the Mahakumbh mela, DGP Kumar said that apart from the on-ground security, the state police would also monitor the social media platforms.“To ensure security from all aspects, intelligence-sharing between various agencies on any anti-national activities during Mahakumbh, social media monitoring by every state and strict adherence to the Mahakumbh SOP for Covid-19 would be done,” said Kumar, adding that the personnel had followed Covid-19 precautions, including wearing of masks during the oath-taking event.Informing that the state police is going to use several new methods and techniques for crowd management in this Mahakumbh, Kumar said, “Police departments of all neighbouring states will help in managing road traffic on routes leading to Haridwar by deploying cranes and ambulance.”The state top cop also said that “Apart from this, to enhance coordination, it has been decided that every officer from state and Central agencies would be appointed as a nodal officer in Mahakumbh coordination committee.”The experts, however, slammed the authorities for the event citing the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state in the last few days.Social activist Anoop Nautiyal, who had been keeping an eye on the Covid-19 situation in the state since last year’s lockdown, said, “Such a gathering at the Ganga ghat is good for symbolism and photo-op, but should have been avoided considering the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. These events should be avoided in future.”Uttarakhand has so far recorded a total of 99,881 Covid-19 cases of which 95,025 have been treated. On Sunday, the state witnessed 336 new cases, the highest so far in the state taking the total active cases to 1,660.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/about-10k-security-personnel-take-oath-at-ganga-ghat-for-security-during-mahakumbh-101616958403776.html
29-03-2021||Other||Siddaramaiah backs BJP minister’s comment on central govt||Bengaluru: Former Karnataka chief minister and the Congress leader of the opposition, Siddaramaiah, on Sunday backed the statements of Minor Irrigation minister JC Madhuswamy, calling the union government ‘authoritarian” and threatening the federal structure of the country.“@JCMBJP has perfectly echoed what @INCKarnataka had been saying since last 7 yrs. We are also of the same opinion that @BJP4India is threatening the federal structure of our Country. Centre is encroaching upon the Constitutional rights of States,” Siddaramaiah posted in a six-part tweet on Sunday.The statements come a day after Madhuswamy accused the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led centre of encroaching on state and concurrent subjects that, he said, was giving rise to regionalism.In a surprising turn of events, Madhuswamy, a minister considered close to chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that the policies of the central government should be to help progressing states to do better and not pull them down.“What has happened now is that you have encroached up state subjects, you have encroached upon concurrent subjects,” he said a seminar on ‘National Integration and Regional Freedom’ in Mysuru, about 125 kms from Bengaluru, on Saturday.He said that instead of getting more liberalised, things were getting more centralised.“The authoritarian rule of the Government of India is a major reason for rise in regionalism,” Madhuswamy said.Bengaluru South Member of Parliament Tejaswi Surya, who was also on stage, tried to provide a response but the statements had already gone viral, helping the opposition cash in on the topic.Siddaramaiah added that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the centre was trying to forcefully direct states to amend laws that would further infringe upon the federal structure.“Current version of GST has severely impacted the revenue of the State governments. Karnataka alone is facing a revenue deficit of ₹19,000+ Cr mainly due to the shortfall in tax collection over which our State has little control. Karnataka, in 2020-21, has not received ₹8538 Cr from Central govt’s tax share & ₹1,310 Cr from Central govt’s grant-in-aid. We did not get special grants of ₹5495 Cr special grants as recommended by 15th Finance commission,” he added in two posts.The BJP won an unprecedented 25 out of 28 parliamentary seats in Karnataka in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections that raised expectations of the calamity-prone state.But all the parliamentarians from Karnataka are yet to raise issues like delayed flood relief, GST compensation or the reduced revenue inflows to the southern state, giving the opposition more ammunition to attack the ruling party.Siddaramaiah said that the farm laws are an example of taking away the autonomy of States. He added that NEET has pushed Karnataka into a disadvantage and National Education Policy will put an end to regional education diversity.“The imposition of Hindi in various forms is a threat to linguistic diversity of our country. The agenda of RSS is being pushed by @narendramodi government but unfortunately the local representatives from @BJP4Karnataka are silent on the atrocities on regional rights,” Siddaramaiah posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/siddaramaiah-backs-bjp-minister-s-comment-on-central-govt-101616957143048.html
29-03-2021||Other||State Cong chief faces anger of Jarkiholi supporters in Belagavi||Bengaluru The situation was tense in the border district of Belagavi (Belgaum), about 506 kms from Bengaluru, after supporters of former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Ramesh Jarkiholi reportedly pelted stones on the convoy of state Congress president DK Shivakumar.“The supporters of Ramesh Jarkiholi pelted stones and threw slippers at the convoy,” said one person aware of the developments, requesting not to be named.Incidentally, Shivakumar is in Belagavi for the nomination process of Satish Jarkiholi, Ramesh’s brother, as the Congress candidate for the April 17 bypolls.“I condemn the act of stone pelting by followers of Ramesh Jarkiholi on the vehicles of @KPCCPresident @DKShivakumar. This is @BJP4Karnataka sponsored act.People of Karnataka will not let this go. #BJPGoondagiri,” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter.Ramesh Jarkiholi has found himself in the thick of a raging sex-for-job scandal that has piled the pressure on the BS Yediyurappa-led government. A complaint by a social activist, Dinesh Kalahalli, on 3 March resulted in Jarkiholi resigning from the cabinet. The complaint has since been withdrawn and the alleged victim’s lawyer has filed a complaint against the minister for allegedly sexually harassing the unnamed woman in the guise of providing her a government job.Jarkiholi has called the video a fake and part of a sinister political conspiracy to end his political career.In one of the alleged telephone call recordings between the unnamed woman and her family, there is a mention of Shivakumar, insinuating that the Congress president was somehow involved in the entire episode.Though Jarkiholi has not mentioned Shivakumar as one of the conspirators, several of his supporters endorse the view that the Congress president had a role to play in the alleged sex-scandal.However, it remains to be seen how Shivakumar will attempt to mobilise support for one brother while facing the angst of the supporters of the other brother in the border distinct.Both Satish and Ramesh had opposed the meddling of Shivakumar into the affairs of the district in 2018 that led to the first rise of dissent within the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S)-Congress coalition government. Ramesh was one of the first to defect to the BJP, that led to the collapse of the coalition government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-cong-chief-faces-anger-of-jarkiholi-supporters-in-belagavi-101616957083042.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Red Fort crossing to take pedestrian-friendly turn||Delhi’s Public Works Department (PWD) is engaged in giving the main Red Fort-Chandni Chowk traffic junction an Oxford Street scramble crossing look, officials involved in the project said, adding they are making it a pedestrian friendly zone with raised crossovers for cyclists, decorative lights and flowering plants.Scramble crossings for pedestrians at signal junctions are widely used in Japan and have been introduced in Canada and the United States as a way of prioritising pedestrian movement by stopping all traffic movement and allowing pedestrians to cross in every direction at the same time, according to a 2010 case study on Oxford Circus scheme.A senior PWD official said the existing intersection at Red Fort is unsafe for pedestrians, and once the revamp of the Chandni Chowk-Fatehpuri is over, it will have more people walking around and waiting to cross the road amid heavy traffic. He said the scramble crossing will enhance the “load-bearing capacity” of the junction and accommodate more pedestrians.The official said the revamped Red Fort crossing will be constructed with red granite stone and red concrete so that it gels well with the design scheme of the Red Fort and the redeveloped Chandni Chowk stretch. The revamp of Red Fort junction is a part of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, he said.“Even on the main road, we will not use black tar to carpet the street. The portion of the main street (Netaji Subhash Marg) on the crossing will be made with red concrete and red granite stone from Rajasthan. Red granite stones will be laid in around 1,000 square-metre area of the intersection,” a senior PWD official said on condition of anonymity.Also read | Govt to provide means to 2,300 special kids to pursue their dreamsBesides the stonework, the traffic intersection will have refuge islands and tabletop crossings for pedestrians on all arms of the intersection, X-shaped zebra crossings, decorative lights, and also a dedicated space for a police booth. There will be flowering plants as well.Tabletop crossings as pavements work as speed breakers for vehicles while pedestrians can cross the road using them while refuge island is a small pavement where pedestrians can stop before crossing the road.Under the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, the PWD is turning the road stretch between Red Fort crossing and Fatehpuri Mosque into a pedestrian-only zone with the Mughal architecture style aesthetics. Officials said the current traffic junction does not go with the new-look Chandni Chowk. “So, to give the entire stretch a uniform look and make it safer for pedestrians, it was decided to revamp the intersection. We chose the amalgamation of Mughal-era architecture with modern design and facilities as the theme for the project, much like the Chandni Chowk plan,” the official said.The construction work on the intersection began on Thursday last week with the Delhi Jal Board shifting utilities. In order to facilitate traffic on the junction, the Delhi traffic police last week shut half the carriageway between Daryaganj and Kashmere Gate till April 20.A second PWD official said the deadline for the project completion is April 30, 2021. “The redeveloped Chandni Chowk will formally be inaugurated only after the completion of the revamp of the crossing. The estimated cost of the revamp of the traffic junction is around ₹3.5 crore,” the official said.Sewa Ram, professor, traffic and planning, at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said over 4,000 people cross the Red Fort intersection [both pedestrians and motorists] per hour per day so the junction needs measures to accommodate pedestrians comfortable and safely. He said, “After “pedestrianisation of the Chandni Chowk market, pedestrian influx at the crossing will only increase, and hence the junction will require long-term controlled crossing measures such as ‘humped subway’ or ‘a scramble crossing’.”“Vehicular as well as pedestrian movement on the Red Fort intersection is quite high. So, systems such as pelican signal or simple zebra crossings will not work there. Either the authorities should construct a humped subway or a scramble crossing to make it safer for pedestrians. In foreign countries too, scramble crossings are adopted at high footfall junctions so that pedestrians can go in any direction,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/red-fort-crossing-to-take-pedestrian-friendly-turn-101616956902955.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Govt to provide means to 2,300 special kids to pursue their dreams||Roshni, 15, a class 9 student at a government school in Kalkaji with an intellectual disability, had always struggled with academics. But after receiving a sewing machine from the Delhi government’s education department on Saturday, the teenager is excited at the possibilities it may offer.“I have been trying to work hard to do better in my studies but I enjoy sewing and cooking more. Now that I have a sewing machine, I look forward to making new dresses for my family. My school teacher said she will help me out,” said the teenager, a resident of Govindpuri.In order to encourage Children With Special Needs (CWSN) to pursue skills or get trained in extra-curricular activities of their interest, the Inclusive Education branch of the Directorate of Education has identified around 2,300 such students in government schools who will be encouraged to pursue extra-curricular activities as per their “skills, merits, and abilities”.The department will distribute items including musical instruments such as harmonium and guitar; sports items such as adapted basketball mobility chair, badminton, chess; assistive devices to enhance mobility and accessibility, and other items such as sewing machines among them. Officials at the Inclusive Education Branch said the department also plans to provide devices required to train in areas like swimming, cricket, self-defence, football, chess, dance, and painting among others.On Saturday, Roshni was among the 20 students who received the first batch of devices and equipment during the delayed state level celebration of International Day of Persons with Disabilities by the education department.Also read | Delhi govt issues SOP for protection of inter-faith couplesHer father Santosh Kumar, 44, a shopkeeper, said, “She has been excited since Saturday because of the sewing machine. She had picked up the skill in her school and we noticed that she was good at it. She kept lamenting that she could be better if she got a sewing machine but we didn’t have one.”Those with a musical inclination were also provided with musical instruments of their choosing. Rahul, 14, a class 7 student at a government school in Raj Nagar who is a visually challenged student, had shifted from a blind school to the public school in 2019. One of the things he missed at his new school was his harmonium lessons.“We had music lessons in our old school and I had chosen to play harmonium because I had heard the sound of it in television programmes. But I had to move to my new school due to financial challenges and could not pursue music anymore. My teachers have now arranged for music lessons and the instrument. With practice, I may be able to build a career in this,” he said.Ajay Kumar Singh, state-coordinator of Inclusive Education for Disabled at Secondary Stage (IEDSS), said it was the first time that the department was working towards skills of disabled children.“The idea was to promote the skill and talents of CWSN children in addition to working on their deficiencies by giving them aid and assistive devices or appointing special educators. We needed to encourage such students and provide them with opportunities to hone their skills in other areas apart from academics. We asked our special educators in each school to identify such students and their areas of interest and then decided to help them nurture it by providing necessary instruments or devices,” he said.Special educator Stuti Gaur, who has worked in top private schools of the city, said “leisure skill” is important for special children because it leads to social growth, recreational development, and improvement in language skills.“These are government school students and may not have access to hobby classes and training [in extra-curriculars]. Once they have the devices, they can play around with it and music, sports, arts teachers of schools can help them in the skill areas. Along with creating an alternative career path for them, engaging students in these activities will improve their interaction skills as well,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-to-provide-means-to-2-300-special-kids-to-pursue-their-dreams-101616956844872.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Nigerian man’s death prompts allegations of police brutality, triggers protest||A 43-year-old Nigerian man’s death in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar after an alleged brief interaction with a policeman in the early hours of Sunday prompted allegations of brutality by police and triggered protests by around a few dozen people on Outer Ring Road near Vikaspuri.The police, however, denied all allegations and, insisted that an initial medical examination of the victim, identified as Leohand Lyeanyi, had not revealed any visible external injuries and that the man’s death had nothing to do with his interaction with a policeman and a home-guard on patrolling duty in the area.Urvija Goel, deputy commissioner of police (west), said while the report of the autopsy — carried out by a board of doctors and recorded on camera — was awaited, the police were in the process of acting against the protesters, who allegedly took to rioting near Vikaspuri, under the Tilak Nagar police station’s jurisdiction.“We have rounded up some people who were rioting. They are being booked and will be arrested,” said Goel. “While we are continuing the probe, we want to make it clear that there were no external injury marks on the man’s body. This fact has also been stated in the medico-legal examination report,” the DCP added.The police said Lyeanyi was living in Krishna Puri neighbourhood of Tilak Nagar. According to his friends, Lyeanyi had been living in Delhi for the past many years and was into medical tourism, particularly catering to patients from Nigeria.Speaking to HT, Lyeanyi’s relative, Yabo Stan said the man was walking from his home to the main road to board a cab and receive a patient at the airport in the early hours of Sunday, when he was stopped by two policemen riding a motorcycle.Stan alleged that the policemen tried to extort money from Lyeanyi. “Eyewitnesses have told me that when Lyeanyi said he only had enough money to pay for his cab fare, one of the policemen hit him on the back of his head with a stick. We have seen CCTV footage, which shows a policeman hitting Lyeanyi,” alleged Stan.“The police have taken control of all the CCTV footage and are burying all evidence,” Stan added, when asked for a copy of the CCTV.Later, some Nigerians rushed Lyeanyi to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, where he succumbed during treatment.The police, however, gave an entirely different account of the incident.According to the DCP, a policemen and a home guard were patrolling the streets around 2.30am when they noticed three-four men walking in the dark. “Hearing the sound of the siren from the patrol bike, the men began running away. Seeing them run, the policeman and home guard began chasing them,” the DCP said.While the others managed to escape in the narrow bylanes, the home guard caught up with Lyeanyi. “CCTV footage shows Lyeanyi getting into an auto, hopping off it and holding on to a shutter of a shop, before collapsing,” the DCP said. The home guard was around when Lyeanyi collapsed, the DCP said. Goel added there was no evidence of the home guard “having any physical interaction with Lyeanyi”.While the police continued to check CCTV footage to stitch together the entire sequence of events, dozens of people from African countries took to protesting at the Outer Ring Road.Initially limiting themselves to sloganeering against the police, some protesters later allegedly vandalised vehicles on the road. The police briefly baton charged the crowd to disperse them. The protesters dispersed, but quickly returned, with some agitators pelting stones and bottles at the police.The baton charge left at least five protesters with visible injuries. The police said they were yet to take stock of injuries to their personnel.“The police here have been harassing us. They take bribes from us when we are unable to produce our documents. They frisk us without any reason. Even the local shops sell goods to us at a higher price,” alleged Jude Osia, one of the protesting Nigerians.“There has been no specific complaints regarding bribery,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nigerian-man-s-death-prompts-allegations-of-police-brutality-triggers-violent-protest-101616956843558.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Pandemic prompts Sarojini and Sadar to go digital||When capital’s Sarojini Nagar market opened after lockdown last year in May, shopkeepers, including Vandit Chawla’s father, who runs a footwear shop there saw their sales drop like never before due to low footfalls. He and his sister, Medha Chawla decided to launch an Instagram page in September where they began showcasing products from various shops in the market – mostly garments and shoes --with price tags. They were pleasantly surprised by the traction the page got. It began to add followers by the hundreds every day, many of whom began to place orders there. Six months on, the page has over 44,000 followers from across India and adds about 1,100 followers every day. “We got about 1,000 product queries every day,” says Vandit Chawla.Encouraged by the growing popularity of the page, earlier this month the duo launched Sarojini Nagar Market Online, an e-commerce platform, which ships clothes from the popular flea market to all over India.“We handpick products in bulk from the shopkeepers in Sarojini Nagar and sell them on our platform. We are in the process of listing all shopkeepers with their shop number and description online so that people can buy from their favourite shop virtually,” says Vandit Chawla, adding that “We are already working with about 100 sellers in the market.”He calls the platform ‘a pandemic bay’.Also read | Delhi CM, L-G urge people to celebrate Holi indoorsIn fact, Sarojini Nagar is not the only market to have gone online during the pandemic. A year after the lockdown, digital is the new buzzword in some of the oldest and most popular markets in Delhi, with some now boasting their own dedicated e-commerce platforms such as ‘Sadar 24’ with a catchphrase ‘Har Ghar Sadar, Har Deal Gadar’ and The Wholesalers, another e-commerce platform with a catchphrase ‘Khari Baoli at your doorstep’.Nitin Goel and Sonal Garg, who launched Sadar 24 last month, say they realized that there was room for an e-commerce marketplace for Sadar Bazar when last year traders desperately started putting photos of their products on various WhatsApp groups, Facebook and Instagram pages to attract business online as they waited for the market to reopen.So, when the market finally opened in June last year, having remained closed for the longest period in the city, they conducted a survey to understand the logistics and what local traders thought about the idea. “About 500 traders signed up in a week,” he says. “Our catchphrase represents the importance Sadar Bazar has in millions of homes in the capital. Every house in Delhi has something from this market. We thought a dedicated e-commerce portal will not only provide an avenue for unhindered sales during the pandemic but also carry forward the market’s legacy,” says Nitin Goel.The platform handles the shipping for its 750 sellers currently on its platform.Among the traders who signed up on the platform is Sumit Jain, a wholesale dealer of kitchenware and home décor in Sadar Bazar. “Unlike big online marketplaces, here I do not have to compete with lakhs of sellers,” he says. “I have listed about 200 products on Sadar 24; kitchenware and lunch boxes are currently the fast-selling items,” says Jain who runs Sreenath Enterprises in Sadar Bazar.“A lot of our buyers on the new platform are resellers, especially women who started WhatsApp buying-selling groups in their housing societies. For such small resellers, it makes sense to buy products at the wholesale rate at Sadar Bazar online than come to Sadar Bazar,” he says.However, running a local market online is not easy, say the founders.Medha Chawla says most shopkeepers in Sarojini Nagar do not often have more than one piece of any particular garment; and in Sadar Bazar, Nitin Goel says most traders, who are essentially wholesalers, want to sell in bulk only. “They put up conditions like minimum order of three dozen pieces of a product, which we try to convince them, is not a good idea.”Not far away in Khari Baoli, Rishi Jain, 29, is busy encouraging wholesalers in the market to join The Wholesalers, his new e-commerce platform that he launched last year for local dry fruit and spice sellers. “I am providing them with free product photography services, but frankly, a lot of them are not tech-savvy and hesitant to come on board. Currently, about two dozen have joined, but eventually, I hope they all will,” says Jain.Also read | 1,881 infections: Biggest 1-day spike since Dec 13But Medha and Vandit Chawla face no such problems. Vandit, a photographer, scours the Sarojni Nagar market every day for the latest fashion wear with his colleagues and photograph them inside a two-bedroom flat near the market which serves as their office–cum- warehouse-cum- photo studio. Medha oversees marketing, which mostly happens on their Instagram page. A content writer, she says, she relies on ‘moment marketing’ – some of their Instagram reels have over seven lakh views. Ask Medha about how she plans to compete with the biggest fashion e-commerce companies, and she says, “It is hard for anyone to compete with Sarojni Nagar; it is the biggest fashion fix for women at insanely low prices.”Many traders in Sadar Bazar and other old markets are also using social media for conducting business. Manish Joshi, a toy dealer in Sadar Bazar, who has customers in states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Bihar says that instead of physically coming to the market, today most of his customers see the samples on WhatsApp video calls and place orders. “Today, 45% of my business comes through WhatsApp,” he says.Similarly, most hotels and restaurants near Jama Masjid have seen a big surge in online sales. “Before the pandemic only 5% sales were online, now it is more than 40%, a lot of it through our website we launched last year, ” says Adam Rehman, who owns Rehmatullah Hotel, a popular eatery near Jama Masjid Delhi. Almost all the hotels and restaurants in the walled city have discovered the power of social media marketing during the pandemic.Nitin Goel says that a lot of sellers from various parts of Delhi want to sell on Sadar 24. “But we want to make sure that platform is used only by Sadar Bazar sellers,” he says. Mohit Jain feels that a local online marketplace is a way forward for all wholesale markets in the walled city. “Many customers do not come to the market because of crowds and congestion. They will lap up online versions of these markets”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pandemic-prompts-sarojini-and-sadar-to-go-digital-101616956844266.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM, L-G urge people to celebrate Holi indoors||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he will not attend any public Holi programme in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases and appealed to people to celebrate the festival with their families and avoid crowds. Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal had the same piece of advice for people urging them not to engage in gatherings and public celebrations.“Cases of coronavirus have increased in the last few days. In view of this, I am not attending Holi programmes being organised in public this time. I appeal to all of you to celebrate Holi with your family and avoid crowds. Follow the rules of coronavirus prevention,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.Baijal too tweeted in Hindi, “Heartiest congratulations on Shab-e-Barat. I request all to celebrate the festival at your homes in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic and adhere to all rules and regulations to protect yourself and your loved ones from the viral infection.”Also read | 1,881 fresh Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths reported in DelhiThis year, the festivals of Holi and Shab-e-Barat coincided and fell on Sunday and Monday respectively. Large gatherings and celebration in public spaces mark both these festivals.The comments from the chief minister and the L-G came on a day when the Delhi government deployed more than 100 teams across the city to enforce guidelines of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which prohibits any gathering or celebration in public spaces on the occasions of Shab-e-Barat, Holi and Navratri (starting from April 13). The Delhi Police, too, has deployed teams for enforcement of the DDMA order.“The enforcement drives will focus not only on arterial roads and market areas but also roads interlinking residential colonies, parks, open grounds and areas outside temples and community halls. People found violating the order will be booked under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, Indian Penal Code and other relevant laws,” said a senior official in the government’s revenue department.On Tuesday, the DDMA had prohibited celebrations and gatherings in public places in view of the festivals, while asking officials to conduct Covid-19 tests randomly on passengers entering the Capital from airports, railway stations and inter-state bus terminals.On Saturday, the DDMA also restricted the size of gatherings for marriages to 200 in open spaces and 100 in closed spaces, and capped the number of people attending funeral or functions related to last rites at 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-cm-l-g-urge-people-to-celebrate-holi-indoors-101616956782940.html
29-03-2021||Delhi||Govt focuses on mapping Covid clusters as cases spike in city||With Delhi now going through its fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi government has returned its focus on identifying and mapping potential clusters of the disease to scale up containment measures, even as authorities send swab samples for genome analysis to identify the spread of mutant variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virus.A senior government official said clusters are being identified to analyse Covid-19 spread patterns and to help districts develop strategies to counter them. Clusters, he explained, are geographic areas that are mapped by clubbing Covid-19 cases detected in close proximity. District surveillance teams formulate these with the help of geo-location tools.Delhi recorded 1,881 new cases of the infection on Sunday, the highest single-day spike since December 13, when the city had logged 1,984 new cases. The number of active cases in Delhi has also surged over the past month, from 1,335 on February 28 to 7,545 on Sunday, government records showed.Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said, “We are leaving no stone unturned in identifying and mapping potential clusters. To arrest the transmission of the virus, we are conducting random tests in and around such areas, scaling up containment efforts and collecting samples for genome sequencing, as per protocols of the Union health ministry.”Also read | Delhi CM, L-G urge people to celebrate Holi indoorsWhile Delhi recorded 1,710 containment zones as on Sunday, the government didn’t have a consolidated list or total number of areas identified as clusters, potential clusters or hotspots as of now, said the first government official.“Currently, the government has entrusted the revenue districts with identifying potential clusters – areas that may turn into actual clusters if testing, tracing, vaccination and surveillance efforts are not scaled up immediately. There are no actual clusters in the city as of now,” said the first government official.An official with a district surveillance team said, “Each of the 11 revenue districts in the city has a surveillance team which takes calls on defining and mapping of potential clusters. They are used for chalking out micro-level strategies. Size of such areas and number of cases to be clubbed in each of them depend on several factors — like population density and living conditions in the concerned area.”HT on Sunday spoke to officials in several districts and learnt that some pockets in areas like Rajouri Garden, Janakpuri, Tagore Garden, Paschim Vihar, West Punjabi Bagh, Mukherjee Nagar, Narela, Jungpura Extension, Dilshad Garden, Pitampura, Rani Khera, Rohini sectors 15, 16 and 24, Naraina, Vasundhara Enclave, Neb Sarai and Aya Nagar are currently being monitored as ‘potential clusters’.Senior government officials said that health workers will conduct tests at random in these areas, alongside an intensified door-to-door drive to increase vaccine coverage. The officials added that containment efforts have been scaled up and swab samples are being sent for genome sequencing to identify variants of the virus.This, however, is not the first time that the government is keeping a close eye on specific areas during a surge in Covid-19 case numbers.As the third wave of the infection hit the Capital around September last year, the government prepared a list of 33 areas, identifying them as “emerging hot spots”.When cases picked up again in November 2020, pockets in Pitampura, Ashok Vihar, Rohini sectors 14 to 18, Najafgarh and several sectors of Dwarka were identified as potential clusters. But the government did not prepare any consolidated list of hot spots at the time, the district official recalled.Watch | Covid update: Putin vaccine side-effects; Maharashtra lockdown warning﻿Around the same time last year, the government had also adopted a new micro-containment zone strategy in an attempt to cause less convenience to people and also change perceptions surrounding the Covid-19 disease. “Such perception-related factors are considered when it comes to how micro-level strategies are to be pursued by the government,” said another district official.In a Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) meeting on March 5, its chairman Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal had directed officers to stress on “cluster-based surveillance, testing and genome sequencing” to arrest the ongoing spike in Covid-19 cases.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “It is a good strategy to map clusters and focus not just on containment efforts but also on genome sequencing of samples. The current graph is too steep and suggests that variants of the virus and contributing to high transmission. So, such strategies are necessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-focuses-on-mapping-covid-clusters-as-cases-spike-in-city-101616956722978.html
29-03-2021||Gurugram||At 324, daily Covid count hits three-month high||As many as 324 people tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) in the district on Sunday, as cases continued to surge and hit a three-month high as well as the highest single-day spike this year. The caseload currently stands at 62,296, while the number of active cases in Gurugram was at 1,720, up from 1,516 on Saturday, according to the health department bulletin.Gurugram’s chief medical officer, Dr Virender Yadav, said that the health department was expecting a surge in cases after Holi and already amplified testing in crowded areas. “Around the festive season, a spike in cases is expected. Cases will surge further in the coming weeks. Depending on the situation, we will make a decision on increasing beds, if needed, in the next meeting of the district task force,” said Yadav.Also read | Delhi CM Kejriwal won't attend public Holi programmes due to Covid-19 spikeHe said that the department was focussing on testing and contact tracing. “We have set up evening camps and camps at crowded places, such as malls. At other places, where the cases are high, we are holding mass screening through antigen testing camps across the city,” said Yadav.He said that complying with Covid-appropriate behaviour was crucial to stemming the surge in cases.There has been a constant spike in the number of cases across Haryana from the beginning of March. Gurugram is the worst-affected district in the state, with the highest number of active cases. The rapid transmission of the coronavirus in the past four weeks has placed Gurugram among the eight districts of concern in Haryana, as per a union ministry of health and family welfare report.Of the active cases on Sunday, 1,595 are mild or asymptomatic cases under home isolation, while five mild cases are under observation at a government Covid care centre. Another 113 are ‘moderate’ cases, who are displaying either symptom of pneumonia or require oxygen support at secondary healthcare facilities, while seven patients are currently receiving tertiary care at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. On the brighter side, the district also witnessed 120 recoveries on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/at-324-daily-covid-count-hits-three-month-high-101616952943435.html
29-03-2021||Gurugram||Concrete slabs at Dwarka Expressway worksite collapse, three workers injured||Two large concrete slabs, of around 40 metres each in length, between pillar numbers 107 and 109 on an elevated section of the under-construction Dwarka Expressway collapsed around 7.30am on Sunday, near Daulatabad Chowk, injuring three workers.Officials of the highways authority said that the workers suffered minor injuries and were treated at a nearby hospital, but refrained from commenting on the reason for the collapse. Officials of contractors Larsen & Toubro (L&T) and AECOM were suspended until a probe.Senior officials of L&T, who were at the spot, said that they were in the process of removing a concrete slab between pillar numbers 107 and 108 that developed cracks during the stressing of cables when the incident took place. “The stressing cables were removed a day earlier and the workers had started the process to remove this segment, which collapsed. At this time, we don’t know whether mechanical failure happened or there was any other reason for the collapse,” said a senior L&T official, requesting anonymity.Teams from the Gurugram police, State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), civil defence and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) reached the spot immediately after the incident to take stock of the situation. NHAI officials said that a technical committee will look into the details of the incident.Also read | 1,881 fresh Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths reported in DelhiTaking serious cognizance of the accident, the NHAI said in a statement, “Authority has viewed the incident seriously and pending the outcome of the investigation by the committee, the concerned key personnel of the contractor M/s L&T and supervision consultant M/s AECOM have been suspended as per Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) of NHAI.”A team of civil defence personnel, who were also on the spot said that the injured workers were rescued and taken to a private hospital nearby. “A live search was conducted and we ensured that locals stayed away from the site as there was a possibility of slabs getting displaced,” said Mohit Sharma, a civil defence official.Residents of villages and high-rises in the vicinity said that the loud noise from the collapse shook them in the morning hours and they rushed out to help the workers. “We were apprehensive that many workers could be trapped but luckily it was a Sunday and with Holi on Monday, not many were working,” said Rajesh Kumar, who lives in a village in the vicinity of the site.This is the second major incident of slab collapse in the city within a year. A slab on the Sohna Road elevated project collapsed while being launched on August 22 last year, leading to the contractor being penalised.The 29-kilometre Dwarka Expressway is being constructed in four phases, of which the first two phases are in Delhi. The incident took place on a section under the third phase, said officials.On March 5, union transport minister Nitin Gadkari inspected the highway project and issued directions that this project should be completed by August 15, 2022. The two phases of the expressway in Gurugram are expected to be completed by the end of this year. However, the slab collapse is expected to delay the project.The ₹10,000-crore project will connect Kherki Daula and Mahipalpur in New Delhi on NH-48 and also provide access to the IGI Airport. This road is among the first ones in the country to have eight lanes on a single-pier flyover.Also read | Delhi CM Kejriwal won't attend public Holi programmes due to Covid-19 spikeOfficials familiar with the matter said that in the incident, two concrete slabs between pillar numbers 107 and 109 were completely damaged along with the launcher used to load the segments on to the piers. The top of pier number 108 was also damaged in the collapse. The collapse took place between an erection span and the adjoining span between pillars 107 and 109, said officialsA senior technical personnel of L&T indicated that a possible reason for the collapse could be that the launcher was not properly secured above pillar number 109.Nirman Jambulkar, project director of NHAI, who was also at the spot, said, “There was no loss of life In the accident and three workers suffered minor injuries. A technical team of NHAI will look into the matter.”Dinesh Sharma, in charge, SDRF, said, “Our men cordoned off the site and checked for any injured persons stuck under the slabs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/concrete-slabs-at-dwarka-expressway-worksite-collapse-three-workers-injured-101616952942819.html
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Muktsar BKU chief among 27 booked, 4 arrested for murder bid on BJP MLA||FaridkotThe police on Sunday booked Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU-Sidhupur) Muktsar president Sukhdev Singh and 26 others and arrested four of the farmer outfit members for attempting to murder BJP MLA Arun Narang at Malout town, where he was beaten up and his clothes were torn on Saturday by farm activists protesting against the Centre’s farm laws. Those arrested have been identified as farmer union members Surjit Singh, Nem Pal Singh and Baldev Singh, all residents of Bodhiwala Kharak village, and Gurmeet Singh of Khunan Kalan. Though the BJP did not lodge a police complaint after the incident, Abohar MLA Narang said he will take up the matter with the party high command before taking any legal action. Amid widespread condemnation of the incident, the case was registered on the complaint of Muktsar superintendent of police (SP) Gurmail Singh against Muktsar BKU (Sidhupur) president Sukhdev Singh, block president Lakhan Pal Sharma, general secretary Nirmal Singh besides activists 24 other activists and 250 unidentified persons under Sections 307, 353, 186, 188, 332, 342, 506, 148 and 149 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Malout police station. Muktsar senior superintendent of Police (SSP) D Sudarvizhi said that with the help of video footage, police have booked 27 persons, of which four have been arrested. Deputy superintendent of police Jaspal Singh said that they contacted Narang and other BJP leaders twice on Saturday, but no complaint was filed by them. “A case was registered on the complaint of SP Gurmail Singh, who also sustained injuries in the attack. We have recorded Narang’s statement today. Four farmer union members, who were involved in the attack on MLA, were arrested. However, BKU leaders are on the run. Raids are on to arrest them,” he added. BJP leaders were warned of volatile situation: SP Narang was to address a press conference at the BJP office in Malout on National Highway 7 on the Congress government’s four-year performance. However, farm union activists laid siege to the office, demanding the withdrawal of the BJP-led Centre’s three farm laws. In his statement, SP Gurmail Singh said: “I was appointed security in-charge for the event. Around 3pm, Lakhan Pal Sharma and Nirmal Singh led 250-300 unidentified persons to protest in front of the BJP office. After assessing the situation, I sent an SMS to Muktsar BJP chief Rajesh Pathela and Malout BJP president Sita Ram, informing them not to come to the office due to security reasons. I requested them to change the venue of the programme. Yet Narang, along with the others, reached the BJP office but when he tried to enter it, the protesters strongly opposed him and the police took them inside a shop.” He said: “The MLA was continuously updated about the situation and we informed the control room to send additional force. Meanwhile, the number of protesters started rising. After additional force reached the spot, I talked to the protesters, who assured us that they will return after holding a protest. We informed them that the MLA has cancelled his programme.” ‘Farmers attacked police with intent to murder’ Gurmail Singh said after making necessary arrangements, when the police tried to take the MLA out of the shop, the protesters led by Lakhan Pal and Nirmal Singh, attacked Narang and other BJP leaders. “The police tried to save the BJP leaders, but the protesters attacked the police also with the intention to murder. Police personnel, including me, sustained injuries during the incident,” he said. The SP has been admitted to a hospital at Malout. The farmers gheraoed and attacked Narang as soon as he reached the BJP office in his car. They tore his clothes when police personnel and BJP workers were trying to escort him to safety in a shop. The protesters painted Narang’s car with black ink. Later, the police took the BJP leaders to a safer place through the back door of the shop. The protesters also ransacked the BJP’s party office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/muktsar-bku-leader-booked-for-murder-bid-on-punjab-bjp-mla-101616917362238.html
29-03-2021||Pune||Amid surge in Covid cases, Pune residents decry shortage of beds||In addition to handling the news of testing positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, patients in the city are now fighting another battle of finding a hospital bed. In some cases, a positive person is forced to isolate himself at home for days endangering the lives of other family members, including children, due to the unavailability of hospital bed.Recalling the difficulty faced by his brother, Mangesh Pardeshi described that the three family members had to run from pillar to post for at least three days before they got any hope of getting a bed, this too after many references and phone calls. Pardeshi said, “My brother Rajesh(52) is a construction contractor and lives in Ganj peth and was tested for the infection on March 24. He got the report on March 25 and since then we have been searching for a bed. His wife and son also tested positively eventually. Along with Covid he also has symptoms of jaundice and has high blood pressure.”“We went to a private hospital where they recommended certain tests that confirmed jaundice and so were more worried. There were no beds available. When we called Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) helpline numbers, they took all the details and said they’ll get back to us, but no one called us back. Through references and calls we finally got a call from the private hospital that there might be a bed available on Saturday,” he said.Another patient Rajiv Patil faced a similar problem. Kiran Joshi for whom Patil works is now hunting for a bed. Joshi said, ‘Patil works in my logistics company as a driver. He lives in Kothrud and it has been days now that he is isolated at home because he could not get a bed at a hospital. Even private hospitals do not have a bed. He is aged 38 and his wife is also tested positive and they have two kids, and both of them have undergone tests, but since they all live in the same house the kids are in trouble.”“He had symptoms including cough, fever and difficulty while breathing. When I called the PMC helpline number they just took our details and never got back. I also called the phone numbers given on the Covid dashboard when I saw vacant beds in jumbo hospital at the College of Engineering (COEP), but they replied that the dashboard was updated in the morning and in the next five minutes all the beds were taken,” he said.Dr Parikshit Prayag, a Covid consultant with Deenanth Mangeshkar, said, “Currently, we do not have any ICU (intensive care unit) or ventilator available with us. We have our fever OPD running where we provide medicines according to the symptoms. If we do get any severe patient we try to stabilise them and coordinate with a nearby smaller hospital for bed requirement. Our hospital has expanded, but the number of patients has increased drastically.”Satyajit Thorat, who coordinates the Covid helpline number started by MLA Siddharth Shirole, said, “We have started getting calls for beds requirement for patients since the past two weeks as the number of cases have started to surge. Patients call us after they have not received any help from the PMC helpline and then we directly call the major hospital and ask for help.”The state government has estimated that the city may face a shortage of oxygen beds by April 4, 2021, given the current surge. The district administration is making all efforts to add to the beds capacity.As of March 24, there are 40,708 beds without oxygen, 8,037 beds with oxygen, 2,926 ICU beds and 1,523 with ventilators. While as per estimated figures as of April 4, 2021, there will be 30,563 beds without oxygen, 9,169 beds with oxygen, 1,834 ICU beds and 1,223 with ventilators as of April 4.Murlidhar Mohol, mayor, said, “If we take control of the 50 per cent of the oxygen beds, ventilators and ICU from private hospitals we would have 5,000 more beds. In less than a week, the jumbo facility will have 500 beds available for Covid patients which we will take up to 800 beds if needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amid-surge-in-covid-cases-pune-residents-decry-shortage-of-beds-101616859577970.html
