31-03-2021||Noida||Developers submit plan for sports facilities in Noida Sector 79||NOIDA: A group of nine realtors on Tuesday submitted a proposal to the Noida authority to develop sports facilities in Sector 79. This comes after the authority refused to allow apartment registry if builders do not develop sports facilities as promised in realty projects, for which housing land was allotted in 2011.The developers have formed a consortium after the authority issued a ban on plot sale and lease permission, and stopped registry and issuance of occupancy certificates after it realised that the realtors did not develop the required sports facilities – which were to come up on 70% of the land – and only built flats – for which 30% of the land was marked.These nine builders have developed a total of about 5,500 apartments across the ten projects under them on group housing land that was allotted in the name of ‘Sports City’.The nine developers had established a consortium– Sports City Development Private Limited – in February 2021 after holding several rounds of meetings with senior authority officials.The consortium has offered to develop a golf course, cricket stadium, playfield, swimming centre, and tennis courts in the sector. The nine developers will pool in money as per the proportion of their plots and the layout of the Sports City that was finalised by the authority in 2011.In October 2011, the authority had handed over about 180 acres of land in Sector 79 to the now 3C real estate group. Sports amenities worth ₹410 crore had to be developed.The 3C group sub-leased the plot to different developers over the years who established about one dozen projects with an inventory of 11,000 units. Among them, 5,500 units are complete or are in various stages of construction. “We submitted our proposal to the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Noida authority on Tuesday. We will meet authority officials for further discussions on the matter this week,” said founder and managing director of the Civitech group, Subodh Goel, who is leading the consortium.The consortium has not mentioned the budget it is going to set aside at this stage and has sought specifications and measurements of the sports facilities that are to be developed. “The authority will decide how many facilities are needed out of the ones that were proposed originally, as well as their size. What standards are to be provided to users can be decided by experts of the field and only then can we get the estimated cost,” added Goel.Before handing over land to the consortium, the authority will either have to cancel the allotment to the 3C group or seek the group’s consensus in writing. Several group companies and subsidiaries of the 3C group are already facing insolvency proceedings. Ritu Maheshwari, the CEO of the authority, said that the proposal is being reviewed by the concerned team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/developers-submit-plan-for-sports-facilities-in-noida-sector-79-101617215033407.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Man arrested for raping mentally challenged woman in Indirapuram||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police on Wednesday arrested a 28-year-old man for allegedly raping a 19-year-old mentally challenged woman at a park in Indirapuram on the night of Holi festival on Monday. The police said the suspect allegedly lured the woman from her house in Khoda on Monday night and allegedly raped her at a park in Indirapuram. The suspect was identified as Raj Vir, a resident of Khoda who is from Etawah district. The police said that he allegedly visited the shop of the victim’s parents often, and on the night of the incident he went to their shop where he found the victim. “He then lured her to a park in Indirapuram where he raped her and left her there. After some locals informed the police, we launched a search. The victim, being mentally challenged, could only tell the suspect’s first name and somehow told her parents about the incident,” said Mohammad Aslam, SHO of Khoda police station. Police said they scanned CCTV footage from dozens of locations.“In one of the CCTVs, the woman was seen walking alone while in another, she was accompanied by the suspect. The footage was not clear, so we showed it to many local residents and one of them revealed his identity to us. Based on information gathered, we nabbed the suspect from his house,” the SHO added. The police registered an FIR into the incident and levied IPC Section 376 (rape) against the suspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-raping-mentally-challenged-woman-in-indirapuram-101617215032732.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Temperature drops slightly but will soar now, say weather experts||Noida: The mercury fell by three degrees on Wednesday in Noida, with weather analysts predicting temperatures to rise gradually within the next two days.Noida and its adjoining regions had experienced severe heat waves on Monday at 40.1 degrees Celsius, however, the mercury dropped later on. Weather analysts, however, predict that the region will see heat waves by the first week of April as the mercury is likely to gradually rise from April 2.On Wednesday, the maximum and minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 34.5 degrees Celsius and 23.1 degrees Celsius, respectively, against 37.9 degrees Celsius and 20.6 degrees Celsius a day earlier.“The region is out of heat waves for now, but is most likely to see heat waves within the first week of April – around April 5 – while the mercury will start rising gradually from the next two days. The region may also see dust-raising winds from Rajasthan on Thursday, which may affect pollution levels. On Wednesday, the city saw strong winds at 30 to 40 kmph,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.Meanwhile, the air quality of the region improved slightly due to strong and dry winds.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 226 against 282 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 267 against 294 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 244 on Wednesday against 342 on Tuesday.An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality will remain between ‘poor’ and ‘very-poor’.“Surface winds are high and forecasted to stay high for the next 48 hrs. High winds and boundary layer heights are leading to better and faster ventilation, however, an increase in coarse dust contribution in suspended particles is expected due to the dust raising high winds. Probability for significant long-range transport of dust from the arid region exists but only for a short period. Hence, no extreme pollution event is forecasted and AQI is likely to stay only in the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ range for next three days,” said a SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-temperature-drops-slightly-but-will-soar-now-say-weather-experts-101617214972754.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad municipal bonds oversubscribed four times||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad municipal corporation on Wednesday successfully concluded its municipal bond issue and raised ₹150 crore, officials of the civic body said. The ‘green’ bonds were oversubscribed more than four times with 40 bids totalling ₹401 crore, the officials said, adding that the amount will be used for the construction of a tertiary sewage treatment plant.Green bonds are the bonds issued by any sovereign entity, inter-governmental groups and corporates with an aim to utilize the proceeds of the bonds for projects classified as environmentally sustainable. The officials said that the corporation issued bonds of ₹150 crore which included base issue of ₹100 crore and green issue of ₹50 crore.“The issue on Wednesday was oversubscribed more than four times. The listing will take place on the Bombay Stock Exchange on April 8. The corporation has proposed to take up a project for setting up a tertiary sewage treatment plant to further treat secondary treated sewage water. This water will be supplied further to industrial units and will help reduce pressure on groundwater resources in the city,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. The officials said that the project is of a revenue generating nature and is expected to yield revenues after 30 months. They said that the total estimated cost of the project is about ₹239.93 crore, of which ₹150 crore will be funded through the bonds while the rest will be funded from the resources of the corporation. In December 2020, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had visited the BSE in Mumbai on the occasion when the bond of the Lucknow municipal corporation got listed. In July 2019, the UP cabinet approved the proposal of floating bonds by the municipal corporations of Lucknow and Ghaziabad to fund their infrastructure projects. During the approval, bonds totalling ₹350 crore, including ₹200 crore for Lucknow and ₹150 crore for Ghaziabad, were proposed to be floated after a process. “The Ghaziabad Nagar Nigam is the second municipal corporation to raise funds in the state of Uttar Pradesh. BSE firmly believes that Indian bond market is poised for a substantial growth and wide participation from non-institutional investors in this issue shows that India can use its domestic savings to fund its infrastructure needs in a substantial manner,” Ashishkumar Chauhan, managing director and chief executive officer of BSE, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-municipal-bonds-oversubscribed-four-times-101617214913453.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad revises PMAY target to 11,000 housing units||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) annual target for construction of low-cost housing units under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY) has been scaled down to 11,000 from its previous target of 20,000.Launched in June 2015, PMAY is a central government scheme to address urban housing shortage among low-income groups. “There were previous revisions in the target, and it was about 20,000 till recently, which has now been scaled down to about 11,000 housing units at present. The construction is to be completed by 2022. The reason for scaling down the target is lesser number of beneficiaries available to seek PMAY houses. In case we get more beneficiaries, we will construct more such housing units in the future,” said Karuna Karunesh, vice-chairperson of the authority. Officials said that in 2018 they received a target of constructing about 36000 such houses. The authority’s town planning department said that of the 11,000 proposed units, about 3,000 are being constructed by private players while the rest have been taken up by the authority.Earlier in February, the authority’s board had approved the cost of each PMAY housing unit from ₹4.5 lakh to ₹6 lakh. However, the new rates were applicable only for new housing units and not those already under construction. The cost of ₹4.5 lakh was fixed under a government order on September 5, 2017. The Uttar Pradesh cabinet in March last year decided to revise the cost.“At present, we have about 3,700 units which are under construction at six sites. The reduction in target was approved by the state administration. It was scaled down due to high land costs, besides lesser number of beneficiaries coming up,” said an officer from the authority’s town planning department, requesting anonymity. The officials estimate that the cost of each unit under the PMAY was about ₹9-10 lakh to the authority, which also had to part with land. “We have about 20,000 housing units which are available under low-cost housing schemes, apart from the PMAY. So, people coming from low-income groups have an option to take up houses available with the authority. We also faced issues where PMAY housing units were proposed outside city limits. So, beneficiaries were reluctant to purchase houses away from the city,” the vice-chairperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-revises-pmay-target-to-11-000-housing-units-101617214912835.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Noida: 22-year-old found dead in his house after neighbours complain of foul smell||Noida: The body of a 22-year-old youth was found by the police at his house Wednesday morning after his neighbours complained of foul smell, in an area under the Sector 49 police.According to officers, a call was made to the police helpline around 11am by a neighbour about the smell, after which a team was rushed.“He was found hanging. Prima facie, it seems he took his own life at least four to five days back. There was no note found there and the body has been sent for an autopsy, which will confirm the cause and time of death,” said Sudheer Kumar, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.Police said the victim, from Bihar, stayed alone in Noida and worked as a daily wage earner.Police officers said his family has been contacted and so far they have not indicated any reason as to why he could have taken his own life. However, the case is being looked into and necessary action will be taken, said the police. The body will be handed over to the family following the autopsy.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-22-year-old-found-dead-in-his-house-after-neighbours-complain-of-foul-smell-101617214853341.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Greater Noida makes map approval, completion certification issuance online from today||GREATER NOIDA: In order to maintain transparency in public works, the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) has decided to stop approving building maps and completion certificates offline. Beginning April 1, these will only be approved online, said officials. The authority’s chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan on Tuesday held a meeting with officials of the planning and IT departments to get the process started. Officials said the CEO has deputed 12 staff members who have been trained to carry out the job – six will handle the traffic of work coming from property allottees online while six from the planning department will conduct physical inspections.“The authority will initially run this facility to check anomalies in a month or so, and once it starts functioning properly, the system will be enhanced further to serve allottees,” said Deep Chand, additional CEO of the authority.As per process, once a property allottee, be it from a group housing section, individual residential plot, institutional, industrial, farmer’s plot or commercial, its building owner has to obtain a completion certificate before shifting into the premises. Besides, before starting construction work, allottees have to obtain approval for the building’s map. Subsequently, the authority’s department checks the map to ascertain whether the map is in line with the building bylaws or not. Meanwhile, to give approval for completion certificate once the building is ready, the planning department verifies if the building is constructed as per the approved map or not.“Once the allottee applies for a building map or completion certificate, he or she will have to submit all requisite documents such as allotment letter, approved map and no-dues certificate, etc. The team will check if the map is in line with bylaws and if yes, it will be approved,” said Chand. He further added that if the building is found built as per the approved map, the planning staff member will give approval so that the online sanction can be granted.Officials said soon, the authority will fix the specific dates within which map approval or completion will be granted. Officials said the CEO has indicated that if the work is not done in a timely manner, action will be initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-makes-map-approval-completion-certification-issuance-online-from-today-101617214852777.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: No hotel quarantine facility for medical staff this time||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad administration has decided to discontinue the hotel quarantine facility provided to the doctors and other medical staff treating the Covid-19 patients at state-run hospitals in the district, officials said on Wednesday.The officials said that such an arrangement is needed as majority of the health-care workers (HCWs) in the district have received Covid-19 vaccine and do not require active and passive quarantine procedure during which they were made to stay in hotels and lodges while on Covid duty last year. According to the officials, HCWs on active Covid duty were required to make a stay (active quarantine) at hotels, after duty hours, where they were provided free lodging and food for two weeks. Later, after completion of two weeks, they were required to stay for another one week in hotels as part of passive quarantine while off duty. “The similar arrangement will not be made available this time during Covid duty as majority of the HCWs have received vaccine shots. This has been decided by the state administration. Some of HCWs, who did not receive or opt for vaccination, will be given non-Covid duties this time,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. According to official records, 23,171 of 27,280 HCWs in the district received their first vaccine shots while 13,997 of them also received their second vaccine shots till April 30. The vaccination coverage in the district is about 85% for HCWs who received their first dose. However, experts are of view that the government should not withdraw providing quarantine for HCWs on active Covid duty. “In case any HCW contracts the infection, he/she may pass it on to family members and even to relatives and friends. This will result in spread of the infection. So, HCWs should be given hotel quarantine facility,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president, Indian Medical Association -- Ghaziabad. The district is starting with Covid duty for HCWs with opening up of the Sanjay Nagar district hospital as an L2 category Covid facility on April 1. Under the UP government’s three-tier Covid health-care setup, the L2 category hospitals are meant for Covid-19 patients having mild or moderate symptoms. Besides, Santosh Medical College, an L3 category hospital, is already in operation and meant for patients requiring critical care. “All the HCWs on Covid duty will be required to make stay at home. Also, last year, HCWs over 55 years and those having comorbid conditions were not assigned Covid duties. This time, they will be assigned duties as they have received vaccine against Covid-19,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of the Sanjay Nagar hospital. He said that the hospital treated about 1,900 patients from March 2020 to February 2 this year. “None of our patients succumbed to Covid-19. We resumed as non-Covid facility on February 3 this year and we will resume as dedicated Covid hospital from April 1. We have 100 beds that include 20 beds with ventilators and six high flow nasal cannula. All the 100 beds have oxygen facility,” Teotia added. The hospital is also serving as a vaccination centre and the function will now be taken up at the emergency ward of the hospital, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-no-hotel-quarantine-facility-for-medical-staff-this-time-101617214792808.html
31-03-2021||Noida||With spike in cases, residential bodies in Noida gear up to tackle Covid-19||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, residents’ associations in Noida are preparing to control the spread of the disease with minimal inconvenience to residents. Gautam Budh Nagar district currently has 319 active cases and more cases are being reported daily. Last year residential bodies had faced flack from people for taking decisions that were inconvenient for them such as monitoring visitors and domestic helps even before official guidelines were shared on these matters.“Till March 10 we did not have a single positive case in our society but today we have 16. When a health department team visited us today, we decided to get ahead of the situation. We have closed the gym, club and the kids’ playing area till April 15 for now. We will review the situation and take further action,” said Amit Gupta, president, Apartment Owners Association, Prateek Wisteria. He said that the swimming pool that was scheduled to open will also remain closed. Associations urged senior citizens to avoid going out as much as possible, while also requesting people to continue using masks and maintain social distancing. “We are acting on the experience of the last year. Currently there are no government orders on this. We don’t want to create any unnecessary inconvenience for the residents. But all societies are monitoring the situation closely. In case there are several positive cases, the respective association will take a call on restrictions,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association. “There are no new official orders yet (on whether there would be any restrictions). If we receive them, it will be shared with the public,” said city magistrate, Uma Shankar Singh. The district administration is working on identifying clusters, increasing surveillance and random testing has already begun at the borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-spike-in-cases-residential-bodies-in-noida-gear-up-to-tackle-covid19-101617214673559.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad fails to achieve March vaccination target, coverage at 83%||Ghaziabad: The district missed the Covid-19 vaccination target for March by more than 17% as the month ended on Wednesday. The district could achieve vaccination of about 77,475 beneficiaries till March 31 with a coverage of about 82.87%, officials said. Ghaziabad had got a March target of inoculating 93,480 beneficiaries under the category of senior citizens and people above 45 years having comorbid conditions. “We missed the target, but we have vaccinated a high number of beneficiaries at coverage of about 83%. The next round of vaccination is starting April 1 and we will try to achieve the target given by the state government. We have about 93 hospitals, including 36 private hospitals, which will take up vaccination from April 1,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. For the month of April, Ghaziabad has received a rather high target of vaccinating 216,000 beneficiaries, while neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar is to cover 162,000 beneficiaries. The target for the month of April means that authorities in Ghaziabad will have to inoculate about 7,200 people per day on an average. Experts said that the Ghaziabad authorities managed to vaccinate an average of about 2,500 beneficiaries in March as against 3015 required per day. “If they wish to achieve vaccination target for April, they will have to take up aggressive vaccination and on a campaign mode. The upcoming panchayat elections and rise in temperature will also pose hindrance. We have also written to the authorities to allow private health centres and clinics to take up vaccination so that more population is covered before any significant rise in Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president, Indian Medical Association -- Ghaziabad. Unlike the overall target given for the month of March, the state government this time has defined targets to be met on “major days” – Monday, Thursday and Friday – and also for “minor days” – Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday – as well as the weekly target assigned to each district. “On ‘major days’ when all our primary health centres (PHCs) will be working for vaccination, we will have a total of 93 health-care centres taking up vaccination. On ‘minor days’ we will have 10 government facilities and 36 private hospitals which will be taking up vaccination. We have also decided to increase individual targets for PHCs from 100 to 200 and 200 to 300,” said an officer from the district health department. On ‘major days,’ the district will have to achieve a target of vaccinating 14,000 beneficiaries each day, while on ‘minor days’ it is given a target to inoculate 4,000 people. The weekly target has also been spelt out for each of the 75 districts across the district. Ghaziabad is given a target of vaccinating 54,000 beneficiaries every week in April. The overall vaccination target given to the 75 districts of the state is 12,073,200 for April, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-fails-to-achieve-march-vaccination-target-coverage-at-83-101617214672913.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Dog feeding points in residential areas||NOIDA: To reduce conflicts and arguments between dog lovers and residents’ groups, the Noida authority will earmark feeding points in various sectors across the city, said officials. The authority on Wednesday said for now 15-20 dog feeding points will be established while proper shelter homes for stray dogs will be set up later.The authority at present relies upon the expertise of two veterinary doctors and their respective teams to tackle the issue of stray dogs and carry out sterilisation. However, during a meeting presided by chief secretary RK Tiwari that took place on March 6, Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner of police Alok Singh had suggested that more focus was needed on the matter as feeding dogs is leading to law and order problems frequently in Noida and Greater Noida.During a meeting of the public health department last week, authority officials had said they were of the view that running shelter homes will require a lot of funds and resources. “To handle the problem on an urgent basis, feeding points will be earmarked across residential sectors in the city. We will provide our green belts as well. Dog lovers can leave the food and feed dogs at designated spots. Office bearers of residents welfare associations will be taken on board before the feeding locations are decided,” said SC Mishra, the in-charge of the public health department.The authority has one shelter home in Sector 94 but more such centres are required. Officials said the process to empanel an agency for carrying out sterilisation and immunisation of stray dogs has already been initiated. “Once the agency is finalised, we will have experts who will guide us on how to deal with the problem,” said Mishra, adding that the agency will be appointed by April 15 after evaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-dog-feeding-points-in-residential-areas-101617214552820.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Man beaten to death by neighbours in Dadri||Greater Noida: A 45-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by a group of neighbours in Dadri on Tuesday night. Police said the victim, allegedly a habitual drinker, would frequently fight with his neighbours and abuse them under influence of alcohol. The victim was identified as Ashok, a resident of Luharli village. However, Ashok’s family said that on Tuesday night, he had shouted at his family members over some issues. His daughter Aarti said that there was a ‘mundan’ (child’s head shaving) ceremony of her cousin in the house and some relatives had come for the function. “My father attended to the guests. After sometime, he shouted at family members over some issues,” she said.The complainant in the case, Sunny, who is a distant relative of the victim, said that Ashok used some “abusive words” for his family members. “At the same time, some neighbours, who were standing outside the house, believed that Ashok was abusing them. They barged into our house and thrashed Ashok,” he said.In the FIR, Sunny said that Lala alias Mehndi, Rahul, Vickku, Saurabh, Gaurav, Anshu and Sunder attacked Ashok. “Ashok collapsed on the spot after sustaining critical injuries to the head,” he said. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, station house officer, Dadri police station, said the victim, under the influence of alcohol, clashed with the suspects. “The suspects attacked him with sticks and also punched him. A police team reached the spot and rushed the victim to a private hospital where he was declared dead,” he said.Chauhan said police have registered a case against seven persons under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), and 302 (murder) of IPC. “We have launched a search to arrest the suspects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-beaten-to-death-by-neighbours-in-dadri-101617214492697.html
31-03-2021||Gurugram||Mask indiscipline continues despite Covid 19 resurgence, police to issue more fines||With Covid-19 infections rising once again in Gurugram, the city police have begun intensifying checks on mask discipline.A senior police officer said they had issued 980 challans on March 26, 984 on March 27, 646 on March 28, and 398 on March 29, which was Holi. Police said that since March 22, 2020 they had issued close to 137,200 challans till March 29. Each challan cost a violator ₹500.Gurugram Police public relations officer Subash Boken said that the force was asked to strictly enforce the mask rule and social distancing. “Our teams are visiting markets and crowded spots. We have increased our enforcement over the last few weeks and will be even more strict in the coming days. City residents followed the health protocols on Holi as celebrations were low key,” said Boken.The west police district reported the most violations with the force issuing close to 70,000 challans.The municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) had issued fines last year over Covid-19 health protocol violations but partially suspended it in July as the focus shifted to other measures such as ensuring protocols in public places, and due to a dip in new cases. Now, the civic body awaited a government order to resume issuing fines.“The MCG can act on the matter only if there was a complaint. We can resume issuing fines if the government orders us or if there is an internal decision on the matter,” said Bijender Sharma, senior sanitary inspector, MCG.The practice of issuing challans was first ordered in March last year. Even till July last year, the civic body had not issued too many challans -- less than 6000 versus Gurugram Police;s nearly 13,000. The MCG challan too was ₹500. As per the health department, the number of Covid-19 infections reported on Wednesday was 276 and the total number of infected persons till date stood at 63,013. According to residents, there had been a discernible shift in people’s attitude towards mask and social distancing especially at Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) markets, although malls seem to have better enforcement with the security staff ensuring discipline. Even shopkeepers had stopped supplying sanitizers before entry.Rakesh Malik, president of the sector 22 market association, said, “We have asked shopkeepers to not entertain customers if they don’t wear masks but what to do if a most of them are violating rules? We want authorities to enforce masks.”Chaitalee Mandhotra, a resident of Ardee City, said that while they have managed to enforce curbs inside the colony, the nearby market was out of their hands. “It appears that in many parts of city particularly villages adjoining the sectors there is no Covid-19. No one wears a mask and enforcement is lax,” she said.Residents along the Dwarka Expressway and SPR said the authorities had to intervene. “If someone is wearing a mask voluntarily then it is fine else only few challans are being issued in developing areas. There is need to fix this situation,” said Pravin Malik, president, Sare Home RWA in sector 92.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mask-indiscipline-continues-despite-covid-19-resurgence-police-to-issue-more-fines-101617213233836.html
31-03-2021||Gurugram||Vaccination outreach expanded in city to cover beneficiaries above 45 years||From Thursday, people above 45 years of age will be eligible for the Covid-19 vaccination. The city’s health department has increased the number of vaccination sites to 210 and added more staff and resources to reach out to the beneficiaries. Each site will cater to 100 beneficiaries. Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav said that 153 sites will be in government health care facilities and the rest will be in private hospitals. “The department has also asked private hospitals to ensure more people are inoculated at their centres,” he said. Since the start of the vaccination drive in January, Gurugram has vaccinated nearly 14,000 people -- 12,383 in government hospitals and 1,906 in government hospitals.Beneficiaries can choose to register themselves online -- through the Co-Win app -- or at a vaccination centres and receive appointment date, time and site. While government hospitals offer free vaccines, private hospitals charge ₹250 per shot. Beneficiaries are required to bring with them one valid ID proofs such as Aadhar, driving licence, PAN card, passport, pension passbook, voter ID card or NPR Smart Card. The nearest vaccination centre can be found on Co-Win app or Aargoya Setu. Gurugram is among the Union government’s eight “districts of concern” --- where Covid-19 surged in the recent weeks. The city had only 36 new cases and a total tally of 59,029 on March 1; on March 31, the city reported 276 fresh cases taking the tally to 63,013.Yadav also appealed to residents to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. “Wear masks religiously even if you are vaccinated. We are also working with civic agencies to create awareness regarding strict mask discipline,” he said. Apart from expanding vaccine outreach, the department is focussing on testing, tracing and screening people in affected areas. “We are testing more people to ensure Covid-19 does not spread,” he said. The Gurugram district administration on Wednesday evening increased the reservation of beds in private and public hospitals from the current 35 percent to 50 percent in view of the rising number of Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccination-outreach-expanded-in-city-to-cover-beneficiaries-above-45-years-101617213232735.html
31-03-2021||Gurugram||NHAI forms committee to probe Dwarka expressway accident||The national highways authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday formed a four-member technical committee to probe the collapse of two segments of an under-construction flyover at Dwarka Expressway on Sunday. The work at the accident site remains suspended and authorities said it will resume only after the team visits the spot and gives a preliminary report. Nirman Jambulkar, NHAI project director, said the team will look into the standard operating procedures that the contractor, Larsen and Turbo (L&T), followed at the site, and also check the design and related aspects. “Work at the site of accident at present has been suspended till the time the committee submits its initial report. The site will be cleared only after the spot is checked in detail by experts,” he said. The work on the remaining part of phase three of the Dwarka expressway is continuing, said NHAI officials, who admitted that the collapse was a minor setback for the high profile project. It could have pushed the project by a month or two, they said. They also said that work on the site where the accident took place will resume only after remedial measures and suggestions given by the technical commitee are incorporated into the SOP by the contractor. The collapse of the sections between pillars 107 and 109 injured three workers. Officials of the contractor Larsen and Turbo (L&T) said that they were in the process of removing a slab between pillars 108 and 109 when the accident happened. The 29-km Dwarka expressway is being developed in four phases and it will connect Kherki Daula and Mahipalpur on NH 48 via Dwarka. It will also provide an extension to the IGI Airport through a tunnel. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had visited this highway in the first week of this month and had announced that it will be completed by August 15, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nhai-forms-committee-to-probe-dwarka-expressway-accident-101617213233300.html
31-03-2021||Gurugram||Air quality dips to poor due to dusty winds||Strong winds carried dust into Gurugram on Wednesday and forced the air quality to deteriorate to “poor”, as per the central pollution control board’s (CPCB’s) air quality index (AQI).The index read 206, compared to Tuesday’s “moderate” level of 187.As per the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality is likely to remain poor on Thursday and improve on April 2 but remain in the “moderate” to “poor” levels. During the day on Thursday, it forecasted clear sky with strong dust raising winds (speed 35- 45 kmph). V K Soni, head of environment monitoring and research centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD), said, “Over the next two days, air quality is likely to improve as majority of the dusty winds from Rajasthan have passed over Delhi-NCR.” The high-speed winds are likely to reduce the temperature over the next few days. On Wednesday, Gurugram reported a maximum temperature of 36.8 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 20 degrees Celsius. In the past 24 hours, the city witnessed an over two degrees drop in the maximum temperature. On Monday, Gurugram had reported the maximum for this season with a temperature of 40.5 degrees Celsius. As per the weekly forecast of India Meteorological Department, the temperature in the city is likely to reduce over the next four days from Thursday onwards and hover between minimum of 16 degrees Celsius and maximum 35 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-dips-to-poor-due-to-dusty-winds-101617213172670.html
31-03-2021||Other||Six LU faculty members test Corona +ve; teachers demand extension of closure||Six teachers of various departments of Lucknow University along with a retired teacher of Zoology department, who visited the department recently, tested positive for Covid-19, the varsity administration said on Wednesday. The varsity administration asked all people, who came in contact with those infected, to get their Covid test done. Earlier in the day, citing spike in Covid cases in the city, members of Lucknow University Teachers Association (LUTA) had appealed to the state government and the university administration to extend the closure of the varsity and other higher education institutions. As per the state government orders, the Lucknow University along with other higher education institutions were asked to remain closed till March 31. The move comes a day after the state government extended the closure of schools from class 1 to 8 till April 4. “Cases of Covid-19 are higher this year. Some of our staff or people close to them have tested positive. Considering all this we have appealed to the university administration and the state government to allow institutes to continue online teaching and extend closure of the institutes. This will be better for the safety of both university staff and students,” said Rajendra Kumar Verma, an office bearer of Lucknow University. LU spokesman Durgesh Srivastav said the varsity will adhere to the guidelines issued by the state government in this regard. “The university administration has heard the concerns of the teachers’ association and will convey the same to officials concerned but any action regarding closure will be done strictly as per the government’s guidelines. We are in constant touch with the district administration and health department officials. We have put in measures and are working as per the directives of the state government,” said Srivastav. Currently, the university is using a mix of physical and online classes to complete the syllabus. Written and practical exams were also held while adhering to Covid-19 protocol. The varsity was closed last year just days after the first Covid-19 cases were reported in the city and opened partially after months when lockdown restrictions were lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-lu-faculty-members-test-corona-ve-teachers-demand-extension-of-closure-101617213112635.html
31-03-2021||Other||Several Lucknow schools gear up for online classes for juniors, offline for seniors||The new academic session in schools will start in the shadow of the coronavirus disease for the second consecutive year. While many of the unaided schools will conduct physical classes, others like St Francis College (Hazratganj) and Christ Church College in the state capital will start the session with online classes for junior and offline classes for the senior sections. St Francis College (Hazratganj) will start the new session on April 6. Principal Fr Alwyn Moras said, “We will start online classes for nursery to class 8 while the senior students from class 9 onwards will be called for offline classes. We will put in place all Covid-19 protocols to ensure the safety of students.” La Martiniere College will start the new session from April 7 and its hostels will reopen from April 12. Principal Carlyle McFarland said, “We will carry on with both online and offline classes.” La Martiniere Girls’ College will continue only with online classes till the summer vacation, said principal Aashrita Dass. Christ Church College will start the new session from April 6 with only online classes for students up to class 8. Students from class 9 onward will be called for offline classes, said principal Rakesh Chattree. On all the City Montessori School (CMS) campuses, there will be no examinations, offline or online, for students up to class 8. Promotion will be granted on the basis of a child’s previous test performance, said spokesman Rishi Khanna. Khanna said, “Offline exams for classes 9 to 12 will continue as scheduled from April 1. New session for classes Montessori, nursery, KG, class 1 and 2 will begin from April 5 as per government order. For classes 3 to 9, the new session will begin from April 12 and for classes 10 and 12, the new session will begin from April 26.” In view of the spike in Covid-19 cases, all government and private schools from class 1 to 8 across the state will remain closed till Sunday. These schools will now reopen on April 5 (Monday). Schools from class 9 onwards may reopen adhering to Covid-19 protocol and guidelines. Last week the state government ordered closure of schools and all other educational institutions, like universities and colleges, till March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/several-lucknow-schools-gear-up-for-online-classes-for-juniors-offline-for-seniors-101617212992672.html
31-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG undertakes demolition drive over 20 acres in sectors 52, 53||Around 2,000 illegally erected jhuggis in sectors 52 and 53 were demolished and 15 acres, earmarked for a stadium in Sector 52, were cleared of encroachments by the enforcement team of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Wednesday. Officials said that a large contingent of the police was also present for the drive, in which a large plot owned by the MCG in Sector 53 was also cleared of encroachments.The enforcement drive was led by RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) and Hari Om Atri, joint commissioner, MCG. It started around 11.30am and went on till evening, said MCG officials. Bhath said that seven earth moving machines were pressed into service to clear around 2,500 jhuggis and 200 concreted structures that were illegally erected, despite stiff resistance from the residents. “The occupants of jhuggis were given time to remove their household goods but were clearly told that these structures were illegal and can’t be allowed to stand on land acquired by the civic agency,” said Bhath. Atri said that a stadium was planned in Sector 52, Wazirabad, but a large part of the plot was encroached and illegal tenements were built, in violation of rules. A survey was conducted by enforcement officials two weeks ago and notices were issued to the occupants to vacate the plot or face action, he said. The enforcement team also cleared another large plot of land in Sector 53, where a cultural centre is proposed to be developed by the civic agency. “Around seven acres which had been acquired by the authority was encroached illegally and it was cleared in the drive today. All the acquired land which is owned or acquired by the agency will be cleared of encroachments,” said another official, who was part of the enforcement team. The MCG also warned all property owners whose buildings have been sealed not to tamper with the status, failing which strict action would be taken against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-undertakes-demolition-drive-over-20-acres-in-sectors-52-53-101617212933423.html
31-03-2021||Gurugram||GMDA starts work to develop walking-jogging track for residents along Tau Devilal Stadium||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has approved a proposal to develop a walking and jogging track for residents along the boundary of Tau Devilal Stadium. Chhaju Ram Goyat, manager of the stadium, said that the new track will be 2.5km long and 10 feet wide. “In the last few months, we noticed that many residents used the stadium for their walks. This affected athletes’ practice routines. The stadium had space for developing a track for others, so I sent a proposal to the GMDA chief executive officer in February that has now been approved,” said Goyal. He said the GMDA would work out the estimated cost and timeline for the project.A senior official from the infrastructure division of GMDA, who did not wish to be named, confirmed that they would decide on the cost. “A team will visit the spot and check the details. Once the estimate is ready, it will be placed in the upcoming meeting for financial approval,” he said.Working towards infrastructural development of the stadium, GMDA had last year started working on construction of a new shooting range, skating rink, squash court and kabaddi hall at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium. The cost of the shooting range, swimming pool, skating rink, squash court, and kabaddi hall were estimated at ₹22 crore. Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Gurugram is a multi-use sports complex - it is one of the only full-sized cricket as well as football field in Gurugram. The complex, at present, houses two sports venues, including the Tau Devi Lal Football Stadium and Tau Devi Lal Cricket Ground, apart from few other practice facilities. It also houses a volleyball and basketball court which is available to public for free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-starts-work-to-develop-walking-jogging-track-for-residents-along-tau-devilal-stadium-101617212932729.html
31-03-2021||Other||After testing, UP now plans ‘focused’ vaccination drive||Aiming to give a boost to drive, Uttar Pradesh will soon start focused vaccination for people in different professions aged above 45 years.“Like for Covid testing where we took samples from people of different professions such as shopkeepers, government staff, street-vendors, we will now run similar exercise for vaccination,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health.“We will conduct similar exercise for vaccination and invite eligible shopkeepers, drivers, media personnel, advocates to get the vaccine dose,” he said.Under the focused vaccination drive, different associations such as that of traders, drivers, shopkeepers and even lawyers’ body will be contacted, and list of eligible beneficiaries will be prepared. They will be motivated for prior registration or avail walk in facility at the vaccination centres near their homes or workplace, said Prasad.“The focused sampling will be done among people who come in contact with many people for their work such as frontline workers,” said Prasad.Such beneficiaries will be given a specific time slot to reach vaccination centres and this time shall be coordinated by the health department for smooth vaccination process. “This exercise will begin from next week,” said Prasad.“Such a focused drive will boost vaccination and certainly instill confidence among people. This will happen when a few among them, such as few shopkeepers from one market will get vaccinated and tell others about its safety, significance and efficacy,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, association of international doctors.Selection of spots for motivating eligible beneficiaries under focused covid vaccination will be done by weekend. “Once the group is selected a health team will contact them,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-testing-up-now-plans-focused-vaccination-drive-101617212812690.html
31-03-2021||Other||11 officials, including executive director, of IFFCO suspended||Eleven senior officials of IFFCO Phulpur plant, including executive director MM Masood, have been suspended by the management of Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO), in view of two major accidents in past four months that have taken place at the plant, confirmed officials. All the suspended officials have been ordered not to leave the plant campus till the investigation is over. In addition to this, the charge of unit head of IFFCO Phulpur plant has been given to General Manager (Personnel and Administration) Sanjay Kudesia, they added. IFFCO’s Phulpur unit, one of the largest fertilizer units in the country, has had two major accidents in last four months. The first incident of ammonia gas leak occurred on December 22, 2020 in which two officers were killed, 16 injured while the second, a boiler burst, took place on March 23, 2021 in which three casual workers were killed and 14 were injured.According to the letter, dated March 30 and signed by the managing director of IFFCO, US Awasthi, “MM Ahmad, executive director, Phulpur Unit, who is also holding the statutory responsibility of Manager under Factories act 1948, was hereby being placed under suspension pending inquiry/investigation with immediate effect under Rule No 15.26 of IFFCO Service Rules. He will be entitled to subsistence allowance during the period of his suspension as per rules in force, from time to time. He will not leave headquarters without prior permission from the Director (Tech),” it added. “The management has suspended 11 persons including the Executive Director MM Ahmad and the GM has been asked to take over the charge of the unit”, said public relation officer (PRO), IFFCO, Phulpur, Sanjay Mishra confirming the development. The other suspended officials include T Rama Krishna (Joint General Manager Utility), Arun Kumar (Chief Manager-Power), CN Ram (Manager-Power), YS Yadav (Manager-Power), Bhuvan Chandra (Manager-Power), Sushil Kumar Mishra (Chief Operator-Power), AK Singh (Chief Manager-Fire Protection), RR Vishwakarma (Senior Manager-Urea), SB Bharti (Manager-Mechanical) and Kashi Singh Yadav (Deputy Manager-Urea)On March 23, the boiler number 4 of the furnace unit of the plant exploded resulting in death of three daily wagers including Pradeep Yadav and Babuji Yadav. Pradeep had died on the spot while the latter died on way to hospital. Few days later, another injured worker had also succumbed to injuries. The factory management had announced financial assistance of ₹6 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased and a job for one person of their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-officials-including-executive-director-of-iffco-suspended-101617212692652.html
31-03-2021||Other||Minor hit by speeding SUV in Lucknow, killed||Lucknow: A five-year-old boy was killed after being hit by a speeding SUV near Patanala area of Chowk in Lucknow on Wednesday. Police seized the vehicle and arrested the driver after the incident. According to locals the minor boy was going on the road when the speeding SUV hit him from behind with such a force that the minor flew up in the air and landed a few meters away. The passersby took the injured to hospital, but he was declared brought dead. Some of them also caught the driver of the vehicle and handed him to the police. The grieving family members of the boy reached the police station. Police was in process of registering a case against the complaint lodged by the family by the time this report was filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-hit-by-speeding-suv-in-lucknow-killed-101617212272666.html
31-03-2021||Other||Covid +ve Ambedkar varsity VC seeks postponement of convocation||After testing positive for COVID-19, the vice chancellor (V-C) prof Ashok Mittal has written to the Raj Bhawan seeking postponement of the 86th convocation of Dr BR Ambedkar University that was scheduled for April 5. Governor Anandiben Patel and minister for higher education Dinesh Sharma were to attend the convocation function. “The V-C has written to secretariat of governor house that he has tested positive for COVID-19 and is on home quarantine and under treatment of principal of SN Medical College and Hospital,” informed university’s public relations officer (PRO) Prof Pradeep Shridhar. ‘The V-C has expressed his inability to attend the April 5 convocation and has thus requested for postponement of convocation” stated Prof Shridhar. Fresh date of convocation is yet to be decided, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-ve-ambedkar-varsity-vc-seeks-postponement-of-convocation-101617212092606.html
31-03-2021||Lucknow||Panchayat polls the first test for expanded UPCC team||The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) that was expanded to accommodate more leaders from different sections will have to show results at the ground level in the panchayat elections for the party to be considered a serious contender in 2022 assembly polls. The three-tier panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh will be held in four phases from April 15 onwards.The expansion was carried out with the induction of vice-presidents, general secretaries and secretaries. The exercise was aimed at strengthening the party ahead of the panchayat elections and gearing up the organisation for the state assembly elections.“Yes, we have inducted 60 more office bearers to give representation to different sections. We have accommodated young and experienced leaders alike and the total strength of UPCC office bearers has reached 125 now. We have fixed responsibilities for the new team to ensure good results,” UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu.Under the new structure, a general secretary will work as the incharge of the party’s organisation in three districts. A secretary will be in charge of a district now. As many of those appointed in the new team have worked on various posts earlier, the party is claiming to have roped in leaders from different sections and regions. “We have tried to accommodate leaders from different sections and regions. The new team will help us in strengthening the party organisation for the panchayat elections and achieving the objectives in the 2022 assembly elections,” said Lallu.“We are sure the new team will show good results under the leadership of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The party will work harder in the coming months and all leaders will be accommodated somewhere or the other,” said UPCC spokesman Surendra Rajput.Did the Congress take any steps to take along the party’s veterans and youngsters, who raised a banner of revolt soon after formation of the new UPCC?“We will make efforts to take along all those who have been left out,” said Lallu.Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ said the new team was full of energy and would work hard for the party under Priyanka Gandhi’s leadership in the 2022 assembly elections in the state.A senior party leader said a party veteran had been asked to get in touch with old guards and make efforts to bring those expelled earlier back to the party fold.“Priyanka Gandhi Vadra believes in inclusive politics. She is serious about bringing back old-timers and we hope the party will work unitedly in the coming months,” said the leader.“Bringing in new generation leaders is always welcome. But bringing new leaders at the cost of old timers, who have been loyal to the party, cannot help. You cannot strengthen the organisation by humiliating the old guard,” said Satyadev Tripathi, a former minister, who is one of the veteran leaders expelled by the party earlier.Others, however, said the party needed to work more and show results before it was considered a serious contender for power in the state. The Congress should follow its own rules about size of the UPCC.“When Ajay Kumar Lallu took over as the UPCC chief, the party talked about having a smaller team. But the party is back to having a large committee,” said a senior party leader.Another expelled leader Siraj Mehandi said the party was not giving sufficient time to its office bearers.“Lucknow city unit president Mukesh Chauhan has been removed in a few months after his appointment. Chauhan has been the choice of party workers. With new office bearers, the party needs to work at the grassroot level and show results. The party acted against its veterans and no efforts have been made to take them along. Those sitting on the top in the state are not being given proper feedback to the high command,” said Mehandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/panchayat-polls-the-first-test-for-expanded-upcc-team-101617211072722.html
31-03-2021||Pune||8,553 new Covid cases, 31 deaths reported in Pune dist; over 23K inoculated||PUNE The district reported 8,553 new Covid cases on Wednesday, which is about 356 new cases every hour in the last 24 hours. Also, 31 deaths were reported in the district, according to the state health department.The district’s progressive count stands at 5.36 lakh, out of which 4.63 lakh have recovered, 8,374 have been reported dead, and 64,277 are active cases or patients undergoing treatment at hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 4,502 new cases, which took the progressive count to 277,218 and 18 more deaths which took the death toll to 4,728. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 2,214 new cases, which took the final count to 135,674 cases, and with five more deaths, the death toll stood at 1,376. Pune rural reported 1,837 new cases, which took the progressive count to 123,370 cases, and with eight more deaths, the toll went up to 2,221. Meanwhile, at least 23,533 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Wednesday, out of which 7,741 were from Pune rural, 11,507 from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 4,285 from PCMC. Also, over 23,000 vaccinations were through Covishield, while 415 were in Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/8553-new-covid-cases-31-deaths-reported-in-pune-dist-over-23k-inoculated-101617209332534.html
31-03-2021||Other||State’s first 100-bed malnutrition treatment centre in W Singhbhum||In a first, a 100-bed dedicated Malnutrition Treatment cum Training Centre (MTTC) started functioning at Barachiru under Khuntpani block in West Singhbhum district on Wednesday to effectively treat malnourished children.Jharkhand’s women and child development and social welfare minister Joba Majhi inaugurated the MTTC. “Rural women face complications and pain during delivery due to their food habits, rather lack of it. Rural women in this part hardly get adequate and nutritious food owing to which they are unable to deliver a healthy child,” Majhi said.She appreciated the West Singhbhum district administration for their efforts to set up such a novel centre, besides unveiling the film made to spread awareness about malnutrition titled, Zindagi Phir Muskurayegi.West Singhbhum deputy commissioner (DC) Arava Rajkamal said the 100-bed MTTC will be in addition to the 69-bed malnutrition treatment centre (MTC) at Chaibasa Sadar Hospital (CSH).“It’s unfortunate and a matter of grave concern that West Singhbhum accounted for 5,000 malnourished children among the total number of such children in the state. There were four MTCs in the district, where only 60 malnourished children could be treated in 14 days. With this MTTC at Barachiru, we can now treat 160 malnourished children at a time,” said Rajkamal.UNICEF malnutrition expert Dr Pitu Mishra said the MTTC will set an example for mothers in treating malnutrition and spreading knowledge to other women. “This first-of-its-kind MTTC can prove to be a milestone in making the state free of malnutrition,” said Dr Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/states-first-100-bed-malnutrition-treatment-centre-in-w-singhbhum-101617208492470.html
31-03-2021||Ranchi||National level hockey tournament postponed after 11 players test Covid positive||Strap: Five players from Chandigarh team, six from Jharkhand team and a coach found Covid-19 positive; the national women hockey championship was scheduled to begin from April 3 in Simdega district The 11th Hockey India junior women’s national championship 2021, that was scheduled to begin from April 3 in Simdega district, was postponed after 11 players and a coach was found infected with coronavirus, officials said on Wednesday.Five players from Chandigarh team and six from Jharkhand were found infected after their test was conducted on Tuesday. Chandigarh was the first to arrive Jharkhand on Tuesday morning. Simdega deputy commissioner (DC) Sushant Gaurav said, “As per norms, members of the Chandigarh team underwent Covid-19 test on Tuesday and five them were found positive for the infection. Since Jharkhand players welcomed them on their arrival, the state players also underwent the test and six of them were found infected.”A total of 26 teams from across the country were scheduled to take part in the national event. As per protocols, players, coaches and staff were required to undergo Covid-19 test before participating in the event, officials said.Tournament organisers and coaches also underwent the test. “A coach from Simdega was found positive. However, viral load in all cases is very low. So, we are very hopeful of their fast recovery,” the DC said.Hockey India was informed about the development on Wednesday morning. “Hockey India has decided to postpone the championship till further notice,” he said.Gaurav said all the infected persons will be shifted to Women’s College, Jaldega, which has been converted into Covid-19 care hospital. The teams that were scheduled to arrive on Wednesday were also asked to return, he said.After the successful event of sub-junior women hockey championship, Hockey India allotted the junior women national championship also to Simdega. The championship was scheduled to be held from April 3 to 12.Hockey India president Gyanendro Ningombam, in a press communiqué issued on Wednesday, said in light of the rising number of Covid-19 cases and after advice from the local state authorities, Hockey India in consultation with the host, Hockey Jharkhand, arrived at the decision to postpone the tournament.“Hockey Jharkhand received tremendous support from the state government to host the recently concluded 11th Hockey India sub junior women National Championship 2021. However, with new protocols and guidelines in the state to combat the rapid rise of cases, it was in the best interest of the players that this decision was taken. For Hockey India, player safety is paramount.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/national-level-hockey-tournament-postponed-after-11-players-test-covid-positive-101617208313289.html
31-03-2021||Other||Wildfire ravages core area of Palamu Tiger Reserve||Devastating wildfire has gripped forests of core area of Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR) in Latehar and efforts to douse it were proving inadequate. Rising mercury and high speed winds coupled together to further fuel the already spreading fire.PTR deputy director (south division) Mukesh Kumar said, “The situation is alarming. Wildfire during this time of the year has no precedence in PTR. The high temperature and strong wind flow has made our task to douse it even tougher.”As per available information, the wild fire picked pace on Tuesday afternoon. Forests in critical tiger habitats such as Kujrum, Ramandag, Rud, Baresanrh and other areas were also in the grip of the fire even as the field staff and members of quick reaction team were trying to douse it.Forest fires wildfire are generally caused due to burning of dried leaves by locals for picking up Mahua fruit as they enter reserve forest to collect it.Officials have not divulged details regarding loss of wildlife due to the fire so far.“Generally, the fire season begins in May-June. But this year, it has already gripped forests in Kujrum, Ramandag, Rud and other areas. The local eco-development committee (EDC) members have been pressed into the dousing operation along with field staff,” Kumar said, adding that the unusually strong winds also rendered fire line ineffective this time.Noted wildlife expert Dr DS Srivastava said, “Lack of community participation in fire management seems to be the root cause of spread of fire to such a large scale. Locals have to be involved in forest management if such incidents are to be averted in future.”Locals burn dry leaves for Mahua picking in remote area. However, they earlier used to ensure that fire does not spread to other areas collectively. They doused it on the spot, Srivastava said, adding that no loss of wildlife was reported so far, but birds and reptiles living on ground must have suffered. Meanwhile, the fire also gripped parts of forests along National Highway-75 at Amjhariya, Siknee, Komo, Jognatand, Manika and other places.In Latehar, the local MLA rushed to the spot with a team of officials on Tuesday night on getting information about the fire approaching the district headquarters. Later, fire tenders extinguished the high flames.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wildfire-ravages-core-area-of-palamu-tiger-reserve-101617208312588.html
31-03-2021||Other||Canadian woman travelling without valid docs held||A Canadian woman was arrested from Ramgarhwa in East Champaran on Wednesday after she entered the Indian territory from Nepal without any valid documents.According to officials, the woman, identified as Rebecca Williams (26), a resident of Markham in Canada, entered the Indian territory through the Raxaul border surreptitiously. “She managed to board a bus. We chased the bus after we got a tip-off and arrested her from Ramgarhwa,” said AK Pankaj, DSP (immigration), Raxaul. “She was found to be travelling without any valid visa,” the DSP said. “Preliminary investigation suggests the woman had gone to Nepal after staying in India for sometime. Further probe is underway,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/canadian-woman-travelling-without-valid-docs-held-101617208252500.html
31-03-2021||Other||3 Maoists held with huge cache of arms||PATNAThree Maoists were arrested and two hand grenades, five incomplete hand grenades, three grenade launcher bases, a manual for making rocket launcher, 610 detonators, police commando uniforms and two wireless sets were recovered by sleuths of special task force (STF) during raids at Jehanabad and Danapur on Wednesday.The arrested Maoists were identified as Parshuram Singh, Sanjay Singh and Gautam Singh. The STF also recovered a rifle, 25 live cartridges, seven magazines, among other components of arms.“A grenade launcher base was spotted for the first time in this region. Following a tip-off about the presence of Maoists close to Bistaul village, a team of STF began a search operation when they chanced upon the Maoists’ countrymade grenade launcher base,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-maoists-held-with-huge-cache-of-arms-101617208133639.html
31-03-2021||Patna||Six die after consuming spurious liquor||At least six persons have died in two suspected cases of spurious liquor consumption in Nawada and Begusarai districts in the last 48 hours. Sale and consumption of liquor is prohibited in Bihar for five years now. According to local residents, six deathsand seven cases of illness have been reported from Gondapur and Kharidi-Bigha villages in Nawada. The deceased have been identified as Ajay Yadav, Ramdeo Yadav, Loha Singh Thathera, Shakti Singh, Shailendra and Prabhakar Kumar Gupta. However, Nawada‘s district magistrate Yashpal Meena said, “Four deaths have been reported till nowand the bodies were cremated by the families last night,” said. The seven taken ill were referred to a private clinic in Patna. According to villagers, the victims consumed alcohol on the occasion of Holi and started vomiting, following which their family members took them to a private hospital for treatment. Most of them have been complaining of nausea, headache, vomiting and uneasiness since Tuesday morning. Nawada SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram said, “We are investigating the matter. If the consumption of spurious liquor is established, action will be taken against all the erring officials, including SHO of the police station concerned”. Reports from Begusarai said two persons, identified as Rajkumar Sahni and Sakaldeo Choudhary, died and one Birju Sahni was critical after allegedly consuming spurious liquor. The incident took place at Godhiyari village under Bakhri police station. According to SDM (Bakhri) Ashok Kumar Gupta, police seized bodies from two cremation sites on Wednesday morning and sent them to Sadar hospital for autopsy. “Reason behind their deaths will be confirmed only after we receive autopsy reports,” said Gupta. The SDM said preliminary investigation suggested that the deceased had consumed liquor on Tuesday, following which they fell ill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/six-die-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-101617208133036.html
31-03-2021||Patna||Bihar’s biggest lake left high and dry despite Ramsar tag||Kanwar lake, Asia’s largest freshwater oxbow lake and Bihar’s only Ramsar site, located in Begusarai district, is facing threat of running dry. Originally spread over 6,786 hectares, the lake has been a preferred destination for migratory birds and home to several rare aquatic species. In 1986, the state government notified it as a protected area. Later, the central government declared it as a sanctuary to stop poaching of birds. The lake, also known as Kabartal jheel, was declared a Ramsar site in July last year following a sustained campaign by environmentalists from across the world, who hoped that the state government might step in to conserve the wetland once it was designated as a wetland of international importance. The news was broken by Union environment minister Prakash Jawdekar in November 2020. However, unrestrained encroachment of land and construction of embankment on Burhi Gandak river near Majhaul village of Begusarai have choked the major water inlet to the wetland and have taken a toll. “Excessive use of groundwater for irrigation in the protected area has taken a toll on the rich biodiversity of the lake and created a kind of climate crisis in the region,” says Ashok Ghosh, chairman of Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB). Ghosh, also an environment expert who carried out a research on biodiversity of the lake, said size of the wetland has reduced considerably over the last few decades owing to encroachment by individuals and dumping of municipal waste. “I have seen the lake speared on around 7,000 hectares in 1986, which has now been reduced to a little over 2500 hectares,” he said. Kumar Deepak, environment officer of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), who was part of the team that carried out economic evaluation of the lake under a Government of India (GOI) project during 2016-17, said the natural water reservoir was serving the society in many ways, including income generation through fishery, keeping water table up in the vicinity, promoting tourism and being part of the local culture. “The huge stretch of wetland also absorbs considerable amount of water during the flooding and offers land for cultivation during the summers. About 165 plant species, 394 animal species, including 221 variety of birds, were recorded to be present around the lake, which is also home to 53 migratory birds, including some rare ones,” says Deepak. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said the department would assess the situation and take corrective steps. “Engineers would be asked to see how the natural outflow of Burhi Gandak could be restored,” Jha said. Dipak Kumar Singh, principal secretary of forest and environment, said the department would seek help of water resources department to ensure flow of water from Burhi Gandak to the lake. Singh said the lake area often witness land dispute and the district magistrate had been asked to settle the issue so that actual expanse of the waterbody could be identified. “Nearly 3,000 hectares out of the total 6,700 hectares covered by the lake are said to be private holding. The department would soon come out with a comprehensive plan to protect and develop the wetland,” said Singh. Headline: The shrinking wetlandIntro: Kanwar lake in Begusarai district is Asia’s largest freshwater oxbow lake and Bihar’s only Ramsar siteSize of wetland as quantified in 1984: 6,786 hectares Size of lake as demarcated in 1989: 6,070 hectares Size of lake in 2012: 2032 hectaresIts richesPlant species in lake area: 165 Bird species found: 221 (including 58 migratory birds) Types of fish: 50||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-biggest-lake-left-high-and-dry-despite-ramsar-tag-101617208132502.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||You were duty-bound to file FIR against Deshmukh, HC tells Param Bir Singh||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh why he did not lodge a police complaint against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh if he was aware of alleged wrongdoing being committed by the leader.A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni also said that without an FIR the high court cannot intervene and direct for an independent agency like CBI to carry out an investigation.Singh, who was shifted from the post of Mumbai police commissioner on March 17, had initially approached the Supreme Court, alleging that he was transferred after he complained to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and other senior leaders about the "corrupt malpractices" of Deshmukh. The top court had, however, asked him to approach the high court.After his transfer, Singh had claimed that Deshmukh asked police officer Sachin Waze and others to collect ₹100 crore per month from bars and restaurants. But the minister has denied any wrongdoing."You (Singh) are a senior police officer. You are not a layman. You were duty-bound to register a complaint against any wrongdoing. Despite knowing that an offence is being committed by your boss, you (Singh) remained silent," Chief Justice Datta said.The bench was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Singh, seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh. He filed the criminal PIL in the high court on March 25.On Wednesday, after hearing the arguments at length, the court reserved its order on the preliminary objections raised by the state government and the reliefs sought by Singh.The court also reserved its order on three other petitions filed by two lawyers and a professor seeking independent probe in the case.The court, while hearing the arguments noted that when Singh had himself not heard Deshmukh make those statements asking police to extort money, then the allegations would amount to hearsay.The bench sought to know if any civilian had lodged a complaint with the police in this matter. The court was then informed by Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that advocate Jayshri Patil had lodged a complaint with the Malabar Hill police station in south Mumbai on March 21, but no FIR has been registered yet.Patil, who has also filed a petition in the HC, told the bench that she had in her complaint to the police sought for FIR to be registered into the charges levelled by Singh.The court then asked Kumbhakoni if any inquiry has been carried out by the police, and also asked him to produce the station diary of the police station.The court also asked why the police was hesitant to lodge FIR and then carry out its probe."Why are you ashamed? What is wrong if FIR is filed? What heavens will fall on the accused? This will only set the criminal law in motion," Chief Justice Datta said, adding that since FIRs are not lodged, people are forced to approach courts.Kumbhakoni later told the court that the station diary could not be produced before the court immediately, but there is no entry in the diary of the complaint filed by Patil.The bench said that Singh had the option of either lodging a complaint with the police or file an application before a magistrate.Singh's counsel Vikram Nankani told the court that Singh wanted to avoid this "chakravyuh" (labyrinth).The court, however, noted that this was the procedure laid down in law. "Are you saying that you are above the law? Is the law only for common man and not you?" Chief Justice Datta asked.The court said that if Singh does not trust the state police to carry out a fair probe, then he has the option of approaching the magistrate's court."You (Singh) are saying that since the state home minister is involved so the state police would not carry out fair probe. What if in future, god forbid, the allegation is against the Prime Minister or the Union Home Minister, who will probe then?" Chief Justice Datta asked."Do you want some superpower from outside? Who does the CBI work under?" the court asked.Nankani argued that Singh did not have any other option than to approach the HC as the complaint and the allegations are against the "very head of the state administration".The court further asked Nankani if any statements, as alleged by Singh in the petition against Deshmukh that he had asked police officers to extort money, was made by the home minister in Singh's presence."Otherwise this is nothing but hearsay," it said.The bench said that without an FIR it cannot pass an order directing an independent agency to investigate. It said that only in rare and unusual cases, the courts interfere and order probe.The court further asked if a PIL is maintainable when the issue pertains to a service matter."You (Singh) have an axe to grind with the minister (Deshmukh). It is not a case that you do not have any ties with the minister," the court said.To this, Nankani said the PIL has got nothing to do with Singh's transfer order.Kumbhakoni, appearing for the Maharashtra government, sought dismissal of the petition with exemplary cost and said the plea was filed with personal vendetta."The PIL is not filed in public interest, but is riddled with personal grievances and interests. The petitioner has come to this court with dirty hands and dirty mind," Kumbhakoni said."This is a classic and textbook case of personal enmity and grudge," he argued.Singh, in his petition, claimed that Deshmukh had asked police officers, including Waze, who has been arrested by the NIA in the case of bomb scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, to collect ₹100 crore per month from bars and restaurants.The PIL also raised the issue of alleged corruption in police transfers and postings in the state.Kumbhakoni further told the HC that the state government was eager and anxious to clear the cloud of suspicion and allegations against Deshmukh.Nankani argued that the entire police force was demoralised and working under pressure due to interference from the political masters.He added that Singh was constrained to approach the HC as no action was taken by the government."On Tuesday, the government has announced that a committee has been set up to look into the allegations. Our contention is that this is not adequate," Nankani said.Kumbhakoni told the court that the committee has not been set up under the provisions of the Commission of Inquiry Act and hence does not have any statutory provisions.Singh has filed the PIL in the HC, reiterating his charges against Deshmukh and seeking an "immediate, unbiased, impartial" probe by the CBI against Deshmukh, an NCP leader.Kumbhakoni argued that Singh in his complaint letter to the chief minister has said that his relation with Deshmukh was strained.Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the CBI, told the court that the agency would abide by whatever order the court passes.In his PIL, Param Bir Singh also accused Deshmukh of routinely interfering in police investigations and putting pressure on him to implicate BJP leaders in the case of suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar.Singh also sought a direction from the HC to the CBI to secure CCTV footage of Deshmukh's residence from earlierthis year before it was "destroyed", and a direction to the state government to produce all records of communication received from IPS officer Rashmi Shukla in March 2020. PTI SP GK NP NP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-didn-t-you-file-fir-against-anil-deshmukh-court-asks-param-bir-singh-101617207549484.html
31-03-2021||Pune||PMC to not pick up wet garbage from “bulk generators”||From April 1, 2021, onwards, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will not collect wet waste of 792 bulk generating establishments in the city. The bulk generating establishments that produce more than 100 kg of wet waste per day were given a choice to take the help of private companies to dispose of the garbage. On the background of the Covid-19 situation, the PMC will concentrate on the commercial establishment first. For the past year, the PMC has been creating awareness and warning bulk generators including big residential societies, government, and private establishments. In December 2020, the PMC solid waste department set a deadline of March 31, 2021for bulk generators to make arrangements or set up a system to process garbage within their premises. Starting today, the PMC will not pick up wet garbage from bulk generators. The PMC will act and charge ₹5,000 on the first instance if the society is not processing the garbage. In the second instance, the PMC will charge ₹10,000. In the third instance, the PMC will charge ₹15,000. After that, if the society or establishment continues to disobey the rule, the PMC will charge ₹15,000 each time. As per the data of the solid waste management department, there are a total of 1,403 bulk waste generators. The number of residential societies are more in comparison to the commercial establishments. Of that, 792 have not set up any mechanism until March 31, 2021, and the remaining 611 generators are processing garbage. Some generators, especially residential housing societies, are outsourcing private composite site facilities. The maximum bulk generators are falling in the Hadapsar-Mundhwa area. The total number is 201 of that, 137 establishments are not processing the garbage. The PMC calculates 450 grams of waste per person. In a five-member family, the PMC considers two kilograms of garbage generation. Kunal Khemnar, PMC’s additional municipal commissioner said, “The bulk generators should appoint a private agency to process wet garbage. The PMC is ready to pick up dry garbage but, the PMC will not pick up garbage from bulk generators after March 31, 2021, and impose a fine as per law. However, we are concentrating on the commercial establishments.” As per the solid waste management rules 2016, a “bulk waste generator” includes buildings occupied by the Central government departments or undertakings, state government departments or undertakings, local bodies, public sector undertakings or private companies, hospitals, nursing homes, schools, colleges, universities, or other educational institutions, hostels, hotels, commercial establishments, markets, places of worship, stadium and sports complexes having an average waste generation rate exceeding 100 kg per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-not-pick-up-wet-garbage-from-bulk-generators-101617208012453.html
31-03-2021||Other||Availability of vaccines, data entry operators worry for Bihar||PATNABihar is left with around 8 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine as it prepares to vaccinate the target group of 1.80 crore population of 45 years and above, beginning Thursday. The state’s immediate concern remains availability of vaccines as well as sufficient number of data entry operators as it plans to ramp up its vaccination session sites from existing 1,700 to 2,500 in the next few days to meet the vaccination requirement of the 45 years and above age group. “We need vaccines in sufficient quantity before we can increase the number of session sites,” said an official who did not wish to be named. Given the shortage, the state is rotating vaccines from underperforming cold chain points to districts where vaccine utilisation was more, adding to logistics issues. The health department has also written to district magistrates (DMs) to make available data entry operators, who are used as “verification officers” at the vaccination centres. “We have sufficient vaccinators, but do not have as many data entry operators in our department. We have requested DMs to make them available through different departments so that we can increase the number of vaccination session sites,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar. On the availability of vaccines, he said the state had enough to sustain at least another four days after it began vaccinating the 45 years and above age cohort of population. “The Centre has committed to send additional 8 lakh doses of vaccine on April 2 to add to the tally of 33 lakh doses, which it has sent so far since the commencement of the vaccination drive on January 16,” said Kumar. It will, however, take at least two days for the vaccines to reach around 700 cold chain points after their arrival at the state vaccine depot in Patna. “The Centre has given us an assurance that it will not allow any shortage of vaccines in the state. It does not want the vaccines to remain idle,” he said. The Centre does not want states to build up inventory. It wants the vaccines to be in continuous circulation and use. “We want to vaccinate at least 2 lakh doses of vaccines every day after attaining a vaccination figure of 1.40 lakh doses in a day before the Holi festival,” added Kumar. The state has decided to rope in around 4.5 lakh government school teachers and children to encourage eligible family members take the jab. It will also involve around 1 crore Jeevika (women self-help group) workers and urban local body members as motivators. Additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar and principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit addressed a joint video conference with district education officers in this regard on Wednesday. The health department plans to use its existing health sub-centres as session sites. Of the 10,800 health sub-centres, there are only around 3,000 facilities housed in three-room accommodation, which is the minimum requirement for a vaccination session site. After primary health centres, Bihar has rolled out vaccination centres to the level of health and wellness centres, with 1,700 of them being functional in the state. Around 100 of the existing 1,700 vaccination session sites in the state were private facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/availability-of-vaccines-data-entry-operators-worry-for-bihar-101617208013171.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Production company crew booked for assault, vandalism||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police booked around 20 people from an entertainment show shooting crew who were living in a private hotel in Hinjewadi for assault and vandalism. The crew allegedly got into a fight with the hotel staff after their dinner was delayed on Sunday. The crew work for a production company based near Mumbai domestic airport in Vile Parle (East), according to the police. The verbal fight between the crew and the staff turned violent and the accused allegedly vandalised the hotel property while some of them flashed and sexually harassed a female receptionist at the hotel, according to the complaint. “There were three categories of people and three different arrangements for living and eating. The driver and spot boys were served dinner in a different hall between 10 pm and midnight. They did not get it on time on that night, so a fight broke out and some of them misbehaved with the receptionist. They have left the premises since then. We are looking for all of them,” said police sub-inspector Mudal of Hinjewadi police station. According to a complaint, the crew members broke 16 dinner plates, 11 chairs, two television sets, two mattresses, glasses in bathrooms, eight pillow covers, four bedsheets, among other things. The total loss is estimated to be worth ₹65,000. A case under Sections for rioting, 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354(a) (sexual harassment), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), and 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/production-company-crew-booked-for-assault-vandalism-101617207772441.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Stallholders’ association seeks PCB permission to remove debris at Fashion Street||The MG road hawkers and Pathari Association Seva Sanstha has submitted a written application to the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) president and chief executive officer seeking permission to remove the burnt debris at Fashion Street. The demands come at a time when the PCB is facing a severe shortage of funds even to carry out developmental activities in the area. The stall holders’ body which represents 448 legal vendors have expressed the desire to bear the cost of clearing, loading, and unloading the material. The letter specifically mentions bearing the costs of clearing off debris from the spot. “We want the entire area to be cleared off the debris as businesses need to be restarted. All our vendors have sustained losses and removal of debris will take more than ten days. Also, new wiring must be put in place and the entire infrastructure upgradation will take a month. Vendors are ready to pool in funds and there is a lot of pressure on the association to start the market as families are without livelihood since Friday with no financial help and relief from the state so far,” said Yusuf Khan, vice president of the Sanstha. Fashion Street vendors further added that there should not be any further delay in starting the market as the financial crisis was staring in their faces. Over 600 shops were completely gutted after a major fire broke out at the famous Fashion Street market in the Camp area of Pune late on Friday night, officials said. While there were no casualties in the blaze, the head of Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) fire department Prakash Hasabe was killed in a road accident while returning home after dousing fire. The PCB administration is facing a severe shortage of funds as GST revenues worth ₹200 crores have yet not been released by the Central government despite persistent demands to the effect. The PCB does not have any funds to either repair and restore the historic Chhatrapati Shivaji Market and even Fashion Street. The victims at both places are running from pillar to post seeking funds from parliamentarians, legislators, board administration, the district administration, and CSR funds so that their lost businesses can be restored. The Pune district collector after seeking individual reports from the PCB administration, Pune police, and tehsildar will present a report before deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar who will then issue directions to the administration. The board has already petitioned the district collector seeking ₹5 crores for the restoration of Shivaji Market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/stallholders-association-seeks-pcb-permission-to-remove-debris-at-fashion-street-101617207652482.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Discovery of a rare reel on the making of Pakeezah||The National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has added a rare 18-minute footage in 16mm of the making of Kamal Amrohi’s iconic film Pakeezah titled “Pakeezah – Rang Barang” in our collection. Film lovers and fans remembered the renowned actress Meena Kumari on her death anniversary on Wednesday. The footage has rare visuals of the 15-year long journey of Pakeezah, from its inception to release. The highlight is the visuals of the popular song ‘Inhin Logon Ne’ shot in black and white in the early period of the shooting of the film, in which young Meena Kumari is seen dancing to a differently choreographed sequence. As per visuals, this was one of the first sequences to be shot and the clapper board shows the date as July 16, 1956. The footage also contains a Mohammed Rafi Qawwali number ‘Jaye Toh Jaye Kaha, ab Ye Tera Deewana’, which was not included in the released film. The other visuals have the scenes of the premiere of the film held at Maratha Mandir in Bombay on February 4, 1972. “This is a very rare addition to the NFAI collection. The preliminary inspection reveals the condition of the film is heavily scratched and colour faded. We are trying our best to salvage the material so that it can be made accessible to the audience,” said Prakash Magdum, Director, NFAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/discovery-of-a-rare-reel-on-the-making-of-pakeezah-101617207532464.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Police posers rob senior citizens in Wakad||In yet another case of citizens getting robbed by men posing as policemen, an elderly couple was robbed of gold jewellery worth ₹1,85,000 on Tuesday morning in Wakad. A complaint was lodged by a 77-year-old man who was walking with his wife along the road that connects Chhatrapati chowk to Kalewadi phata, according to the complaint. The complainant was identified as Ramchandra Sadashiv Panchgade (77), a businessman living in a residential complex in Kaspate Vasti area of Wakad. The two approached the pedestrian couple around 10 am and told them that they were policemen. “Two people approached them on a two-wheeler and said that there has been a murder in the area and that the two senior citizens need to meet their fake senior officer who was standing ahead on the couple’s walking route. They went to the third man who asked them questions and said that the woman needs to remove her jewellery. As they were very old, they pretended to help them remove the jewellery and put it in the cloth bag that the couple was carrying and then tied 3-4 knots on the bag. By the time, the couple could open the knots and check, these men had fled,” said PSI Maksood Karim Maner of Wakad police station. A case under Sections 170 (personating a public servant), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Wakad police station. Two similar cases have been registered in Pune city while one other case is registered at Dehuroad police station of Dehuroad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-posers-rob-senior-citizens-in-wakad-101617207352398.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Another case of ATM jackpotting in Pune||The ATM of another private bank was hit in a method similar to that of four ATMs of another bank that fell prey to the jackpotting attack. The officials of the major private bank have approached the Pune police cyber-crime cell but have not lodged an official complaint yet, according to senior police inspector S Hake who recently took charge of the cyber-crime police station. Two cases have been registered in the attack mounted on four ATMs of the first bank while only one incident was reported from the second bank in Pune. The bank officials told the police that their ATM in Delhi has also been targeted in a similar attack. “The operating system used in these ATMs is Windows XP and these are the type of kiosks which have space to go behind,” said PI Hake. The ATM of the second bank, which had not lodged an official complaint yet, is located in Sasanenagar area of Pune and is estimated to have lost ₹7 lakh. The first victim bank lost close to ₹30 lakh in the four attacks. However, a senior officer of the cyber cell suspects that more than four ATMs of the first victim bank have been attacked. The two cases registered include one at Shivajinagar and one at Marketyard police station. The cyber-crime cell officials are tracking the two suspects. “ATMs running on Windows XP are more vulnerable to this attack. Windows OS (operating system) should be updated to newer versions. In India, a considerably large number of ATMs are running on Windows XP. It is high time that these OS are updated. Also, communication between cash dispenser and ATM core software should be encrypted,” reads a part of a skeletal report on ATM jackpotting published by a government agency called National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) which is run by the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO). The NTRO was formed in 2004 and is under the ambit of the National Security Advisor to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), according to its website. This minimal report on jackpotting was published in 2018 when jackpotting attacks were reported on a large scale in America.In this form of attack, the connection between the ATM and the bank servers is cut off and the machine is tricked into dispensing more amount than what is entered during withdrawal. This is done by inserting manually inserting a device at the back of the ATM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/another-case-of-atm-jackpotting-in-pune-101617207232484.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Long-distance trains to halt at Hadapsar station||Punekars will soon be able to hop on long-distance trains from the Hadapsar railway station as the first phase development work of the station is about to finish soon. Under the first phase, the extension of two platforms and installing one stabling railway track line was to be installed, the work is nearing completion and will be done by the end of April. “The work of the Hadapsar railway station development is going on, we have extended the length of platforms here as long-distance trains with a greater number of coaches can halt here. While an additional stabling railway track line has been constructed under the first phase, its work has started and will end by this month,” said Renu Sharma, Pune divisional railway manager. “While for the security of passengers across the Pune division, we are going to install 539 CCTV cameras at various railway stations. Until now, 140 cameras have been installed of which 60 are installed at the Pune railway station. The rest of the cameras will be installed by the year-end and the entire Pune railway division will be under the CCTV cameras vigilance,” added Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/longdistance-trains-to-halt-at-hadapsar-station-101617207112441.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 5,394 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, 616 buildings sealed||Mumbai on Wednesday reported 5,394 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) health bulletin. The metropolitan city witnessed a jump of 636 from Tuesday's daily tally of 4,758. More than 3,100 recoveries have been reported in the last 24 hours, as per the health bulletin.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The addition in the news cases has taken the Covid-19 tally of one of the hotspot of the country to 414,714 cases. Maharashtra contributed the highest to the active caseload of the country. India on Wednesday reported over 53,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the Union health ministry data showed.The surge in the Covid-19 cases in the city has reduced the doubling rate taken by the coronavirus to spread to 49 days, a decline of one day in the last 24 hours, as per the BMC data.The recovery rate in the city has also declined dramatically to 85 per cent that used to be over 94 per cent in mid-February. According to the health ministry data, Mumbai is among the top five districts with highest active Covid-19 cases in the state.The number of active containment zones (slums and chawls) in the city currently stands at 72, while the number of sealed buildings has reached 616 from 602 in the past 24 hours. The civic body is sealing residential societies with five or more cases. Night curfew has been imposed across Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-5-394-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-616-buildings-sealed-101617201329103.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid tally goes up again with 1,819 new cases; toll at 11,027||Delhi’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went up again on Wednesday with 1,819 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 662,430, according to the health department’s bulletin. The new cases are 827 more than that of Tuesday’s when 992 people had tested positive for the disease.However, Wednesday’s tally is 85 cases less than that of Monday’s- when 1,904 new cases were seen, the highest in more than three months.Nearly 400 people were discharged while 11 more succumbed to the disease on Wednesday. The recoveries and death toll in the national Capital have now climbed to 642,565 and 11,027, the bulletin showed. The total active cases are at 8,838.Even though cases in Delhi have been rising since late February, health minister Satyendar Jain on March 27 ruled out the possibility of another lockdown by saying it is not a solution to curb the spread of the disease. The Union health ministry, meanwhile, pointed out on Tuesday that Delhi along with Mumbai, Bengaluru Urban etc has the most number of active cases in the country.Delhi reports 1819 new #COVID19 cases, 399 recoveries and 11 deaths.Total cases: 6,62,430Total discharges: 6,42,565Active cases: 8,838Total deaths: 11,027 pic.twitter.com/l8AQUy0mDVA total of 67,070 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 36,808 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TruNat tests while the remaining 30,262 were rapid antigen tests, the bulletin added. Tuesday’s testing numbers were low due to a public holiday on the occasion of Holi on Monday.With a view to test more people in Delhi for the Covid disease, Jain said that the Delhi government will conduct up to 80,000 tests per day starting from Wednesday.This announcement of the health minister comes just a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that the government will increase the number of normal and intensive care unit (ICU) beds reserved for the infected patients.“This will improve bed availability. We are keeping close watch and will take all steps necessary. There is nothing to worry. But please follow all precautions,” Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-tally-goes-up-again-with-1-819-new-cases-toll-at-11027-101617203244390.html
31-03-2021||Other||Delhi- Meerut e-way opens today||MEERUT The long-awaited 96 km-long 14-lane Delhi- Meerut Expressway will be opened for traffic from Thursday. It will reduce the travel time between Meerut and Delhi to 50 minutes. Project director of the expressway Mudit Garg said that eventually the e-way would be operational from Thursday and traffic would be allowed on it from both sides. He said that a bridge near Chipiyana was still under construction, otherwise the entire 14-lane expressway would be operational. The toll barriers are also ready and files for approval of toll rates are with the ministry. Hopefully everything would be finalized within a week. Garg said that toll on the expressway would be collected only through FASTag and cameras had been fitted at different locations to keep commuters aware about their speed. The permissible speed on the expressway is 100 kms per hour for cars and 80 kms per hour for other vehicles. The toll on the expressway would be collected through scanning of number plates of vehicles and arrangements are being made with traffic department to send e-challan for violation of traffic rules and speed limits. The expressway will reduce travel time between Meerut and Delhi to 50 minutes. At present, commuters travel through NH 58 to reach Delhi and it takes over three hours to cover a distance of 70 kms. Commuters to Ghaziabad, Modinagar and Noida will also take less time to reach their destination. The expressway will also reduce travel time of commuters from Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Haridwar and Dehradun to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-meerut-e-way-opens-today-101617202313242.html
31-03-2021||Other||Sanitisation, contact tracing efforts of PMC hampered by infected, overworked staff||PUNE After fighting through the pandemic for more than a year, the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has unfortunately lost a few of its staff members to the infection, and even today, multiple staff members are infected with Covid-19. The result is hampering the sanitisation and contact tracing methods of the civic body. The civic body has also stopped posting banners and posters of micro- containment zones at buildings with multiple active cases. As the surge in cases continues to remain highest in Pune, the civic staff is not only involved in containing the virus, but also vaccinating citizens. A huge society which currently has more than 15 active cases from different families in Hadapsar, has not had any sanitisation done by the civic body, nor any officials coming in for contact tracing. Tanishka Gowda, a resident of Vardhaman Township which has these cases said, “We did not have any sanitisation done by the civic body. The society members took the job in hand and did it themselves. None of the civic officials came for contact tracing or put up the posters. We have delivery guys coming in and out every day. After much follow up the civic body did send a person but he was down with fever and said that he himself had to undergo a test.”Prashant Ranpise, chief of the PMC fire department, said, “We have long stopped doing sanitisation. Earlier, the health department staff would provide us with the required equipment and our men would sanitise the places. We have 10 members of the fire department currently positive. We did do sanitisation in the earlier months of the pandemic, but with fire incidents in the city and a shortage of staff we have stopped doing so.” Contact tracing and sanitising of a Covid-19 positive patient’s premises is crucial, as per the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) protocol to control the spread of the infection. As of Monday, the PMC claims to have traced 37,35,685 contacts for 2,59,112 Covid-19 cases, of which 9,64,295 are high-risk contacts and 27,71,390 are low-risk contacts. So, 14.4 contacts have been traced per case. However the central team in its last visit to the city had said that most of the contact tracing is limited to only family members of the patients and does not include social or professional contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sanitisation-contact-tracing-efforts-of-pmc-hampered-by-infected-overworked-staff-101617202312301.html
31-03-2021||Other||19-year-old woman gang raped in front of husband||Agra A woman was gang raped in front of her husband by three people in the forest area of Chalesar in this district on Monday. On Tuesday, a case was registered against two named people and one unidentified person for gang rape, loot and assault on the couple. Police claimed to have detained one of the named accused. The incident took place on Monday evening but the couple initially complained on Dial 112 about loot after reaching home. They were told to report the matter to Chalesar police in Etmadpur area falling on the way to Agra from Firozabad. The couple turned up at Chalesar outpost on Tuesday and complained about gang rape, loot and assault. The case was registered under section 376 (D) (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 394 (hurt in attempt of robbery) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Etmadpur police station. Two of the accused were identified as Gauri Rajput and Monu ,while the identity of the third person is yet to be ascertained. The victim woman alleged in the FIR that she and her husband were on their way to Agra city on a motorcycle on Monday evening. Three men on a motor cycle appeared near Jharna Nala and intercepted them. They dragged the couple to the forest area adjoining the road. The 19-year-old victim complained that she and her husband were forced to take off their clothes and she was gang raped by the trio. They also looted valuables and cash with the couple and thrashed them, warning them to not report the matter to anyone. According to victim, the accused were from Shahdara area of Agra. She named Gauri Rajput and Monu but did not identify the third accused. “A case has been registered at Etmadpur police station for gang rape, loot and physical assault against Gauri Rajput and Monu besides an unidentified person. Search is on for the accused,” said Satyajeet Gupta, superintendent of police (rural), Agra West. The victim was sent for medical examination and police claimed to have detained one of the accused for interrogation, but did not disclose his name, saying that the investigation was at a sensitive point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/19yearold-woman-gang-raped-in-front-of-husband-101617202072248.html
31-03-2021||Other||BJP demands Rs500 crore in funds for Pune to fight Covid-19||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged that the state government’s lethargic approach to tackling the Covid-19 situation in Pune is the cause of the daily case numbers rising. The BJP has also demanded a provision of ₹500 crore for the city, warning the state against a lockdown in Pune.A BJP delegation met Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar, and demanded an increase in testing and vaccination in the city. Pune member of Parliament (MP) Girish Bapat, mayor Murlidhar Mohol, city president Jagdish Mulik, standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane, house of leader in the PMC, Ganesh Bidkar, and former MLA Bapu Pathare, were part of the delegation.Bapat said, “We demanded the PMC increase its rate of testing as well as vaccination centres. Private hospitals have shown a positive response to the demand for beds. The state government should provide funds for Pune city to tackle the Covid-19 situation.”Jagdish Mulik, BJP city president said, “The state government should provide ₹500 crore to Pune city to control Covid-19. PMC is doing good work, but unfortunately the state government is deliberately ignoring its efforts. To control the pandemic is the duty of the state government. Despite that, PMC is doing remarkable work. Instead of helping people, the state has more interest in imposing a lockdown.”He further added, “The state should have to give packages to people as they are facing financial problems. We will conduct an agitation against the state government if it imposes a lockdown in the city.”Murlidhar Mohol, mayor, said, “We have instructed the PMC administration to increase vaccination and testing centres. We have also instructed an increase of five Covid-19 call centres to get updated information on the situation, like bed availability, ambulance service, testing centres, vaccination centres. The centres will work 24x7.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-demands-rs500-crore-in-funds-for-pune-to-fight-covid19-101617201712251.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Shortage of Covid vaccine hits inoculation drive at some centres in Pune dist||PUNE The district has been vaccinating at least 40,000 beneficiaries on an average daily, which is the highest in the state. As of Tuesday, a cumulative 6.65 lakh beneficiaries have got their first dose of Covid vaccine in the district. As most beneficiaries get the vaccine each day, some session sites ran out of doses and had to shut down the centres early on Wednesday.The administration had to shut down session sites at nine talukas in rural Pune, while in the city a few private hospitals could not start the vaccination process.Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health chief, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), confirmed the shortage of vaccines and said, “It is true that there is a shortage of doses and a few private hospitals have said that they had to shut the vaccination centres as they do not have doses. We had distributed all the doses which we had got at our storage, except for 700 odd doses, to the private and government centres.”“The hospitals schedule their appointments as per the doses available with them so no one is sent back. However, we will get a fresh stock of doses by Wednesday evening which we will distribute by late night,” she said.Ayush Prasad, Zilla Parishad, chief executive officer, said, “We had to stop vaccination at Junnar, Purandar, Bhor, Velha, Mulshi, Haveli, Daund, Ambegaon and Purandar. We also had to reallocate vaccines from some of our own sites to the other centres where we did not have enough vaccines. For Tuesday and Wednesday (March 30-31) we had only 20,000 doses which we had received from Solapur earlier.”At least 39,385 beneficiaries got vaccinated on Wednesday and the numbers are likely to increase as more people become eligible to get the vaccine from today.The government has opened vaccination for all above 45 years of age with or without comorbidities which earlier was restricted to only those with comorbidities in the age group of 45-59. With the district reporting maximum new cases in the state, the district administration is rushing to vaccinate a maximum number of people even as only a limited stock comes for every week.Dist gets fresh stock of 3.25 lakh dosesOn Wednesday evening, Pune received a fresh stock of 3,25,780 lakh doses of Covishield out of which PMC got 1,40,000 doses, Pune rural got 1,40,000 doses and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) got 45,780 doses and in the next few days, the district is expected to receive one more lakh doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shortage-of-covid-vaccine-hits-inoculation-drive-at-some-centres-in-pune-dist-101617201352249.html
31-03-2021||Pune||To tackle rising Covid cases, Nashik charges ₹5 for hour-long market visit||PUNE Nashik city police and municipal corporation have decided to charge ₹5 as fees for entering markets for an hour. Tuesday’s decision came as a bid to curb the crowd in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the Maharashtra city.However, a day later, people could be seen queuing up to pay the fee and collect their receipts at the city’s Cidco market on Wednesday morning, defeating the purpose of the move, even as police struggled to control the crowd.Some were not happy with the fee. “The new rule makes no sense. I had to pay ₹10 for two hours only to check the availability of a few things in the market,” said Aditi Kulkarni, a student.According to police officials, charges of ₹5 are applicable for an hour. Anyone found overstaying will be fined ₹500 under relevant sections of the Bombay Police Act.Justifying the decision, Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pandey said, “We have adopted a different approach. The intention behind charging ₹5 is to control the crowd and contain the Covid-19 surge.”The city has already witnessed lockdown twice during weekends this month. The state government is now planning stricter measures across Maharashtra to control the spread of the virus.Recently, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had also pointed out that people were not wearing face masks in public places, marriage halls were allowing more than the allowed number of guests, people were crowding market places and not observing social distancing and private offices were calling to work more than 50 per cent of staff in one go.However, the state has, for now, ruled out a lockdown, but could implement stricter curbs from the next week, said reports. The state government is likely to decide on shutting down restaurants, hotels, theatres and reducing business house hours in a meeting slated to be chaired by Thackeray this weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/to-tackle-rising-covid-cases-nashik-charges-5-for-hour-long-market-visit-101617197391986.html
31-03-2021||Other||Case against ex-DSP, who slapped POTA on Mukhtar, withdrawn after 17 yrs||LUCKNOW After nearly 17 years, the UP government has withdrawn a case of vandalism against former DSP, Shailendra Kumar Singh, who had invoked the Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA) against Mafioso-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari in January 2004, in Varanasi.In February 2004, Singh had to resign from service under political pressure and a case of vandalism was slapped against him a few months later. Singh said he received the court’s copy of the withdrawal of the case on Tuesday, which he shared on social media, thanking the UP government for it. He said the case had been withdrawn based on the report given by the assistant prosecution officer.The former DSP said he was harassed by the then government and his department bosses because of the action taken by him against Ansari and eventually had to resign and also face vandalism charges.Singh said the chief judicial magistrate’s (CJM) court in Varanasi ordered the withdrawal of the case against him on March 6. The FIR against him was filed at the Cantt police station in Varanasi for allegedly creating a ruckus at the district magistrate’s office. Singh was arrested and sent to jail.Asked whether he would rejoin the police force, Singh stated that he was busy with an organic farmhouse in rural Lucknow and quite happing with it.Recalling the incident, a retired DIG said Singh was in-charge of the Varanasi unit of the UP STF. The force was vigilant about gangs of Mukhtar Ansari and Krishna Nand Rai, after a shootout between them in Lucknow in 2003 following which some suspicious mobile phone numbers were put on electronic surveillance.“One suspicious conversation about a deal of providing a light machine gun (LMG) for ₹1 crore was intercepted by the STF. On the basis of this call, Singh claimed that Ansari was dealing with a fugitive army man to add LMG in his armoury,” the DIG said. He said Singh and his team arrested two people from Varanasi’s Chaubepur and recovered the LMG and cartridges on January 25, 2004, after which the POTA case was filed against Ansari and his henchmen.The investigation revealed that the mobile number, on which the LMG deal was carried out, was issued in the name of Ansari’s henchman. Political pressure started building up on the police after the FIR under POTA showing involvement of Ansari in the illegal purchase of the LMG, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-against-ex-dsp-who-slapped-pota-on-mukhtar-withdrawn-after-17-yrs-101617196611972.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Manufacturers unhappy with govt’s decision to reserve 80% of oxygen supply for medical use||PUNE A day after the state government issued orders to oxygen manufacturers to reserve 80 per cent of their output for medical purpose in the light of rising Covid-19 cases, various manufacturing units from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad have criticised the decision saying the diktat is unjust.The fabrication units, which require oxygen on a large scale, lamented that the government’s decision to supply only 20 per cent oxygen for industries will adversely affect the production.According to the new order issued under Disaster Control Act, Disaster Management Act and Maharashtra Essential Services Act, the 80:20 oxygen supply ratio will be effective till June 30, 2021.“In a normal situation, 80 per cent of oxygen output is used by industries, whereas 20 per cent for medical purpose. But now with the reversal of the ratio, it will have an impact on industries considering oxygen is basic gas which is used in all manufacturing companies,” said Bhushan Sahani, Sahani Gas Industries, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Bhosari.“As of now, the demand for oxygen for medical purpose is not high like last year (during the first wave). The demand has increased a bit in the last few days,” he said.The district currently has an oxygen requirement of 135 metric tonnes, which is fulfilled as there is an availability of 370 metric tonnes of oxygen.“If allocated cylinders for medical purpose as per the 80:20 ratio goes unsold then it will be a loss to the manufacturer as he will not be able to sell the same cylinders to industrialists. We are not against providing cylinders to hospitals, but the 80:20 ratio is harsh,” said one of the manufacturers from Bhosari on the request of anonymity.Sandeep Belsare, president, Pimpri-Chinchwad small-scale industries association, said, “Last year due to a similar order, rate of oxygen cylinders saw an upward trend and gave rise to black marketing. With this order, the government should also bring out GR that states the rates of oxygen cylinders will not rise.”Last year, the small scale industries had demanded the government to open a 1,000-tonne oxygen manufacturing plant in Chakan, but the work has still not started.“Chakan plant could have been a major relief for industrialists. Last year one oxygen cylinder (7 cubic metres) which cost ₹140 rose to ₹1,000. Such things should not happen this time as industrialists have already suffered in the last year. With the situation still not as bad like it was last year, the order could have been issued later,” said Belsare.The experts from the health sector, meanwhile, have welcomed the move.“The government order on oxygen is in the right direction as the spread of the second wave is much more rapid than it was during the first wave. The health sector has little time to prepare for the crisis. Only vaccinating people cannot be considered as a preventive step; we should be prepared for the worst,” said Dr Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer at Symbiosis hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/manufacturers-protest-govt-s-decision-to-reserve-80-of-oxygen-supply-for-medical-use-101617196311920.html
31-03-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh extends ban on bus operations with Maharashtra till April 15||Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday extended the suspension of passenger bus operations with Maharashtra till April 15 because of a huge surge in coronavirus positive cases in the neighbouring state.The MP government had suspended the passenger bus operations with Maharashtra from March 21 to March 31.In an order issued on Wednesday, the Madhya Pradesh Transport Department said the decision to continue the suspension of the inter-state operation of buses with Maharashtra has been taken given the rise in Covid-19 cases in that state.On Monday, Barwani district administration sealed its borders with Maharashtra excluding the Agra-Mumbai Road and Khetia Road.Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday reported 2,173 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of infections to 2,93,179.Maharashtra has been witnessing a steady rise in the number of coronavirus positive cases since the last few days.The state had reported its highest daily spike in cases on Sunday when it detected 40,414 new infections. As on Tuesday, Maharashtra's caseload stood at 27,73,436.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-extends-ban-on-bus-operations-with-maharashtra-till-april-15-101617195256245.html
31-03-2021||Other||Shun misconceptions about Covid vaccine, Deoband clerics advise people||MEERUT Clerics of Islamic seminary, Darul Uloom of Deoband, have advised people to shun misconceptions about the vaccine, saying that Covid jabs are a must to check the spread of infection. “Don’t buy any kind of misleading talk about the vaccine because vaccination is the only solution to get protection against Covid-19,” said Maulana Mufti Abul Kasum Nomani, mohtmim (vice-chancellor) of the seminary.Nomani, 74, and Maulana Abdul Khaliq Madrasi, 70, nayab mohatmim (deputy vice-chancellor) had taken the Covid vaccine shots at a primary health centre (PHC) of Deoband in Saharanpur district on March 15.They said “We were alright and appeal people to go for vaccination.” Another cleric, Maulana Badrul Hasan of Kandhla in Shamli district admitted that there are misconceptions among Muslims about the Covid vaccine and majority of them are not showing interest in getting vaccinated. He said the appeal of Darul Uloom’s V-C and Dy V-C after getting vaccinated would certainly have a positive impact on people and hopefully they would ignore unconfirmed information about the vaccine. Maulana Hasan, 51, also wants to get himself vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shun-misconceptions-about-covid-vaccine-deoband-clerics-advise-people-101617193971824.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Proposing a new governance structure for Delhi||The passage of the Government of National Capital Territory (GNCT) Bill sets the stage for a new cycle of confrontation between the Centre and the Delhi government. The new law circumscribes the already limited powers divested by the GNCT 1991 to the elected government. It does this by emphasising that “the expression ‘government’ referred to in any law to be made by the Legislative Assembly shall mean the Lieutenant Governor (L-G)”, drastically expanding the Centre’s powers.To a layperson, Delhi looks like any other Indian state, given that it has an assembly and a chief minister. In reality, it is a Union Territory (UT), despite the 69th amendment transferring limited powers to an elected government in 1991. All successive central governments continued to retain control over land, police and public order, with power exercised via the L-G. Taking a long view, it is important to recognise two things about Delhi. First, Delhi’s administrative arrangements have been unsatisfactory over the last 20 years. Second, changes resulting from the GNCT amendment are unlikely to improve governance and will make Delhi an outlier with respect to federal capitals.Also Read | NCT Bill gets presidential assent, L-G gets sweeping powers over DelhiBroadly speaking, there are three ways in which the governance of capital cities in federal countries have been organised. First, some capitals are organised as federal districts (Abuja, Brasilia, Canberra, Washington DC), with varying degrees of federal control over them. Second, some are organised as city-states (Berlin, Brussels, Buenos Aires), where the city government also carries out state functions. The third model is that of a city-in-a-state (Bern, Ottawa) where the capital is a municipality, under the state government. In the latter two models, there may be federal lands within the state or city boundary under federal jurisdiction, but the federal government has no hand in the governance of the broader metropolitan region.As a UT, Delhi is best compared with other federal districts. Abuja, Canberra, Brasilia and Washington DC share certain features with Delhi. Each of these territories lacks full statehood. Abuja is the most centralised where Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) is a federal ministry. This is followed by Washington DC, where the Congress retains the right to review and overturn laws created by the council. The Congress is presently debating a bill to provide DC with full statehood. In structure and form, Canberra and Brasilia are closest to Delhi, with popularly elected governments. While lacking full statehood, governments in both Brasilia and Canberra face no federal encumbrances in the day-to-day business of governance. Furthermore, both these capitals have significant powers over land and public security.What distinguishes Delhi from other federal districts is sheer size. Its population would subsume the populations of the above-mentioned cities. Its closest peer is Mexico City. In a significant development, Mexico City was upgraded from federal district to the country’s 32nd state in 2016. This was driven by the desire to provide more responsive government for residents.Among Capitals, Delhi’s governing structure is by far the most convoluted with a multiplicity of overlapping sub-national jurisdictions, including the Delhi government, New Delhi Municipal Council, Municipal Corporation of Delhi and Cantonment Board, each supervised by a different agency or government. Further, there are over 100 para-statal institutions involved in providing different services, often duplicating each other’s works in Delhi. An important step towards improving the management of metropolitan region would be to rationalise these bodies.Decentralisation of decision-making is important. There are alternative ways in which both the central government as well as local authorities can partake jointly in the management of the city. This might be achieved by a two-tier metropolitan authority. The first tier could be based on elected municipal councils for each of Delhi’s 11 revenue districts. These municipal authorities could provide local services (local roads, garbage, schools and public health, parks) and certainly be more responsive than existing local arrangements. The executive from these municipalities could then be brought together institutionally with the central representatives in a regional government with responsibility for land and infrastructure planning.For comparison, Mexico City, in addition to an elected governor, now has elected mayors for its 16 boroughs, and the state legislature is composed of a mix of directly elected and local representatives. In Australia, the Sydney metropolitan area is divided into 31 local governments, with the state government playing a coordinating role.Control over policing has been a major point of contention in Delhi. With the lone exception of Abuja, in other federal districts, the local governments have jurisdiction over at least some aspects of policing. Though the Australian Federal Police provide services for the Government of the Australian Capital Territory, it is done in agreement and under oversight with the Territory Government. It is the same in Washington DC. For Delhi, one option could be to provide municipalities with enforcement powers exercised through community police officers to ensure civil compliance, whereas the Delhi Police deals with criminal issues. The second option might be to transfer the Delhi Police from the Union home ministry to the new (jointly managed) Regional Government, while, as is presently the case, central armed police forces continue maintain security at central assets. Delhi’s governance needs a new re-imagination. Learning from international examples, and conceptualising a new structure, can be a way forward. Niranjan Sahoo is senior fellow, Observer Research Foundation Rupak Chattopadhyay is president and CEO, Forum of Federations, CanadaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/proposing-a-new-governance-structure-for-delhi-101617193012640.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi BJP stalled home delivery of dry rations to harass the poor: AAP||The Delhi BJP has stalled home delivery of rations in the city to harass the poor, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged on Wednesday.BJP-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi have inaugurated the scheme of providing dry rations to school children but distributed the same at only one MCD school, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj claimed at a press conference here.Responding to the allegation, the Delhi BJP said AAP leaders Saurabh Bhardwaj and Durgesh Pathak seemed to be in a daily competition to level baseless charges on the civic bodies.At the press meet, Bhardwaj claimed there was no clue whether four lakh students of MCD schools in Delhi will get dry rations or not."It's shameful that BJP-ruled MCD has distributed dry rations to only one MCD school, and the tender for this scheme is yet to be floated," he added."Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, North MCD mayor and other BJP leaders inaugurated this scheme in a school and that's about it. Don't they have any shame," Bhardwaj asked.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, however, said ration distribution to children in North Delhi Municipal Corporation schools has been started using unutilised rations from the mid-day meal scheme for which no tender is required.Tenders will be floated for the scheme after April, he said.Bhardwaj should stop misleading people and clarify why ration distribution in Delhi government schools was stopped after just one month, Kapoor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-stalled-home-delivery-of-dry-rations-to-harass-the-poor-aap-101617190227235.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: Temple fragments expose Pune’s Yadava era footprints||Even a good story teller finds it difficult to weave a seamless story of Pune when textual records stay unbearably silent for centuries. Yet, the city sometimes cannot bear the untold story and exposes the ancient remnants of a settlement to reveal hidden chapter of Pune’s past. Our journey so far tells us that the original settlement of Pune city situated at the confluence of various streams meeting the river Mutha. Streams such as Ambil Odha, Middle Odha and Nagzhari, flowing from the Katraj hills meet the river and their deposition on the either sides helped create safe mounds for habitation. It is around these areas one finds the original settlement of Pune growing in early medieval times.People tend to associate sacred importance to places of transition or transcendence, both in the physical and spiritual world. The concept of sacred tirtha originates from such ideas and one sees birth of a Tirthakshetra. Pune being a city of confluences of rivers and streams was no exception and the “sacred headquarters” of Rashtrakuta and Shilahara dynastic copperplates slowly take shape in the form of a sacred complex on banks of Mutha during the Yadava period.The Yadava dynasty, one of the most prominent early medieval dynasties of Maharashtra, ruled during the 12th century to 14th century CE from the capital of Deogiri, present day Daulatabad. It was the first dynasty which predominately used the Marathi language in their epigraphs and governance. This era saw a significant rise of Vaishnava Bhagwat sampradaya in the Deccan, and most Yadava kings claimed Vaishnava affiliations. The earlier predominantly Shaiva Maharashtra saw an extraordinary syncretism of Shaiva and Vaishnava cults and rise of several sects such as Varkaris, Nath, Datta Sampradaya and Mahanubhavas. Hemadri a polymath and prime minister who served three Yadava kings, was author of “Chaturvarga – Chintamani”, an encyclopaedic socio- religious treatise which laid a new way of religious life. In his “Tirthakhanda” chapter, he identified many important sacred tirthas and pilgrimages to these sacred sites became part of religious practice.Text of “Bhima Mahatmya” informs us of a rather interesting mythology of origin of river Mula and Mutha. It narrates the story of king Gajanak who was performing penance on the Bhimashankar mountain in service of lord Shiva. Lord Indra felt insecure about his position due to an anticipated Shiva’s boon to king Gajanak. He ordered two apsaras (celestial damsels) to create an obstacle in Gajanaka’s penance. Gajanaka, realising this conspiracy, cursed the apsaras and turned them into rivers. When the two apsaras apologised and asked for reversal of course, they were told that the confluence with the river Bhima will release them of the curse and they would be back to their original form. Such associations with the bigger sacred landscapes highlights the importance of Pune as a sacred place and helps realise the merit of pilgrimage. If we traverse the banks of river Mutha around Shaniwarwada today, the remnants of the Yadava period ghat leading to the river can be seen. Near the present Thorla Shaikh Salla Dargah, one comes across fairly well preserved stone staircase built with T-shaped dressed stones. For lack of datable markers it was not paid attention to, until recently. The retaining wall of the bank came crashing down a decade ago, and two incredible marvels of the Yadava period were exposed in the form of intricately dressed stones of two temples, known as Narayaneshwar and Punyeshwar. The memory of existence of these two temples was documented in Purandare Daftar, but it was only this revelation which provided us with real evidence. Local historian Pandurang Balkawade was instrumental in cleaning and shifting the remains to a museum of the Bharat Itihas Samshodhak Mandal in Pune where they are available for public viewing. The remains though, are not enough to give us a complete idea of the two temple structures help us arrive at following conjectures.The temple of Narayaneshwar was located near the banks opposite Shaniwadwada, next to the present Shivaji bridge and temple, given that Punyeshwar was located near Kumbharwada and the old Kumbhar Ves near the municipal corporation bridge.Both the temples were built in highly ornamental carved stones in dry masonry, colloquially known as hemandpanti style. These temples technically could be of Bhumija or Nagara mode, which was the prevalent style during the Yadava period. The Narayaneshwar temple doorway elements reveal that it was a probably a Vaishnava temple or a combined Shiva-Vishnu temple. The doorway of this temple has five shakha or decorative strips which are carved with Dashavtaras, or the 10 Vishnu incarnations. The Vaishanva dwarpalas are seen along with Garuda, a handsome Vamana, and vidarna Narasimha slaying Hiranyakshapu. The important evidences of existence of Narayaneshwar temple are seen embedded in structural elements of Thorla Shaikh Salla Dargah in the form of ornate central pillars of sabhamandapa and corbelled roof, even today. A highly ornate doorway at Dhakta Shaikh Salla Dargah stands testimony to temple of Punyeshwar. Overall, the sculptural quality of fragments indicates presence of fully developed temples with classical artistic Yadava expression.The location of Kumbharwada and Ves (gateway) might have been the boundary of the sacred Yadava era settlement during this period and one can witness few Yadava period herostones located there, even today. A few temple remains of a doorway and a broken lady figurine are seen at the Baloba Munja shrine near Surya hospital. A few more herostones from this era are scattered around the lanes of Kasba peth. The tale of these unknown heroes is for some other time. In the year 1994-95, a handsome sculpture of lord Vishnu was found by Dr Padmakar Prabhune near the Vaikuntha cremation grounds on the banks of river Mutha. This one-metre tall samabhanga sculpture has two arms, one in varada mudra and one akimbo. Shankha and chakra are seen on the shoulders and the icon wears a tall karandaka mukuta crown. The sculpture has a distinct south Indian influence and may belong to the late Yadava or Vijayanagara period. It is presently placed in a museum at Deccan College. These remains, however, do not shade light on the makers of the handsome monumental marvels. The sacred core of the Yadava era in Pune, however, could not stand against the whirling political winds from the north and were lost permanently from the map of Pune. The violent tale of the political and cultural upheaval of Deccan and Pune is for forthcoming columns!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-temple-fragments-expose-pune-s-yadava-era-footprints-101617188513402.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||UP MLA Mukhtar Ansari produced in Mohali court in extortion case||Days after the Supreme Court ordered the shifting of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari from Ropar jail in Punjab to Banda prison in Uttar Pradesh, the BSP MLA was brought to a Mohali court under tight security on Wednesday in connection with a case of extortion and criminal intimidation. Ansari, who was produced in the courtroom in a wheelchair, was brought from the Ropar jail in an ambulance with a UP registration number with police escorting the vehicle. The MLA from Mau in UP is facing trial in an extortion case based on the complaint of a builder in Sector 70, Mohali. The next date of hearing in the case is April 12. Also read: Hand over Mukhtar Ansari to UP in 14 days: Supreme Court to PunjabSpeaking to the media before he was taken back to the Ropar jail, where he has been lodged since January 2019, Ansari said, “I have been framed in a false case. I’m innocent.” On March 26, the Supreme Court ordered shifting him within a fortnight from Punjab to Uttar Pradesh, where he is wanted in several criminal cases. The apex court ruling came as a victory for the Uttar Pradesh government, which made marathon efforts to get him back to the state so that he can be tried for the cases against him. The UP government has been carrying out an extensive drive to demolish Ansari’s network in the state and has seized or demolished property worth ₹200 crore illegally occupied by him and his gang members. Moreover, several of his alleged gang members and aides have been gunned down or arrested since March 2017. Ansari’s wife writes to Prez seeking security for him Lucknow: Ansari’s wife has written to President Ram Nath Kovind urging him to ensure adequate security for him when he is transferred from Punjab to Uttar Pradesh following a Supreme Court direction.In her letter released to the media on Wednesday, Afshan Ansari claimed that her husband is an eyewitness in a case and the accused BJP MLC is threatening to kill him in connivance with the government machinery.Afshan said she fears that her husband might be killed “in the guise of a fake encounter” during his transfer from Ropar jail to Uttar Pradesh’s Banda prison.She also urged that if it is required to produce Ansari in court, the President should order the government to arrange central security force personnel “to accompany him from prison to court and back”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-mla-mukhtar-ansari-produced-in-mohali-court-in-extortion-case-101617188332545.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||'If Covid-19 cases keep rising..,' Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on future action||As Maharashtra continues to be the worst-hit state from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic across India, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the government is increasing testing, tracking and tracing of cases and will also increase the number of vaccination centres in the state.“Today, there is no shortage of beds, medicines, and doctors. If the number of cases keeps rising,then, we’ll have to take a decision,” Tope was quoted as saying by new agency ANI.With the overall Covid-19 situation worsening in Maharashtra since February 10, Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray ordered officials to come up with lockdown-like restrictions which will have less impact on the state’s economy. A night curfew has already been imposed by the government from March 28 across all districts and cities from till April 15 from 8pm-7am.As deliberations on a second round of restrictions are going on, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which is a part of the MVA government, said on Monday that Maharashtra cannot afford another lockdown. Speaking to ANI, NCP leader and state minority minister Nawab Malik said that the NCP has asked Thackeray to consider other options. He added that a lockdown can be avoided if people follow rules. To this, state government officials said that there will not be a complete shutdown but stricter restrictions will be imposed in a phased manner starting from the coming weekend.We're increasing testing, tracking & tracing in the State. We are also going to increase the number of vaccination centres. Today, there is no shortage of beds, medicines, doctors. If the number of cases keeps rising,then, we'll have to take a decision:Maharashtra Health Minister pic.twitter.com/bBBIXoauUoMaharashtra on Tuesday witnessed a slight dip in its daily Covid tally with 27,918 cases registered in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 2,773,436, according to the state health department’s bulletin. This is the first time that cases went below the 30,000-mark after six consecutive days. The low Covid-19 case count on Tuesday can be attributed to fewer tests carried out on Monday due to a public holiday on the occasion of Holi. Only 129,876 people were tested for Covid-19 on Monday compared to 136,848 tests conducted on Sunday.As many as 139 people succumbed to the disease while 23,820 recovered on Tuesday. The death toll and total discharges in the western state currently stand at 54,422 and 2,377,127 respectively while the active have climbed to 340,542, the bulletin added.Also Read| Covid in Maharashtra: Stricter curbs likely from weekend, not blanket lockdownThe Union health ministry said on Wednesday that Maharashtra along with seven other states- Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, contributed 84.73 per cent of the new cases recorded in India in the last 24 hours. Addressing a press briefing on Tuesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out that 10 districts- 8 belonging to Maharashtra, have the highest number of active cases across the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/if-cases-in-maharashtra-keep-rising-we-will-have-to-health-minister-tope-101617184163449.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi writer Taran Gujral passes away at 90||Punjabi writer Taran Gujral passed away in Chandigarh on Wednesday morning. She was 90 and suffering from age-related ailments. She is survived by two sons and their families. A writer of short stories and children’s literature, Taran also dabbled in poetry. Hailing from the Pothohar region of undivided Punjab, she was the soul of music gatherings in Chandigarh and its adjoining towns of Panchkula and Mohali, regaling audiences with old Punjabi folk songs. She was witness to two major displacements in her life, fleeing her native place, Gujjar Khan near Rawalpindi, as a teenager at the time of Partition in 1947. The family settled in Kanpur, where Taran was married. Sadly, she and her family had to migrate from Kanpur to Mohali after the anti-Sikh riots of 1984. Living in Chandigarh for the past 15 years since her husband’s death, her house had become a hub for writers. She published nine collections of short stories, a book of poetry along with children’s books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-writer-taran-gujral-passes-away-at-90-101617185692666.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet takes up direct payment to farmers||With the Centre firm on direct online payment of minimum support price (MSP) to farmers and wheat procurement to begin in April, the Punjab cabinet is meeting on Wednesday afternoon to discuss the issue and build consensus on its stand. State food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said: “I’ll raise the issue of the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme to farmers for the wheat crop and request all ministers to reach a consensus. What the Centre has proposed is against the state’s norms and in violation of the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act that governs the functioning of the state procurement machinery.” The Centre wants Punjab to make payment to farmers for the wheat crop by bypassing commission agents or arhtiyas, who are part of the existing system. Union food minister Piyush Goyal has rejected Punjab’s plea to allow the existing system and suggested the state amend its APMC Act. “This is not possible as it will be a direct hit on the country’s federal structure,” Ashu said. Punjab is the only state among the 12 procuring ones that is not making direct digital payment to farmers as mandated by the finance ministry’s Public Finance Management System (PFMS) order of May 28, 2018. It continues to pay farmers through arhtiyas under the Punjab Agriculture Produce Marketing Rules, 1962. Unlike neighbouring Haryana and other states, Punjab has not integrated its land records with the central procurement portal. Goyal has now written to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh seeking compliance and has suggested that Punjab follow Haryana’s software that enables details of tenant or sharecropper to be uploaded on the portal with a disclaimer that this would not be a legal proof for claiming ownership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-takes-up-direct-payment-to-farmers-101617183892351.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Fire at ICU ward of Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, 50 patients evacuated||A fire broke out in the high dependence unit or step-down intensive care unit of Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi early on Wednesday, officials said. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot and about 50 patients were shifted to other wards in the hospital.“A fire broke out at about 6.15am in the high dependence ward 11 in the H block of the hospital. It was most likely due to high voltage fluctuations leading to a short circuit,” said hospital spokesperson Poonam Dhanda.The ward is meant for patients admitted to the medicine department of the hospital in need of monitoring and some life-support.Also Read | Major fire at garments shop in Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar; 15 fire engines on the spotPreliminary visuals from the spot showed the beds and medical equipment of the ward covered in soot with no major visible damage.The low category fire was doused within a few hours, officials said. “A fire call was received today morning around 6.35am from Safdarganj Hospital. The fire was reported from the ICU of the hospital,” DFS chief said.Garg said the fire started from the ventilator which could have been because of a short circuit. “However, the exact reason can be known only after a proper investigation,” Garg said.The patients were moved to other nearby wards. “The fire was doused by our fire safety teams that have been trained by the fire department. All the patients were moved from the ward by the nursing and security staff on duty. There was no loss of life,” said Dhanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-at-icu-ward-of-delhi-s-safdarjung-hospital-50-patients-evacuated-101617179993252.html
31-03-2021||Bangalore||Cab services at Bengaluru airport affected after cabbie dies by suicide||Taxi services at Bengaluru’s Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) were impacted as several cab drivers in the city decided to stay off the road on Wednesday, a day after a driver attached to the airport taxi service of Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) immolated himself. Following the protests, Bengaluru International Airport Limited (BIAL) asked passengers to opt for bus services or personal vehicles to commute to the airport. “BIAL is working with the relevant authorities and airline partners to manage the situation related to the non-availability of taxis to and from Bengaluru airport. We are coordinating to make passengers aware of the situation to enable them to plan their travel by BMTC [Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation] buses or private transport,” said a BIAL spokesperson. Also Read | Review panel as Bengaluru accounts for over 60% of Karnataka’s Covid-19 casesThe driver, Pratap, 34, from Ramanagara district, died after he sustained over 70% burns early Wednesday. Officials at the Bengaluru airport police station said that Pratap arrived at the airport around 4.30pm on Tuesday. “After stopping his car near the pick-up point, he poured petrol on himself and set himself on fire. CISF [Central Industrial Security Force] men who saw the fire, immediately broke the car windows and pulled him out,” said the officials. Pratap was admitted to Victoria Hospital after primary treatment at a hospital nearby; however, he succumbed to the injuries on Wednesday. According to police, during the investigation, his colleagues said that he was facing financial problems and was unable to pay his car’s EMI since he was not getting enough trips. Tanveer Pasha, president, Uber, TaxiForSure and Ola drivers and owners’ association, said that several drivers like Pratap were suffering because of competitive pricing from cab aggregators and the recent inflation. “Cab services by KSTDC were not getting enough riders because Ola and Uber are offering rides at ₹9 or ₹10 per km. At the same, petrol prices are soaring, how can a driver repay the loan?” he said. He demanded that the government fix a uniform fare for all taxi services in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cab-services-at-bengaluru-airport-affected-after-cabbie-dies-by-suicide-101617178972083.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Setback to Badals as Shiromani Akali Dal out of Delhi gurdwara panel elections||In a setback to the Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Delhi gurdwara elections department on Wednesday said that the party is not eligible to contest the April 25 Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections as it had failed to give an undertaking that it’s a religious party.“The SAD’s party symbol of bucket has been seized. This means it is not in the fray for the DSGMC elections,” department director Narinder Singh said a day after seeking an undertaking from the SAD that it is a religious party.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who is a former deputy chief minister of Punjab, failed to give the undertaking, leading to the seizure of the party’s poll symbol.Narinder Singh, however, said that the SAD can field its candidates as independents in all 46 wards and will have to seek individual symbols from the returning officer of each ward.Reacting to the development, SAD leader Balwinder Singh Bhunder said, “The AAP government in Delhi doesn’t want the SAD to contest the elections, that’s why it has manipulated the orders. Our candidates will contest the elections even if it is as independents.”SAD sources said the party is planning to challenge the “arbitrary order” in the Delhi high court.Meanwhile, the filing of nominations for the DSGMC elections began on Wednesday.On March 19, the gurdwara elections department had issued an order that only registered religious parties will be allotted symbols to contest the DSGMC elections. This means only religious parties, registered as a religious society under the Societies Registration Act at least a year before the DSGMC elections, would be eligible to contest the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/setback-to-badals-as-sad-out-of-delhi-gurdwara-panel-elections-101617178731896.html
31-03-2021||Bangalore||Deeply moved, says Deve Gowda on PM Modi’s offer after he tests Covid positive||Former prime minister HD Deve Gowda on Wednesday tweeted that he and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19, prompting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to phone him and offer the Janata Dal (Secular) founder treatment at any hospital of his choice. Gowda didn’t take up PM Modi on his offer but promised to keep him informed about his health.“I am grateful to Prime Minister @narendramodi for calling and enquiring after my health. I am also deeply moved by his offer to get me treated in any hospital of my choice in any city,” 87-year-old Gowda tweeted, replying to the prime minister message on the micro-blogging site.“I assured him that I am being looked after well in Bangalore, but will keep him informed.”Spoke to former PM Shri @H_D_Devegowda Ji and enquired about his and his wife’s health. Praying for their quick recovery.Deve Gowda had announced just an hour earlier that he and his wife Chennamma had tested positive. The former PM said he and the other family members were self-isolating and asked people who came in contact with them over the past few days to get themselves tested. “I request party workers and well-wishers not to panic,” the JD (S) founder said on Twitter.I am grateful to Prime Minister @narendramodi for calling and enquiring after my health. I am also deeply moved by his offer to get me treated in any hospital of my choice in any city. I assured him that I am being looked after well in Bangalore, but will keep him informed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted soon after to say that he had spoken to the former PM and enquired about his and his wife’s health. “Praying for their quick recovery,” PM Modi tweeted, without mentioning details of their conversation.The former PM and his wife, who were living in state capital Bengaluru, have been admitted to the city’s Manipal hospital.Bengaluru is one of the 10 districts in the country that account for the majority of active Covid-19 cases in the country. The city is also responsible for a huge proportion of coronavirus cases reported in the state.The Karnataka government has already acknowledged that the state is battling a second wave of coronavirus infection after a surge in cases reported over over the last few days, sparking concern in the southern state and New Delhi.Data of new Covid-19 infections released by the Union health ministry on Wednesday indicates that the increase in active Covid-19 cases in Karnataka is next only to Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh.According to the Karnataka health department’s daily bulletin issued on Tuesday, 2,975 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the previous 24 hours pushing the active case count to 25,541 and the total since 8 March 2020 closer to the 1 million mark.Bengaluru accounted for 1,984 cases, raising the number of active cases in the city to 17,582. Bengaluru also accounts for 11 of the 21 fatalities reported in the state, taking the state’s death toll to 12,541.The state capital has reported around 13,000 cases in just a week, prompting the government to renew appeals to people to adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, hand hygiene and social distancing among people.“In order to contain the disease, I appeal to the public to observe proper COVID restrictions and avoid crowding, otherwise it will become extremely difficult to bring the situation under control,” chief minister BS Yediyurappa said this week after a meeting to review the spread of the disease in the state and the capital city. Yediyurappa assured people that the government did not intend to impose a lockdown but introduced temporary restrictions on people gathering in public spaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/former-pm-deve-gowda-says-he-has-tested-positive-for-covid-pm-modi-phones-him-101617178492040.html
31-03-2021||Bangalore||Taxi services at Bengaluru airport hit after death of cab driver||Taxi services at Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru have been impacted and authorities have asked people to make their own travel arrangements. This happened due to the death of a cab driver, news agency ANI reported.The airport authorities requested passengers to use the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) bus service for travel to and from the airport."Taxi services at @BLRAirport are impacted. Passengers are requested to use the BMTC bus service for travel to and from BLR Airport or make their own travel arrangements. Watch this space for updates," Bengaluru airport authority posted on Twitter.Taxi services at @BLRAirport are impacted. Passengers are requested to use the BMTC bus service for travel to and from BLR Airport or make their own travel arrangements. Watch this space for updates. #taxi #bengaluru #KIAB #bengaluruairport #airporttaxi #uber #ola pic.twitter.com/yZGYA93WObThe driver set himself ablaze inside his cab at the airport and later succumbed to his injuries in the hospital, the police said.The police have launched investigation and are looking at all the angles in order to find out the reason for the driver's death, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Bengaluru-Northeast Division CK Baba said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/taxi-services-at-bengaluru-airport-hit-after-death-of-cab-driver-101617177579043.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Late prof’s wife bequeaths property to IIT-Bombay||In a first, an 82-year-old woman, who is the wife of a late Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) professor, has bequeathed her property to the Powai-based institute. Nina Kar handed over her will to the institute on Friday to set up a chair professorship at the mechanical engineering department in the name of her husband Subir, who had retired as a professor of fluid mechanics at IIT-B in the early nineties. “It was my husband’s wish that our property be donated to the institute where he served for almost 30 years. We don’t have any ward to pass down our property to and this is for a good cause,” said Kar. The bequeathed property is a one-bedroom flat in Powai where Nina is currently living. She refused to reveal the monetary value of the property. Although bequeathing property to institutes is a common phenomenon in the western countries, this is the first such case for IIT-B, said institute’s director Subhasis Chaudhuri. Nina, a Bangladeshi Bengali, moved to Mumbai after her marriage to Subir in 1963. The couple stayed on campus until his retirement. It was only after his retirement that the couple moved to their Powai flat. Subir, who was among the first few batches of professors of the institute, was a well-known researcher in fluid mechanics, and was instrumental in setting up the biomedical engineering programme at IIT-B. In 1973, he helped establish the National Society for Fluid Mechanics and Fluid Power as a registered professional society to promote advancement and activities in aspects of fluid mechanics and fluid power in the country.In 2001, he passed away following a heart attack. “The will was drawn up before he passed away. I have only handed over the official document now. After my death, the property will go to the institute,” Nina said. Amit Agrawal, professor at the department of mechanical engineering who received the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar award in 2018, will be the first to occupy the Professor Subir Kar Chair Professorship. “It is a matter of great honour to be associated with a chair named after professor Subir. He played a crucial role in setting up the fluid mechanics society that brings researchers across the country together on a platform,” said Agrawal. “Professor Subir helped guide many PhD scholars,” said Chaudhuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/late-prof-s-wife-bequeaths-property-to-iitbombay-101617175073217.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||'Will ramp up Covid-19 testing, conduct over 80k tests daily': Satyendar Jain||Delhi's health minister Satyendar Jain has said that the Aam Aadmi party (AAP) government will increase the number of people being tested per day for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital from Wednesday. Jain said his government will take the number to over 80,000, according to news agency ANI.He further said an order was issued to increase the number of beds in ICU wards of private hospitals catering to Covid-19 patients, adding that there were enough hospital beds available for Covid-19 patients in government-run hospitals.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"From today, we're going to increase testing to over 80,000 tests daily. Yesterday, the government issued an order for increasing 220 beds in ICU wards in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. There is just 25 per cent occupancy in private and government hospitals in Delhi," Jain said.Delhi reported 992 coronavirus cases on Tuesday, while four more people died due to the disease, the health department said. The decline in the number of infections on Tuesday is being attributed to the fall in the number of testing on the account of Holi.The city had recorded 1,904 cases on Monday, the highest in around three-and-a-half months. It reported 1,881 cases on Sunday, 1,558 cases on Saturday, 1,534 cases on Friday, 1,515 cases on Thursday, 1,254 cases on Wednesday and 1,101 cases on Tuesday - the first time the infection count crossed the 1,000-mark since December 24.Meanwhile, over 38,000 people in the national capital received Covid-19 vaccine shots by 6pm on Tuesday, officials said.As many as 6,702 people got their second dose of the vaccine, they said, adding that 2,306 frontline workers and 1,539 healthcare workers got their first shots.Amid the sudden spike in cases, Jain last week dismissed the possibility of imposing another lockdown in the city, saying it was not a solution to check the spread of the pandemic that was resurfacing.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-conduct-over-80k-tests-daily-satyendar-jain-101617174202675.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport posts tweet about random Covid-19 testing, then deletes it||The Delhi airport on Wednesday tweeted that it will start random Covid-19 testing of passengers arriving from states where high number of cases of the infection have been reported. But minutes later, the tweet was deleted."As per the latest government mandate, District Disaster Management Authorities shall conduct random Covid-19 testing of passengers coming from states where the cases are rising," Delhi airport said in the now deleted tweet."After collection of samples, the travellers would be allowed to exit. However, those passengers who are found positive, shall be mandatorily quarantined as per the protocol of ministry of health and family welfare. We thank you for your cooperation and wish you a safe journey," a note accompanying the tweet said further.Delhi reported 992 cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday (in a 24-hour period) and its positivity rate stood at 2.70 per cent, according to a bulletin of the state health department. Four more people succumbed to the pathogen, the bulletin said.Officials said the low number of cases can be attributed to less tests conducted on Monday on account of Holi.The city had recorded 1,904 cases on Monday, the highest in around three-and-a-half months.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government on Wednesday said that it is going to increase testing in the national capital. "From today, we're going to increase testing to over 80,000 tests daily. Yesterday, govt issued an order for increasing 220 beds in ICU wards in private hospitals for Covid patients. There is just 25% occupancy in private & govt hospitals in Delhi," health minister Satyendra Jain said.Last week, Jain dismissed the possibility of imposing another lockdown in the city, saying it was not a solution to check the spread of the pandemic that is again surging rapidly.In the past week, Delhi recorded 1,881 cases on Sunday, 1,558 cases on Saturday, 1,534 cases on Friday, 1,515 cases on Thursday, 1,254 cases on Wednesday and 1,101 cases on Tuesday - the first time since December 24 that the number of cases crossed the 1,000-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-to-start-random-covid-19-testing-of-arriving-passengers-from-today-101617172107041.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests actor Ajaz Khan in connection with drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested actor Ajaz Khan in connection with a drug case. The actor’s name reportedly came up during the interrogation of arrested drug peddler Shadab Shaikh alias Shadab Batata, son of notorious drug supplier, Farooque Shaikh alias Batata.Shadab was arrested by the agency on March 25 when they raided his house and recovered 61 gram mephedrone and 160 grams ephedrine, both drugs, from his residence in Andheri. Shaikh was arrested under Narcotic Drugs Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.“During interrogation, Khan’s name cropped up and we have found some incriminating evidence against him,” zonal director Sameer Wankhede said on Tuesday. Khan’s questioning went on in NCB office at south Mumbai.Khan is a former Bigg Boss contestant and had returned from Rajasthan on Tuesday noon when NCB officials intercepted him and took him to their office where he was interrogated for hours before being placed under arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-actor-ajaz-khan-in-connection-with-drugs-case-101617171952546.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Students of non-board classes promoted without exam in Himachal Pradesh||Given the Covid-19 situation during the 2020-21 academic session, the Himachal Pradesh government has promoted all students of non-board classes to the next standard. An order to this effect was issued by state director, higher education, Amarjeet K Sharma on Tuesday night. Also read: Himachal sees 95% rise in Covid cases this week“Keeping in view the Covid-19 situation during the 2020-21 academic session and non-conduct of classes in physical mode, it has been decided to promote the students of all classes except those of Classes 10 and 12, who have taken their exams in March,” the order said. It said the students of board classes, who could not take their examination due to Covid-19 related reasons, will be given time to appear within the next two months. A decision will be taken after the deputy directors meet the heads of institutions and an internal exam will be conducted at the institution level in two months. The result of students who fail to appear in the exam within the next two months will not be declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/students-of-non-board-classes-promoted-without-exam-in-himachal-pradesh-101617168411762.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: ₹5 to enter market for an hour in Maharashtra's Nashik||Amid the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Nashik city police and civic body have decided to charge a fee from people to decongest market and check the spread of the infection.A fee of ₹5 will be taken from those who wish to enter the markets for an hour. "We are using a different approach to contain the Covid-19 spread in Nashik. We are issuing a ticket of ₹5 per person to enter a market area for an hour. It's an attempt to save the city from entering lockdown," said Deepak Pandey, Commissioner of Police, Nashik City on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMaharashtra registered 27,918 new Covid-19 cases and 139 deaths on March 30.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray recently said that the state would have to be put under lockdown if people continued to flout Covid-19 guidelines.Noting that people were not wearing masks, marriage halls were allowing more than the allowed number of guests, people were crowding market places and not observing social distances and private offices were calling to work more than 50 per cent of staff at once, the CM said the officials concerned should start to gear up for another lockdown.Health minister Rajesh Tope, too, said that since the citizens were not adhering to Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, the state administration was left with no other option. He also urged everyone to get themselves tested for the virus."ICU and oxygen beds are filling up fast as people are coming to the hospitals in a bad state because they got themselves tested very late. I appeal to everyone to get tested," Tope said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-rs-5-to-enter-market-for-an-hour-in-maharashtra-s-nashik-101617166708369.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out in Safdarjung hospital's ICU ward, patients safely evacuated||A fire broke out in the ICU ward of Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi early on Wednesday, officials said. The Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief said that a total of nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot and approximately 50 patients were shifted to other wards in the hospital.The fire of small category was doused within few hours, officials said."A fire call was received today morning around 6.35am for Safdarganj Hospital. The fire was reported from the ICU of the hospital," DFS chief said.Garg said that the fire started from the ventilator which could have been because of a short circuit. "However, the exact reason can be known only after a proper investigation," Garg said.Preliminary visuals from the spot of fire showed the beds and medical equipment of the ICU ward covered in soot with no major visible damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-safdarjung-hospital-s-icu-ward-patients-safely-evacuated-101617163622250.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||2 killed, 3 injured as truck runs over footpath in Delhi’s Kashmere Gate||Two people died while three others were injured after an allegedly speeding truck hit a scooter and then climbed onto a footpath in north Delhi’s Kashmere Gate where some homeless persons were sleeping on Wednesday morning, the police said. The scooter rider and one of the homeless people were killed. The errant truck driver was caught by a police team on patrol duty in the area. A case has been registered and the driver, Atiq Ahmed, arrested. The truck as well as the scooter involved in the mishap were impounded, a police officer privy to the development said. According to the officer, the accident took place around 6am when a truck coming from northeast Delhi’s Shastri Park hit a scooter after descending the Kashmere Gate flyover towards Outer Ring Road. Also Read | Two deaths during road accidents on Holi this year: Cops“After hitting the scooter, the truck climbed onto a footpath and ran over four homeless persons. The scooter rider was also injured. All the five persons were rushed to Sushruta Trauma Centre, where the scooter rider and a homeless man were declared brought dead. The other three are undergoing treatment,” said the officer. Police said the scooter rider has been identified as Vehram Khan from north Delhi’s Matia Mahal. The identities of the dead and injured homeless persons are still being ascertained. The truck was empty at the time of the accident. It was still being established if the truck driver fell asleep at the wheel or speeding caused the accident, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-killed-3-injured-as-truck-runs-over-footpath-in-delhi-s-kashmere-gate-101617166191629.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Wife has the right to pick court in matrimonial dispute, says HC||The right to choose the location of a court for adjudication of a matrimonial dispute lies with the wife, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said.The high court bench of justice Arun Monga made the observation while ordering the transfer of a matrimonial dispute from a Bhiwani family court to Mohali on the plea of a woman, a housewife.“Only in a case where the wife is residing outside India, the husband can institute proceedings where he is residing. Whereas, the wife can, in any case, file a petition in a competent court, within whose local limits she is residing. The said right has been exclusively conferred on a wife so as to keep her convenience in mind in the matrimonial matters,” justice Monga said, while allowing her plea.2020 disputeThe woman had sought the transfer of the 2020 case to Mohali from Bhiwani, where she and her husband were last living when he moved court in the matrimonial dispute. The man, who lives in the United States, had argued that his wife had sufficient means and could easily appear in the Bhiwani court. On the other hand, she had argued that she was currently living with her parents in Mohali, which was over 250km away from Bhiwani.Her father was a heart patient, while her two brothers were married and living separately, she had told the court, adding that there was no other male family member to accompany her to the court hearings. Therefore, it was difficult for her to visit Bhiwani.The court observed that ethos as manifested under Article 51-A of the Constitution of India envisaged that it will be the fundamental duty of every Indian citizen to uphold the dignity of women. In addition, as per Article 15 (3), power had also been conferred on the state to make special provisions for women and children. It was perhaps in this spirit that an amendment was inserted in the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, whereby, in case the wife was the petitioner, she could pick a court near where she was residing on the date of presentation of the petition, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wife-has-the-right-to-pick-court-in-matrimonial-dispute-says-hc-101617164991524.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Now, Delhi’s north municipal body wants jhatka, halal distinction||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday made it mandatory for restaurants and meat shops to display whether the meat being sold in the establishment is halal or jhatka. The north civic body passed a proposal regarding this in its House meeting. Similar proposals have already been passed by east and south civic bodies. The proposal stated, “Thousands of restaurants are in operation in 104 wards of four zone falling under North Delhi Municipal Corporation. Out of these, meat is being served in about 90% of restaurants but it is not displayed by them whether the meat being served by the restaurants is halal or jhatka. Similarly, it is not ascertained about the meat being sold at meat shops that whether the same is halal or jhatka. According to Hindu and Sikhism, eating halal meat is forbidden and against religion. Therefore, this meeting resolves that this direction be given to restaurants and meat shops that it should be written mandatorily about the meat being sold and served by them that jhatka or halal meat is available here.” In “jhatka”, an animal is slaughtered in one go while in “halal”, it is slaughtered in a way that it bleeds slowly to death. Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, said that people have their preferences but in restaurants, you cannot tell the type of meat being served. “Halal or jhatka meat can be seen written on the meat shops but such a practice is seldom seen in restaurants. So it is a healthy exercise to mention that halal or jhatka meat food is being served at the restaurants. The proposal has been approved keeping people’s sentiments in mind and there is no other reason behind it,” Prakash said. All the three corporations are ruled by Bharatiya Janata Party. The polls for civic bodies will be held next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/now-delhi-s-north-municipal-body-wants-jhatka-halal-distinction-101617163912618.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Dust incursion, strong winds likely in Delhi till tomorrow: IMD||Dry, dust-laden winds from Rajasthan are continuing to blow over Delhi, leading to a deterioration in air quality and visibility in the Capital.The average air quality index on Wednesday at 7am was recorded at 234 in poor category. India Meteorological Department scientists said air quality is likely to deteriorate further as strong, westerly winds are likely to blow over the city till April 1.According to the air quality early warning system for the national Capital region, under the ministry of earth sciences, dust transport from neighbouring states to Delhi is likely between March 30 and April 1. Air quality is likely to deteriorate further and reach very poor category on Wednesday. This is because surface winds from westerly direction are likely to blow at 25-35 kmph till Thursday.Also Read | Dusty winds add to pollution, mercury may rise from April 2The maximum temperatures are likely to fall by 3-5 degrees Celsius (°C) over northwest India during the next 2- 3 days, leading to abatement of heatwave conditions over Rajasthan from Thursday. Another heatwave spell is likely over northwest India from April 3.“Our models are showing that similar strong winds will prevail for the next 2-3 days. There is no moisture incursion over the region. Winds are blowing from dry regions to the west and northwest. Heatwave conditions were recorded over parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Delhi on Monday because of clear skies, uninterrupted solar radiation and low wind speed but we do not expect temperatures to go up now because of the winds. Maximum temperatures will shoot up again from April 2 or 3,” K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre had said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dust-incursion-strong-winds-likely-in-delhi-till-tomorrowimd-101617158451462.html
31-03-2021||Jaipur||12 sentenced for life in ’14 terror attack plan case||A local court in Jaipur on Tuesday sentenced 12 of the 13 members of the Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) to life imprisonment for planning a terror strike in Jaipur in 2014. One accused was acquitted in the case.“The accused were mostly engineering students, who worked for the terrorist organisation Indian Mujahideen (IM) and wanted to take revenge of Godhra riot, which took place in 2002. They were planning to plant bombs in Gaurav Tower and another crowded place in Jaipur. They were arrested in March 2014 by ATS (Anti-Terrorism Squad) and SOG (Special Operations Group),” said Liyakat Khan, the public prosecutor.Of the 12 convicts, six were arrested from Sikar, three from Jodhpur and one each from Jaipur, Pali in Rajasthan and Gaya district of Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/12-sentenced-for-life-in-14-terror-attack-plan-case-101617153350361.html
31-03-2021||Kolkata||‘Did call BJP leader’: Mamata seeks action against audio leak||Two days after a controversy erupted over a purported audio clip in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee was heard seeking help from a BJP leader to win the Nandigram seat, the TMC supremo has admitted that she called Pralay Pal after getting feedback that he wanted to talk to her.Speaking at an election meeting in Nandigram, Banerjee said, as a candidate, she has every right to call up a voter. “Yes I had called up this BJP leader in Nandigram. I had got the feedback that someone wants to talk to me. So I talked to him after getting his number. I told him to keep well, to take care of his health. So what is my crime?” the TMC supremo said.“But if someone makes the conversation viral that is a criminal offence. Action should be taken against the person who made my conversation viral, not me,” Banerjee said adding she will continue to call up people in the same manner in future.She recounted that in the past she reached out to people cutting across party lines and even opposition MLAs who sought her help.A controversy erupted on Saturday amid the first phase polling for 30 assembly seats in West Bengal with BJP releasing an audio clip in which Banerjee was heard cajoling the BJP leader from Nandigram to rejoin TMC and help her win the seat.A BJP delegation led by the party general secretary and its Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargia met the state’s chief electoral officer and handed over the audio tape. They said Banerjee was using her official position to influence the outcome of polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/did-call-bjp-leader-mamata-seeks-action-against-audio-leak-101617148286984.html
31-03-2021||Kolkata||BJP, TMC spar over death of 80-year-old||The death of 80-year-old Shova Majumdar in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district sparked a political slugfest in the state, just days ahead of the second phase of voting on April 1.While the Trinamool Congress targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party for alleged discrepancies in Majumdar’s death certificate and her age, the TMC has come under fire for an alleged assault on her last month.Majumdar, a resident of Nimta, died on Monday due to “severe internal hemorrhage”, according to a death certificate issued by BJP leader and doctor, Archana Majumdar.TMC’s Lok Sabha MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar hit out at the BJP leader for “violating medical ethics”. “Not only did she violate medical ethics and norms she also wrote that the cause of death was cardio-respiratory failure in an 80-year-old healthy lady. How can the BJP allege that the woman was fatally wounded while and the death certificate say she was healthy?” said Ghosh Dastidar.Also read | In Amphan-hit Sunderbans, aid ‘irregularities’ may hurt TrinamoolTMC’s Rajya Sabha MP and former president of the Indian Medical Association, Shantanu Sen said, “No doctor can cite internal injuries and haemorrhage as cause of death without a postmortem examination.”Majumdar was allegedly assaulted by some men on February 27. After photos and videos of her went viral, the BJP said that she was the mother of party worker Gopal Majumdar and blamed TMC for the attack.Denying the allegations, TMC leaders said that the BJP was making false claims with an eye on the polls. Majumdar was rushed to a hospital after the alleged assault and released only three days before her death. While Archana Majumdar could not be reached for comment, Bengal BJP leader Sayantan Basu said, “Dr Majumdar and I went to the Nimta Police station and demanded that a murder case be started immediately...”On Monday, Union home minister Amit Shah took to social media to condemn the incident. “Anguished over the demise of Bengal’s daughter Shova Majumdar ji, who was brutally beaten by TMC goons. The pain & wounds of her family will haunt Mamata didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters & mothers,” tweeted Shah.“Every death is tragic. However, the ‘tourist gang’s’ attempt to malign #Bengal and politicise the death of an 85-year-old woman is despicable...BJP leader giving gyan about #WomenSafety...,” tweeted TMC’s leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-tmc-spar-over-death-of-80yearold-101617147593982.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The rush-hour bats||The sun is gone, the sky is dark. Bats are flying over the lake, letting out shrill chee-chee cries. They are spilling out in all directions, as chaotically and in as large numbers as their human counterparts in the Rajiv Chowk Metro station, during the rush hours of the BC (before corona) era.This is one of the most surreal sights to experience in the Capital. Every day, just after sunset, hundreds of bats start flying over and around the lake in south Delhi’s Deer Park.This evening the crowd of regular walkers has almost disappeared, and the stage is left empty for the flying bats’ performance. They are flapping their wings in great restlessness, and are noisily streaming through the air. It is difficult to see anything in the dark—sky, water and trees are in varying shades of black. The bats are discernible only because they are of the darkest hue.One swiftly notices that the mammals are flying out of a small tree-filled island in the lake. The island is inaccessible to visitors but, during the day, scores of those tree-clinging bats are easily visible from the park’s walking tracks—hanging upside down from the branches, and probably sleeping, as is the habit of nocturnal animals.To be sure, Delhi harbours a great number of bats. The trees along the Janpath avenue, in the central part of the city, teem with them. In the evening, as their day begins, the creatures drift across like smoke, but one is likely to be stuck in traffic at that hour, and the bats, flying high up above the trees, go unnoticed.But here in Deer Park, they emanate out of the island and course through the empty space most majestically, some flying towards Hauz Khas village, some towards Safdarjung Enclave in the opposite direction, and some towards Green Park.This evening the moon is in (almost) full bloom, and to see the bats going about this white orb fills the senses with intense thrill. It’s like being in a dream, or perhaps a nightmare, depending on your feeling about these unique creatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-rush-hour-bats-101617144387767.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Dusty winds add to pollution, mercury may rise from Apr 2||Dry, dust laden winds from Rajasthan have started blowing over Delhi leading to a deterioration in air quality and visibility in the Capital.The average air quality index on Tuesday was recorded at 232, in the “poor” category. The concentrations of PM 10 (coarse pollution particles) spiked from 224 micrograms per cubic metres to 326 micrograms per cubic metres at 4pm, according to data with the Central Pollution Control Board.The PM 10 concentration at 9pm was 361.1 micrograms per cubic metres. The 24-hour safe standard for PM10 as per CPCB is 100 micrograms per cubic metres.Scientists from the India Meteorological Department said the air quality is likely to deteriorate further as strong, westerly winds is likely to blow over the city till April 1.“The change in the colour of the sky is mainly due to dust. There is loose soil floating around and strong winds is raising this soil and dust particles. Westerly winds, which is blowing at about 40kmph, is also bringing dust from Rajasthan. These conditions will continue till April 1, following which temperature will rise further,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.The relative humidity was only 16% to 17% on Tuesday afternoon.According to IMD scientists, dust raising winds are affecting the entire Indo-Gangetic Plains region.“Our models are showing that these strong winds will prevail for 2-3 days. There is no moisture incursion over the region. Winds are blowing from dry regions to the west and northwest. Heat wave conditions were recorded over parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi on Monday because of clear skies, uninterrupted solar radiation and low wind speed. But the strong winds will help keep the maximum temperature in check for now. Maximum temperatures will shoot up again from April 2 or April 3,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.A severe heat wave condition affected Delhi on Monday, as the maximum temperature shot up to 40.1 degrees Celsius — at least eight degrees above normal and the highest March temperature since March 31, 1945 .The maximum temperature recorded at Safdarjung observatory — which is taken as the official marker for Delhi’s weather — on Tuesday was 37.9 degrees Celsius, six degrees above normal.The minimum temperature was recorded at 19 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal.For the plains, a heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least 4.5 notches above normal.A severe heatwave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.In Delhi, the normal maximum temperature for March-end is 30-32 degrees Celsius.Heat wave can also be declared when the actual maximum temperature remains 45 degrees Celsius or more for a day irrespective of normal maximum temperature, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dusty-winds-add-to-pollution-mercury-may-rise-from-apr-2-101617143553027.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||No decision on when new NCT law will take effect; staff await clarity||Officials and experts said they are waiting for the Gazette notification from the Union home ministry, bringing into force the national capital’s new administrative framework, and which will decide crucial questions on subjects that fall exclusively under the domain of the Lieutenant Governor, the future role of the Delhi assembly, and the definition of “day-to-day administration”.The Union home ministry is yet to decide on the date from which the controversial Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (amendment) Act, 2021 will come into effect, senior MHA officials said on Tuesday, even as Delhi government officials outlined a number of areas where they need clarity.There is also some concern whether the staff strength in the office of the Lieutenant Governor -- now the government, according to the law -- is adequate to handle the increased volume of paperwork as all files will now have to be sent to him.On Sunday , March 28, the Union ministry of law and justice issued a gazette notification to the effect that the law has received the President’s assent. But a senior home ministry official said on condition of anonymity that a decision on when the law will come into effect hasn’t been made yet.With government offices resuming on Tuesday after a holiday on account of Holi, the Delhi government, in its first reaction since, said it still is exploring its legal options.“Certainly, the Supreme Court is one way for us to appeal against this black law. But a final decision will be taken only after our discussions with legal experts are over,” said Gopal Rai, Delhi environment minister and convener of Aam Aadmi Party’s Delhi unit, who insisted that the law went against a July 2018 Supreme Court judgement that demarcated power between the government and the L-G.Also read | Switzerland Ambassador meets Kejriwal, Sisodia over Covid strategyOfficials in the Delhi secretariat, from where the Delhi government functions, said there is ambiguity on several aspects. “The Act makes it amply clear that all files will have to be sent to the L-G and all functionaries will have to wait for the files to return from the L-G’s office -- an additional process which could delay day-to-day administration -- but will the L-G actually ask all files to be routed through him or will there be specific topics or subjects that he would like to remain informed about? We are hoping that the ministry of home affairs will clear such doubts in its final notification,” a senior official said on condition of anonymity.Shakti Sinha, a retired IAS officer who has served in the Delhi government, said the law actually clears all ambiguities that currently exist in Delhi’s governance, which leads to frequent confrontations between the L-G and the political executive , with bureaucrats caught in the middle.“This law clarifies the provisions of the Constitution. Even the Supreme Court judgment of July 2018 stated that the L-G should work in the aid and advice of the council of ministers, but until now, L-G could hardly give his opinion on anything because no file except those on land, police, law and order and services used to go to him. Previous governments in Delhi have operated the same way (as prescribed by the new law) -- all files used to go to the L-G -- and yet their functioning never used to be hampered. This Act will also clarify which files will need to go to the L-G and which won’t,” he said.The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter, but officials at Raj Niwas said on condition of anonymity that the L-G’s secretariat might need more staff.“Right now, the team of the L-G’s office is relatively small. There is one senior official each for matters related to the police, services departments, DDA, municipal corporations and day-to-day governance. With all files coming to the L-G’s office, a restructuring may be required, which may include recruiting more officials,” said one official .An official in the Delhi Assembly secretariat said one of the ambiguities that need clarity is the definition of “day-to-day administration”. For instance, this person added on condition of anonymity, would a committee looking into riots such as the February 2020 one, be allowed. The assembly does have such a panel.Former secretary of the Lok Sabha and the Delhi Assembly SK Sharma said the Act will render the assembly useless. “It may well be disbanded in that case as the law now even raises questions over the validity and necessity of having Question Hour in the House,” he said.PDT Achary, former secretary-general of Lok Sabha said the law will increase red-tape. “There will be a lot of back and forth of files. The L-G now has the power to pick up any matter and send it to the President for his opinion if he differs with the Council of ministers. A lot will also depend on how the L-G and the political executive balance their powers.”Sinha said what the law proposes is practiced in a similar fashion in Washington DC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-decision-on-when-new-nct-law-will-take-effect-staff-await-clarity-101617142396833.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: New school board to bank on AI for assessment||The Delhi government plans to introduce the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and game-based techniques for continuous assessment of students under its new state school education board, officials said after the board’s first general body meeting on Tuesday.The Delhi cabinet approved the Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) on March 6. The society for the board was registered on March 19. The board is likely to be operational for up to at least the middle-school level (up to Class 8) from the upcoming academic session.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, who is the head of the board, said students will be assessed holistically on the basis of their knowledge, attitude, and skills. “DBSE will employ effective modern technology available today to ensure a personalised learning experience for our students. AI and game-based assessments will be put to use to create a system where every student is regularly evaluated on the basis of their strengths...,” he said in a statement on Tuesday.Shailendra Sharma, the principal advisor to the directorate of education (DoE), said the new education board will focus on assessing students on the basis of their skills and not just classroom learning. “Conventionally, board assessments are designed as pen-and-paper tests only. They test subject knowledge which is to be recalled by students during one exam. But in this day and age, we also need to assess the application of knowledge, the extent of understanding, and attitudes like empathy, teamwork, collaboration, problem-solving abilities,” he said.Also read | Pvt schools fund vaccine shots for staffersThe board will use AI to provide teachers with real-time learning feedback. Under game-based assessments, students will be given situations or be involved in activities to evaluate their skills and understanding.Sharma said the government will also look at assessment models used abroad. “The purpose of setting up the Delhi board is not to replicate the existing models. We are basically looking at how assessment can complement the teaching-learning process in class across all grades. This is why we will explore the most contemporary models followed across the globe,” he added.Educationalist Meeta Sengupta said that while the use of AI and game-based tools in assessment will be “a refreshing change”, it will not be without its challenges. “It’s also an incredibly complex process where one has to be very careful about ethics and empathy. It should be used without intruding on privacy and without making bad assumptions.”Principals of several government schools too welcomed the idea. Awadesh Kumar Jha, head of Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini, said, “There is a requirement of reforms in the existing assessment process. We need to evaluate students holistically in order to make them understand their strengths and weaknesses. The game-based assessment will of great help, especially for the younger students.”Aparajita Gautam, president of the Delhi Parents Association, said that the government should create awareness about changes it was planning to bring in the education system among parents . “It is a great idea. But the government needs to inform parents about it by roping in the school management committees. These are things that parents might not understand easily,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-school-board-to-bank-on-ai-for-tests-101617142057471.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Two deaths during road accidents on Holi this year: Cops||Two people lost their lives in separate road accidents reported from Civil Lines and Dwarka during muted Holi celebrations in the city on Monday, showed Delhi Police data.Except for the two fatalities, no more accidents were reported this year. There were 23 road accidents reported during Holi celebrations in 2020 and 28 in 2019. The city saw seven deaths because of mishaps in 2019, data showed.To be sure, Holi was on March 10 last year, nearly two weeks before curbs were put in place to stem the spread of Covid-19.Of the total fines issued on Monday, 1,255 were for riding without helmets, 170 for triple riding, 100 for drink driving, 121 for dangerous driving while 1,800 were for other traffic violations, the data said.Police officers attributed this decline to heavy deployment of their personnel on the streets and restrictions imposed in the city following the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA’s) Covid-19 guidelines that banned Holi celebrations and gatherings in public places. Owing to massive awareness campaigns through newspapers, news channels and social media, there was better compliance observed this year, officers said.As far as action taken for violations of DDMA guidelines regarding Covid-19 is concerned, 72 cases were registered for celebrating Holi in public places. As many as 871 people were prosecuted or arrested for various violations such as drinking in public places, disturbing peace, obstructing or annoying people on streets, not wearing masks and not following social distancing, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said.“We also impounded 1,696 vehicles. No major incident was reported during Holi this year. Delhi Police takes this opportunity to thank all stakeholders for extending their cooperation for celebrating Holi while observing Covid appropriate behaviour,” said Biswal.Apart from the police, the Delhi government also issued challans for mask and social distancing-related violations.According to government data, all 11 revenue districts on Monday issued 2,758 fines, with north district topping the chart with 607 fines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-deaths-during-road-accidents-on-holi-this-year-cops-101617141830042.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Pvt schools fund vaccine shots for staffers||Several private schools in the national capital have started chalking out plans to arrange Covid-19 vaccinations for teachers, ahead of the new academic session and the upcoming Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams.The Union government had last week announced that everyone above the age of 45 will be eligible for a coronavirus vaccine from April 1.Following this, several private schools have started booking vaccination slots for their staff, while some have also urged the district administration to allow all their staff members, irrespective of their age, to get the vaccine shots, and consider them as “frontline workers”, who are among the target groups eligible to receive the jabs.For instance, Mount Abu Public School in Rohini has booked an April 1 appointment in a private hospital for all their staffers aged 45 and above. The school has also asked the north-west district administration to consider allowing jabs for all of the staffers of the school. School principal Jyoti Arora said, “The school has decided to sponsor the vaccination for all our staff members who are willing and are eligible as per government guidelines... We hope that all our staff members can get at least the first shot before we start the academic session on April 5.”The new academic session is scheduled to begin from the first week of April. While online classes will continue for students up to Class 8, those in classes 9 to 12 are likely to attend schools in-person. The CBSE Class 10 and 12 board exams will be held from May 4 to June 10, and results will be declared by July 15.Also read | Govt to ramp up Covid-19 beds as Capital adds 992 fresh infectionsThe administration of Mount Carmel Schools also said they want their staff members, even those aged below 45, to get vaccinated before classes kick off. “We want to start the new academic session with a carefree mind and for that we need all our staff to be vaccinated,” said Michael V Williams, dean of Mount Carmel Schools.Meenakshi Khushwaha, principal of Birla Vidya Niketan in Pushp Vihar, said that she has also written to the district administration to allow all their staff members to get vaccinated. “We are planning to start a new academic session online for all classes till our all teachers get vaccinated and the situation normalises,” she said.Several schools have already begun vaccinating their eligible teachers in groups on a voluntary basis. For example, in Springdales School a large chunk of eligible teachers was vaccinated last week. Principal Ameeta Wattal said, “Our teachers are front-line workers too. They meet students on a daily basis. They will soon start taking classes as the new academic session, they will also work as invigilators in the upcoming CBSE board exams, and then evaluate the board exam answer scripts. They need the vaccine as much as the hospital staffers do.”Others, including Shri Ram Schools, and Bluebells School International have also started the vaccination process for their eligible teaching and non-teaching staff in collaboration with private hospitals designated as vaccination centres.Apeejay Schools are also planning similar arrangements for their employees“The Apeejay group has already completed vaccinating all its staff, including teachers, aged above 60, and now a similar drive is expected to begin soon for those who fall in 45-year-old and above age group,” said Smita Amit, principal, Apeejay School, Saket.In government schools, a majority of the teachers who were on Covid-19 duty have been vaccinated under the “frontline category”.Officials at several district administrations said central and state government guidelines will determine if teachers aged below 45 can be vaccinated.“There have been requests to allow shots for these teachers and to consider them frontline workers. However, this will depend on approvals from the state health and welfare department,” an official at the north-west district administration said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pvt-schools-fund-vaccine-shots-for-staffers-101617141576168.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Switzerland Ambassador meets Kejriwal, Sisodia over Covid strategy||Switzerland’s Ambassador to India, Ralf Heckner, praised the Delhi government’s work in Covid-19 management, according to a press statement issued by the chief minister’s office, following a meeting between Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Heckner on Tuesday.“During the meeting, ambassador Heckner praised the various steps taken by the Delhi government to deal with Covid-19 despite difficult circumstances... He (Heckner) said that even under such difficult conditions, the Delhi government managed Covid-19 successfully,” said the statement.According to the release, Kejriwal informed Heckner about the Delhi government’s strategies to manage hospital beds when Covid-19 cases peaked, launch of a mobile application for real-time information on bed availability across hospitals and his plans to launch a cloud-based health management system later this year.Also read | Govt to ramp up Covid-19 beds as Capital adds 992 fresh infectionsDelhi, currently, is witnessing a resurgence in Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, the Capital recorded 992 new cases, with a positivity rate of 2.70%, and four more deaths, according to the government’s health bulletin. In 2020, Delhi recorded three distinct phases of severe spikes in Covid-19 cases and at its worst, recorded 8,593 new cases on November 11.Currently, 4,832 Covid-19 patients in Delhi are in home isolation.The statement said, “The Delhi government adopted the method of home isolation to deal with Covid-19. Under this method, serious patients were admitted to the hospital, while under-treatment patients (with mild symptoms or no symptoms) were treated at their homes. The home isolation method was very successful and it was later adopted in other states of India and outside India.”Kejriwal and Heckner also discussed the Delhi government’s initiatives to fight air pollution, including the government’s policy to endorse electric vehicles (EV) and collaborate with top institutes to set up centres capable of real-time analysis of the wide range of sources of air pollution in the city.The statement said, “The Delhi government is also taking the support of IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Delhi and TERI.”They also discussed the Delhi government’s plans to promote tourism, said the press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/switzerland-ambassador-meets-kejriwal-sisodia-over-covid-strategy-101617141267476.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra rules out statewide lockdown for now, localised curbs possible||Amid opposition from ally Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) over Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s plan of a statewide shutdown to curb the surge in Covid cases, state officials on Tuesday ruled out a blanket lockdown but assured stricter curbs in a phased manner from next week.The state government is likely to decide on shutting down restaurants, hotels, theatres and reducing business house hours in a meeting slated to be chaired by Thackeray this weekend, the officials added. “Though it would not be a blanket lockdown, we are using the term to have a psychological impact on the minds of the people. We are now in favour of shutting down interstate or interdistrict travel or bringing down the industrial commercial activities to a halt,” an official from Mantralaya said on condition of anonymity.Also watch | Covid: Centre explains 5 steps discussed with States to curb virus spread﻿﻿“But at the same time, the crowd and gatherings at public places need to be brought down considerably. For this, the operation of market places, shops and establishments need to be curbed. It is necessary to see that private and public offices operate at minimum possible capacity so that crowding in trains and buses is reduced,” the official added. The state on Tuesday reported 27,918 fresh cases, two days after recording the highest 40,414 infections in a day, taking the tally to 2,773,436, the health department announced. With 139 patients succumbing to the infection, the toll in the state mounted to 54,422, it added.Also read | With 27,918 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra’s tally at 2,773,435In view of the rising cases, Thackeray had directed officials to start preparing for another lockdown as citizens failed to follow Covid protocols. State minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik, however, said the state “cannot afford any lockdown” and had asked the chief minister to consider other options.Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope also hinted at stricter curbs rather than a complete lockdown. “We will impose stricter restrictions first before a complete lockdown. Nobody wants the lockdown but it would be the last resort if the number of new patients exceeds the number of beds available in hospitals and Covid care centres. Before that, we are checking if restaurants and theatres need to be completely shut as crowding in these areas is more,” he said.Authorities at the state and city levels are reportedly lagging to track and test people arriving from other areas mainly due to shortage of manpower and non-cooperation from citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-rules-out-statewide-lockdown-for-now-localised-curbs-possible-101617137905779.html
31-03-2021||Other||Mohali MC proposes ₹148 crore budget for 2021-22||With no new project and no fresh tax, the municipal corporation (MC) of Mohali has proposed a budget of ₹148 crore against an expenditure of ₹146 crore, with ₹2 crore surplus for the year 2021-22.In 2020-21, the MC House had approved a budget of ₹268 crore, but the Punjab local bodies department had imposed a cut of ₹141 crore and approved only ₹127 crore.The budget for the year 2021-22 will only be approved in the first meeting of the House. Though the results of the MC elections were declared on February 18, Punjab is yet to notify it and the elected councillors are yet to take oath. For the last five years, the civic body has been facing a budget deficit. ₹75 crore proposed for park maintenanceNow that all parks of the new sectors 76 to 80 have been transferred from the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) from April 1, the civic body has proposed a budget of ₹75 crore out of a total ₹100 crore as they have already received ₹25 crore from GMADA for park maintenance.In 2019-20, the MC had proposed a ₹22.2-crore deficit budget, and in 2018, the MC passed ₹128 crore annual budget showing ₹15 crore deficit for the 2018-19 fiscal.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “Due to the pandemic, we suffered a loss of nearly ₹10 crore, but we will now focus on increasing the collection from various factors like building application fee, licence fee and tehbazari (licence to squat and sell goods in a particular location). This will give us a boost of nearly ₹10 crore. Also, the budget will be approved in the first House meeting of the councillors.”Revenue curtailed due to Covid in 2020-21The MC had expected to earn ₹28 crore from property tax, but got only ₹17 crore; from excise duty, MC was to get ₹30 crore, but got just ₹12.5 crore from the state government.A major blow came in the form of unipole advertisers when the state government waived off the ₹5-crore fee for six months after six companies sought it citing no revenue earned. The civic body was to earn ₹11 crore, it got only ₹1.42 crore from advertisers as most of them did not even pay their pending dues. On the account of tehbazari fee, MC was to collect ₹60 lakh, but earned only ₹32 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mc-proposes-148-crore-budget-for-202122-101617136730271.html
31-03-2021||Other||Panchkula man held in Ambala’s Kalka Chowk shootout case||Almost five days after two men were shot dead and two others were injured in a suspected gang war at Ambala’s Kalka Chowk, a Panchkula man has been arrested for his alleged involvement in the case, the police said on Tuesday.In a statement, Ambala police said, “Rakesh Kumar, 32, of Panchkula’s Indira Colony was arrested and presented before a court on Tuesday and was taken into four days of police remand.”On further details and involvement of any gang, senior officials of the police including SSP Hamid Akhtar remained incommunicado. However, it has been learnt that the police don’t want the details to go public that might hamper the arrest of other assailants.On March 25, some unknown men fired indiscriminately killing Pradeep, alias Panja, and Rahul on the spot, while Gaurav and Ashwani were injured. The police suspected it to be a fallout of a 2019 turf war at Ambala Central Jail between members of the Bhupi Rana and Lawrence Bishnoi gangs.Ashwani is a resident of Manimajra, while the other three are from Mauli Jagran. Gaurav was their driver, police said.Four crime investigation teams were on the assailants’ trail since the shootout at one of the busiest chowks of the district, where nearly 20 shots were fired by the accused on their Verna car, who were following the men in their Swift car registered in Kurukshetra.The CCTVs at the crime spot were also found to be defunct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchkula-man-held-in-ambala-s-kalka-chowk-shootout-case-101617136670589.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||14 more Punjabi University faculty members resign from administrative posts||The ongoing crisis at Punjabi University, Patiala, deepened on Tuesday as 14 more senior faculty members resigned from their administrative posts and two key meetings of the syndicate and finance committee were postponed indefinitely in the wake of a tiff between officiating vice-chancellor Ravneet Kaur, a senior IAS officer, and the staff. Prof Manjit Singh put in his papers as director of the placement cell, Prof Bhupinder Singh Virk as university legal adviser, Jaswinder Singh as coordinator placement cell, Balraj Singh as director incubation centre and Prof Sarbjinder Singh as incharge of the publication bureau. The meetings were to be held to finalise and approve the budget for the 2021-22 financial year. The varsity had even extended an invitation to the syndicate members 10 days back for a meeting scheduled for Monday, but no agenda was released for the meeting.Last week, 28 top varsity officials, including the dean of academic affairs, a key member of the syndicate, and the registrar tendered their resignation from their administrative charges. The Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA) is at loggerheads with the officiating V-C over alleged delay in promotions and other administrative issues. Besides, the union has accused Kaur of working in an autocratic manner.“No one from the V-C’s office informed us of the meeting being cancelled or postponed. We came to know about it from other sources,” a syndicate member said.Kaur said the meetings were postponed due to the ongoing issues. “Though no decision was taken about rescheduling of the two meetings, they will be held at the earliest. We are making every possible effort to resolve the issues to streamline the working of the varsity,” she said.PUTA president Nishan Singh Deol said they have called the general house of teachers on Wednesday to decide the next course of action.“Senior faculty members are putting in their papers to express their resentment against the officiating V-C and the state government for not taking the teachers’ demands seriously,” Deol said.The bone of contention The PUTA had moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the appointment of Kaur as officiating V-C. The state government had given officiating charge to Kaur on November 25 last year following the resignation of Prof BS Ghuman from the post. The association has also moved the court against the state government- constituted search committee under the chairmanship of the chief secretary to find a suitable candidate for the job. Taking up the civil writ petition on February 24, the high court issued notices to the university chancellor, state government, and the officiating V-C. The next hearing is scheduled on April 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/14-more-punjabi-university-faculty-members-resign-from-administrative-posts-101617136190261.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh municipal corporation to hire 172 new staff||The municipal corporation is all set to hire 172 employees for various departments from April 8, which will be its first recruitment drive in more than a decade. The last MC recruitment took place in 2010 for posts of sub-divisional engineers (SDE), junior engineers (JE) and firemen. For other posts like clerks, the civic body last recruited in 2004.The MC fire department, which is facing acute staff shortage for sometime now, will have the largest share in the new recruitments. As many as 81 firemen and one station fire officer will be hired. The corporation will also recruit a total of 41 clerks, two SDEs , four JEs , sub-inspectors (enforcement department), law officers, draftsmen, drivers and data entry operators, among others.It will start the recruitment process for Group A, B and C posts from April 8. The last date for submission of application forms is May 3 and for depositing fees, it is May 5. The application will only be accepted online. Panjab University will hold the exams and declare the results. The civic body has prepared terms and conditions for all posts, including reservation criteria, age and educational qualification.All MC departments are facing acute staff shortage. Overall, there are 12,168 sanctioned posts, which include permanent, outsourced and contract employees. Of these, 8,719 are filled and 3,449 are vacant. While there are few vacant posts in the other categories, more than 55% permanent posts are vacant. Of the 5,670 permanent posts in the civic body, 2,542 are filled and while 3,128 are vacant.The worst hit is the medical officer of health (MOH)department. Against the 2,174 permanent sanctioned posts, 1,240 are lying vacant and 934 are filled.In the fire department, against the 600 permanent sanctioned posts, only 215 are filled. As many as 283 posts of firemen are lying vacant against the sanctioned 358. In the public health, sanctioned posts are 1,305, of which 796 are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-to-hire-172-new-staff-101617136132477.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Excise inspector crashes SUV into protesting farmers in Patiala, 2 killed||Two persons, including a two-year-old, died while five were injured when an excise and taxation inspector rammed his speeding sports utility vehicle (SUV) into the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three agriculture laws near the Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology, Patiala, after jumping the red light on Monday evening. The incident took place around 7pm. The accused, Pritpal Singh (45), a city resident who is posted in Patran town of the district, was admitted to hospital as he also received multiple injuries. He has been taken in police custody. Inderjeet Singh, 65, a resident of Ranjit Nagar locality in the city, died on the spot, while those injured, including a 10-year-old, were admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital. Ansh (2) of Aarti Nagar locality in the city succumbed to injuries at the Postgraduate Institute Of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on Tuesday. He had received multiple injuries.At least four other vehicles were also damaged in the accident.Station house officer (SHO) Harry Boparai said a case was registered under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 297 (Rash driving), etc of the Indian Penal Code.On Tuesday, the farmers staged a protest against the incident, alleging that the accused was in an inebriated condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/excise-inspector-crashes-suv-into-protesting-farmers-in-patiala-2-killed-101617136130558.html
31-03-2021||Other||22-year-old man shot dead during drunken Holi brawl at Mullanpur||A 22-year-old man was gunned down and three suffered injuries during a drunken brawl near Majra village in Mullanpur on Holi. The victim, identified as Satnam Singh, alias Satta, was a local and a labourer, said the police, while the injured are Jagjit Singh Jaggi, Inder Singh and Sukhbir Singh, alias Billa, who opened fire that claimed Satnam’s life.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Bikramjit Singh Brar said on Monday, 14 people of two groups were gathered near Majra village for drinks. There, heated arguments broke out between some of the men, following which Sukhbir fired two shots, one of which hit Satnam in the chest and another Jagjit in the arm. Inder and Sukhbir also got injured in the scuffle.“Sukhbir, who was drunk, opened fire with his licensed .32-caliber pistol. After the firing, a brawl broke out. Four injured were rushed to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where doctors declared Satnam dead. Sukhbir is under treatment at PGIMER, while the other two were shifted to the Kharar Civil Hospital,” said DSP Brar. Sub-inspector Harpal Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said, “Sukhbir fired four rounds from his Maruti Suzuki Gypsy. A single shell has been recovered from the spot. We are recording the statements of all 14 men involved.” “An FIR under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act has been registered against eight people, including Sukhbir, who is hospitalised. The remaining accused will be nabbed soon,” said sub-inspector Yogesh Kumar, station house officer, Mullanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22yearold-man-shot-dead-during-drunken-holi-brawl-at-mullanpur-101617135410795.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Woman among 2 held in Ambala for implicating men in false case, extorting ₹12 lakh||The Ambala police have arrested a woman and her accomplice on Tuesday for allegedly implicating at least seven men and extorting ₹12 lakh in a case of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act registered in 2016.The accused woman and the man, identified as Arunesh Kumar of Durga Nagar, were caught while taking ₹1 lakh from the men, said Devender Kaur, station in-charge, Women Police Station.As per the case, the woman had lodged a complaint against seven men under the POCSO Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code on September 3, 2016.“During the case, the woman demanded ₹12 lakhs on the pretext of implicating them in a false case and punishing them through court. The amount was collected and submitted to her father Ashok. Later, the woman denied being raped in her statement in court. The hearing continued and she demanded ₹10 lakh more,” said complainant Gurinder Singh in his statement.Singh’s sons Lucky and Harvinder were among those booked earlier. On his appeal, SSP Hamid Akhtar constituted a team to check on the extortion claim.The accused will be presented before a court on Wednesday after an FIR was lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-among-2-held-in-ambala-for-implicating-men-in-false-case-extorting-12-lakh-101617135170566.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman accepts lift offer, loses gold bangles to three||A Sector-37 woman lost her gold bangles to a gang of thieves, who offered to drop her home after claiming to be her acquaintances, police said on Tuesday.The victim, Raj Kumari, told the police that she was walking back home from a nearby temple, when a car slowed down next to her. Two women and a man riding in the car offered to drop her home, saying they were headed that way, and knew her family.Kumari said she agreed to the trio’s offer, but on reaching home, realised that her gold bangles were missing. On her complaint, a case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the unidentified accused at the Sector-39 police station. Earlier on February 16, a gang, also comprising two women and a man, had stolen a Sector-44 resident’s gold bangles using the same modus operandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-accepts-lift-offer-loses-gold-bangles-to-three-101617135110442.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||877 challans issued by Chandigarh traffic police on Holi||Total 877 challans were issued by the Chandigarh traffic police on Holi this year in a special drive conducted against speeding, helmetless riding and triple riding.Of these, 425 challans were issued through the traffic violation information slip (TVIS) system.Describing their preparations, public relations officer of the traffic police, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic east) Charanjit Singh Virk, said, “We deployed 23 special traffic nakas and three mobile teams in different parts of the city with around 450 police officials/home guard volunteers to keep a check on the traffic.” Various roads in Sectors 10 and 11 were also declared limited-vehicle zones.41 vehicles impoundedIn this drive, 234 two-wheelers, 211 four-wheelers and seven three-wheelers were challaned. Total 41 vehicles were impounded. Most challans (108) were issued for riding without helmet; 85 for violation of road markings; and 77 challans were issued for taking illegal U-turn. Meanwhile. 425 e-challans were also issued out of which 351 were for speeding. The traffic police were also keeping a check on those not wearing face masks inside their vehicles and 32 challans were issued for violations.The local police also impounded 56 vehicles and challaned 130 of them; 15 challans were issued for triple-riding, 114 for riding without helmet and one for using phone while driving.Last year, 788 traffic challans were issued on Holi. This year, no challans for drunken driving were issued as alcometers were not present at the nakas, but police had been asked to take any suspicious drivers for medical examination if they appeared intoxicated. The use of alcometers was stopped last year after directions by PGIMER. In 2019, 130 challans were issued for drunken driving; last year, only two such challans were issued.316 people issued challans in MohaliThe Mohali police challaned 316 people for various traffic offences on Holi festival including not wearing masks in public. The police also impounded 31 vehicles in the district. Meanwhile, 174 challans were issued in Zirapur, while 107 challans were issued in Mohali Urban. Mohali senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh said that police had received several calls at the control room regarding quarrels. Petty quarrels were sorted out by residents themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/877-challans-issued-by-chandigarh-traffic-police-on-holi-101617134991760.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 deaths in Chandigarh shot up by 275% in the week gone by||As the Covid-19 pandemic tightens its grip in Chandigarh with more and more people testing positive for the virus each day, the number of deaths is also rising sharply.While the weekly deaths were not more than four until March 21, these shot up to 15 in the subsequent week, a jump of 275%.The 15 deaths between March 22 and 28 also account for 25% of all casualties (59) this year.The daily infections, which started to shoot up in mid-February, also continue to grow for the sixth consecutive week now. However, the trend of growth has slowed down.While between the second and third week of March, the cases grew by around 75%, their number saw a dip into the fourth week, with the surge lowering to 24%.‘Awareness about disease still low’“The number of deaths is expected to increase as the cases show an exponential increase. The sudden jump also suggests that the awareness about the progression of the disease is still low among the population. If people with mild symptoms seek medical attention in time, lives can be saved. But, people seem to be delaying treatment and thus lose the golden hour,” said Dr PVM Lakshmi, an epidemiologist at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).Dr GD Puri, chairman of the Covid-19 management committee at PGIMER, said there was an increase in the number of severely ill patients, as compared to last year.“We are managing around 170 Covid-19 patients now, while their number had dropped to 30 by the end of 2020. The number of severely ill patients is doubling every week, which we did not experience last year. Precautions against the virus are vital as hospitals getting overwhelmed will compromise the quality of care,” he cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-deaths-in-chandigarh-shot-up-by-275-in-the-week-gone-by-101617134932179.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Govt can restrict employee from applying elsewhere: HC||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that an employer has the right to restrict its employee from applying elsewhere to defeat the practice among those in public employment hopping from one job to another. The high court bench of justice Anil Kshetrapal said that the selection process of a public servant consumes a lot of time and also puts monetary burden on the employer. The contract conditions, which are un-lawful or forbidden by law, can’t be imposed, but to stop job hoppers, certain conditions can be imposed, the court said. In the case in hand, Yogesh Kumar Vashisht was an assistant professor with the department of forensic medicine in Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat. In 2019, he had applied for the post of assistant professor at Pandit BD Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak. However, he was denied no objection certificate (NOC) by his then employer. He challenged the decision in high court, arguing that the contract signed at the time of employment with the clause as in the given case is “unconscionable” and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India as it deprives a person equality before law. At the time of employment, the bargaining power between an employee and the state is unequal and, therefore, the employee has no other option but to sign on dotted lines, it was argued. The court found that at the time of employment, he had signed a contract according to which he was not to get NOC till completion of 5 years of service. If he was to resign, he was to submit three months’ advance notice or deposit three months’ salary. Another condition was that resignation will be accepted only after the arrangement of a suitable substitute in his place so that studies of the students and patient care do not suffer. The court observed that the restrictions imposed were only for a period of five years and that he could not have applied for the same post. There is no restriction on applying for a higher post, it said. “By now, it is well known that sometimes qualified persons indulge in job-hopping. Such clause has been incorporated to curb such practices,” the bench said, adding that the selection of a public servant consumes a lot of time and involves a lot of expenditure for the employer. “If the teacher, who has been appointed after following a long process is allowed to hop from one job to another, immediately after joining, then the students are likely to suffer,” it added, dismissing the plea. The court said that the clause is not in violation of Article 14 and the Indian Contract Act. The Rule 21 of the Haryana Medical Education Service Rules, 1988, enables the employer to impose special terms and conditions in the order of appointment. If the petitioner wants to resign, he/she has to comply with the rules and terms of the appointment letter, the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-can-restrict-employee-from-applying-elsewhere-hc-101617134930365.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Criminal linked to gangster Lawrence Bishnoi held in Kurukshetra||The Haryana Police on Tuesday arrested a wanted criminal allegedly having links with Sampat Nehra, a close aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, from Kurukshetra. Police have recovered a pistol and five cartridges from him.“The arrested accused, identified as Manjinder Singh, who carries a bounty of ₹25,000, had enrolled at Khalsa College, Chandigarh, in 2016. He had come in contact with gangster Sampat Nehra, who had helped him get elected as president of the college council,” a police spokesperson said.As per police, Manjinder had been in contact with Lawrence since 2016 and had committed a number of crimes including attempt to murder, extortion, assault, fraud, etc for which he has been booked in Kurukshetra and Chandigarh.A team of Special Task Force (STF) Ambala had nabbed him after getting input about his presence near Kumhar Majra village.A case has been registered against the accused, who has been taken on police remand after being produced in court.Rajasthan residents held for stealing transformersThe Haryana police have arrested four Rajasthan residents of an inter-state gang from Sirsa for their involvement in stealing transformers.Police recovered a number of tools used for dismantling transformers and two vehicles from their possession.A police spokesperson said the accused were active in transformer thefts in Sirsa and Fatehabad districts of Haryana as well as in Punjab and Rajasthan.The accused are Trilok Singh, Sukhdev Singh alias Raju, Mange Lal and Sukhvinder Singh alias Sonu.The accused have confessed to stealing at least 83 transformers from Dabwali, Kalanwali, Odhan and Nathusari Chopta in Sirsa, Bhattu in Fatehabad, and in Punjab and Rajasthan.Further investigation into the case is underway, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/criminal-linked-to-gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-held-in-kurukshetra-101617134510287.html
31-03-2021||Other||SGPC passes ₹912 crore budget; ₹40 crore more than revenue||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) House has passed a budget of ₹912 crore for 2021-22, which is ₹40 crore more than the revenue that the gurdwara management body expects to garner. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said an attempt had been made to remove a big misconception among the sangat about the organisation’s budget. “The expenditure is more than the income, for which the SGPC would motivate the sangat to contribute and also spend from its own savings,” she said, adding that there was again a sharp decline in income due to income. Historical gurdwaras, which get some government concession, are expected to generate ₹647 crore in 2021-22, while estimated expenditure was about ₹652 crore. Similarly, revenue from educational institutions would be ₹189 crore and expenditure is at ₹223 crore. “We have earmarked about ₹16.5 crore to cover the budget deficit of educational institutions and are constantly trying to bring the budget of the SGPC on track by reducing expenses,” said Bibi Jagir Kaur. She added that the sangat offering donation at Harmandar Sahib (Golden Temple) would be exempted from tax. “Reply received to an application under the Right to Information (RTI) Act has revealed that 80G tax exemption for the shrine had already been received in 1965. Under this, sangat can now get tax exemption,” she claimed. Bibi Jagir Kaur added that ₹14 crore had been earmarked in this year’s budget to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of the ninth Sikh master, Guru Tegh Bahadur. She added up to ₹2 crore had been earmarked for the recently established Girls Sports Academy.During the meeting, many SGPC members raised questions over what they claimed was self-styled working and politicisation of trusts working under the organisation’s patronage. These members demanded that such trust be dissolved. “We are working to resolve this issue,” the SGPC president said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-passes-rs-912-crore-budget-rs-40-crore-more-than-revenue-101617134210307.html
31-03-2021||Other||22 healthcare providers at PGIMS, Rohtak test positive for Covid||The Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, was hit hard by Covid-19 as 22 healthcare providers have tested positive in a week, by Tuesday.PGIMS spokesman Dr Gajender Singh said 22 doctors, including 19 postgraduates, two senior residents and a faculty member have contracted the virus by Tuesday evening.“We have 57 post-graduate students, 27 faculty members and six senior resident doctors posted in the gynaecology department. Of these, 22 have contracted the virus. The health of none of the medical staff is serious,” he said.“Patients visiting the gynaecology department range from 500 to 1,000 per day. There is no serious threat to healthcare facilities so far even after some service providers were found infected,” he added.He said that they are ascertaining as to how the doctors got infected.A junior doctor, working with the gynaecology department, who has tested positive for the virus, said, “The negligence and nonchalant attitude of faculty and senior resident doctors has led to many of the associates turning into patients.”“Many patients are visiting the hospital without getting tested for Covid-19 and our bosses are also reluctant in tackling the situation. There is more burden on the PGs and that’s why 19 students got infected with the virus,” the doctor said, requesting anonymity.Patients have urged the hospital authorities not to shut down services of the department.“We think that there was a super spreader and due to this, 22 healthcare providers are infected. This is negligence on part of staff of the gynaecology department,” the senior official said, pleading anonymity.‘None of those infected had received second dose of Covid vaccine’Dr VK Katyal, nodal officer for Covid-19 at PGIMS, said he has sought a report from the gynaecology department on how many doctors have taken first dose of the vaccine.“Initially, we got information that four of the 22 healthcare providers have received the first dose. But none of these doctors had taken the second dose of the vaccine. The gynaecology department is claiming that many of the infected workers had taken the first jab but it is now a matter of investigation. We are closing the labour room for the next 48 hours and will start operations from another place,” the nodal officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22-healthcare-providers-at-pgims-rohtak-test-positive-for-covid-101617134159235.html
31-03-2021||Other||Relief for commuters as BRS Nagar canal bridge reopens for vehicular traffic||In a relief to residents living in Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar, Sarabha Nagar and surrounding areas, the BRS Nagar Sidhwan canal bridge was reopened for vehicular traffic on Monday. The bridge connects BRS Nagar and Sarabha Nagar and was closed from one side on December 23, 2020 for carrying out widening work. Its width has now been increased from four metres to nine metres.The project worth ₹1.40 crore was taken up under the Smart City Mission wherein funds were allocated by the Ludhiana Smart City Limited and construction taken up by the irrigation department.Harkirat Singh, a commuter, said, “When the bridge was closed from one side in December last year, we had to face huge traffic jams while crossing the area. Now that the bridge has been widened, we hope that it will facilitate smooth movement of traffic.” Cabinet minister and MLA (Ludhiana west) Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “Widening of the bridge was a long-pending demand of the area residents as traffic jams were common here.” He also lauded the officials of the irrigation department and municipal corporation for completing the project in record time of around three months. It is pertinent to mention that in March 2019, four youngsters, including a brother-sister duo, had died after their car plunged into the Sidhwan canal after crashing into the railing of the bridge. Police had said that the accident took place due to speeding. Following this incident, residents had started demanding for the widening of the bridge. They had also sought that the railings of the bridge be strengthened to ensure that vehicles don’t plunge into the canal in case of a mishap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/relief-for-commuters-as-brs-nagar-canal-bridge-reopens-for-vehicular-traffic-101617134090250.html
31-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana man strangles wife to death, flees with one-year-old son||A 25-year-old man allegedly strangled his wife to death with the cord of a mobile charger and fled, taking his one-year-old son with him, in Civil City area during Holi festivities on Monday.The body was discovered by the victim’s brother, who lives in the same locality and had gone to meet her on Holi. The victim has been identified as Laxmi, 22, who had got married to the accused, Hari Ram, a labourer, two years ago. The victim’s brother, Sandeep Kumar, said the couple had a love marriage. They lived in a rented accommodation along with Hari’s brothers. According to the neighbours, the accused was an alcoholic and used to frequently beat up his wife in an inebriated condition. Sandeep said that on Monday, when he reached his sister’s house, he found her lying unconscious on the floor while the cord of a mobile phone charger was wrapped around her neck. Hari and the couple’s one-year-old son were missing. Sandeep made multiple calls to Hari but the latter’s phone was switched off.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harbhajan Singh, who is investigating the case, said as per preliminary investigations, Hari, along with his two brothers and some friends, were consuming liquor in the labour quarters before the incident. When Hari went inside his room, the couple got into an argument following which Hari strangled the victim to death. Following the incident, the accused, grabbed his son, and fled along with his brothers and friends. Police have registered a murder case and launched a manhunt for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-strangles-wife-to-death-flees-with-one-year-old-son-101617133851126.html
31-03-2021||Other||DGCA schedules 18.8K departures for every week this summer||Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Tuesday released the 2021 summer schedule of flights for domestic airlines. According to the schedule, 18,843 departures will take place from 108 Indian airports every week. The summer schedule begins on the last Sunday of March for all the airlines and ends on the last Sunday of October. Out of the 108 airports, Bareilly, Bilaspur, Kurnool and Rupasi are new airports that have been added by airlines. Maximum flight departures will be operated by the India’s largest airline by market share – IndiGo with 8,749 departures, including flights under the government’s regional connectivity scheme Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN). Similarly, SpiceJet will have 2,854 departures, including UDAN flights, followed by GoAir that will operate 1,747 flights every week. National Carrier Air India will have 1,683 departures, followed by Vistara that will operate 1,288 flights and Air Asia with 1,245 operations. Regional airlines like Alliance Air, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, will be operating 742 departures in a week. This will also include flights operating under UDAN scheme. Similarly, TrueJet will operate 344 flights, Star Air 115 flights, Pawan Hans 24 flights and FlyBig, India’s newest scheduled commercial airline, will operate 54 departure flights in a week. DGCA’s data revealed that the summer schedule of 2020 had 24,409 weekly departures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dgcaschedules-18-8k-departures-for-every-week-this-summer-101617133849574.html
31-03-2021||Other||Finally, a comprehensive policy for houseboats in Srinagar’s Dal, Nageen lakes||After a long wait, J&K government has come up with a comprehensive policy for houseboats in the lakes of Dal and Nageen.Hundreds of colourfully decorated houseboats are moored to Dal and Nageen lakes. Many of these houseboats are decades’ old and with the passage of time have sustained damages and decay. Introduced by the British before independence, these floating houses made of deodar (cedar) wood with carved walnut interiors have been an important part of Kashmir’s tourism sector.The administrative council under the chairmanship of L-G Manoj Sinha met on Monday and approved the roll-out of the policy and guidelines for sustainable operation of houseboats.“In a bid to preserve the marine ecosystem of both the lakes, the new policy aims to regulate the functioning of houseboats docked at Dal and Nageen lakes by adopting the models of sustainable and responsible tourism. The policy envisages providing a pleasant experience to tourists and sustainable source of living to stakeholders while preserving the fragile ecosystem,” J&K government spokesperson said. As per the new policy in view the carrying capacities, the tourism department has now capped the number of houseboats in both lakes at 910. Under the new policy, the houseboats are required to be registered online subject to the fulfilment of various conservation parameters; within 30 days from the date notification of the policy. The houseboats and associated structures are required to be fitted with bio-digesters for scientific treatment of solid/liquid waste as per the approved design of the Lakes and Waterways Development Authority, besides ensuring availability of adequate fire safety equipment along with trained staff to be verified by fire and emergency services department,” a senior J&K tourism officer said. He said the policy lays down regulations for ancillary facilities like kitchen, lodging, furniture, first-aid, electricity, power backup, sanitary fittings and shikara for navigation.The new policy also allows repairs on damaged, dilapidated and abandoned houseboats, and revival of cruise boats and donga cruise.After a sharp decline in tourism sector after August 5 and the pandemic last year, at least 134 houseboat owners wanted to surrender their boats and licences in case government didn’t come for their rescue.They had earlier written to the administration that they will surrender their boats if the government provides them land at suitable places and construct structures like guest houses where they can live and also earn their livelihoods. A committee of experts constituted under the supervision of the Jammu and Kashmir high court was monitoring the conservation of Dal Lake, where 800 of these houseboats are anchored.Houseboat Association general secretary Abdul Rashid Kaloo said most of the houseboats were built between 1970 and mid 80s and they have a lifespan of 60 to 70 years. “Now, most of these houseboats are old, damaged and in need of repair. With this policy, the repair could be started. This is a very good initiative,” he added. He, however, said once the policy is implemented, only then they can say whether it’s beneficial or not. “All houseboat owners are ready to cooperate with government. Now, we have to see what is in this policy which will help people and tourism,” he added. Umar Nazir Tibet Baqal, director, Labaika travels and tourism services, said the formation of houseboat policy is a welcome step but unless and until the contents are not made public, things wont be clear. “Unfortunately, this policy was drafted last year when Covid was at its peak and was not released in public domain for deliberations.”He said the matter is subjudice and policy can’t be formed unless and until court is not taken on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/finally-a-comprehensive-policy-for-houseboats-in-srinagar-s-dal-nageen-lakes-101617133670306.html
31-03-2021||Other||Woman found hacked to death in Ludhiana’s Machhiwara, husband missing||A labourer allegedly hacked his 40-year-old wife to death at Jhugian village of Machhiwara on Monday night and is absconding. The victim has been identified as Sarita alias Radha. The police have registered a murder case against her husband Raj Kumar. Raj Kumar worked as a labourer at the house of farmer Sohan Singh and was living in a room adjoining the cattle shed. Sohan Singh said that he came to know about the incident on Tuesday morning, when went to the room where Raj Kumar stayed. “I found that Raj Kumar had not fed fodder to the cattle. When I went to his room, I was shocked to see the body of his wife Sarita lying in the pool of blood and Raj Kumar was nowhere to be seen. I raised an alarm and informed the police,” said Sohan. Machhiwara SHO inspector Rajesh Thakur said the household items were scattered in the room, which suggested that the woman had fought for her life. An empty liquor bottle was also found from the room. The couple was living in the village for five years. Their daughter is married in Balibeg village. The police have launched a manhunt to arrest Raj Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-found-hacked-to-death-in-ludhiana-s-machhiwara-husband-missing-101617133551279.html
31-03-2021||Other||15-year-old dalit girl gangraped, commits suicide in Hoshiarpur||A 15-year-old dalit girl of a village under Bulhowal police station committed suicide after she was allegedly raped by two men of the same village on Sunday.The First-Information Report (FIR) says that the girl had gone out in the morning to see her friend. On the way, two men Lovepreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh forcibly took her to a tubewell, where she was gang raped. The victim’s family alleged that the accused poisoned her, before dropped her on the outskirts of the village. She was taken to the civil hospital and later to a private medical institution where she died, they claimed.A medical examination has confirmed rape and on the basis of this, police have registered a case under the POCSO Act, the SC Act and Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 365 (abduction), 366-A (kidnapping a minor to seduce her for an illicit relationship) and 376 of Indian Penal Code.Preliminary police investigation has, however, revealed that the girl had returned home in about two hours, but she consumed poison on Sunday late evening. The police were also informed in the night. DSP (special branch) Satinder Chadha said the accused had not yet been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15yearold-dalit-girl-gangraped-commits-suicide-in-hoshiarpur-101617133550113.html
31-03-2021||Other||Antilia case-Mansukh Hiran death probe: Gujarat trader’s statement recorded||A senior National Investigation Agency (NIA) officer said on Tuesday that they suspect that a printer recovered from the Mithi river on Sunday was used to print the threatening note addressed to the Ambanis, found along with 20 loose gelatin sticks in an SUV parked outside Antilia on February 25. The federal agency had made a significant breakthrough in the case on Sunday, when with the help of divers, investigators recovered two digital video recorders (DVRs), two Central Processing Units, a laptop and two vehicle registration plates, among other evidence from Mithi river. The NIA, which is also investigating a murder related to the explosives case, questioned a coal trader, Kishore Thakkar, from Ahmedabad and recorded his statement. The agency suspects that Thakkar had provided SIM cards to Naresh Gor, one of the two men arrested for murdering Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who is linked to the explosives laden Scorpio found outside Ambani’s residence last month. The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS), which was investigating the murder case till NIA took over the related probe, had arrested Gor and a former policeman Vinayak Shinde in connection with Hiran’s murder. The state probing team however said that suspended Mumbai policeman Sachin Vaze was the mastermind of the murder. “Thakkar had cleared in his statement about his relationship with Gor. He said he provided the SIM card in general friendship and was not aware about the serious crime. However, Thakkar was made the witness and NIA took his statement,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity. NIA had recovered a chit containing 14 numbers related to the SIM cards, five of which were handed over to Vaze by Gor. The prosecutor added that a meeting had taken place between Vaze and Shinde in which they allegedly hatched the conspiracy to commit the murder. Vaze, who is in NIA custody for allegedly planning the planting of the explosives-laden car outside Antilia last month, told a special NIA court last week that he was innocent, and had “nothing to do with the crime.” The electronic evidence recovered from the river was damaged, reportedly by Vaze, who was the initial investigator in the explosive-laden car case in his capacity as the head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Crime Branch. An NIA officer said one of the recovered DVR was likely from Saket Complex at Thane where Vaze resided. He had purportedly collected the DVR and CCTV footage of the complex for the purpose of probe and under an official letter but had not included the same in the material seized the during the probe. The electronics have been sent to a forensic laboratory in Pune for retrieval of data. The NIA also found another high-end car allegedly owned by Vaze on Tuesday from Navi Mumbai. Preliminary probe has revealed that it was being used by a crime branch officer, assistant police inspector Prakash Howal, who reportedly purchased it from Vaze paying ₹1.50 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-case-mansukh-hiran-death-probe-gujarat-trader-s-statement-recorded-101617133489630.html
31-03-2021||Other||Haryana BJP protests thrashing of party MLA in Punjab||On call of state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president OP Dhankar, party leaders and workers held protests across districts in Haryana to condemn the attack on party Abohar MLA Arun Narang.Narang was allegedly thrashed and his clothes were torn by a group of farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws in Malout (Muktsar) in Punjab on Saturday.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the incident is highly condemnable and said that those leading the protests should give statements, responsibly.The agitated BJP leaders and workers on Tuesday held protests in Karnal, Kaithal, Rohtak, Ambala, and Kurukshetra. They accused the Congress-led Punjab government of instigating farmers and failing to protect the elected representatives. The sloganeering protesters burnt effigies of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.In Karnal, BJP district president Yogendra Rana led the protest and termed the incident “murder of democracy”. “The thrashing and naked parade of a sitting MLA in the presence of police has exposed the failed law and order situation in Punjab and the CM should resign on moral grounds,” Rana said.Leading the protest in Kurukshetra, BJP district president Raj Kumar Saini alleged: “The Congress government is behind thrashing of Narang and the Congress workers have done this in the name of farmers’ protest.”However, farm leaders from Haryana said that farmers should not indulge in any violence with BJP leaders. They have decided to hold separate protests against BJP leaders.In Kaithal, BKU district president Hoshiar Singh Gill slammed a local BJP leader’s statement that farmers are getting funding from abroad to run this agitation.“In a meeting, we have decided that farmers can hold peaceful protests against BJP leaders and should not indulge in any violence,” said Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni, in a video message.Charuni slammed Haryana BJP leaders and said that the protests are being organised by BJP to “divide people”.Rohtak mayor Jagmohan Goyal, who led the protest march in district, called the incident a “murderous attack on democracy”.“We have doubts that the Punjab government is behind the attack on Narang. It needs thorough investigation and the role of Punjab Police should be probed. An impartial inquiry should be carried out to fix responsibility for the incident,” he added.In Ambala, district chief Rajesh Batoura led a protest march in Barara block and criticised Captain for lapse of law and order in Punjab.“BJP is fully capable of responding to the attack but we won’t as we are part of a civilised national party,” he said. He said that the President of India should remove Captain as the CM or the latter should resign on moral grounds. Party’s Yuva Morcha also held similar protests near mini secretariat in Yamunanagar.Farmers show black flags to dy CM in SirsaMeanwhile, farmers showed black flags to Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala when his cavalcade left from his home towards Police Lines in Sirsa to take-off in a chopper.Chautala had come to Sirsa to celebrate Holi with his family. Heavy police security was put in place to prevent an untoward incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-bjp-protests-thrashing-of-party-mla-in-punjab-101617133372294.html
31-03-2021||Other||Another jolt to PDP as Surinder Choudhary, 108 others officially resign from party||Former chief minister and president of the beleaguered Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Mehbooba Mufti, suffered another big jolt on Tuesday after her party’s state general secretary Surinder Choudhary, along with 108 leaders from Nowshera assembly constituency, resigned from the basic membership of the party. Choudhary, a former MLC, was the only prominent Hindu face of the PDP in entire Jammu region. Announcing his resignation from the party, along with other leaders including councillors in Nowshera municipal committee, panches and sarpanches, Choudhary accused the Mehbooba Mufti of deviating from the agenda of party founder and former chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. He repeatedly invoked the words of late Sayeed and said, “Mufti Sahib used to say that Na grenade na goli se, baat banegi boli se. Can Mehbooba Mufti with her hand on her heart tell us that she is still living by the words of her late father? She has been surrounded by land mafia and drawing room politicians.” He also said that he, along with his workers, were resigning out of their own will. “There is no need to defame those leaving the party by dubbing them as people of agencies or doing so under the pressure of agencies or the government. We are resigning on our own and not under pressure of any agency or the government because the party leadership has drifted from the agenda of Mufti Mohammed Sayeed,” he said. Choudhary said he would go back to his people in Nowshera and Sunderbani to hold parleys. “I will go by what they tell me to do. My people are my party. Without their consent, I will not take any decision,” he added. He was ‘annoyed’ with Mehbooba Mufti for not been given a suitable place in state body and parliamentary affairs committee recently constituted by the latter in Srinagar. PDP’s founding member and former J&K deputy chief minister Muzaffar Baig has already parted ways with the PDP and has joined Sajad Lone’s the Peoples’ Conference. It may be recalled here that the PDP had suffered a similar jolt last year after six of its senior leaders had quit the party. Barely two days ahead of DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir on November 26, the PDP had received another shocker as three senior leaders — Dhaman Bhasin, Fallail Singh and Pritam Kotwal — resigned. On October 26, former PDP MP TS Bajwa, along with former MLC Ved Mahajan and former state secretary Choudhary Hussain Ali Wafa, had quit the party over Mehbooba Mufti’s “highly provocative” remarks against the Tricolour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-jolt-to-pdp-as-surinder-choudhary-108-others-officially-resign-from-party-101617133370247.html
31-03-2021||Other||Allegations against home min: HC to hear ex-Mumbai top cop’s petition today||The Bombay high court (HC) termed the petition filed by advocate Jaishri Patil, seeking an independent probe in the alleged malpractices by home minister Anil Deshmukh, a way to gain cheap publicity. Later, when the court was informed of other public interest litigations (PILs) also filed on similar issues, it directed the advocate general to see if all the petitions could be clubbed together to ensure there were consistent orders in all of them. Meanwhile, the PIL filed by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh was mentioned before the bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta for urgent hearing. It will be heard on Wednesday. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition filed by Patil, was informed that the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh were serious, and hence the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any other agency should be directed to investigate them. The court also pulled up the advocate for the way in which the petition was drafted and observed that it seemed that the content was copy pasted from some other petition. The court stressed that the advocate should have drafted the pleadings properly and brought out the law point better. “Prima facie, we are of the opinion that such petitions are filled for cheap popularity,” said HC. Thereafter, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed that there were other PILs filed. He further submitted that the current petition was drafted shoddily without making any effort to find out the truth and veracity in the matter. The court then directed Kumbhakoni to explore whether all the petitions could be clubbed together to inconsistent orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allegations-against-home-min-hc-to-hear-ex-mumbai-top-cop-s-petition-today-101617133309624.html
31-03-2021||Other||Mixed response to Holi, Covid protocols in Lucknow||LUCKNOW The fear of Covid dampened Holi celebrations in some parts of Lucknow while Covid protocols were violated during the festival of colours in other parts of the city.The district administration had already banned open celebrations, rain dance parties, other public gatherings in parks etc, but people celebrated Holi in groups at some places, violating Covid protocols, said locals.Areas like Gomti Nagar, Mahanagar and Vikas Nagar saw restrained celebrations with people staying indoors and celebrating the festival with their kin and friends.However, Covid protocols were lost in the riot of colours during the annual Holi procession of Chowk, where residents danced on songs while taking out the procession. Revellers embraced each other and also smeared colours at each other. No one wore masks or maintained social distancing, that too in the presence of police, said residents.A symbol of communal harmony, the Holi procession in Old City is an annual affair since the days of nawabs. But this year, Chowk residents missed the presence of their leader Lalji Tandon (late Madhya Pradesh governor) who used to head this procession under the banner of Chowk Holikotsav Samiti. The procession covered Kamla Nehru Marg, Victoria Street, Akbari Gate, Tehseen Masjid, Gota Bazar and Tehseenganj. “Ministers like Ashuotsh Tandon, Brajesh Pathak and MLA Dr Neeraj Bora partcipated in the procession,” said Anurag Mishra, general secretary of Chowk Holikotsav Samiti.Number of celebrations cancelledThe Holi procession of Shubh Sanskar Samiti, which is taken out from Chaupatian to Chowk, was cancelled this year due to the pandemic. The Phoolon ki Holi at Ashiana Sector K parks was also cancelled due to Covid surge in the area, said RD Dwivedi of Ashiana Parivar. “Due to rising Covid cases, the annual Phoolon ki Holi celebration is cancelled. The celebrations in Patel Nagar, Alambagh Park were also cancelled following the appeal of authorities to restrict celebrations,” said Dheeraj Saksena, president of Patel Nagar Shri Om Sewa Samiti. Meanwhile, no Covid protocols were followed in Rajendra Nagar, Naka, Moti Nagar, Mawaiyya, Gulzarnagar, Aishbagh, Saadatganj, Qaiserbagh and slums behind Alambagh bus stand. People danced and celebrated Holi. In some areas DJ was also playing at full volume. Scores of people gathered at Aminabad crossing and embraced each other.Very few people were wearing masks, and social distancing was not in the picture while the police were seen moving around without disturbing the celebrations, said locals. At a crossing in Udaiganj, ‘Holika Dahan’ was held without any sign of Covid protection measures being followed. People looked oblivious to the pandemic. Though a public address system continued to play Covid prevention protocols, it got lost amid the loud Holi songs played at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mixed-response-to-holi-covid-protocols-in-lucknow-101617133135826.html
31-03-2021||Other||J&K: Lakhanpur, Jawahar Tunnel areas put under ‘red category’||Chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam on Tuesday announced a slew of corrective measures to contain the Covid situation and put Lakhanpur — the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir — under “red category” with a buffer of 500-metre radius. Similarly, Jawahar Tunnel area has been put under the same category. All districts of Kashmir province are under “green category”, except Srinagar which is in orange. The 10 districts of Jammu region have also been placed under the same category as well. “The categorisation has been done for the purpose of implementation of permitted activities in the districts,” read the government order. It stated that classification will be reviewed periodically. “All instructions relating to safety health, precautions, and social distancing continue to apply. All activities to be allowed outside containment zones till further orders,” it read. The government also said that the ceiling on number of pilgrims allowed at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine will continue to be 25,000 per day. “All DCs will keep focus on positivity rate of closed clustered spaces like public, private offices, schools, colleges, malls, markets and consider implementing staggered timings of operations in case weekly positivity rate goes beyond 10% in these spaces,” the order said. In red category districts, all shops in municipal limits will remain open from 9am to 7pm and only 50% of the shops will open on alternate days. This has to be regulated by DCs, the order added. Highest daily case count in UT in 102 daysJammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 359 coronavirus cases, the highest daily count in 102 days that took the tally to 1,30,587. The death toll reached 1,990 with a fresh fatality in Kashmir division.As many as 266 cases were recorded in the Kashmir division on Tuesday, the highest daily count of the division after December 3, while 93 fresh infections were logged in Jammu division. Officials said Srinagar recorded the highest number of 150 new cases, while three districts, all of them in Jammu division, did not report any infection. For the past five days, the UT has been constantly reporting over 200 cases daily and the number went beyond 300 twice.The highest caseload seen earlier than Tuesday was on December 18 at 388.The number of active cases reached 2,293 in the UT. On Tuesday, 175 patients recovered, taking the count of recoveries to 1,26,304. The recovery rate stood at 96.72%. A faction of Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) on Tuesday said only 1% of the population in Jammu and Kashmir has been fully vaccinated against Covid-19 so far. Just 5% has received the first dose of the vaccine, it added. “That means most of the people are still susceptible to the deadly infection,” said DAK president Dr Nisar ul Hassan.“As per the data, the UT has administered the first dose to 6,34,953 people as on March 30, 2021. The figure represents 5% of J&K’s population of 1.25 crore. Full vaccination (both doses) has been given to 1,42,895 people — 1% of the population,” he added. “We need to vaccinate around 70% of the population to bring to end the ongoing public health crisis,” the doctor said.Besides hesitancy, he said, another reason why the goal can’t be achieved is because children, who constitute a huge proportion of the population, are not being inoculated. “There are around 4.8 million children in J&K who cannot be vaccinated right now. Vaccine is the only way to stop the pandemic,” he added. (With inputs from Srinagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-lakhanpur-jawahar-tunnel-areas-put-under-red-category-101617133070291.html
31-03-2021||Other||Dabholkar and Pansare murder trials can start: CBI, SIT to Bombay HC||After the Bombay high court (HC) pulled up the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the special investigation team (SIT) for delaying the investigations into the murders of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar and activist Govind Pansare, both the agencies on Tuesday informed HC that they had withdrawn their applications, which sought a stay on the commencement of trial in the cases. The agencies further stated that investigations would continue even after the trial starts. The court after accepting the statements said that such delays were unacceptable and that it would continue monitoring the investigations, as it wanted to get to the root of the conspiracies. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petitions of Smita Pansare and Mukta Dabholkar, relatives of the late activists, had on March 12 asked the investigating agencies to file a progress report on the probe by March 30. The petitioners’ advocate, Abhay Nevagi, had sought a court-monitored probe and said that it has been nearly eight and five years, respectively, since the murders, but the agencies had not been able to nab the conspirators or conclude the probe and begin the trial. Dabholkar was shot dead in Pune on August 20, 2013, while Pansare was shot on February 16, 2015, near his house in Kolhapur. He died four days later. The CBI is investigating Dabholkar case, while the Maharashtra SIT is probing the Pansare case. Nevagi also informed HC that the investigators in Karnataka had managed to nab the suspects in the murder cases of activists MM Kalburgi and Gauri Lankesh, who were killed in 2015 and 2017, respectively. HC was informed that while CBI had filed three charge sheets in Dabholkar’s murder case, SIT made no progress in the Pansare case. On Tuesday, additional solicitor general Anil Singh for CBI, submitted an investigation progress report in a sealed cover. Singh said CBI has withdrawn a plea seeking the stay on the trial in Dabholkar case. The report stated that CBI is ready for trial but would continue investigation of conspirators. Senior advocate Ashok Mundargi for the state SIT also submitted the probe status report in a sealed cover and informed that 10 persons have been arrested in Pansare murder case, while two are absconding. “It is stated in the said report that SIT is ready for trial, and the investigation is in progress with respect to two absconding accused, and to find out who are involved in the conspiracy to kill Pansare,” HC noted in the order. After hearing the submissions, the bench noted, “We do not even want the slightest of doubt that the probe is not properly done. We’ll keep on monitoring the cases. Find out what is remaining to be done and what steps have been taken by you. We’ll go to the root of the matter. If this is to happen in a modern state like Maharashtra, this court is certainly concerned.” HC has posted further hearing on April 15 and sought the status of the probe from the agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dabholkar-and-pansare-murder-trials-can-start-cbi-sit-to-bombay-hc-101617133009656.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Inform authorities about Covid positive persons: Punjab minister to labs, hospitals||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in the state, health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said it was compulsory for all labs and hospitals to immediately inform the district health authorities about Covid positive persons to help strengthen the containment measures. Seeking wholehearted support from private laboratories and hospitals, Sidhu stressed the importance to isolate and provide treatment to all suspected or confirmed Covid positive person, besides timely tracing of their contacts to break the transmission chain. “No private diagnostic centres should charge more than ₹2,000 for CT-Scan/HRCT test, inclusive of GST/taxes and documentation, and ₹900 for RT-PCR test,” the minister said, asking laboratories to strictly follow all the testing protocols laid down by ICMR, the central and state governments. The private laboratories have been directed to share their data pertaining to the results of Covid tests with the state government and upload it on ICMR portal. All private NABL and ICMR-approved laboratories have been instructed that patient information must be maintained with utmost confidentiality as per the laid protocols and strict action would be taken under the Epidemic Disease Act, Covid-19 Regulations, in case of dereliction in their responsibility, he said. The minister said a Chandigarh-based lab was issued a show-cause notice for overcharging and the licence of one Amritsar lab was cancelled for violating the conditions issued by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inform-authorities-about-covid-positive-persons-punjab-minister-to-labs-hospitals-101617132950045.html
31-03-2021||Other||SGPC resolution says RSS suppressing religious freedom in Hindu Rashtra bid||AMRITSAR In a first, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) General House on Tuesday passed a resolution against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), alleging that it is attempting to establish a ‘Hindu Rashtra’ (Hindu country).To date, SGPC office-bearers had been issuing individual statement criticising the RSS, but its general House had not passed such a resolution. Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, who was present in the session as per protocol, has also in the past sought a ban on the RSS, claiming, “The RSS’ aim of a Hindu Rashtra is against the country’s interests.”The SGPC move comes five months after the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which controls the apex gurdwara body, parted ways with the BJP. The saffron party is one of the affiliates of the RSS and leads the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre. Passed during the budget session of the SGPC, the resolution reads, “India is a multi-religious, multilingual and multi-ethnic country. Its beauty is that the constitution gives equality to all faiths... and every religion has made great contribution to its freedom, especially the Sikh community, which has made more than 80% sacrifices. Sadly, for a long time now, freedom of other religions has been suppressed in the wake of the RSS’s attempts to make the country a Hindu Rashtra. Minorities are being intimidated and frightened through direct and indirect unnecessary interference into their faith.”“Such attempts were made in the 17th century by the Mughal Empire, which the Gurus strongly opposed. The ninth Sikh Master, Guru Tegh Bahadur, in particular made sacrifices to repulse attacks on the Hindu religion and set a distinct example in the religious history of the world,” the resolution says.The SGPC resolution states, “Today’s general session cautions the Government of India that...it should respect sentiments of followers of every religion and rein in elements, which attempt to suppress the voice of minorities. Religious rights of every religion’s followers must protected.”SIX YEARS AFTER BARGARI SACRILEGE, PASSES RESOLUTION AGAINST ITOn suggestions of SGPC members from the opposition, president Bibi Jagir Kaur allowed the passing of a resolution condemning the 2015 Bargari sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and sought exemplary punishment for the perpetrators. The resolution, passed six years after the incident, has sought strict punishment for accused police officers. In another resolution, the SGPC sought a unique monument for the ninth Guru and large-scale development of historic sites related to him. The day of martyrdom of the ninth Guru should be celebrated as ‘Religious Tolerance Day’.A resolution of appreciation was also passed with regards to the recognition of the identity of Sikh religion ‘Nishan Sahib’ as the ‘Sikh Flag Day’ to be marked on March 11 in the Connecticut state of the USA. All resolutions were passed unanimously. The two-hour budget session was conducted without any disturbance or verbal spats as the president allowed all to express their views. Honourary chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami conducted the stage. Prominent among those who spoke from the dais were Sukhdev Singh Bhaur, Simajit Singh Bains, Kiranjot Kaur and Bhai Gurpreet Singh Randhawa Wale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-resolution-says-rss-suppressing-religious-freedom-in-hindu-rashtra-bid-101617132890265.html
31-03-2021||Other||Pawar hospitalised in Mumbai a day prior to surgery after developing pain||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, who was to undergo a surgery for removal of gallstones on Wednesday, has been admitted to Breach Candy in south Mumbai a day prior to the scheduled operation, after he complained of abdominal pain, party leaders said.Pawar was diagnosed with gallstones on Monday and was to undergo an endoscopy and a surgery.“Pawar saheb was supposed to be admitted in hospital for endoscopy and surgery procedure tomorrow, but as he is experiencing some pain again in the abdomen, he has been admitted to Breach Candy hospital in Mumbai today,” state minority welfare minister and party spokesperson Nawab Malik tweeted on Tuesday.Malik said the decision over the surgery will be taken by doctors after due examination.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Union finance minister Nirmal Sitharaman and Congress leader Kamal Nath have wished Pawar a speedy recovery.Pawar had to cancel all his scheduled programmes after he started experiencing the pain on Monday morning. After preliminary tests, the pain was diagnosed to be out of gall bladder ailment.“He is on blood-thinning medication, which has now been stopped due to the ailment. He will be admitted to hospital on March 31 for the surgery. All programmes stand cancelled until further notice.” Malik had said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pawar-hospitalised-in-mumbai-a-day-prior-to-surgery-after-developing-pain-101617132769572.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Shutdown in Abohar against attack on BJP legislator||Almost all commercial establishments remained shut in Abohar on Tuesday in support of BJP’s call to oppose the attack party legislator Arun Narang on March 27.BJP leaders claimed support from various communities, particularly the Arorvansh, represented by Narang. A protest march started from Arorvansh Dharamshala and took rounds across the town. Party leaders said they will intensify the stir if police fail to arrest all the accused involved in attacking and stripping the BJP MLA in Malout on Saturday.The impressive response to the bandh call was also significant as Abohar is the hometown of the state Congress president Sunil Jakhar.BJP state executive member Dhanpat Sihag alleged that Congress was behind the attack on Narang. “Abohar MLA had gone to Malout to address a press conference to highlight the failures of the Capt Amarinder Singh’s four-yearf rule. Being an elected representative, he has every right to raise his voice against the political dispensation. But the elements supported by the Congress acted violently in the presence of police,” said Sihag.BJP leaders had a minor altercation after a few shopkeepers at Bazaar number-4, the main commercial area of Abohar, refused to close their shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shutdown-in-abohar-against-attack-on-bjp-legislator-101617132710264.html
31-03-2021||Other||Head of a dera in Ludhiana arrested for raping 15-year-old girl||The head of a religious dera near Behlolpur village of Machhiwara was arrested for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl on the premises. The accused has been identified as Gian Chand.The victim used to do community service at the dera with her family members.The FIR has been lodged on the statement of the victim’s mother. The complainant stated that her daughter had gone to the dera on March 28 for community service. When she did not return, she initiated a search for her.The complainant added that when she reached the dera, she was shocked to see the accused raping her daughter. She immediately raised the alarm following which the accused managed to escape from the spot.Machhiwara station house officer, inspector Rajesh Thakur said a rape case has been registered against the accused. Police arrested the accused on Tuesday.The victim stated that the accused used to give them ₹10 for performing community service. On March 28, after performing community service, the accused called her to take the money. When she went inside the room, the accused sexually assaulted her.NOT THE FIRST CASEOn March 5, in a similar incident, a local dera head raped a 22-year-old woman and dumped the body in the fields near Daad village after murdering her. The Division Number 5 police had lodged an FIR against the accused and arrested him. The police have recovered the mobile phone of the woman from the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/head-of-a-dera-in-ludhiana-arrested-for-raping-15-year-old-girl-101617132530809.html
31-03-2021||Other||Year on, medical students of Chinese universities yet to resume physical classes||Medical student Rajesh P would have graduated from his University in China last July, but thanks to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown, the 24-year-old is still awaiting his degree. Despite spending back home a year ago due to the Covid-imposed lockdown around the world, Rajesh has no clear idea about going back to China, as the latest statement released by the Chinese government gives no deadline on when the entry restriction for international students ends. In its March 22 statement, the Indian Embassy in Beijing clarified that the recent decision of the Chinese government, related to visa facilitation for foreigners visiting China, does not apply to foreign students. “Chinese authorities at various levels continue to maintain their position that on account of last year’s announcement by the ministry of foreign affairs of the People’s Republic of China to suspend temporarily the entry of foreigners holding valid Chinese visa and residence permits following the outbreak Covid-19 in many countries, the visa suspension on foreigners stays until further notice,” read the statement released by the embassy. Students are now worried about their future. A third-year student from Jianghan University in Wuhan, said, “Most of us want to withdraw our admission from China and continue our education elsewhere. However, the National Medical Commission (NMC) of India mandates that we finish our course from the institute we got admitted to.” Apart from theory, colleges in China are now holding practicals also online. “Our seniors are being taught surgery online,” she said. “I had already started my medical internship in January 2020 at the First Hospital of Jilin University when the Covid-19 situation in China started getting out of hand and everyone was asked to stay home. By February, our families back home started getting worried and most foreign national students flew back home by March as the country was under severe lockdown restrictions,” said Rajesh, a final-year student who has been home in Santacruz since March 2020. According to the rules in China, MBBS students finish their final-year course and immediately have to complete a 52-week physical internship in assigned hospitals to be awarded their MBBS degree. While the first, second and third-year MBBS students are currently attending lectures online, the final-year students are at a loss as their internship can only be completed once the lockdown restrictions are lifted. According to data from the UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), in 2018 and 2019 China received around 500,000 international students each, the third highest in the world after the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK). Official data shows that in 2018, over 23,000 Indian students were enrolled in various programmes in China. Indians represent the fourth largest group of international students in China, after South Koreans, Thais and Pakistanis. While students in India are in constant touch with Indian Embassy officials in Beijing, many have now started support groups on social networking sites to reach out to other international students facing the same problem. “Out of desperation, many of us are sharing our stories on Facebook and Instagram, hoping to attract the attention of Indian as well as Chinese governments. With lockdown restrictions easing out slowly, even the universities in China can start allowing students in phases and insist on the 14-day quarantine period before starting physical classes,” said another student. Officials from Indian embassy are encouraging students to stay in touch with their respective universities for updates. “The embassy will continue to engage with Chinese officials to seek progress on the issue of movement of people between the two countries,” said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/year-on-medical-students-of-chinese-universities-yet-to-resume-physical-classes-101617132529574.html
31-03-2021||Other||Pro-BJP and anti-Congress content in MPSC exams: Maharashtra min to CM||Woman and child welfare minister and senior Congress leader Yashomati Thakur has raised strong objection over the “pro-Bharatiya Janata Party and anti-Congress” contents in the Maharashtra Public Services Commission (MPSC) exams held recently. Citing three examples from the exams, the minister has asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to take action against the officials responsible behind the incident.She handed over a letter to CM on Tuesday and said the contents inclined towards one political party. She said in one of the questions, the central government has been termed as ‘Modi government’. The letter also said that the question paper stated that the Congress was responsible for adopting a ‘British education system’ in the country after independence. “In the exam last year, there was a controversial reference of Manusmriti. Lakhs of students take up these exams and setting question papers in a way to promote the ideology of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh is highly objectionable,” she wrote.Thakur also alleged that MPSC deliberately tried to put the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in trouble with its decisions related to the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/probjp-and-anti-congress-content-in-mpsc-exams-maharashtra-min-to-cm-101617132289560.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Uran mangroves ideal for Bollywood’s desert locations’||Bollywood film-makers need not go as far as Rajasthan or Dubai for shooting on desert locations, instead, they could do so at Uran’s mangroves, said environmentalists in a sarcastic letter to the Indian Motion Picture Producers’ Association (IMPPA). Lush green mangrove zones have now been turned into massive deserts and sprawling wetlands have turned into barren lands at several places, the environmentalists said.“With concerned authorities remaining unconcerned over the relentless destruction of the fragile biodiversity, Bollywood producers might as well make use of the man-made deserts and barren lands for their shoots,” said BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation. “This is no exaggeration as innumerable complaints to the government and the orders from the environment department and even the high court-appointed wetlands and mangroves committees have not yielded any results to save nature in Uran,” he said.“The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), which has all along been neglecting the environment, might as well be the nodal agency for booking film-shoot sites,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan. Priya Ratambe, CIDCO public relations officer, said, “CIDCO is committed to preserving the environment and all efforts have been made in this regard. The allegations are baseless and all notified wetlands and mangroves are being protected as per orders of the authorities and rules and regulations governing them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uran-mangroves-ideal-for-bollywood-s-desert-locations-101617131570091.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Khar murder: Janhavi Kukreja suffered 48 injuries, including a skull fracture: Police||Janhavi Kukreja, who was murdered during new year celebration party at Khar, had received 48 bleeding injuries, including a skull fracture, stated the charge sheet filed by Khar police against two accused arrested for the teenager’s murder - Shree Jogdhankar and Diya Padalkar. The Khar police on Tuesday filed a charge sheet running into 600 pages in connection with the 19-year-old’s murder at a building in Khar on December 31, 2020. Police have added statements of 74 witnesses, including statements of Kukreja’s friends who were present at the party. Police claimed the Jogdhankar and Padalkar were behaving inappropriately at the venue on the eighth floor, to which deceased Kukreja objected. The police claimed the three had a fight. Around 1.45am, when Kukreja was on her way down, both the accused followed her from the fifth floor and started quarrelling with her. They assaulted her on the way down, pulling her by the hair, till they reached the second floor, causing her serious injuries. The chargesheet stated Padalkar and Jogdhankar banged Kukreja’s head on the railing of the stairs. The police claimed that during the fight, Kukreja tried to defend her and also in retaliation assaulted the accused. The police claimed that the injuries suffered by Jodghankar were caused during the fight. The police claimed that neither Padlkar nor Jogdhankar stopped one another from assaulting Kukreja which the police claimed shows common intention and also shows that they intentionally killed Kukreja. During the investigating, police found a yellow bangle on the stairs on the fifth floor and a black sandal on the fourth floor and the other sandal from the pair with Kukreja’s body on the ground floor. Besides, the police found earrings on the third and second floor and also found a hair band. The police claimed that these things belonged to Kukreja and Padalkar. The police also found Kukreja’s blood on stairs at third floor and also found a bundle of hair on the railing of the stairs on the second floor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/khar-murder-janhavi-kukreja-suffered-48-injuries-including-a-skull-fracture-police-101617131389529.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Thackeray memorial: CM to lay foundation stone for project today||Over four years after a national trust was set up for the memorial of Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will lay the foundation stone for the memorial on Wednesday evening. The memorial will come up at the plot where the city mayor bungalow was located at Shivaji Park in Dadar. The ceremony will be held on the occasion of Shiv Jayanti, which falls on March 31 as per the Hindu calendar (tithi), party insiders said. Sena leader and minister Subhash Desai, who is general secretary of the Balasaheb Thackeray National Memorial Trust, said that Thackeray will remain present at the venue of the ground-breaking ceremony in central Mumbai. “We wanted to make it a big scale event but looking at the rising Covid-19 cases, we decided to keep the number of people limited. Uddhav ji will remain present. Ajit Pawar and Balasaheb Thorat, our MVA partners will also be present,” Desai said. Sena minister and president of the trust, Aaditya Thackeray, will not be present at the event as he is home quarantine. He is however expected to take part in the event virtually. The project, this is being implemented by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), is divided into two phases: the cost of phase 1 is ₹250 crore, while the second phase will cost ₹150 crore. The erstwhile mayor’s bungalow on the proposed memorial plot is a Grade II-B heritage structure, and will remain untouched during the project. In the first phase, the architecture, aesthetics and construction of the building for the memorial will take place. Phase one will also include the construction of a parking lot for visitors and focus on the mechanism of rain water harvesting at the memorial. The second phase will consist of the technological part of the memorial. This will include preparation of digital mapping, films, audio visuals, etc, for the memorial to start its operations. Abha Narain Lambha Associates has designed the memorial. The MMRDA will start work on the memorial immediately before monsoon, people close to the project said. The Shiv Sena intends to make the memorial functional before the tenth death anniversary of the Sena supremo, in November 2022. The work on phase one of the project will be completed in 14 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thackeray-memorial-cm-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-project-today-101617131329500.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||NGO challenges MoEFCC’s move||Vanashakti, a city-based, non-profit environment group, has filed a petition in the Bombay High Court challenging the validity of an administrative circular issued by the union environment ministry last month, which allows ex-post facto approval of projects that have not yet obtained coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance under the CRZ Notification, 2011. “Bringing such projects and activities in compliance with the environmental laws at the earliest point of time is therefore essential, rather than leaving them unregulated and unchecked, which will be more damaging to the environment,” wrote Sujit Kumar Bajpayee, joint secretary, CRZ division, MoEFCC, in the office memorandum, dated February 19, which is addressed to the environment secretaries of all coastal states. “This circular empowers coastal authorities/MoEFCC to regularize all kinds of CRZ violations on a day-to-day basis making it easier for environmental violators to evade substantive law. It further encourages a “pollute and pay” principle rather than the “precautionary principle”. “A public interest litigation is filed by Vanashakti on the ground that this circular is arbitrary, wholly unconstitutional and in direct contravention of recent Supreme Court judgments,” Vanashakti said in a statement issued Tuesday. “As the project commenced construction and / or operations without a prior CRZ clearance, the respective Coastal Zone Management Authority shall assess the environmental damages caused by such an action and shall give specific recommendation in respect of activities, corresponding to the environmental or ecological damage assessed, to be taken up by the project proponent within a period of three years from the date of clearance, under Compensatory Conservation Plan (CCP) and a Community Resource Augmentation Plan (CRAP),” states the MoEFCC’s February 19 office memorandum, which has been reviewed by HT. This procedure will allow projects that are typically permitted as per CRZ, 2011, but did not seek requisite clearances prior to commencement, to become regularised subject to fulfillment of certain conditions. Experts, however, pointed out while the amended CRZ (2019) notification has come into force, contingent coastal zone management plans (CZMP) as per the same have not yet been finalised. Until such a time, CRZ 2011 rules should remain in force, Vanashakti’s petition clarifies, adding that neither notification allows for grant of “ex-post facto CRZ clearance”, which the MoEFCC’s office memorandum proposes to facilitate, they said. Vanshakti’s PIL is listed for urgent hearing on April 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ngo-challenges-moefcc-s-move-101617131269659.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Guidelines on Class 10 assessments released||The state education department has issued a set of guidelines on the conduct of orals and internal exams for Class 10 students in the state. According to the guidelines, principals have been asked to collect assignments of students for each subject between May 21 and June 10.Students will be asked to submit a practical exam journal, homework and projects for science, while multiple choice questions (MCQs) will be given for internal assessments of Mathematics. For social sciences, 20 marks will be given on the basis of internal assessments and homework. “Students need to be called to submit the assignments in a phased manner to make sure there is no rush. Classrooms and the entire school premises need to be cleaned regularly and all the norms with respect to Covid-19 should be followed,” stated the guidelines.This year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, schools have been asked to do away with science practicals and have instead been asked to conduct assignments, which can be collected from students and marked. For every 80 marks paper, students have 20 marks for internal assessments in the exam.Teachers said that while the assignments are a welcome move, multiple assignments for students can be a hassle for correction. “For instance, in a class of 80 students, if 20 marks are to be divided between three different assignments, it is a lot of work for teachers and students both,” said a teacher from a suburban school.While the HSC (Class12) exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, 2021, SSC(Class10) exams will be conducted between April 29 and May 20. Nearly 3.3 million students appear for Class 10 and 12 exams from the state board every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/guidelines-on-class-10-assessments-released-101617131211328.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||MCZMA gives assent to revised draft CZMPs for Mumbai||The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has green-lit revised draft coastal zone management plans (CZMP) for Mumbai city and suburban districts, officials privy to the matter confirmed on Tuesday. The revised CZMP drafts were formulated earlier this year, following public hearings in February, and were considered by the MCZMA in its 153rd meeting on March 18 (the agenda for which is available on the MCZMA website). While the minutes of the meeting are yet to be released, two officials with direct knowledge of the development (who did not wish to be identified) confirmed that the revised draft CZMPs have received the MCZMA’s assent, and are currently awaiting the state government’s nod before being sent to the Centre for final approval. “Public hearings were held in February to receive objections and suggestions on the previous iteration of the CZMP, which was published in January 2020. It was learnt that the main objection is with regards to the coastal mapping in which regulatory zones have been delineated. The maps have been revised keeping in mind public feedback. The Authority has given a go ahead on these changes, and the revised plans are now with the state government, who will forward them to an appropriate body under the MoEFCC,” said one of the officials. Environmentalists expressed concern over this development. “What are the specific revisions in draft? What is the methodology that has been employed in delineating these regulatory zones? The updated coastal maps have not been put in the public domain, even though they have been ostensibly revised on the basis of public feedback,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust, calling for increased transparency in the matter. A senior government official privy to the development, however, clarified that the updated coastal maps are likely to be included in the minutes of the MCZMA’s 153rd meeting. “If the National Coastal Zone Management Authority does not object to the maps being made public, they will surely be included in the minutes, which will be released soon,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mczma-gives-assent-to-revised-draft-czmps-for-mumbai-101617131209552.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Is a new variant driving Maharashtra’s surge?||As Covid-19 infections continue to surge in the second wave of the pandemic, health department officials in Maharashtra, which has the highest daily case load in the country, said that there was not enough data to attribute the rise in numbers to the new double mutant variant found in the random community samples from the state processed for genome sequencing.A new variant of Sars-Cov-2 was detected in random community samples from Nagpur, the Union government said last week, confirming the presence of mutations that are being tracked. The Union health ministry said a novel variant with a combination of two mutations E484Q and L452R was found in 206 samples taken from Maharashtra since December. Both these mutations could make the coronavirus spread more readily and, at least to a degree, resist immunity from a past infection or triggered by vaccines, the Centre said.However, state officials said that while the double mutant variant could be one of the reasons for the spread, it was certainly not the main reason for the surge, which they attributed to a lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour and Covid-fatigue among citizens. State health officials in Nagpur also pointed out that the cases were being reported from areas that did not have many cases in the first wave.Also Read | Maharashtra rules out statewide lockdown for now, localised curbs possible“In any pandemic, it is a natural phenomenon for the viruses to mutate. So far, we have seen that only a small percentage of the newly infected people have been diagnosed with a mutated strain. Thus, it is not scientifically correct to call it as the main reason for the rise in new Covid-19 cases but just as one of the contributing factors,” said Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management.“People were suffering from fatigue and had put down their safety guards which gave an opportunity to the virus to spread further. But it is not as strong as it was in the first phase as the fatality rate is still under 1%. However, this can also be attributed to the growth of public awareness,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid task force.The state reported 27,918 new cases on Tuesday bringing up the total cases to 2,773,435. This signals a rise of 618,365 cases from March 1 to March 30, the steepest 30-day rise. The case fatality rate (the number of deaths per 100 positive cases), however, declined from 2.42% to 1.96% in the same period.Task force members said that while the virus circulating in the state could be said to be more infectious than the first wave but not as lethal, more data was needed to draw the correlation to the surge.“With lax behaviour, people have allowed the virus to enter their bodies and mutate and spread further. Even now people are least bothered about the rules,” Salunkhe said.“We are hardly genome sequencing only a percentage of the samples and so the results are not widely applicable. The currently reported double mutation could further go into more mutations,” he added.India is only genetically sequencing 0.1% of its positive cases, far below the United Kingdom’s 5%, so it is believed that these figures are an underestimate, experts said.Also Read | Govt warns surge in Covid-19 cases can overwhelm resources“The double mutant variant has been found in 206 samples in Maharashtra and in Nagpur, it is particularly high at 20% of samples, but there is not enough data yet to correlate this with the nature of the surge being recorded there,” National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) director SK Singh in New Delhi had said last week.Singh said that three known variants of concern (VOCs) were also found in Maharashtra: 56 of these were of the UK variant (B.1.1.7), five of the South African variant (B.1.351) and one of the Brazilian variant (P.1).Of the 220 samples from Mumbai sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for sequencing, only 22 of them had the B 1.1.7 variant. Of those, half the persons had a travel history, while the other half comprised close contacts.The NIV and National Centre for Cell Science, Pune, refused to comment whether any new information could be gleamed from samples sent across for genome sequencing. Thus, it is as yet unknown what the latest number of samples with the double mutant variant are and what proportion they constitute of all samples sequenced.Every week, Mumbai’s civic body sends 50 samples for genome sequencing of infected patients with travel history, from hot spots and families with higher infection rates. “It generally takes 15 days for the reports to come to us. So, we are yet to get the latest report. But so far, we haven’t found “double mutation” except for the UK variant,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.Also Read | WHO chief toughens tone on China with lab probe call“Only around 10% of the samples that were sent for analysis had the UK variant. All these patients have successfully recovered without any fatality. Other than this, we haven’t found any other mutated strains,” Kakani added, referring only to Mumbai cases.In health ministry’s weekly media briefing on Covid-19 updates on Tuesday, VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, also said that the situation was turning “from bad to worse”. Ten districts in our country currently account for maximum active Covid-19 case load, of which eight districts -- Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nanded, and Ahmednagar -- are in Maharashtra alone.Dr Shashank Joshi, Covid task force member said that the genomic data from NCDC did not establish a correlation. “They had said last week that 20% of the Nagpur population had the [new] strain. There is no clarity on it, and they have not been able to conclusively establish a link [between mutation and the surge. However, the possibility cannot be ruled about.”However, officials and medical practitioners across affected districts have noted that all members of a family are being affected. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director from Bharati hospital in Pune said, “It is true that everyone in the family is getting infected now, it could be either because of the mutated strain or because people are not strictly following the home isolation rules. We have seen even multiple families in the society getting infected.”“In this wave we can see that the spread is faster and that the entire family is being affected even if one member gets the infection which did not happen in the first wave. Earlier cases were coming from slums and congested areas now most of the newer cases are coming from societies and middle-class families,” said Salunkhe, who also got infected after receiving the vaccine.Also Read | World leaders eye global deal to tackle outbreaksOfficials are also noting cases of infections among those who have taken the vaccine.“We have also seen infections among those who got the vaccines. One of our health care workers who got the vaccine tested positive for the infection, but the symptoms were just mild to moderate. We have observed that none of those on ventilators or who currently require critical care in our hospitals have got the vaccine even once. Even after getting the second shot, it takes at least 28 days to develop complete immunity,” Oswal said.Dr HK Sale, executive director at Noble Hospital, Pune said, “I have also tested positive for the infection despite getting both doses of the vaccine. I have mild symptoms like cold and cough. For almost a year I worked throughout without a single holiday and now I have got the infection. We have noticed a trend this time that patients are coming in large numbers suddenly which did not happen last time. In a short span of time, we saw multiple people come for admission which created a load on the infrastructure. The entire family is testing positive and the beds which were earlier occupied by non-Covid patients are now being reserved for Covid patients. The strain circulating in Pune needs to be studied.”The Centre attributes surge in cases due to inadequate Covid-19 testing, lack of public health measures, and to specific events or places where crowding happens, or where a large number of people are in close physical contact, coupled with lack of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Dr Lancelot Pinto, a Mumbai-based pulmonologist and epidemiologist said variants were par for the course in any pandemic. “Variants are expected to evolve when a highly transmissible virus moves rapidly through a host population. Such new variants of the coronavirus could have escape mutations which help the virus evade the body’s immune system, thereby conferring the virus with a survival advantage. Escape mutations in the spike protein could result in infections among individuals who had existing antibodies to earlier strains of the virus.”Health experts claim that as the line of treatment for the mutated virus remains the same, the public don’t need to panic. The focus should be on three things—double masking, robust testing and mass vaccination.“The type of patients landing in a serious situation remain the same those aged above 50 and those with comorbidities,” Oswal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/not-enough-data-to-attribute-surge-in-covid-cases-to-new-double-variant-101617131149551.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 27,918 fresh cases||After six consecutive days of recording over 30,000 Covid-19 infections, Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 27,918 fresh cases, taking the tally to 2,773,436. The reduction in numbers has been attributed to marginally lower testing on account of a public holiday on Monday, officials said. In the past 24 hours, 129,876 samples were tested. Mumbai too saw lower numbers in comparison on Tuesday with 4,760 new cases. Mumbai was recording over 5,000 new cases daily since March 24.Maharashtra reported 139 fatalities, pushing its death toll to 54,422. Mumbai recorded 10 deaths, taking its toll to 11,675. Nashik district reported 22 deaths, while Dhule district added 16 deaths. Nandurbar and Ahmednagar added seven and nine fatalities, respectively. Out of the 139 deaths reported, 72 deaths occurred in the past 48 hours, and 45 in the last week. The remaining 22 deaths are from the period before last week.Maharashtra went past 600,000 cases in March so far, which is more than what the state clocked in September 2020—when it first peaked. The state has added 618,366 cases between March 1 and March 30. In September, the state had added 593,192 cases. The deaths, however, are significantly lower than September. So far, in March, 2268 deaths have been recorded, while the state had 12,079 deaths in September.Amid rising cases in the state, health minister Rajesh Tope said that a lockdown over the state would only be imposed as a last resort. He said that neither chief minister Uddhav Thackeray nor the ruling coalition wishes to impose a lockdown. The statement comes days after Thackeray directed officials to look at lockdown as step to arrest the rise in Covid-19 cases. Tope, however, said that the government will be left with no option of the number of critical patients increase rapidly and exhaust the health facilities created, putting heavy strain on the medical infrastructure. Tope refuted the speculations that there are differences within the government over imposing lockdown, and said, “Lockdown is not dear to the chief minister nor to anybody else. But looking at the increasing number of cases, we must ensure there is not shortfall of ICU beds, oxygen cylinders, etc. We have to keep an eye on the rising cases and bed occupancy. If there is going to be a shortfall and for some reason we are unable to increase the bed capacity, we are left with no option but choose the option of lockdown. Nothing is more important than a person’s life.”The health minister said that in the next step towards stricter curbs on people, the state could explore options including shutting down restaurants, bars, cinema halls, theatres, etc to stop crowding. “We don’t want to impose a lockdown like earlier. We have to look at migrant labourers as construction is a major sector, workers in industries cannot be asked to stop work... We will find a centre-point on saving lives and not stopping the wheels of the economy. The next step we can look at is asking 50% attendance in private offices, shutting restaurants, cinema halls, etc,” Tope said.The minister added the state has ordered oxygen manufacturers to supply 80% oxygen for medical use, while the remaining can be used for industries. “We are placed well in terms of ventilators. However, the demand for oxygen is increasing. We have ordered manufacturers to supply 80% oxygen for medical use, remaining 20% for industries. The Food and Drug Administration will ensure that all districts get adequate supply of oxygen cylinders,” he said. The number of deaths in the state is increasing marginally. Officials attribute this increase to late admissions in hospitals. Tope said Covid-19 positive patients arrive late at hospital in a bad condition, making it challenging to save the patients. “Of the total cases we get , around 85% are asymptomatic. Most of them are in home quarantine. I have asked the department to strictly move patients to institutional quarantine facility, if home quarantine is not possible due to the size of the dwelling. If this is not done then, people reach hospital at a very late stage. The quarantine facilities will give anti-viral drug, monitor oxygen saturation, temperature, etc. so the person recovers faster. Many young people too have faced such issues,” he said, appealing people to get tested if they have any symptoms.Chief minister Thackeray and ministers are expected to take a review of the Covid-19 situation, the availability of beds and other key parameters before deciding further restrictions. The health infrastructure in rural parts of Maharashtra could get exhausted with the rising cases in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-27-918-fresh-cases-101617131150112.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Containment zones, sealed buildings doubled||As the number of cases in the city has gone up drastically in the last one month, the number of containment zones, sealed buildings and floors have more than doubled. However, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday said that citizens do not need to panic about shortage of beds in the city as out of the 85,000 cases in the last 48 days, only around 15,000 were symptomatic patients and only 8,000 patients required a bed in the hospital. However, Chahal added that citizens need to show Covid-19 appropriate behaviour else authorities will have no option left but to act.In the context of another lockdown, Chahal said, “I cannot predict the future, but we need to ensure there is Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. I cannot predict about future now so I cannot comment on the lockdown. But if people do not behave and they continue crowding, the government or BMC will not have any choice considering we cannot allow people to die, and we have to act here.” At the moment, according to BMC officials, due to the night curfew in place between 8 pm to 7am, gathering of more than five people is restricted. However, trains and buses will continue, one can go in their private cars as far as they are not more than 5 persons.Emphasising that the situation is not out of control, Chahal who took the Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday said, “We are detecting high number of cases as we have increased the number of tests. The number of tests will soon go up to 60,000 per day and the number of infected people can be as high as 10,000 per day. Of these, the number of people in need of a bed will be relatively small given the current situation. The mortality rate in Mumbai is also low now. For the growing number of patients, bed management is being done through ward war rooms as before.”Chahal added, “A total of 85,000 patients were found in the 48 days from February 10 to March 30. Of these, 69,500 patients were found to be asymptomatic. They were kept in isolation at home. The remaining 15,500 patients developed symptoms of which only 8,000 people had to be admitted to the hospital. Others had mild symptoms and were cured by medication either at quarantine centres or by home isolation.” According to BMC’s data, Bhandup, Kanjurmarg and Vikhroli area have the highest number of containment zones followed by Andheri West, Oshiwara, and Mulund having the highest number of sealed buildings and floors. As per the data, there were 12 active containment zones in the city on February 26 that increased to 64 active containment zones on March 28 followed by sealed building count increasing from 127 on February 26 to 578 on March 28. Further, in case of sealed floors, the count increased from 1,849 to 7,475.As per the BMC’s protocol, when multiple cases are reported from a slum cluster or chawl, the entire chawl or slum settlement is declared as containment zone. Whereas in case of high-rises, the BMC seals a building completely, if more than five cases are reported in one building. If there are less than five cases, the BMC seals the entire floor on which the patient resides instead of sealing the entire building.In terms of overall data, the BMC has traced more than 5.2 million high-risk and low-risk contacts of positive patients in the last one year. Further, in city, overall more than 4.7 million citizens have completed their quarantine and around 0.4 million are in home quarantine.Meanwhile, on maximum cases being reported from high rises, Chahal said, “I would appeal to the managing committee of the housing societies, considering they are equally responsible for ensuring their societies are virus-free. Everything cannot be done by policing, and we need to ensure that there is Covid-19 appropriate behaviour among citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-containment-zones-sealed-buildings-doubled-101617131089529.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||BMC to procure 1.5 lakh vials of Remdesivir||With the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has placed an order to procure 1.5 lakh vials of Remdesivir as a precautionary measure to avoid any shortage of medicines.In the last 15 days, the city has reported over 50,000 new Covid-19 cases with an average positivity rate of above 15%. At present, Mumbai has 49,167 active Covid-19 patients who are on treatment now.Remdesivir is an antiviral drug used for treatment of Ebola and is used in the early stage of the infection to bring down the viral load in patients.As per the civic body, they already have 70,000 vials of Remdesivir in their stock. In addition to it, they are already in the process to procure another 70,000 vials this week. Along with this, BMC has floated another tender to acquire 1.5 lakh vials of the antiviral drugs. This will help push up the cumulative stocks of Remdesivir to around 3 lakh.“The overall load of active patients has been the highest since its outbreak last year. So, other than improving the infrastructure, we are also focusing on the procurement process of drugs and oxygen to avoid any shortages of medicines in the future,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “Till now, we haven’t got any report of shortages of medicines,” he added.In November, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced that Remdesivir doesn’t do much to improve the health of people hospitalized with Covid-19. Despite this, the antiviral drug is being used in all hospitals in treating moderately and severely infected patients on compassionate grounds. “The medicine needs to be provided at the early stage of diagnosis for better results. We have been able to save many critically-ill patients with the drug,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-procure-1-5-lakh-vials-of-remdesivir-101617131029491.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Allow us to give Covid vaccine door-to-door: BMC to state||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked the Maharashtra government for permission to take its vaccination drive door-to-door across the city, in a bid to increase the number of beneficiaries vaccinated per day.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday said, “The BMC currently vaccinates 40,000 to 45,000 beneficiaries per day. We have set a target of vaccinating 100,000 beneficiaries per day. We have asked the state government for permission to go door-to-door. Even without going door-to-door, we can meet our target of vaccinating 100,000 beneficiaries per day. The BMC has decided to take a few steps to meet this target.” Chahal was speaking at the jumbo Covid facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex, after taking his first vaccine dose on Tuesday afternoon.From April 1, the BMC will start vaccination of all citizens above the age of 45, regardless of whether they have comorbidities. Presently, as part of the latest phase of the vaccination drive, the BMC has been vaccinating senior citizens, and citizens above the age of 45 who have comorbidities.Overall, 4,000,000 Mumbaiites are above the age of 45, 2,300,000 Mumbaiites are senior citizens, and 300,000 are citizens above the age of 45 who have comorbidities, as per data collected by the civic body during it My Family, My Responsibility drive.With permission to vaccinate all citizens above the age of 45 regardless of comorbidities, the BMC hopes it will inch closer to its target of vaccinating 1,00,000 Mumbaiites per day. The measures announced by the BMC earlier to ensure Mumbai is able to meet this target include extending timings of vaccination centres from to 9pm, instead of 5 pm. The BMC has asked all private hospitals to extend timings, however, this is not mandatory.Chahal said on Tuesday, “The BMC has also asked the central government permission to allow vaccination centres at 26 other hospitals. We need permission so they can access the Co-WIN application. We have also asked private hospitals to vaccinate 1000 beneficiaries per day. Vaccination is low in private hospitals at present. Municipal hospitals are already vaccinating a total of 40,000 or so beneficiaries per day. If the active vaccination centres in private hospitals meet the target of 1000 vaccinations per day, we will be able to overall vaccinate 75,000 beneficiaries per day, even if we do not go door to door.” As of Tuesday, 108 vaccination centres are operating 245 sessions per day. A total of 538,169 beneficiaries above the age of 60 have been vaccinated in Mumbai, and 97,812 beneficiaries above the age of 45 years who also have comorbidities have been vaccinated in the city.When asked about the Central government denying permission to the civic body to go door-to-door, Chahal said, “Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan governments are doing this on their own. Maharashtra government is disciplined and hence asked the Centre for permission. But this has not been denied.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department, said on Monday, “Presently, the turnout in citizens above the age of 45 who also have comorbidities is low. Beneficiaries are afraid to bring medical certificates to validate they have comorbidities. They fear this will interfere with their health insurance systems at a later stage.”From April 1, as no medical certificates will be required to receive a vaccine shot for those above 45, the BMC hopes the turnout will increase. Moreover, most people from residential buildings to qualify for the latest phase of the drive have been covered, Kakani said. Those that remain to be vaccinated live mostly in slums, or are from lower socio-economic background. To help with registration, non-governmental organizations and a handful of large government and semi-government organisations have been roped in. Non-government organisations will help with the registration process, and government and semi-government organizations have been asked to encourage their employees to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-us-to-give-covid-vaccine-door-to-door-bmc-to-state-101617131030135.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Allegations against Anil Deshmukh: Maharashtra names retd judge to probe Singh’s claims||Maharashtra government on Tuesday appointed a single-member committee to probe former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegations that home minister Anil Deshmukh ran an extortion racket and instructed his officers to collect up to ₹100 crore from establishments like bars, restaurants and hookah bars in the city. Singh made these allegations in a letter dated March 20, which was addressed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other senior bureaucrats and politicians. Deshmukh denied the charges, even as the Opposition BJP demanded his resignation following these allegations. The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government however, rallied behind Deshmukh and decided last week that a judicial probe will be ordered into the affair.The panel, which will comprise retired Bombay high court (HC) judge Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal, has been given a timeline of six months to submit a report. The high-level probe committee has not been constituted under Commission of Inquiry Act and thus the government is not required to make the report, or the actions taken on the basis of its findings, public.The panel has been tasked to examine whether Singh submitted proof to establish that Deshmukh or any staffer from his office committed any offence/ misconduct as alleged in the letter; whether specific allegations raised by Singh, citing the messages from assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil, and assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze had any truth and merited investigation by the state Anti-Corruption Bureau or any other agency; as well as to offer any recommendations that it deems fit.“The Hon’ble Home Minister expressed to Shri Vaze that he had a target to accumulate ₹100 crore a month. For achieving the aforesaid target, the Hon’ble Home Minsiter told Shri Vaze that there are about 1,750 bars, restaurants and other establishments in Mumbai and if a sum of Rs. 2-3 lakhs each was collected from each of them a monthly collection of Rs. 40-50 crores were achievable. The Hon’ble Home Minister added that the rest of the collection could be made from other sources,” Singh’s unsigned letter stated, referring to a purported meeting that took place in the home minister’s official residence Dyaneshwar in mid-February.Vaze, the former head of the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai Crime Branch, is in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged role in planting explosives in an SUV outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in February. He is also suspected to be the mastermind in the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was linked to that SUV.Singh was transferred out of the Police Commissioner’s office on March 17, and made Commandant General of Home Guards, Maharashtra state. Deshmukh told reporters that the transfer was not “routine” but owing to “serious and unpardonable mistakes” committed by a few officers in Mumbai police Commissionerate.Deshmukh refuted the allegations in a series of tweets as soon as reports of Singh’s letter surfaced.“When his involvement was getting clear in the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case as well as in the case of Mansukh Hiran’s death and possibilities of him getting linked [to both] directly [became clear], former police commissioner Param Bir Singh made false allegations against me to save himself from further action.”The letter quoted a message exchange purportedly between Singh and ACP Patil regarding a meeting that allegedly took place at Deshmukh’s official residence, in which other officials, including the home minister’s personal secretary Sanjiv Palande, were also present. The home minister allegedly gave similar instructions to Patil and another officer, DCP Raju Bhujbal.“Shri Patil along with DCP Bhujbal were called at the official residence of the Home Minister for a meeting. While ACP Patil and DCP Bhujbal were made to wait outside the Home Minister’s cabin, Mr. Palande went inside the chamber of the Home Minister and after coming out took ACP Patil and DCP Bhujbal on the side. Palande informed ACP Patil that the Home Minister was targeting a collection of ₹40-50 crores which was possible through an approximate 1,750 bars, restaurants and establishments operating in Mumbai. I was informed by ACP Patil about the demand to make collections for the Home Minister,” the letter said regarding a meeting that purportedly took place on March 4.The letter further stated that senior politicians including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, and other senior bureaucrats were aware of some “misdeeds and malpractices” raised by Singh.Singh had first approached the Supreme Court and later the Bombay High Court seeking a probe by the CBI against Deshmukh. Earlier on Tuesday, the HC said it would hear on Wednesday the Public Interest Litigation filed by Singh.In a high-level meeting of ministers last week, it was decided that the probe would be constituted under the Commission of Inquiry Act. However, it wasn’t.“Since the probe is not constituted under Commission of Inquiry Act, it is not binding on the government to make the report or the actions taken on the basis of its findings public. During [Devendra] Fadnavis-led BJP rule, a report on the probe on allegations against former revenue minister Eknath Khadse was not made public as it similarly had no statutory obligation on the government,” said a senior state official.“The allegations made are not only serious but shocking. For the first time in the history of Maharashtra, a director general level officer has made such allegations and that too with chats in which demand for money was made. The chat is an evidence to what Singh has said. We are of the view that the home minister should immediately resign from his position and if he is not ready then the chief minister should take his resignation” Devendra Fadnavis had said, when the allegations first surfaced.Pawar however held two press conferences pointing out inconsistencies in the claims made in the letter. “In view of fresh evidence that proves that Deshmukh was not in Mumbai, it would not be fair to take his resignation… The BJP’s demand for home minister’s resignation has no substance… I am absolutely clear that allegations made against Deshmukh were incorrect as he was in Nagpur,” Pawar had said during one of the press conferences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allegations-against-anil-deshmukh-maharashtra-names-retd-judge-to-probe-singh-s-claims-101617130969585.html
31-03-2021||Bangalore||Jarkiholi case: Woman records statement||Days after filing a complaint of alleged sexual assault against former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, the woman, who purportedly featured in the alleged sex tape, on Tuesday recorded her statement before a magistrate’s court in Bengaluru. Later, she was also questioned by the special investigation team set up to probe the case.Soon after her statement was recorder, the woman’s advocate demanded the arrest of Jarkiholi, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Gokak in Belagavi district. Speaking to reporters after the victim drove into the SIT technical cell in Adugodi to record her statement in South Bengaluru, her lawyer Jagadeesh Kumar said, “Immediately, the government and police should arrest the accused.”Kumar said her statement was recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).The recording of her statement before a judge at the Chief Metropolitan Court Complex comes nearly a month after allegations were first levelled against Jarkiholi and could spell trouble for the former water resources minister, who has spent much of March trying to clear his name and calling himself a target of a “sinister political conspiracy”.On Tuesday, the woman went into the court complex undetected by the tens of television news cameras and scores of police personnel lined up near the premises. She has not made any public statement so far.Kumar said the SIT had requested to record a statement and the victim’s side obliged to the same. He dismissed the claims that the victim was “handed over” to the SIT.“They have let the offender roam around freely. Why will they arrest her?” he questioned.The lawyer added that the police were helping to create an environment of safety for the victim, who has, on multiple occasions, stated that she feared for her life and that of her family members.The high-profile case has consumed much of prime-time news space in Karnataka and other places. The chief minister B.S Yediyurappa-led state government has been defending the former minister against serious charges even before the SIT could record the woman’s statement.Earlier, the lawyers told the court that the victim did not trust the SIT investigating the sex tape case and because of that, she recorded her statement before the magistrate.The high-profile case has consumed much of prime-time news space in Karnataka and other places. The chief minister B.S Yediyurappa-led state government has been defending the former minister against serious charges even before the SIT could record the woman’s statement.According to the complaints, Jarkiholi sexually harassed the victim on the pretext of getting her a government job. The victim has released at least two videos so far from unknown locations. The case has taken several twists and turns, including a political one, after the name of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K Shivakumar was associated with the case.The Bengaluru police on Friday registered an FIR against Jarkiholi on several charges, including “sexual intercourse by a person in authority” and “sexual assault”, based on a handwritten complaint filed by the woman.The court passed orders in the presence of the investigating officer, assistant commissioner of police P Kavitha, and said that after giving a statement before the magistrate the SIT could record the victim’s statement. The court also directed to ensure adequate security at the court premises and also to the woman.The victim left the SIT’s technical cell in Adugodi around 8 pm in a convoy of vehicles, escorted by the police. It is unclear where the victim is currently residing or if the police have made any arrangements for her stay.Jarkiholi, who reportedly visited a temple in neighbouring Maharashtra on Tuesday, could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jarkiholi-case-woman-records-statement-101617130249518.html
31-03-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh government notifies law against religious conversion||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has notified the law against religious conversion through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, that stipulates a jail term of up to 10 years for violators, after Governor Anandiben Patel gave her assent."The Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act 2021 has been promulgated and published in the gazette notification on March 27 after the approval given by the Governor a day earlier (on March 26)," Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Madhya Pradesh, Rajesh Rajora, said on Tuesday.The new Act replaced the Freedom of Religion bill, which has provisions of 10 years imprisonment in some cases and hefty fine for violators, which was passed on March 8 by the state Legislative Assembly.The Act has replaced the ordinance passed by the state cabinet in December last year and promulgated in January, 2021.As per the notification, this Act penalises religious conversions through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, besides the religious conversions by misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat of force, undue influence, coercion, marriage or by any other fraudulent means, reads the document.The Act stated that no person shall convert or attempt to convert, either directly or otherwise, any other person by use of misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat of force, undue influence, coercion or marriage or by any other fraudulent means.Any conversion in contravention of these provisions shall be deemed null and void, it said.Any marriage solemnised in violation of this law will also be considered null and void, as per the Act.The Act has a provision of three to 10 years of imprisonment and a fine of ₹50,000 in cases of marriage carried out by hiding one's religion.In the cases involving religious conversion of members of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minors, a provision has been made for imprisonment of two to 10 years and a fine of ₹50,000.The law allows parents, legal guardian or custodian and brothers and sisters of the converted person to lodge a complaint in this regard.As per the Act, those willing to convert will need to apply to the district administration 60 days in advance.The victim women will be entitled to get maintenance under the law.The children born out of such marriages would be entitled to inherit the father's properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-government-notifies-law-against-religious-conversion-101617129866581.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||AAP-BJP lock horns on mosquito menace in Capital||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday trained its guns at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) for failing to control mosquito breeding in the city.The BJP, however, was quick to dismiss the allegations as “baseless”.“The BJP has transformed Delhi into ‘mosquito Capital’. Due to the miserable failure of the BJP-ruled MCDs, today Delhi is suffering from this mosquito menace. The AAP demands that the BJP-ruled civic bodies begin fogging within the next 48 hours or else the citizens of Delhi will take to the streets. To do fogging once across Delhi, it will cost the corporations around ₹100 crore. The BJP-ruled MCDs know that they will never return to power, so they have spent this money elsewhere already,” said the AAP’s in-charge of municipal affairs, Durgesh Pathak.While the AAP is in power in Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations that go to polls next year.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The AAP is a corrupt party and that is the reason they try to find corruption everywhere with such baseless allegations. Fogging operations are currently not being done in Delhi in the light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Fogging can cause breathing difficulties. As far as the funds are concerned, the annual budget for fogging for all the three MCDs put together is less than ₹50 crore. The AAP should stop misleading people and invest more in governance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aapbjp-lock-horns-on-mosquito-menace-incapital-101617129950823.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Empowering women at grassroots, via the anganwadi network||In order to strengthen the role of women in the state economy and help women entrepreneurs develop micro business enterprises, the Delhi government is ready to launch the Saheli Samanvay Kendra (SSK) scheme at 21 anganwadi (playschool) hubs beginning April 1. These hubs, on a pilot basis, will work as resource centres to enable socio-economic empowerment of women, nurture entrepreneurship, and act as local incubation centres.Delhi has over 10,700 anganwadis and, of these, around 390 have been clubbed to form around 110 anganwadi hubs – they combine resources of all nearby anganwadis to function as playschools. While children are currently away from anganwadis due to the pandemic, 21 of these hubs will be used for the SSK scheme.“Through discussions held under Saheli Samvaad, a need and aspirational mapping will be done to identity potential women and adolescent girls, their educational status, present level of skills and capacity, preference of work, ability to travel outside the community for livelihood trainings, availability of time, and stability of residence for continuity in the Mahila Samooh (women’s collective),” said a notice from the women and child department.These centres will also help create a database of traditional knowledge and local resources along with collaborating with agencies providing training in soft skills, entrepreneurship and livelihood skills. The aim of the scheme is to build women collectives, strengthen them, and to form district- and state-level federations in the longer run.Rashmi Singh, director, WCD, said, “These hubs will act as local incubation centres for individual startups and to promote self-help groups (SHGs).”The centres aim to be a “vibrant space for women and children to engage, receive services and information, build capacities and get sensitised on various issues”.Also read | Switch Delhi campaign to focus on youth in final weekDuring the Delhi budget this year, finance minister Manish Sisodia had announced that 500 such hubs would be set up across Delhi to “economically empower women” in nearby areas who would visit the centres for four hours every morning.Sisodia also cited a government survey which showed that the percentage of unemployed women in the city rose from 26% in February 2020 to 40% this year.Beginning next month, anganwadi workers will also engage in home visits and weekly meetings (with women and adolescent girls) for mobilisation, awareness, and sensitisation of the community. “The learnings can help in finalising the guidelines before scaling up the model in all projects,” Singh said, adding that the centres would be assessed in 10 days.The SSKs will also aim to find solutions to women-centric problems through locally available resources. Attention will be given to issues such as decreasing participation of women in workforce, social issues of women’s economic empowerment, and developing leadership skills among women.“These training sessions will also allow them [women] to become confident and raise their aspirations to undergo vocational training and skilling programmes to widen their choices and be self-reliant. In the process of upgrading their skills, the individual/group who shows inclination and potential to start up a micro enterprise will be supported and hand held through the Samriddhi initiative,” the WCD directive stated.Crèche services have also been proposed for working women under the scheme. A help desk – Mahila Sahayata Prakosht – will also be set up at these centres to connect women to the required legal, police, health, and financial assistance that they may need. Along with apprising women of various government schemes to help them, the scheme would also focus on the needs of vulnerable groups such as widows and the destitute.While welcoming the initiative, Madhu Bala, head programmes at NGO Jagori, which works on empowerment of women, said skills training alone will not lead to entrepreneurship or empowerment of women.“Covid-19 has impacted livelihoods and communities have been wanting such schemes from the government. But along with skills training, care must be taken to help these women with the capital needed to start their small businesses. Channels to subsidies or easy loan schemes must be worked out to facilitate entrepreneurship among women from low-income groups,” she said.Bala also pointed to the division of skills between men and women. “Generally, women opt for traditional skills like sewing, beautician courses among others. If the government takes steps to introduce non-traditional skills such as driving, repairing auto parts or others, it could also help in addressing the gender inequality in certain jobs,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/empowering-women-at-grassroots-via-the-anganwadi-network-101617129949525.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Switch Delhi campaign to focus on youth in final week||The eighth and the final week of the Switch Delhi mass awareness campaign will focus on sensitising the youth about the benefits that electric vehicles have to offer, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Tuesday.The Switch Delhi campaign aims to sensitise, inform and encourage Delhi’s youth to opt for electric vehicles (EVs).“The youth of Delhi can play a huge role in making the EV movement in Delhi a mass movement. I appeal to the youth to pledge that the first vehicle they purchase will be an electric one. They can drive change and be the torchbearers of this movement, especially since at least 65% of India’s population are below 35 years of age. The Delhi government will engage with the youth via the Switch Delhi campaign and motivate them to adopt electric vehicles and contribute to a cleaner and greener Delhi,” said Gahlot.The minister said by switching to electric two-wheelers that have very low operating costs, a person can save approximately ₹22,000 annually as compared to a petrol bike, that will entail an expenditure of at least ₹20,000.“An electric two-wheeler provides a lifetime saving of 1.98 tonne of carbon emissions as compared to petrol-driven two wheelers, which is equivalent to planting 11 trees,” said Gahlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/switch-delhi-campaign-to-focus-on-youth-in-final-week-101617129950174.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Man out on bail nabbed for killing CA in Adarsh Ngr during ‘robbery bid’||Delhi Police on Tuesday said they had arrested a 22-year-old man, who had a past criminal record, and claimed to have solved the murder of a 45-year-old chartered accountant (CA), who was shot dead at an under-construction building in north-west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar two weeks ago.The arrested suspect, identified as Jai Kumar Singh, allegedly killed the CA during a robbery attempt. Police said the killing came just ten days after Singh was released from a Delhi jail on bail. He has previously been involved in nearly 14 cases of robbery, snatching, kidnapping, rape and property theft, the police said.While deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said that Singh failed in his robbery attempt, the family members of the CA, identified as Anil Aggarwal, claim that a gold chain that he was wearing has been missing. The police are now trying to ascertain if the arrested man has been lying about the missing chain or someone else picked it up from the crime scene in the commotion that had broken out after the firing.“My brother-in-law’s gold chain has been missing. We spoke to the police about it. They told us that their investigation is on. My sister was called by the police to identify the arrested man. I shall ask her if the police officers have told her anything about the chain,” said Aggarwal’s brother-in-law, Mohit Goyal on Tuesday.On March 16, Aggarwal, who worked as a CA in a private firm in Noida, and his wife Anju Aggarwal had gone to meet labourers at their under-construction building, which is nearly a kilometre away from their present residential address in Majlis Park. Around 10am, an unidentified man, wearing a helmet arrived on a two-wheeler, parked the it outside the building, went inside and shot Aggarwal near his neck, said a police officer associated with the case.“Aggarwal’s wife and a couple of labourers were present there, but everything happened so quickly that nobody could intervene. Aggarwal was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead,” said the officer.A murder case was registered and scrutiny of CCTV cameras revealed that the suspect had followed the couple to their new building on a scooter, whose front wheel guard had red and blue marks. Investigators further learnt that the scooter was stolen from Patel Nagar on February 8. The same scooter was used in three-four snatching incidents reported from west and north-west Delhi by the same suspect. Through police informers, the suspect was identified as Jai Kumar Singh, but he was found missing from his Delhi addresses, the officer said.“Singh had come out of jail on bail on March 6. Teams conducted raids at his native village in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda, but learnt that he had fled to Delhi. We arrested him on Saturday from Inderlok. Singh has confessed to the crime and his interrogation led to the recovery of the two-wheeler used in the offence,” said DCP Rangnani.Singh, the DCP said, disclosed that he had procured the pistol from his associate, one Aryan alias Rahul, and returned it to him after Aggarwal’s murder. “We are trying to arrest Aryan and recover the gun,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-out-on-bail-nabbed-for-killing-ca-in-adarsh-ngr-during-robbery-bid-101617129889497.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Govt to ramp up Covid-19 beds as Capital adds 992 fresh infections||With Covid-19 cases on the rise in the national capital, the state government has decided to increase the number of beds earmarked for the treatment of the viral infection, as the city added 992 fresh cases of the infection, at a positivity rate of 2.70%.Nearly 29% of all beds reserved for Covid-19 treatment were occupied as on Tuesday evening, according to the state government’s Delhi Corona app.There are currently just over 5,800 Covid-19 beds in the city, of which over 2,000 are Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds. Nearly 33% of the ICU beds were occupied as on Tuesday evening, according to the app.While the city added fewer cases of the infection on Tuesday as compared to the previous day, this was primarily due to far fewer tests on account of Holi. According to Tuesday’s bulletin, which reflects data from the previous day, 36,757 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the city, down from 68,805 samples collected on Monday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday tweeted about the increase of Covid-19 beds, and added that there was no cause for worry.The number of hospitalisations in the city has doubled in less than two weeks – from 794 persons admitted as on March 18 to 1,584 on March 30. According to senior officials from Delhi’s health department, the number of beds will be augmented in both public and private sector hospitals.The city had nearly 18,700 beds earmarked for the treatment of the viral infection in November when Delhi witnessed its third and worst surge in the number of cases, reporting 8,593 cases in a day at its peak. The beds were slowly freed up for the treatment of other ailments as the number of cases in the city dropped and the positivity rate dipped below 1% in December-end.Also read | Delhi among top 10 worst-hit districts, says Union health ministryAn official of at least one major private hospital in the city said they are in the process of increasing the number of beds. It is, however, unclear whether they have received any orders from the Delhi government.With the positivity rate on the rise, experts believe that the increase in the number of cases in the city is likely to continue. The positivity rate remained high at 2.70% on Tuesday. The average positivity rate for the last seven days stood at 1.8%, up from 0.9% the week before, and 0.56% the week before that. The positivity rate – which is indicative of the ongoing spread of the infection – had remained below 1% consecutively for 82 days between December 28 and March 19.“The number of cases is likely to keep increasing for at least seven to 10 days now, especially after Holi. The increase in the number of cases happened mainly because of two reasons: First, the people who had protected themselves by staying at home during the previous surges started coming out when the number of cases had gone down in December and January. Second, everything opening up gave a signal to those who travel to the city for work or education that it is safe. This floating population increased the pool of people susceptible to the infection,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.With four people dying of the viral infection according to the Tuesday bulletin, the daily fatality count remained lower than the seven deaths reported each day on average during the last seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-ramp-up-covid-19-beds-as-capital-adds-992-fresh-infections-101617129831032.html
31-03-2021||Mumbai||Rashmi Thackeray, Maharashtra CM's wife admitted in hospital for Covid-19 treatment||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's wife Rashmi Thackeray was on Tuesday admitted in a hospital here for Covid-19 treatment, sources close to the CM's family said.Since her Covid-19 test came out positive on March 22 night, Rashmi Thackeray remained home quarantined, an official had said.Earlier, the CM's son and minister Aaditya Thackeray had also tested positive for coronavirus.The CM and Rashmi Thackeray had taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the government-run J J Hospital here on March 11.Rashmi Thackeray is editor of 'Saamana', the mouthpiece of the Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rashmi-thackeray-maharashtra-cm-s-wife-admitted-in-hospital-for-covid-19-treatment-101617129353228.html
31-03-2021||Other||Artificial intelligence, game-based techniques to take lead in new education board||New Delhi The Delhi government plans to introduce the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and game-based techniques for continuous assessment of students under its new state school education board, officials said after the board’s first general body meeting on Tuesday. The Delhi Cabinet approved the setting up of the Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) on March 6 with the society for the board being registered on March 19. The board is likely to become functional for up to at least middle-level classes (up to Class 8) from the upcoming academic session.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, who is the head of the board, said that students will be assessed holistically on the basis of their knowledge, attitude, and skills. “ DBSE will employ effective modern technology available today to ensure a personalised learning experience for our students. Artificial Intelligence and game-based assessments will be put to use to create a system where every student is regularly evaluated on the basis of his/her strengths and enters the next phase of their life with a deep understanding of their unique strengths,” he said in a statement on Tuesday. Shailendra Sharma, the principal advisor to the Directorate of Education (DoE), said that the new education board will focus on assessing students on the basis of their skills and not just classroom learning. “Conventionally, board assessments are designed as pen and paper tests only. They test subject knowledge which is to be recalled by students in one sitting exam. However, in this time and age, we also need to assess the application of knowledge, the extent of understanding, and attitudes like empathy, teamwork, collaboration, problem-solving abilities. For this, we plan to use new technology — such as artificial intelligence and game-based tools,” he said.Artificial intelligence will be used in the educational assessment process to provide real-time learning feedback of students to teachers. Under game-based assessments, students will be given situations or be involved in activities to evaluate their skills and understanding. Sharma said that the government will also look at assessment models followed by other countries. “The purpose of setting up the Delhi board is not to replicate the existing models. We are basically looking at how assessment can complement the teaching-learning process in class across all grades, and that is why we will explore the most contemporary models followed across the globe,” he added.Educationalist Meeta Sengupta said that the use of AI and game-based tools in assessment is a refreshing change but was likely to be challenging. “Using game-based and AI tools that we have at our command to understand the learning and progress of a student is a great idea. However, it’s also an incredibly complex process where one has to be very careful about ethics and empathy. It should be used without intruding on privacy and without making bad assumptions.” Principals of several government schools too welcomed the idea. Awadesh Kumar Jha, head of Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini, said, “There is a requirement of reforms in the existing assessment process. We need to evaluate students holistically in order to make them understand their strengths and weaknesses. The game-based assessment will of great help, especially for the younger students.”Aparajita Gautam, president of Delhi parents association, said that the government should create awareness about changes it was planning to bring in the education system among parents . “It is a great idea. But the government needs to inform parents about it by roping in the school management committees . These are things that parents might not understand easily,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/artificial-intelligence-game-based-techniques-to-take-lead-in-new-education-board-101617129769502.html
31-03-2021||Other||Total mishaps during Holi down by 91%, shows police data||New Delhi Two people lost their lives in two separate road accidents reported from Civil Lines and Dwarka during muted Holi celebrations in the city on Monday, even as Delhi Police claimed that fatal mishaps on the day of Holi this year had come down by nearly 78%, as compared to last year when nine such deaths were reported. Except for the two fatalities, no more accidents were reported this year. There were 23 road accidents reported during Holi celebrations in 2020 and 28 in 2019. This effectively means that the total accident cases this year have come down by 91%, when compared to last year. The city had witnessed seven deaths because of mishaps in 2019, data showed.Apart from road mishaps, incidents of violations of traffic rules also saw a sharp decline from the previous years, as only 3,446 fines were issued during Holi celebrations on Monday, which was almost 30% less from 2020 when 4,918 such challans were issued on the day of Holi. Of the total challans on Monday, 1,255 were for riding without helmets, 170 for triple riding, 100 for drink driving, 121 for dangerous driving while 1,800 were for other traffic violations, the data said.Police officers attributed this decline to heavy deployment of their personnel on the streets and restrictions imposed in the city following the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA’s) Covid-19 guidelines that banned Holi celebrations and gatherings in public places. Owing to massive awareness campaigns through newspapers, news channels and social media, there was better compliance observed this year, officers said. As far as action taken for violations of DDMA guidelines regarding Covid-19 is concerned, 72 cases were registered for celebrating Holi in public places. As many as 871 people were prosecuted or arrested for various violations such as drinking in public places, disturbing peace, obstructing or annoying people on streets, not wearing masks and not following social distancing, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said.“We also impounded 1,696 vehicles. No major incident was reported during Holi this year. Delhi Police takes this opportunity to thank all stakeholders for extending their cooperation celebrating Holi while observing Covid appropriate behaviour,” said Biswal.Apart from the police, the Delhi government also issued challans for mask and social distancing-related violations. According to government’s data, a total of 2,758 challans were issued by all the 11 revenue districts on Monday with north revenue district topping the chart by issuing 607 fines. The lowest fines — 74 in total — was issued by the central revenue district, the data shows.The government collected ₹51,24,910 from all the challans issued.Although no major untoward incidents were reported on the day, a video was circulated on social media in which a crowd is seen alleging that the police interrupted a Holika Dahan in east Delhi’s Krishana Nagar by dousing the flames with water. It was also alleged that two people had been detained.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram, however, refuted the allegations by saying that the incident was not related to Holika Dahan but was of a normal fire that had spread to an overhead wire, a tree and signboards of nearby shops. “The fire was timely doused by the policemen with the help of locals. The allegations against the police are false. Nobody was detained,” said Sathiyasundaram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/total-mishaps-during-holi-down-by-91-shows-police-data-101617129710957.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||348 DDA flats under housing scheme delayed by five months||Around 350, of a total 1,353, allottees of Delhi Development Authority’s recent housing scheme will have to wait longer before they can own a house in the national capital.DDA officials said that 348 flats, located in Dwarka’s sector 16B, are not ready yet and the allotment of the same will start only after four-five months.The development authority had this year received a good response to its housing scheme, after a long time, with close to 23,000 people applying for its 1,353 flats.A senior DDA official said, “We have decided to issue the demand-cum-allotment letters once all the formalities are complete and we can handover the flats to allottees. The entire process will take 4-5 more months. Meanwhile, we have started issuing allotment letters for the remaining flats that are located mainly in Jasola Vihar and Dwarka.”Also read | Delhi to increase normal, ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients: CM KejriwalThere are 348 two-bedroom, Middle Income Category (MIG) flats in Dwarka’s sector 16B which were put on sale in DDA’s housing scheme that was launched in January this year. The draw of lots for the scheme was held on March 10.Prodded about why half-finished flats were put on sale, a senior DDA official said, “These flats were nearing completion. Some basic finishing work and a few necessary permissions from various government agencies are pending. We decided to include this in the recently launched scheme, as they were almost ready. Else we would have had to wait for the next housing scheme. Learning from our past experience, we have decided to delay the allotment, as we don’t want any inconvenience to be caused to the allottees. We have informed the allottees about the same.”The 348 MIG flats, built on an area of 1,320 sqft to 1,430 sqft (approx) in Dwarka’s sector 16B are priced between R1.16 crore and R1.27 crore.Despite the slump in the real estate market, DDA priced its High Income Group (HIG) flats at ₹2.1 crore -- the costliest till date. There are 254 flats in the HIG category located in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini and Dwarka. While 215 flats in Jasola have been put on sale for the first time, the remaining were flats that were returned by allottees of the previous housing schemes. The cost of HIG flats, which are 87.9 sqm to 177.3 sqm in size, varies between ₹69.62 lakh to ₹2.14 crore.With close to 35,000 flats in various stages of construction in Delhi, the land-owning agency is likely to announce a new housing scheme by the end of this year, said a DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/348-dda-flats-under-housing-scheme-delayed-by-five-months-101617129710264.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||EDMC to face strict action for Ghazipur landfill fire: Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said “strict action” will be initiated against the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) for its alleged apathy in preventing a fire that broke out at the Ghazipur landfill on Sunday.Addressing the media, Rai said the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) inspected the landfill and prepared a detailed report that showed lapses on the part of the EDMC. “The report states the EDMC made no efforts or arrangements in preventing the fire. Strict action will be initiated against the civic body,” said Rai on Tuesday adding that such fires were responsible for deteriorating the pollution levels in the Capital.A portion of the Ghazipur landfill in east Delhi caught fire around 5.30pm on Sunday, which lasted nearly for an hour. Seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the blaze. Officials from the Delhi Fire Service said toxic chemicals from the heap of waste aggravated the blaze and it took longer to douse the fire completely.Nirmal Jain, mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), who had inspected the site after the blaze had called the fire a “natural phenomenon.” The EDMC spokesperson did not respond to calls and messages requesting comment.Meanwhile, while higher temperatures and improved wind speeds kept the air quality mostly in the moderate category last week, a dust storm caused the air pollution levels in the city to spike to the ‘poor’ category on Tuesday.Also read | Dusty winds add to pollution, mercury may rise from Apr 2The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings showed that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Tuesday was 232. An AQI reading of 101-200 is considered to be moderate.Rai said the DPCC has written to various agencies, asking them to monitor such sites, where chances of fires breaking out are higher due to rising temperatures.“Delhi has been making efforts...Two organisations -- IQAir and the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE)-- have acknowledged that air pollution levels in the city have reduced,” he said.According to IQAir’s report, Delhi has succeeded in reducing pollution levels, especially PM2.5 levels, by 15%. A CSE report says PM2.5 levels in Delhi have reduced by 25% since 2014-15, said the minister.IQAir is a Swiss group that measures air-quality levels based on the concentration of lung-damaging fine particles known as PM2.5. It is also a manufacturer of air purifiers.“Delhi is the first state to shut down thermal power plants. We have identified pollution hotspots and taken specific action. All industrial units are now operating on piped natural gas. We are the first state to launch an electric vehicle policy,” said Rai, listing the steps taken by the government to curb pollution levels in Delhi.“However, pollution in Gurgaon, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Bhiwadi, also affects Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/edmc-to-face-strict-action-for-ghazipur-landfill-fire-rai-101617129709590.html
31-03-2021||Noida||Positivity rate spikes in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad||The monthly number of positive Covid-19 cases per 100 samples tested in Gautam Budh Nagar where it crossed 1% for the first time this year, and is rising in Ghaziabad. The trend is in keeping with the rise in cases at a national level, including neighbouring Delhi.Officials said they expected the rise as people began ignoring health protocols in the run-up to Holi and also the arrival of more people from other states. According to official figures, the sample positivity rate in Ghaziabad in March (till date) was 0.71% (554 positive reports out of 78,363), while it was about 1.06% (606 positive reports out of 57246) for the same period in GB Nagar. In February, the sample positivity was 0.31% (179 out of 57,779) for Ghaziabad and 0.37% (202 out of 54064) in GB Nagar. Sometimes patients take more than one test for confirmation and so, total positive samples can be higher than positive cases in the districts. Officials from GB Nagar said that they had chalked out a four-pronged strategy to deal with rise in positivity. “We will be focussing on micro-containment zones and rapid response teams have been tasked to take up sealing in clusters where we have more cases. We have also formed a dedicated team under an additional chief medical officer for tracing of symptomatic cases and tracing of contacts for speedier testing and isolation. The testing is also being scaled up and four private hospitals have been put on standby besides two of our government hospitals already working as Covid hospitals,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. Ghaziabad district administration officials said they were re-opening the Covid-19 hospitals to prepare to treat more people. The state has a three-tier hospitalisation system for Covid-19 -- L-1 for asymptomatic patients, L-2 for patients with mild symptoms and L-3 for severe cases.“In wake of rising cases, we have decided to open our L-2 dedicated Covid facility at Sanjay Nagar Hospital on April 1. The hospital has 100 beds. Our L-3 facility at Santosh Medical College is already operational with 400 beds. Besides, we have 12 private hospitals which are ready with 464 beds. We will also be focussing on micro-containment zones and the area of containment zones may also be extended depending on the severity and number of cases,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The district also increased the testing teams to 30, while 800 teams are undertaking surveiling operations. The UP government has sought reports on those people testing positive ever after two vaccine doses in six districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. “We have only one positive case of a 68-year-old man who tested positive after his vaccination on March 9. Although the cases are rising, the severity is less. About 90% cases in March were asymptomatic while the rest were mild or moderate symptomatic,” said an officer from the Ghaziabad district health department. “We are expecting cases to rise due to two major reasons. One is due to mixing of population during Holi and other festivals and second is due to arrival of people back home during the festivalsSo far, we have not detected presence of any new Covid strain.”The officials from the district health department in GB Nagar said that they came across two post-vaccination positive cases in March.Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad) said that positive cases among the vaccinated population was not surprising. “It takes six weeks after the second dose to get full immunity. Even after this, the beneficiary can test positive, but the effect should be mild. The authorities should aggressively test and increase contact tracing to contain the surge,” he said.” A lockdown or creation of large containment areas may not be recommended as there may be opposition to this. However, the strategy of micro-containment would be useful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/positivity-rate-spikes-in-gb-nagar-and-ghaziabad-101617129649538.html
31-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi-Meerut Expressway to open fully from April 1, no toll for a week||On April 1, phase 2 and 4 of the 82-km Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) would be open to the public helping to cut travel time from two hours to about 50 minutes, said officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). For a week after the opening, the authority will not charge users either till the Union ministry of road transport and highway approves the rates.The DME’s 14-km phase 1 (Akshardham-UP Gate) and 22-km phase 3 (Dasna-Hapur) are already operational. The 19 km phase 2 links UP Gate and Dasna while the 32 km phase 4 links Dasna and Meerut.“For a more efficient tolling system, we are currently testing the linking of automatic number plate reader (ANPR) to the FASTag system,” said Mudit Garg, NHAI project director. The ANPR is a system of high definition, high speed cameras installed throughout the DME that was meant to catch traffic violations. FASTag is a system that would enable digital transaction of toll. In February, the central government had made FASTag mandatory on all vehicles.Also read | EDMC to face strict action for Ghazipur landfill fire: RaiCommuters will have to keep in mind the varied speed limits, as decided by the local authorities. In phase 1, which is in Delhi, phase 1 has a limit of 70kmph, while it is 100kmph in the rest, which are in Uttar Pradesh.Some work remainsThe phase 4 is an access controlled six lane expressway and the work on all 55 underpasses along its length was completed. In phase 2, work on 17 out of 18 underpasses was completed. NHAI officials said the remaining underpass near ABES College will be opened in another week.The NHAI has installed about 5000 streetlights on all four phases.During a visit by an HT team, some of the stretches from Bamheta to Crossings Republic had non-functional streetlights at night, while jaywalkers at two major points near Vijay Nagar posed an accident risk.“At Vijay Nagar we are installing 1.5-km long additional fencing (of five feet high) on either side to check jaywalkers. Some of the street lighting is still being tested and about 5-6 kms of our power cables were short-circuited after farmer protesters at UP Gate drew on it to run their gadgets. We have taken up the issue with the local administration,” Garg added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that he held meeting with NHAI officials and will take up steps to ensure that the DME gets operational without any hindrance.“We will also ensure that there is no law-and-order situation at UP-Gate where farmers are protesting,” he added.The DME will provide 14 lanes connectivity under phase 1 and 2 while six-lane expressway will start from Dasna under phase 4. The 14 lanes will comprise of three expressway lanes each side while the four outer lanes each side will be highway lanes.“The work for a major rail over bridge will take some time and is likely to extend to December 2021. Otherwise, the other major works are complete, and commuters can move easily up to Meerut from April 1,” Garg added.The March 31 deadline was set after ‘Pragati’ meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/delhimeerut-expressway-to-open-fully-from-april-1-no-toll-for-a-week-101617128449402.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Residents divided over installing gym equipment and paver blocks on Mhatoba tekdi||The forest department is caught in the crossfire of residents who are divided over the idea of beautification and conservation of tekdis around the city. A fortnight ago, the forest department began their work on the Nakshatra garden project on the slopes of the Mhatoba tekdi, which is within their perimeters, however objections were raised after the forest department decided to lay paver blocks. Some residents are against the use of cement and concrete on the tekdi. “The Nakshratra garden was in the plan of beautification of the tekdis and in the creation of a green cover. We will be planting trees according to the moon signs, and after insistence of residents were also adding paving blocks as a boundary to every tree so that people can rest or exercise or do yoga under these trees. We are not using any cement but simply putting in interlocking paving blocks to hold the pattern together during monsoon,” said forest range officer, Deepak Pawar. Rohidas Sutar, Kothrud resident and businessman is one of the regulars to the tekdi, who was part of the team who visited the forest department to request for the gym equipment. “There are plenty of walkers and those who exercise wanted this equipment and we had visited and requested to the forest department to set it up in their area. They gave us permission orally to set up the equipment,” he said. “Following the orders from the forest department, we have not used any cement or concrete to fit these equipment instead have used rock crevices to hold them” he added. “We have been coming here for 22 years to the Mhatoba tekdi, as the temple is of our gram daivat. We come here to plant trees and nurture them and there are many who come for regular walks and exercises. Some of the regular visitors approached us stating that some gym equipment would be helpful,” said Sachin Mokate, a resident of Kothrud, and part of the Mhatobagad Sevak Sangh. On the other hand, some of the environment and tekdi lovers were aghast after seeing photos circulated on social media of these paving blocks and gym equipment jutting out on slopes. “They want the hills to be left alone. How does one make the forest department understand that ‘forest’ and ‘concrete’ are antonyms? Are the concrete pavers meant for sitting? It is quite unexpected and actually unbecoming of the forest department,” said Ashutosh Pradhan, member of the Save Vetal tekdi group. While Uma Dongre, a resident of Pashan and a regular tekdi visitor said, “These gyms can be set up in amenity spaces and footpaths. Let the forest land be dedicated for trees and wildlife with minimal human intervention. Sadly, the PMC is selling off amenity spaces. Not only that, but the roadside gyms are also rusted and broken, there is no maintenance. Instead of setting up new gyms they should maintain existing gyms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/divide-over-installing-gym-equipment-and-paver-blocks-on-mhatoba-tekdi-101617118609063.html
31-03-2021||Pune||Suez Canal cleared but Maharashtra grape growers still worried||Despite the stranded ship in the Suez Canal afloat again, the grape exporters in western Maharashtra are trying to assess its impact on export to the European grape market in the peak of the season. Every year, the two months between February 15 to April first week are considered as the peak export season to Europe and exporters mainly from Nashik area of North Maharashtra supply the grapes. Because of the blockage in the Suez Canal for almost a week, exporters fear supply of the grapes in European market may partially be hit adversely affecting rates in the countries looking for Maharashtra grapes. One reason, according to exporters is ships couldn’t reach last week will now arrive in various European countries when additional vessels carrying grapes planning to depart will also land there, resulting in oversupply compared to the steady demand. “Every week 800-900 containers are going from Nashik and Sangli to Europe but mainly from Nashik. The total economy of the grapes depend on this market rate. Because of the Suez situation approximately 800 containers haven’t been able to reach in a week. Another 800 containers will be shipped this week. Approximately 1,600 containers may reach the European market at the same time. We fear that the rates will come down from existing 10 euros per 5 kg box to 7-8 Euros. This is the last active week,” said Vilas Shinde, director Sahyadri Farms Nashik and grapes exporter. As the ship which was blocking the Suez was afloat again, exporters have taken a sigh of relief. However, there could still be a delay in reaching the shipments at the destination port, experts say that the situation could have been worse if there was a further delay. “The traffic movement has started in the Suez. A schedule is given to the buyers in the European market. If a vessel is delayed then the scheduled vessel and the next vessel reach at the same time, leading to a drop in rate as a result of excess supply,” Sachin Korde, manager (technical) Mahagrape, a co-operative partnership firm. Javindar Mhaske, a grape producer from Tasgaon in Sangli district claimed he had to divert produce to other markets due to the Suez blockage. “My family has been doing this business since 1972. Because of the Suez situation two vessels got cancelled. So, our produce was diverted to other areas such as Dubai and Bangladesh,” said Mhaske. Jagannath Khapre, president, All India Grape Export Association said that despite the ship has been moved, it will take few more days to clear the traffic in Suez Canal.“So, we have to take this delay into account. All the shipments could reach at the same time in the European market, and it could impact the rates. Mostly, the shipments are sent to Rotterdam port since it is the main distribution centre for Europe. Whenever the vessels will start moving from Suez it will take 10 more days to reach there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/suez-canal-cleared-but-maharashtra-grape-growers-still-worried-101617118489234.html
31-03-2021||Pune||36% of Pune district’s Covid tests conducted using RAT method||PUNE As per data compiled by the district collector’s office, of the 2.839 million Covid19 tests conducted in the district, 36% have been done through Rapid the Antigen Test (RAT) method, in spite of the state government’s recommendation to maintain a 75%-25% ratio between RT-PCR and RAT test. This recommendation came in December 2020.Despite having the highest per million testing numbers in the nation, the higher proportion of RAT tests in the district raises questions about the effectiveness of the ongoing tests. RAT tests are often known to report false negatives.The state had also recommended an increase in the proportion of RT-PCR tests. The RT-PCR testing proportion must be increased gradually from 65% as of December to 75% as of February 2021, the state had said. As per data compiled until March 29, of 28,114 samples that tested negative through RAT, 3,592 or 13% were followed up by RT-PCR tests as they were symptomatic samples.The district conducts 1,43,348 tests per million, which it claims is the highest in the country. Maharashtra tests 71,971 tests per million and India’s average is 88,936 tests per million. Of the 2.839 million tests, 1.449 million tests were done by PMC, 0.783 million tests were done by PCMC and 0.606 million tests were done by the Zilla Parishad. The district collector Rajesh Deshmukh in his presentation to the chief secretary stated that Pune needs to increase its RT-PCR testing capacity as NIV and other Central government labs have reduced their RTPCR tests for the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/36-of-pune-district-s-covid-tests-conducted-using-rat-method-101617115068926.html
31-03-2021||Pune||First-person account: In search of a hospital bed for an 81-year old Covid+ father||The real Covid-care challenge in the city has begun to emerge as finding a bed in a hospital for a critical patient. Sharing his story, Amit Phansalkar, an IT manager, said that he has struggled to find a bed for his critical father who tested positive for Covid on Monday evening. “My father had non-typical symptoms like he was losing his balance. He is 81-years-old and has had diabetes for the last two decades. His kidney function is not normal and he has heart trouble. He was taken to the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital on Monday afternoon. He tested positive on Monday evening at 6pm,” said Phansalkar. The family feared that there may be no bed available at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. “So we started calling nearby hospitals to check for beds. All the hospitals were full. I even called up hospitals from Hinjewadi to see if there were beds available. Some hospitals were not reachable. And others who were reachable, did not have any beds,” noted Phansalkar. Finally at 9:30 pm, Phansalkar was able to get a bed at hospital. “Through our neighbour, we were able to get a bed. But, we saw many other patients who were told that beds were not available. My father is in the ICU now,” said Phansalkar. What PMC saysSpeaking about the bed availability, Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, said that the PMC has issued orders to acquire beds from private hospitals. “We have issued an order to acquire 80 percent of beds from 23 private hospitals across Pune to address the growing need for beds for critical patients,” said Agarwal. As per the dashboard for bed availability, there are 3,775 beds available as of Tuesday evening. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the health department at PMC said that in the next two days, more beds will be acquired.“”From private hospitals, Sassoon General Hospital, COEP Jumbo hospital and others, we will acquire 1,500 beds for critical Covid patients,” said Dr Bharti.He also added that patients with mild symptoms will be asked to self-isolate at home so that critical patients can get medical care in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/firstperson-account-in-search-of-a-hospital-bed-for-an-81-year-old-covid-father-101617113208817.html
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to see Covid peak around April 6, curbs extended till April 10||ChandigarhAs Covid cases and deaths continue to escalate with the UK strain emerging as the most prevalent in the state, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered the extension of curbs till April 10, while directing the health department to increase the number of vaccination sites to target the priority categories on an urgent basis. Reviewing the Covid situation with chief secretary Vini Mahajan and other top officials, the chief minister said all restrictions that were in place till March 31 will now remain in force till April 10, after which they will be reviewed again. 44 women in Nabha jail test positive He ordered the launch of a vaccination drive in prisons in the wake of 44 women in Patiala’s Nabha Open Jail testing positive for coronavirus. Testing and vaccination will be organised in busy market areas, the chief minister said, asking deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to identify places where mobile Covid vaccination centres can be set up, such as police lines, colleges and universities, bigger industrial units, bus stands, and railway stations, Punjab Roadways bus depots and marketplaces. The latest data shows the UK strain of the virus to be the most prevalent in the state. While 326 of the 401 Covid positive samples sent initially to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for genome sequencing were found positive for the UK variant, subsequently of the 95 samples sent to Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) for genome sequencing, 85 were found to be positive for the same. The principal secretary, health, shared projections presented by Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, showing a steep rise in the number of cases and peak around April 6. The number would be decreasing by mid or late May, according to estimates, which suggest that Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Mohali, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala are expected to contribute more cases and positivity is likely to be high in the younger population of 40 years or less. Over 90,000 challaned and tested for Covid State police chief Dinkar Gupta said since the last meeting when the decision to challan Covid protocol offenders along with RT-PCR testing was taken, 90,360 people had been challaned and tested for Covid. He requested for a special vaccination drive in the police lines. Health workers to undergo weekly test if not vaccinated All districts have been advised to motivate healthcare workers and frontline workers to get themselves vaccinated and those who do not get vaccinated, should be strictly directed to undergo Covid testing every week to ensure that they do not get infected and thereby spread infection to others, the chief secretary said after the virtual meeting. Dr KK Talwar, health adviser to the Punjab government, has suggested routine non-Covid treatment in some of the selected private hospitals be deferred by two to four weeks, and more ambulances be made available to district hospitals where there are no medical colleges. The chief minister was assured that the health department is ready to increase RT-PCR testing to 35,000 tests per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-see-covid-peak-around-april-6-curbs-extended-till-april-10-101617102649117.html
