01-04-2021||Editorials||The fight for gender equality | HT Editorial||India has slipped 28 places to rank 140 among 156 countries in the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2021, becoming the third-worst performer in South Asia. According to the report, India has closed 62.5% of its gender gap. Among India’s neighbours, Bangladesh is ranked at 65, Nepal at 106, Pakistan at 153, Afghanistan at 156, Bhutan at 130, and Sri Lanka at 116, making the region the second-lowest performer on the Global Gender Gap Index (GGGI). GGGI is based on four parameters: Economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment.The world has fared the worst on the economic participation and opportunity sub-index. India has only closed 31.6% of the gap on this sub-index. Interestingly, this gap is not just seen in unskilled/low-skill segments but is equally pronounced in high-skill job segments. There is also a deeper problem. According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey 2018-19, the female labour force participation rates among women aged above 15 years are as low as 26.4% in rural areas and 20.4% in urban areas in India. A 2018 report of the NITI Aayog, which reviewed the performance of states on Sustainable Development Goals, showed all states performed poorly on gender equality.Both supply and demand factors, economists point out, contribute to the low levels of employment of women — from domestic responsibilities to the lack of demand for their labour to inadequate support infrastructure. There has also been movement out of agriculture into informal and casual jobs. These challenges have now been exacerbated by the pandemic, which is likely to have a scarring effect on women’s future economic opportunities, risking inferior re-employment prospects and a persistent drop in income. Over the years, legal reforms, gender-responsive social protection and public service delivery systems, quotas for women’s representation, and support for women’s movements have made a difference. It is now more important than ever to scale up these gender-positive recovery policies and practices, and provide enabling conditions for women to be employed, including better and safer transport, provision of hostels, and social security. Women’s participation in the economy must improve substantially, as must India’s record on other parameters. The country’s development potential will remain unmet if half its citizens are excluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-fight-for-gender-equality-hteditorial-101617286978592.html
01-04-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: Citizens must take the jab | HT Editorial||Anyone above the age of 45 can now get a coronavirus vaccine in India. The wait for these doses began on March 2, 2020, when the outbreak was confirmed to have taken hold in the country. For most of the 162,981 lives lost (as on March 31, 2021) to Sars-Cov-2 since then, these injections would have meant a shot at survival. The correlation has been clear in countries such as Israel and the United Kingdom, where high per capita vaccinations have led to a sharp drop in not just fatalities but also hospitalisations in age groups given doses on priority. Real world data reinforces what multiple clinical trials have shown repeatedly — the coronavirus vaccines are a safe and effective tool to combat the pandemic.For India, the scale of the challenge is much bigger than other countries because of its sheer size. A data-based analysis, published in this newspaper on Thursday, has shown that at an average rate of four million doses a day, it will take till mid-June to fully inoculate 100 million Indians. In a country of over 1.3 billion people, even that might not be enough to turn the tide against the second wave on its own. But it will undoubtedly help in lowering the fatality ratio, which, in turn, will reduce the load on hospitals and, ultimately, make the pandemic less lethal, help keep cities open, and bring back some semblance of normalcy.These gains are clear and they far outweigh any risks that may be exaggerated by misinformation and unscientific beliefs. While the government must be more aggressive in its vaccination approach, citizens have a crucial role. The more Indians step up, the quicker these gains will fructify. Take the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-citizens-must-take-the-jab-hteditorial-101617286921468.html
