05-04-2021||Editorials||At stake, the future of the Indian polity | HT Editorial||On Tuesday, voters in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry, Assam and West Bengal will choose elected representatives for their state assemblies (Bengal’s polls will continue through the month). What voters decide on April 6 will play a key role in determining the future of the Indian polity in two fundamental ways.One, the polls will shape the distribution of political power in the system. If the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wins Assam and Bengal, and is able to retain Tamil Nadu with its ally in the state, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, it will mark the continued eastern and southern expansion of the party. It will also mark the continued centralisation of the polity, where the idea of a “double engine” government — having the same party in power at the Centre and in the state — has voter approval. This will shrink the space for the Opposition and impact the balance in the federal system. Alternatively, if the Congress wins Assam, the Trinamool Congress retains Bengal, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam comes back to power in Tamil Nadu, and irrespective of whether the Left or the Congress leads the next government in Kerala, power will get diffused, the Opposition will get energised, and the BJP will face challenges.Second, the outcome will also determine the balance of power within the Opposition camp — and whether it is the Congress which is still seen as the de facto challenger to the BJP or whether it is regional parties which will mount the more decisive challenge. There has been a disjunct between state and national politics, but both intersect too and this intersection will be on test on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/at-stake-the-future-of-the-indian-polity-hteditorial-101617633556959.html
05-04-2021||Editorials||Maoists cross a red line, again | HT Editorial||In a reminder that India’s single biggest internal security threat, as former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh framed the challenge from Left-wing extremism, is still alive, the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) killed 22 security personnel in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar district over the weekend. While reports suggest that up to 20 Maoists were killed in the encounter too, there is little doubt that the incident represents a grave setback to the Indian State in general, and security forces in particular. It appears that Maoists planted intelligence about the presence of a dreaded commander, Madvi Hidma, in a particular location; over 1,700 men from various security agencies launched an offensive from Sukma and Bijapur; Maoists then executed a “U-shaped attack” where they fired from the two hilltops as the jawans were at lower levels in two villages, both of which had already been evacuated by the Maoists. The forces walked into the trap, losing brave men and dealing a blow to India’s battle against the Maoist insurgency.The incident reveals State failure at two different levels. One, at the level of principle, any State must have a monopoly over force — the fact that there is an armed insurgent outfit in the country that openly espouses war against the State, in itself, reflects the continued failure of governments across the political spectrum. Two, more specific to this incident, despite denials by security agencies, there has been a clear operational and intelligence failure. Did the forces exercise due diligence on the intelligence they received? Did they follow all SOPs before launching the combing operation? Was there any contingency planning for a scenario where Maoists would launch a surprise attack, which they have done in the past too?While home minister Amit Shah has promised a fitting reply, it is important that the government embark on a careful multi-pronged approach. One, ramp up security and intelligence, track Madvi Hidma, and bring the culprits of the recent attack to justice. Two, enhance coordination between the Centre and all Maoist-affected states. Three, ensure that any security offensive does not lead to human rights violations, which provide fertile ground to Maoists to recruit. Four, ensure participatory development and greater incomes to local population, and ensure justice to stem any sense of alienation. The State must act against Maoist terror, but smartly and carefully. And quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/maoists-cross-a-red-line-again-hteditorial-101617633554928.html
