08-04-2021||Editorials||Don’t declare a net-zero goal||John Kerry, the United States (US) president’s special envoy on climate, was in India this week for discussions on the climate crisis. During his meeting with Mr Kerry, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated India’s commitment to meeting its nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement, and pointed out that it is among the few countries on track to meet these commitments. Mr Kerry noted that the US would support India’s climate plans by facilitating affordable access to green technologies and finance.After taking charge, US president Joe Biden announced his country’s return to the Paris climate accord, and is likely to announce a net-zero emission target — the new buzzword in climate diplomacy — for 2050. Achieving net-zero emission implies that all remaining human-caused greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are balanced by removing GHGs from the atmosphere. Though diplomatic pressure is building up (58 countries have announced net-zero emission targets), and the US is pushing India to make a similar announcement, New Delhi must resist the pressure, while being constructive. Some believe that such a bold pledge will help India emerge as a climate leader. But this view ignores the fact that under the principle of “common but differentiated responsibility”, richer countries must lead in paying for their historically high emissions. It also ignores the shift in the Indian mindset on the issue, particularly under this government. India is the only G-20 country whose actions are compliant with the Paris Agreement goal of keeping global temperatures from rising beyond 2°C. And do note, the global pact does not have any provision of a net-zero emission target. Instead, India’s plan, as climate scholar Navroz Dubash wrote in these pages, should be based on near-term actions, institutional strengthening, and a combination of mid- and long-term targets. India must do more to balance climate and development, shore up adaption strategies, firm up climate action plans at all administrative levels, and invest more in green tech. But limiting itself to a net-zero timeline is not prudent, given India’s developmental requirements and the finances involved in the transition. The US should recognise India’s self-driven progress on the issue, improve its own dismal record of providing green finance and technology, and stop pressuring countries, which are bearing the burden of the historical mistakes of the developed world. That is the way forward in the realm of climate collaboration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/dont-declare-a-net-zero-goal-101617885588378.html
08-04-2021||Editorials||The importance of the first quarter||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) kept its growth 2021-22 estimate unchanged at 10.5%, even as it warned of the risks of a second wave of Covid-19. Its projection across quarters for the financial year 2021-22 is 26.2%, 8.3%, 5.4% and 6.2% respec-tively. The first number, 26.2%, shouldn’t be a sur-prise. The economy contracted by 24.4% in the April-June quarter of 2020-21, the direct impact of the 68-day lockdown. With cases declining to less than 10,000 by February, it looked like India would dodge the second wave. The launch of India’s vaccine drive, with the original aim of vaccinating 300 million people by June, made economic prospects for 2021-22 look good. But the second wave has gathered momentum since. India’s daily case count has crossed the peaks seen in the first wave. And HT’s analysis shows that deaths, with a two-week lag behind cases, are following the same trajectory they have done since October. States seeing a surge, including Maharashtra, have instituted restrictions.This is understandable. All governments have to maintain the balance between lives and livelihoods, especially after the experience of the first lockdown — it may have been required to scale-up health infra, but it caused economic distress, making a repeat inadvisable. But even a partial lockdown will hurt, as will any restrictions on activities — which is why the second wave threatens the sanctity of RBI’s proje-ctions. The most important thing now is the economy. If the first quarter projection pans out, the economy is on the right path; if it doesn’t, 2021-22 is off to a rocky start. There’s no more pressing argument for Covid-19-safe behaviour and the acceleration and expansion of the vaccine drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-importance-of-the-first-quarter-101617885229259.html
08-04-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: Five questions about vaccination||Facile comments about making the Covid-19 vaccine available to those who need it, rather than those who want it, hide the fact that India’s vaccine strategy needs an urgent reboot, one that requires honest answers to five questions. But first, it is important to accept one universal truth — everyone needs the vaccine, even though some may not want it.Question one — is India staring at a vaccine supply crunch? The simple answer is yes, provided it doesn’t approve any more vaccines, and provided the makers of the two currently authorised vaccines do not increase their capacity, for which they have sought government funds. The crunch could mean that the country currently has access to just about 50-60% of the five million doses it hopes to administer every day.Question two — why, if there was going to be an imminent supply crunch, did the government engage in vaccine diplomacy? Truth be told, only 10.5 million vaccines were given as grants, with 35 million being exported commercially and another 18 million exported under World Health Organization (WHO)’s COVAX facility, but that question will keep being raised till domestic vaccination gets a further boost.Question three — why are other vaccines not being approved? As sound as the need for a bridging study is for vaccines approved in other geographies, it is hard to ignore the fact that India’s drug regulator had no problems approving Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin largely on faith (the data wasn’t available when it was approved). Approving some of the other vaccines, including Sputnik, could mean a boost in supply. Russia’s sovereign wealth fund has already struck deals with Indian manufacturers to make 700 million doses of the highly effective vaccine.Question four — is an age-based criteria the best way to determine priority for vaccination? After all, the burden of Covid has been, and continues to be, disproportionate in urban areas, and everyone may gain if vaccination were opened up to all in hotspots.And question five (which should have actually been the first question) — how serious is India’s political leadership about the Covid-safety protocol? They have participated in high-intensity poll campaigning (and will continue to do so in West Bengal, where five stages of polling remain), even though there has been little social distancing in their rallies and road shows.Only when the government honestly addresses each of these questions responsibly will India be able to battle the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-five-questions-about-vaccination-101617797727622.html
