11-04-2021||Editorials||The arrival of a new force in Tripura | HT Editorial||In India’s mainstream political imagination, Tripura is often on the periphery. This may stem from the tyranny of distance from the national Capital, and its location in the often-neglected Northeast, but the state’s diverse social landscape, strategic location, and history makes it politically crucial. For long, the state’s political history was marked by Left domination — and the presence of Manik Sarkar as a steady hand at the helm of governance. The Congress was the other pole in the state, but in 2018, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sprung a surprise by sweeping the state polls in a remarkable victory. The Congress’s political fortunes sank further when party chief and a member of the former royal family of the state, Pradyot Manikya Deb Burman, quit and set up his own party, The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance. This force has now marked its political arrival by winning 18 of the 28 seats in autonomous district councils, ahead of all the other forces in the state.Mr Burman’s victory is significant for two reasons. One, representing the indigenous tribal community, his party poses a challenge to what has been a polity dominated largely by the state’s majority Bengali-speakers, and has successfully overwhelmed other smaller tribal formations — one of which is in an alliance with the BJP. Two, Mr Burman was among the younger leaders who quit the Congress because of the incoherence at the top of the party, uncertainty over leadership, and its ideologically vacillating positions. But he chose to set up his own force, rather than join an existing outfit. Tripura’s unique social mosaic, and his own background as a royal, allowed him to do so. But it is a lesson to the Congress — if you let talent go, the talent will find a platform but the party will shrink further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-arrival-of-a-new-force-in-tripura-hteditorial-101618151732954.html
11-04-2021||Editorials||Bengal: Political violence returns | HT Editorial||In the fourth phase of polling in West Bengal, a quick reaction team of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which was allegedly attacked by a mob, opened fire, killing four at a polling booth in North Bengal’s Sitalkuchi constituency. In a separate incident, unidentified assailants shot and killed a first-time voter, an 18-year old young citizen, in the same constituency. The Election Commission (EC) has ordered a repoll; decided to deploy additional security personnel for the remaining phases; and extended the period of silence — when campaigning has to stop — from the usual 48 hours to 72 hours before the next phase of polling. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has blamed the incident on Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers, and Mamata Banerjee has blamed it on the Centre.There are two key issues here. The first is the role of the security forces. In a state with a history of political violence, where EC has deliberately staggered polls over eight phases due to security considerations, forces must be vigilant and effective in ensuring that each citizen gets to exercise the right to vote without fear and there are free and fair polls. But this responsibility must be coupled with restraint, and firing — and firing to kill — must be the last resort. Were standard procedures followed or did the security personnel use excessive force? India has made tremendous strides in having peaceful and free elections and an independent enquiry into the incident is important to build on this record.At the same time, it is also the responsibility of political parties to act with restraint. In Bengal, the coercive machinery of the Left has been replicated by the TMC in maintaining a firm grip over local politics; when this is coupled with fierce rhetoric, which almost encourages taking on the security forces, the possibility of violence increases. This is even more true when both sides are locked in a tough battle, with intense competition for each seat, each booth, each voter. The onus is on political leaders on all sides to calm workers, and let independent institutions do their work. Alas, the political rhetoric over the killings — which is also taking a communal turn since the four killed were Muslims, and the first-time voter was a Hindu — indicates that polling in remaining phases may not be smooth. EC must be alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/bengal-political-violence-returns-hteditorial-101618151732488.html
