12-04-2021||Editorials||Stop public rallies, now||India is in the middle of its most serious public health emergency — more serious and severe than last year, when the coronavirus pandemic first struck. Each day brings in a new record of the number of cases (on Sunday, daily cases crossed 170,000). Each day brings in a new set of alarming figures from some of India’s largest, politically sensitive, and economically crucial states. Each day brings in more reports of the impact of the new variants of Sars-Cov-2. And each day brings in tragic stories of human suffering, isolation, even fatalities, devastating for those who have lost their loved ones to Covid-19.There are only two known ways to beat the pand-emic. The first is vaccination. More vaccines need to be approved (one was on Monday, and not a moment too soon), more demographic groups need to be able to access the vaccine, more data needs to be transparently disclosed, and manufacturing capacities need to be expanded. The second is Covid-19-appropriate behaviour — which either stems from a strong sense of citizen responsibility or government diktats, or both. With enhanced restrictions in key urban centres, the State is now trying to nudge citizen behaviour back to the norms of the past year. But this will not work out unless India’s national leaders — political figures who inspire citizens, who have the power to take life-altering decisions, and who have political organisations at their disposal with unprecedented mass outreach — can credibly communicate the need for social distancing. This credibility is today missing, either because governments have happily allowed mega religious congregations or because political leaders are still — even in the middle of this nightmarish pandemic — addressing hundreds of thousands of people, many of whom are unmasked and jostling for space with each other, in public rallies. To be sure, democracy is a non-negotiable and so is the right of citizens to elect their representatives at regular intervals and the right of political parties to propagate their views. But political communication must happen in ways that don’t risk people’s lives, and send out a message of complacency and irresponsibility at a time when caution and responsibility needs to be exercised. Lives are at stake. An all-party consensus on reconfiguring the tools of campaigning for the remaining phases of Bengal’s polls to make it Covid-19-appropriate is worth considering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/stop-public-rallies-now-101618231362047.html
12-04-2021||Editorials||On thermal plants, take meaningful steps||An analysis by the New Delhi-based think-tank, Centre for Science and Environment, suggests that the new thermal power plant norms issued by the Centre on March 31, which gives an extension of one to three years to plants to comply, could jeopardise India’s emission reduction goals, crucial in the effort to tackle the climate crisis. The penalty charged to companies for not complying with the extended deadline is lower than the cost of complying with the rules, which are meant to reduce emissions. While the government claims that the penalty has to borne by the plant and charges associated with the equipment to meet norms can be passed on to the consumers, experts argue the discrepancy skews incentives and undermines the environment. The environment ministry first notified superior emission standards in 2015 for implementation by the end of 2017. This deadline was extended to 2022. Last year, the Union power ministry requested another deferment on account of the pandemic-linked economic slowdown and the inability to source emission-reduction technologies. While it is true that Covid-19 derailed plans, evaluations suggest that no stakeholder has been trying hard enough to make the critical shift. The delay has environmental and health costs. For example, pollution from thermal power plants in the vicinity of Delhi is one of the reasons for the toxic air. A report by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air show that 682 people die across Delhi-NCR every year due to toxic fumes from these plants. Meaningful action (decommissioning of polluting plants and higher penalties) must be taken to put pressure on erring thermal power plants to clean up their act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-thermal-plants-take-meaningful-steps-101618230822040.html
