13-04-2021||Editorials||India’s new vaccine regime||The emergency use authorisation granted by India’s drugs regulator to Sputnik V, and the government’s decision to fast-track similar approvals, conditionally, for any Covid-19 vaccines that have the same in the United States (US), United Kingdom (UK), Europe, and Japan, or which are in the World Health Organization’s emergency use listing is welcome. This is a definite step towards increasing access to, and availability of, vaccines — and it is something that the government could have considered a few months ago.There are more things the government can do to enhance access. Vaccine-making is a complex, expensive, and risky business. One of the few things the Donald Trump administration got right was its decision to plough billions of dollars of government funds into vaccine-makers. New Delhi may not want to do billions, but it should take steps to boost the capacity of vaccine-makers, streamline government orders, and arrive at a price that is fair to everyone concerned. This requires working with companies, including many in the private sector, not something that comes easily to an administrative machinery that has, over decades, largely distrusted businesses. The result is usually policies that handicap businesses, where they should be empowering them, and the ultimate price is usually paid by the citizens. Testing is a classic example. With the State regulating prices, there has been little incentive for companies to build scale or invest in technology. And so, even as a second wave threatens to drown India, the country finds itself short of Covid-19 testing capacity. This has resulted in delays, not just in identifying those infected by the virus, but, more importantly, in isolating them so that they cannot spread the disease to others. Sure, the government has to ensure that no one engages in profiteering, especially in the midst of a pandemic, but it should not come in the way of a business making honest profits. The government should follow up on its approval to Sputnik, and the decision to accelerate approvals to vaccines approved in other countries — both steps advocated by many, including this newspaper — with a clear vaccine policy. This should cover all aspects, from capacity building to purchase planning to pricing to even open-market availability. And it must have a singular objective — making sure every Indian who wants a vaccine gets one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/indias-new-vaccine-regime-101618324068759.html
13-04-2021||Editorials||The perils of the ordinance route||The ordinance route undermines the law-making process, deprives citizens from articulating their grievances through representatives in Parliament when the bill is first conceived and tabled, and presents a fait accompli of sorts. Unless critical, the government must resist promulgating ordinances.As this newspaper reported on Tuesday, based on PRS legislative research data, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, in its seven years in power, has promulgated 76 ordin-ances. The United Progressive Alliance government, in 10 years between 2004 and 2014, promulgated 61 ordinances. A charitable reading would suggest that the higher figure indicates the government’s desire to expedite legislation to meet challenges. A less charitable reading would suggest that this is in line with the executive’s disregard for the legislature. To be sure, an ordinance — promulgated when Parliament is not in session — has to be passed within six weeks once a session starts.This is also a route that other governments have adopted. And in many cases, ordinances are essential. But this does not take away from its weaknesses. For one, the government has promulgated ordinances on issues that perhaps did not have the kind of urgency that was claimed. Two, while ordinances are passed as laws subsequently, this too is often done in a hurry — PRS data shows that only 25% of the bills went to parliamentary committees between 2014 and 2019, compared to 71% between 2009 and 2014. So not only are more laws being brought in without legislative approval at the outset, they are also not going through adequate scrutiny. And finally, the ordinance route undermines the law-making process, deprives citizens from articulating their grievances through representatives in Parliament when the bill is first conceived and tabled, and presents a fait accompli of sorts. Unless critical, the government must resist promulgating ordinances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-perils-of-the-ordinance-route-101618323581952.html
