15-04-2021||Editorials||On Covid, Delhi’s reactive strategy||One month ago, the early signs of a fourth Covid-19 wave began to appear in Delhi. The case trajectory had bottomed out on February 12 with 125 new cases, leading to complacency from the administration, laxity from the public, and premature vaccine jubilance from both. But it, then, slowly started to rise, with the average positivity rate jumping from 0.4% to 2.7% between March 1 and March 31. By then, Maharashtra was already in the grip of a raging outbreak, and reports of infections were growing across the country. The national daily case count went from 15,478 to 61,954 over the four weeks. It was clear that the question was not if, but when, the outbreak would reach Delhi. Delhi needed to act fast, and get ahead of the curve.But as the number of new Covid-19 infections have soared past previous peaks at an alarming rate over the last two weeks, it is clear the administration chose to be reactive rather than proactive. Some curbs were announced last week, when the daily case count was around 6,000. And on Thursday, after 17,282 new infections were reported the previous day, the government announced a weekend curfew. It has also shut gyms, spas and malls, allowed cinema halls to operate at 30% capacity, and shut dine-in facilities in restaurants. The curfew and the measures are steps in the right direction. But they have come when Covid-19 is taking a heavy toll again, and the Capital’s health facilities are in danger of being overwhelmed in days if trends continue. Delhi can still fight back with enforcement by the authorities and compliance by people, but things could have been prevented from coming to such a pass if the government and citizens had been more watchful. The next few days will be crucial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-covid-delhi-s-reactive-strategy-101618493773147.html
15-04-2021||Editorials||A looming economic crisis||Exactly a year ago, when India was in the middle of a complete lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, most forecasters, institutional and private, had a bleak assessment of the Indian economy. A large number of them did not see the economy returning to 2019-20 levels of GDP even in 2021-22. These projections were revised favourably in late 2020, largely because of the fact that the easing of lockdown restrictions did not trigger a nation-wide second wave in India. That is not the case anymore. The second wave has come with a lag, but it is here — and it is more severe than the first. Daily new cases have broken past records, and many states — including economic hubs such as Maharashtra — have imposed lockdown-like restrictions. This is bound to have adverse consequences for the economy. The latest available economic indicator, which captures this, is the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI), which fell to 90.4 in the week ending April 11, registering its biggest week-on-week fall. It will not be surprising if this downward trend continues. What is even more worrying is the fact that the sequential economic recovery was losing momentum even before the second wave hit India. This is best seen back-to-back, and growing, contraction in the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) in January and February. Indicators such as Purchasing Managers’ Index have been warning that employment levels have been going down even when production was increasing. The point is, if the choice between flattening the Covid-19 curve and economic hardship was difficult last year, it will be even more difficult this year, as businesses and workers are still nursing the wounds of the first lockdown. That the second wave has coincided with the beginning of the new fiscal year also means that even the conservative revenue targets in the Budget could be jeopardised. At a time when inflation is already on an upward trajectory, the petroleum tax route might not be an appropriate one to sustain government finances. The only difference between the first wave and the second wave is that India has vaccines now. The only effective way to safeguard the economy from another massive disruption is to relax both demand and supply for vaccines. The government has taken some steps towards both. It should do more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/bracing-for-economic-disruption-101618492329640.html
