18-04-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: The nation is at war||One of India’s most respected army chiefs, who led the country to victory in Kargil, General Ved Malik, tweeted on Sunday morning, “Our nation is at war.” On Saturday, more than twice the number of Indians died due to Covid-19 than were killed in action in Kargil. As General Malik said, “Is the nation focused on this war? Election rallies, faith events, farmer agitation, in-fighting over resources going on...wake up India.” The appeal comes in the wake of India confronting an unprecedented second wave of Covid-19 infections — hitting a record number of cases and deaths every day, even as there is an acute shortage of everything from hospital beds to oxygen to medicines to vaccines. Covid-19 has come home to India’s urban centres, to middle class homes, to the elite, to the working class, in ways that diminish what happened last year when the pandemic first struck. There’s a waiting list everywhere and for everything — for tests, admission to hospitals, even at crematoriums and graveyards (with on-ground reports suggesting a disjunction between official fatality figures and these). And there is a shortage of everything — oxygen, ICU beds, and remdesivir. And everywhere and for everything, getting care has become dependent on who you know, as public health systems collapse, automatically excluding the majority. It did not have to be this way. The government may have made an error of judgment in not anticipating the intensity of the second wave, though there were adequate warnings. But, the current situation does highlight a clear policy failure on varied counts — from not using the past year to boost India’s health infrastructure enough to deal with current numbers to slipping into business-as-usual mode when it came to events (including large elections), from a painfully slow rollout of the vaccination (only absolute numbers as a proportion of the population, not relative to the rest of the world, matter here) to the delay in imposing curbs. What’s important now is to fix the crisis, and be prepared in case there is another wave after this one (remember the United State’s third wave was its worst, although it came before the vaccine drive began). This requires the State to pump all its resources into beat the second wave. It is war, and nothing short of a war effort is needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-the-nation-is-at-war-101618759772719.html
18-04-2021||Editorials||Monsoon 2021: The good and bad news||In its long-range forecast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced that this year’s monsoon is likely to be “normal” at around 98% of the long period average (LPA). The 2020 and 2019 monsoon were “above normal” at 110% and 109% of LPA, respectively. The monsoon is not just important because it is responsible for a remarkable 80% of the total rainfall in India. It is also essential for the economy, and has been termed India’s real finance minister. Rains are crucial for agricultural productivity, food security, farm employment, and rural income. Additionally, a normal monsoon rejuvenates arid lands, restores water sources, and provides much-needed relief from the summer heat.However, all is not well with the monsoon rains. A study by scientists at the Ludwig Maximilian University shows that the monsoon season will turn stronger and more erratic due to the climate crisis. Apart from damaging crops, the highly wet weather can also impact health, as the season becomes a breeding ground for epidemics and vectors. That its spatial distribution may not be optimal is also clear from IMD’s last week’s forecast that Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar, and the northeastern states may not receive adequate rain. If one reads this warning along with a report released last week by Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru and Indian Institute of Technology at Mandi and Guwahati, which says that Assam, Bihar, and Jharkhand are the most vulnerable due to the climate crisis, then the link between the climate crisis, monsoon and economic growth is visible. These are some of India’s poorest regions. The State must strengthen them against associated risks such as drought and floods. India must also develop a climate-risk index based on hazards faced by and the vulnerability of states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/monsoon-2021-the-good-and-bad-news-101618759471974.html
