22-04-2021||Editorials||Oxygen: Beg, borrow, steal||On Thursday, the home ministry ordered that there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state supply of oxygen-related goods, and reiterated that the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except that exempted by the government, is strictly prohibited. The order came on the heels of three related developments. One, states and Union territories such as Delhi alleged that their oxygen supply was being blocked by neighbouring states. Second, hospitals moved the Delhi High Court, which directed the Centre to supply oxygen at any cost (and it speaks of the enormity of today’s crisis that hospitals have to go to court to find ways to procure and buy oxygen in the first place). And three, the Supreme Court asked the Centre to present a national road map on Covid-19 management, including the oxygen distribution plan. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also chaired a high-level meeting to review oxygen supply across the country. As the brutal second wave of the pandemic has hit India, there has been almost a war over oxygen cylinders among states, and between states and the Centre. This is both a symbol of an existing crisis in Indian federalism, as well as a further blow to the federal compact. And there is little doubt that the Centre has to take a larger share of the responsibility. At a time when patients and their families are desperately looking for hospital beds, medicines and oxygen, the Centre should play the role of an unbiased administrator, unveil a proper distribution pattern, and unclog the legal and administrative bottlenecks to ensure fair and timely distribution of medical supplies. But that hasn’t happened so far because it failed to anticipate the scale of the crisis and need for oxygen. Industry experts say India has the capacity to produce more than 7,000 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, but the problem is there are not enough cylinders and tankers to store and transport it. India also does not have enough cryogenic tankers to ensure 24×7 road transport of medical oxygen. There are also the problems of wastage and leakages in hospital pipelines that supply oxygen. Successive governments have overlooked these issues, this government also took its eye off the ball, and citizens now are paying the price. As the Delhi High Court said, “beg, borrow, steal” — but find a way to help citizens to breathe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/oxygen-beg-borrow-steal-101619104134530.html
22-04-2021||Editorials||The story of Covid, Kumbh and Bengal||When the former king of Nepal, Gyanendra Shah, and his wife, Komal, tested positive for Covid-19, it took little detective work to know how they had got infected. Mr Shah, whose autocratic and unpopular rule led to the end of the monarchy in Nepal, had chosen to visit the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar — and an image of him, bare-chested, without a mask, in the middle of hundreds of religious men, on the ghats, immediately went viral. Mr Shah, like the hundreds of thousands who visited the Kumbh, had perhaps thought faith alone would defeat the virus. It didn’t.With West Bengal showing a consistent rise in cases — it was over 10,000 on Wednesday — it also takes little detective work to understand that one factor contributing to the surge is the nature of the election campaign — which, incidentally, is still underway. Political leaders risked their lives and the lives of all those who attended the rallies and continue to do so. They perhaps thought that political power would defeat the virus. It didn’t, and it won’t. It is alarming that even after India has acquired the grim record of having the highest number of cases in any country in the world ever since the pandemic broke out, the most basic principles of protecting oneself — and others — have to be reiterated. Don’t hold large gatherings, don’t meet people unless you have to, maintain social distancing norms, and stay home. India is struggling with adhering to every norm that can help patients battle the disease; even though the management of this disease is challenging, and lives are at stake. Lockdown or no lockdown, any group, which continues to hold large gatherings, is doing a disservice to the nation at this time. Political parties should wake up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-story-of-covid-kumbh-and-bengal-101619104070825.html
