29-04-2021||Editorials||Dealing with active Covid-19 cases | HT Editorial||On Wednesday, active cases of Covid-19 in India crossed the three million mark for the first time, adding to the burden on what is an already creaky health care infrastructure. Active cases – those Covid-19 patients still carrying the virus, and thus under treatment – is a crucial metric because it directly reflects the pressure on a region’s health care infrastructure. The metric is even more crucial in the current circumstances as resources and health personnel are over-stretched. The most worrying factor remains how fast active cases are continuing to grow. For the week ending Wednesday, India has on average added over 113,000 active infections every single day. At this rate, India is staring at four million active cases by the first week of May, and this number is likely to approach five million in the third week of May, by which time the country’s trajectory is expected to peak. Handling such a volume can be debilitating for any country, leave alone one like India that has a shortage of resources. In terms of this, management of life-saving resources such as hospital beds, medicines, oxygen, ventilators, even ambulances is becoming the difference between life and death for thousands of people. On Wednesday, a record 3,643 people lost their lives to the disease in India. We may never know how many of those died from the disease and how many lives were lost because hospitals, doctors and families were unable to procure life-saving resources. This level of fatalities can be prevented provided two things are done: First, administrations create stockpiles of these resources when Covid waves are waning; second, administrations can improve on-ground coordination for better management so that available resources are present when and where needed. While it is too late to do the former, the performance of administrations on the latter can be improved. Some states have created so-called war rooms for managing resources at hospitals, and others have made portals that show live availability of beds and oxygen. However, many states are yet to execute such measures, and even if they have, are not executing them properly. Many “live” hospital bed-trackers, for instance, operate with an hours-long lag, which means people are going to hospitals where they think beds are available, only to find that the information was dated. More than a year into a pandemic when the number of patients seeking these resources is at an all-time high, losing lives to such mismanagement is unacceptable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/dealing-with-active-covid-19-cases-hteditorial-101619704909131.html
29-04-2021||Editorials||Mental health as a casualty of Covid-19 | HT Editorial||The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, the massive number of daily deaths and the constant struggle for hospital beds, medicines and oxygen are affecting the mental well-being of people, according to several mental health experts. The mental health situation, they feel, is much worse now than last year during the first Covid-19 wave.The year, the situation is dismal for several reasons. The second wave has been much more severe and took many by surprise because it came just as people felt things were returning to normal. Many are also feeling guilty for not being able to support those around them adequately. Besides, many people were yet to recover from financial and personal losses of last year. Cumulatively, these factors are gravely impacting people’s sense of self-confidence, positivity, and resilience to cope with situations. This second round of the pandemic is also bound to impact the vulnerable sections more since they have much less access to mental health professionals.The World Health Organization (WHO), in 2019, estimated that 7.5% of Indians were affected by mental health disorders. This number will likely go up significantly because of the pandemic. India has only 0.75 psychiatrists per 100,000 people in India. This is far below the three psychiatrists per 100,000 people mandated by WHO. While the State is busy tackling the pandemic, there is a strong chance that the requirement for more mental health professionals, low-cost and accessible helplines, and adequate medicines will once again go unaddressed. If that happens, India will pay heavily again for being under-prepared to tackle a health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/mental-health-as-a-casualty-of-covid-19-hteditorial-101619704907444.html
