01-06-2021||India||8-year-old girl foils rape bid by Army jawan in train||Showing extraordinary courage, an eight-year-old daughter of an ex-serviceman not only fought back a 33-year-old Army jawan who tried to sexually assault her in a toilet of a moving train in Maharashtra in the early hours of Tuesday and threw her on tracks, but also helped the police nab him by providing his description. The alleged incident occurred on the Goa-Nizamuddin Express between Lonand and Salpa railway stations in Satara district in western Maharashtra, a senior officer said. “The girl, a daughter of an ex-serviceman, was travelling to Delhi with her mother, father, sister and brother,” said Sadanand Wayse Patil, Superintendent of Police (Pune division), Government Railway Police (GRP). The accused, later identified as Prabhu Malappa Uphar, allegedly picked up the girl while she was fast asleep on her berth and took her to the toilet, he said. While the accused tried to sexually assault her, the girl woke up and resisted his advances and started shouting, the SP said. The accused then told the girl that he was taking her back to her parents, but after coming out of the toilet, he pushed her down the moving train. “Fortunately, the train was moving slowly due to the ghat section due to which the girl sustained less grievous injuries. On Tuesday morning, some locals spotted her lying on the railway tracks and took her to a hospital,” said Patil. At the hospital, the girl not only narrated the ordeal but also provided the description of the jawan to the police which proved crucial. “We then launched a search operation in the train and ordered that no one should get down from the train. At least 400 police and GRP constables boarded the train at various stations to ensure that the accused does not flee,” he said. During the search, the cops identified at least 30 passengers whose description matched with the suspect. “We short-listed four suspects out of the 30 and finally identified Uphar. He was apprehended when the train was near Bhusaval in north Maharashtra,” the officer said. The girl, who sustained injuries on her legs and under the chin, was later reunited with her family. Uphar is a jawan of Naik rank and posted at Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
01-06-2021||India||CBSE, CISCE Class XII exams cancelled in the ‘interest of students’||The government decided to cancel Class 12 board exams on Tuesday, ending weeks of uncertainty among students, their parents and teachers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that the “anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end”. At a high-level meeting chaired by Modi, it was decided to cancel CBSE Class XII board exams. It was also decided that CBSE would take steps to compile the results of Class XII students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner. Hours later, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) took a similar decision and cancelled its Class XII board examinations this year in view of the COVID-19 situation, according to its secretary Gerry Arathoon, PTI reported. "The exams have been cancelled. The alternative assessment criteria will be announced soon," he said. The CICSE had last week asked its affiliated schools to submit data, including average of marks obtained by Class 12 students in Class 11 and during this session. The board had postponed Class 12 exams which were scheduled from May 4 in the light of the devastating second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Tuesday’s decisions on the exams come amid a high caseload of COVID-19 cases in several states and continuing health-related apprehensions about the future. Modi said the health and safety of students were of utmost importance, and there would be no compromise on this aspect. “Anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end, and students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation,” a government statement quoted the Prime Minister as saying at the meeting. The CICSE had last week asked its affiliated schools to submit data, including average of marks obtained by Class 12 students in Class 11 and during this session. The board had postponed Class 12 exams which were scheduled from May 4 in light of the devastating second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. With the decision coming amid a high caseload of Covid-19 cases in several states and continuing health-related apprehensions about the future, Modi said the health and safety of students are of utmost importance, and there would be no compromise on this aspect. “Anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end, and students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation,” a government statement quoted the prime minister as saying. Modi further asserted that all stakeholders need to show sensitivity towards the students as well as their parents and teachers. At the review meeting, officials gave a detailed presentation on the wide and extensive consultation held so far and views received from all stakeholders, including by the state governments. "In view of the uncertain conditions due to Covid-19 and the feedback obtained from various stakeholders, it was decided that Class XII Board Exams would not be held this year," the statement said. Modi said at the meeting that Covid-19 has affected the academic calendar and the issue of board examinations has been causing immense anxiety among students, parents and teachers, which must be put to an end. He said the Covid-19 situation is dynamic across the country, and that the number of cases is coming down with some states managing the situation through effective micro-containment, while some states have still opted for a lockdown. Students, parents and teachers are naturally worried about the health of the students in such a situation, he noted, asserting that students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation. Tuesday’s meeting was attended by Union ministers of home, defence, finance, commerce, information and broadcasting, petroleum and women and child development, and Principal Secretary to PM, Cabinet Secretary and secretaries of School Education and Higher Education departments. The CBSE had on April 14 announced cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponement of Class 12 exams in view of surge in coronavirus cases. The Ministry of Education had recently sought detailed suggestions from states and union territories on proposals discussed in a high-level meeting on the issue. The government had informed the Supreme Court, which is hearing a plea seeking the exam's cancellation, that it will take a final decision by June 3. Kejriwal relieved Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said it is a "big relief" that the Class 12 board exams had been cancelled. "I am glad 12th exams have been cancelled. All of us were very worried about the health of our children. A big relief," Chief Minister Kejriwal tweeted.

His deputy Manish Sisodia, who has been against the idea of conducting the exams in the given circumstances, also said, "I am happy that the never-ending class 12 for 1.5 crore students of the country will finally end."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
01-06-2021||India||Three million doses of Russian Sputnik V lands in India||A consignment of around three million doses of Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Tuesday. A GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo press release said the vaccine consignment arrived from Russia on a special chartered freighter RU-9450 which touched down at Hyderabad Airport at 03.43 hours. "While GHAC has already handled several import shipments of vaccine prior to this, today’s shipment of 56.6 tonnes of vaccines is the single largest import shipment of Covid-19 vaccines handled in India till date. This shipment completed all processes and was dispatched in less than 90 minutes," it said. The Sputnik V vaccine requires specialised handling and storage, required to be kept at a temperature of -20 C. GHAC has been working closely with the experts from the customers supply chain team, officials from customs department and other relevant stakeholders over an extended period of time to ensure that the necessary infrastructure and handling processes are fully in place at the Air Cargo Terminal for smooth handling of the vaccine shipments, it said. Dr Reddy's Laboratories is in a pact with Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell the first 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of Sputnik V in India. Dr Reddy's Laboratories has received approval from the Indian drug regulator for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V. Dr Reddys which had earlier received over two lakh vaccines from RDIF, recently soft-launched Sputnik V and tied up with Apollo Hospitals for piloting the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
01-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload lowest in 54 days||India reported 1,27,510 fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 54 days, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 6.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, India's tally of coronavirus cases rose to 2,81,75,044, out of which 2,59,47,629 people have recuperated from the disease. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,31,895 with 2,795 fresh fatalities, the lowest reported in 35 days, and the active cases were recorded below 20 lakh after 43 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. While the case fatality rate has increased to 1.18 per cent, the data stated. However, recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 19 successive days. Also, 19,25,374 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 34,67,92,257. The daily positivity was recorded at 6.62 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for eight consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 8.64 per cent. The active cases were recorded below 20 lakh after 43 days. They have reduced to 18,95,520 comprising 6.73 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 92.09 per cent. A net decline of 1,30,572 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,795 new fatalities include 500 from Maharashtra, 478 from Tamil Nadu, 411 from Karnataka, 174 from Kerala, 151 from Uttar Pradesh, 131 from West Bengal, and 118 from Punjab. A total of 3,31,895 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 95,344 from Maharashtra, 29,090 from Karnataka, 24,237 from Delhi, 24,232 from Tamil Nadu, 20,497 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,541 from West Bengal, 14,550 from Punjab and 13,048 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
01-06-2021||India||Centre issues showcause notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay||The Narendra Modi government on Monday issued a showcause notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who retired as Bengal chief secretary in the evening, and is contemplating unspecified action against him for defying the order to report to the Centre on Monday. “Suitable action is being contemplated by the Centre for defying the DoPT (the department of personnel and training) order and a showcause notice has already been issued,” a source said on Monday evening. However, going by the experience in the case of the IPS officers the Centre tried to call back on central deputation from Bengal in December, the scope of such disciplinary action is limited, bureaucrats said. According to these sources, all deputation is done in consultation between the Centre and the states. If it is felt that disciplinary action needs to be initiated by the Centre, it has to be routed through the cadre-controlling authority, which, in this case, is Bengal. On Monday, the DoPT had sent a letter to Bandyopadhyay asking him to report to the Centre on Tuesday morning at 10. This was in response to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s letter to Prime Minister Modi stating that her government “cannot release, and is not releasing its chief secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid”. After Mamata’s media conference around 5pm, the Centre sought to project to its ecosystem that this was a victory for the Modi government as the chief minister had done a U-turn by getting Bandyopadhyay to retire hours after asking the Prime Minister to confirm the extension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
01-06-2021||India||Covid: SC questions Centre's vaccine pricing policy ||The Supreme Court on Monday questioned the government’s Covid vaccine procurement policy that allows the manufacturers to set different prices for the Centre, states and private hospitals and has left the states to compete against one another to import doses. A three-judge bench said it would like to see the file relating to “dual” pricing, dismissing solicitor-general Tushar Mehta’s plea that policies should be left to the executive. It said its “arms are strong enough” to pull up the government for any non-compliance of its orders about patients’ right to be treated and air their grievances. The court’s grilling of the Centre came against the backdrop of several state governments, individuals and civil liberties activists demanding the Union government provide free vaccination to every citizen as a matter of fundamental right. Meenakshi Arora, appointed amicus curiae (friend of the court) with fellow senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, told the bench that Indians were being forced to pay for vaccines for the first time in seven decades. She said countries across the world were supplying free jabs to their people. The court asked the Centre to come out with an amended affidavit, filed by an officer above the rank of joint secretary, explaining the measures taken to mitigate the people’s pandemic-induced hardships. “We are not framing policy. There’s our order of 30th April that these are the problems. You will be flexible. You just can’t say that you are the Centre and you know what’s right,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed the bench, told Mehta. “Our arms are strong enough; we can come down on the government if there is non-compliance.” The bench, which included Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat, has been monitoring suo motu the management of the Covid crisis by the Centre and the states. The April 30 order had said no patient should be turned away from a hospital for a lack of beds or other facilities like oxygen. It had threatened contempt action against police and others if FIRs were registered against citizens for airing Covid-related grievances on social media. During Monday’s hearing, the bench noted that various states and civic authorities like the Mumbai corporation were floating tenders for vaccine import, amid a shortage of doses, and wondered whether the Centre intended to be a mere “nodal agency” to facilitate imports. “Does the Government of India contemplate a situation where states are left to compete among themselves by floating tenders?” Justice Chandrachud asked. “We are on the role of the central government…. What is the rationale for dual (pricing) policy? Centre is procuring certain amount and not willing to give it to states at same rate?” the bench asked. The Centre is buying vaccines at Rs 150 a dose and providing doses free to the states for inoculating those aged 45 or above at government facilities. But to inoculate younger adults, the states need to buy directly from the vaccine makers — Covishield at Rs 300 and Covaxin at Rs 400 per dose. For private hospitals, the prices are Rs 600 for Covishield and Rs 1,200 for Covaxin. The bench noted that the Centre had claimed it was being charged a lower price since it bought the vaccines in bulk. “If this is the rationale then why do the states have to pay a higher price? There needs to be one price for the vaccines across the nation,” it said. Mehta pleaded that if the court examined the price structures it would only hamper the ongoing negotiations to place more orders for vaccines. He stressed that there was a uniform price for all the states. “There are conflicting claims by manufacturers. There is no one single price for all states,” Justice Bhat observed. “Distribution for states will also be now through proportion. Why should there be two prices?” Justice Bhat said the court would like to see the file relating to the decision on dual pricing to understand its rationale. “What is the basis for the Centre to say that for (those aged) 45 and above we will supply and procure vaccines free of charge and for below 45 years, (the) states will have logistical arrangements?” Justice Chandrachud said. “In the second wave it was the pre-45 which suffered a great deal.... If the purpose is to procure vaccines then why should the Centre confine itself to post-45 and leave pre-45 entirely to states for arranging logistics? How do we look at the marginalised and economically weaker ones?” The court later adjourned the matter saying it would pass a short written order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Covid: AIIMS to hold postgraduate entrance test on June 16||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences has decided to hold its postgraduate entrance test on June 16, prompting protests by thousands of candidates who have cited the health risks and lockdown restrictions and suggested the exam could turn into a “super-spreader event”. They have also underlined that all other national-level exams have been postponed amid the surging pandemic, and that many of the candidates have volunteered for  Covid duty on an appeal from the government amid an implicit assurance about their exams being deferred. AIIMS is the first authority to schedule a national-level exam amid the second wave of the pandemic. The June 16 Institutions of National Importance Combined Entrance Test (INICET) is meant to fill the 850 MD and MS seats in the 6 functioning AIIMS and 3 other medical “institutions of national importance” — PGIMER Chandigarh, Jipmer Puducherry and Nimhans Bangalore. Other medical colleges select their postgraduate students through the NEET-PG, which has been postponed beyond August 31. There’s no clarity whether Class XII board exams would be held at all. The Union Public Service Commission has postponed its civil service entrance exams from June 27 to October 10. The National Testing Agency has put off the JEE Main and the National Eligibility Test for would-be assistant professors, and the IITs have deferred the JEE Advanced. The NEET (undergraduate medical entrance exam) is scheduled in August but might well be postponed. Nearly 30,000 MBBS graduates on Sunday protested on Twitter under the tag #postponeINICET to express their many concerns, from the risk of catching Covid to the difficulties of reaching the exam centres in locked-down states. About 80,000 MBBS graduates have registered for the INICET, originally scheduled on May 8 but deferred because of the resurgent Covid. On May 28 night, AIIMS announced the revised date on its website. What has triggered charges of a “double standard” is that on May 30, AIIMS cited the pandemic to indefinitely postpone its BSc (nursing) entrance exam from June 14. Many INICET candidates have underlined how a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on May 3 decided to postpone the NEET-PG indefinitely beyond August 31, and said the students would be informed one month in advance about any revised date. That meeting had encouraged NEET-PG candidates to join the Covid workforce, saying those providing 100 days’ service in pandemic management would receive priority during regular government recruitments. Most of the INICET candidates figure among the 1.7 lakh NEET-PG candidates. “The government called us for 100 days’ duty and offered PM Samman certificates and assured us (implicitly) that medical exams will not be conducted before August 31,” said Dr Chinmayee from Bangalore, who has registered for both NEET-PG and INICET. “Following this, AIIMS authorities too postponed the INICET. But on May 28, out of nowhere, they announced the exam would be held on June 16 at just 19 days’ notice.” Chinmayee said many candidates who had joined Covid duty stood disadvantaged because of the abrupt announcement. “They are working 10 to 12 hours a day. Many have not been able to meet their families. Don’t they need enough time to refocus on their exam preparations?” she said. A medical graduate from Calcutta said the INICET candidates had chosen exam centres near their home during registration but many of them had since moved elsewhere to join Covid duty or other kind of work. He said these students would find it particularly difficult to reach their exam centres amid the lockdowns. “Even if the students reach the city (where their centre is located) by train or flight, they will struggle to get local transport,” he said. “In Calcutta (where the Covid restrictions have been extended till June 15), no hotel will be open till June 15 night; so they can’t get accommodation. There may not be any public transport or taxis on June 16 morning to reach the exam centres.” The students must reach the centre before 8am for the three-hour exam that starts at 9am. In Odisha, the lockdown has been extended till June 16, and in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, till June 15. These and many other states might extend the restrictions to or beyond June 16. A student from Maharashtra asked why the exam could not be put off till September or October. “AIIMS as an institution of national importance should set an example. What message is it trying to send out by holding the exam in the middle of the second wave of Covid? This exam may become a super-spreader event,” he said. An email sent to AIIMS director Randeep Guleria seeking the reason for holding the test in June when the NEET-PG has been postponed beyond August 31 has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Covid: SC asks Centre to provide ‘tangible' reason to conduct Class XII exams||The Supreme Court on Monday said the Centre must give a “tangible” reason if it decides to go ahead with the Class XII board examinations amid the pandemic. “No issue. We do not want to get into the nitty-gritty at this stage. You take a decision. You are entitled to it. But it is the sanguine hope of the petitioners that last year’s policy could be used this year. If you are departing from the policy of last year, you need to give us tangible reasons,” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, heading a bench, told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal during a brief hearing. The bench, also comprising Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, adjourned the matter till Thursday on a request from Venugopal to place the government’s final view. The bench was dealing with a petition filed by advocate Mamta Sharma seeking cancellation of the Class XII board exams and evaluation of the students on the basis of the internal assessment marks obtained, as was done last year. Besides Sharma, the NGO Youth Bar Association has filed an intervention application seeking cancellation of the exams, arguing that holding the tests would be in contradiction with the CBSE’s own decision not to conduct the Class X exams owing to the second wave of Covid-19. In the case of Class X students, the CBSE had decided to evaluate their performance on the basis of the internal assessment marks as was done last year when the first wave of Covid was raging. The petitioner has complained that though the CBSE and the ICSE chose to cancel the Class X exams this year too, no such benefit has been extended to the Class XII students, which amounts to discrimination and violation of citizens’ fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination) and 21 (life and personal liberty). The petitioner has pleaded that the court must exercise its special powers under Article 142 to cancel the exams keeping in view the health and safety of the students and others since the second wave has been more devastating than the first wave was last year. It was pointed out that last year, upon the court’s intervention, both the CBSE and the ICSE chose to cancel the board exams and relied on internal assessment for determination of the final results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Centre's non-vaccination strategy is a dagger in Bharat Mata’s heart, says Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the Narendra Modi government’s inability to arrange for enough vaccines was like stabbing Mother India as reports of closure of vaccination centres poured in from across the country. Rahul said in an acerbic tweet: “Modi Government’s non-vaccination strategy is a dagger in Bharat Mata’s heart. Tragic truth.” While the former Congress president has directly blamed the Prime Minister for the abnormally high number of deaths caused by the second wave of Covid-19, the latest attack is a subtle attempt to target the RSS-BJP’s self-proclaimed monopoly on patriotism. The horrifying images of bodies strewn on the banks of the Ganga in several places in Uttar Pradesh have already bruised the Hindu sentiment. While the Ganga is linked with Hindus’ spiritual consciousness, it is also probably the greatest symbol of national pride. Rahul has now used this imagery of stabbing “Bharat Mata” in an obvious attempt to highlight that the failure to arrange vaccines for the people in time exposed the fake patriotic credentials of the BJP. He put out the message both in Hindi and English. Posting another tweet that suggested that 97 per cent of Indians had become poorer post-Covid, Rahul tweeted: “One man and his arrogance + One virus and its mutants.” This was again a direct attack on the Prime Minister for mismanaging both the pandemic and economy. The GDP figure for 2020-21 released on Monday showed a negative growth of 7.3 per cent. The Congress has been creating a noise about the slow vaccination drive over the past few days. The party has also raised questions about private hospitals getting supplies while government facilities being forced to down shutters. They also alleged a scam in Karnataka where BJP youth wing chief and Lok Sabha MP Tejasvi Surya appealed to people through a newspaper advertisement to get vaccinated in a private hospital. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera had said that leaked audio conversations suggested Surya’s uncle and BJP legislator Ravi Subramanya got a commission of Rs 700 per dose from the hospital. Karnataka Congress chief D.K. Shivakumar had tweeted: “Allegations against BJP MLA Ravi Subramanya of taking commission for vaccines is a serious one….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Priyanka backs parents' proposal to not conduct the class XII exams||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday supported the suggestions of many students and parents who are against the conduct of Class XII exam this year and advocated awarding marks to examinees on the basis of internal assessment. Priyanka wrote to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal at a time when the government is slated to take a decision on the exam issue soon. The decision on the Class XII board exam will help universities and testing agencies to decide on whether to conduct end-semester exams and entrance tests, respectively. In her letter to Pokhriyal, Priyanka conveyed the suggestions she had received from parents and students opposing the conduct of board exam. The CBSE has already postponed its Class XII exams till June 15. Last week, a group of ministers headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh discussed this issue with state education ministers and officials. The government has presented two options — conducting the exam in selected subjects or under a changed pattern with objective-type questions in exam centres in each school. Priyanka wrote that the children have already coped with immense pressure in the last year of their schooling. For much of the year, the schools remained closed. Many students contracted Covid-19 and many have lost family members, friends and loved ones, she said. “How can we expect them to set aside all that they are witnessing and focus on their board exams? How can we, as the guardians of their future, refuse to hear their cries of help and turn away from their requests to be heard? How can we willingly put them in situation that is potentially dangerous and life threatening for them?” Priyanka wrote. She said many have suggested that, like in other countries, internal assessment should be done for the students considering that the second wave of the pandemic has hit hard at a time when they were to study for their exams. The very real fear and psychological trauma of the raging pandemic coupled with prolonged and intense pressure of board exam can lead to several mental health issues like depression and anxiety, she said. “I once again urge you to reconsider CBSE 12th Board exam and to consider the above suggestions made by them. It will be a great injustice if they are pushed into circumstances that endanger their lives when it is completely unnecessary and it will be a great pity if we let them down at this trying time in their lives.” University students Most of the universities in the country are yet to hold their end-semester entrance exams too. The final-year students are awaiting the award of degrees. The ministry of education and University Grants Commission have asked these institutions to defer any offline exam but have allowed them to hold exams online. Most of the central universities are planning to hold exams online in June. However, students’ organisations have largely opposed any online exam and supported award of marks based on internal assessment. The Students’ Federation of India has opposed the online exam plans of the Delhi University and urged the varsity to take alternative measures. The All India Students Association (AISA) has said many students have lost multiple family members, loved ones and professors and opposed exams. The National Students Union of India demanded vaccination of students before any exam. The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad has suggested conduct of exam in universities in online mode followed by offline mode later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Congress highlights jump in bank frauds under Modi govt||The Congress on Monday said bank frauds witnessed a constant high growth under the Narendra Modi government and a staggering Rs 5 lakh crore of public money was looted in the last seven years. Citing disclosures by the Reserve Bank of India in its latest annual report (for 2020-21), Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “While the RBI points to certain alarming statistics, including the impact of the failure of the Modi government in controlling the second wave of Covid-19 on the economy as well as consumer confidence, the most shocking is the continuing bank fraud. There has been a steady increase in loot, showing the government’s failure in checking frauds. While the fraud amount was Rs 19,455 crore in 2014-15, the amount for Rs 2020-21 is Rs 1.38 lakh crore.” Recalling the national outcry over the escape of high-profile fraudsters such as Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi, who were supposed to be close to the establishment, the Congress spokesperson said: “Why has the government failed to curb the bank frauds in the last seven years? What is the government doing to recover the amount involved in these bank frauds? How much amount has been collected from these fraudsters who are weakening our banking system? Who are these people who looted the banks?” Vallabh said that Modi promised a $5-trillion economy and ended up allowing bank frauds of Rs 5 trillion in his seven years of rule. Alleging that the government has weakened the banking system, he said: “The cases and amount of bank fraud have been on a rapid rise since 2014-15. For 2020-21, when loan moratorium was in effect till August 31, 2020, and restructuring initiatives were in effect until December 31, 2020, the fraud amount for the entire year was still Rs 1,38,422 crore.” He added: “Even if we focus on the last three years, the average fraud amount increased from Rs 10.5 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 21.3 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 18.8 crore in 2020-21. The average fraud amount was Rs 4.2 crore in 2014-15. Hence, the average fraud amount has become four to five times bigger. The maximum amount of fraud — Rs 1,85,468 crore — was reported in 2019-20.” Vallabh pointed out that the RBI report clearly stated that the average time lag between the date of occurrence of frauds and the date of detection was 23 months for those reported in 2020-21 and 24 months for those reported in 2019-20. This means, he explained, the government couldn’t vaguely argue that the frauds happened during the previous governments and the Modi government had to bear the cross. “Even for large frauds greater than Rs 100 crore, the average lag (between occurrence and detection) was 57 months for 2020-21 and 63 months for 2019-20. Hence, the frauds identified in 2020-21 were committed sometime in 2018-19 and large frauds were committed sometime in 2015-16 when Modi was in power. They can’t escape responsibility now. They will have to answer how this public money was looted and who are these people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||SC to revisit the constitutional validity of the sedition law||The Supreme Court on Monday said it would revisit the constitutional validity of the sedition law and its application to media houses and journalists in the wake of rising instances of states indiscriminately using the colonial-era legislation under IPC Sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 505 (public mischief). “It’s time we define the sedition law…” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said while issuing notice on the sedition and other cases registered by the Andhra Pradesh government against two television channels — TV5 and ABN — for airing the views of a Lok Sabha MP critical of chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Justice Chandrachud during the course of the hearing also sarcastically remarked: “A news report yesterday showed that dead bodies were being thrown in the river. I don’t know if a sedition case has been filed against the news channel yet or not.” While under Section 124A, an accused can be sentenced to life imprisonment, under the other two provisions, a person can face imprisonment up to three years. The bench, after hearing senior counsel Shyam Divan and Sidharth Luthra appearing for the two channels, passed the following order: “….The gravamen of the allegation against the news channels arises from certain programmes which have been broadcast by them. During the programmes, Mr Raghurama Krishnam Raju, member of Parliament is alleged to have expressed views critical of the state government and the chief minister. Besides Mr Raju, who has been named as the first accused, TV5 and ABN have been named as the second and third accused. “Mr Shyam Divan and Mr Sidharth Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners, have submitted that the FIR constitutes an attempt to muzzle the electronic media and is an assault on the freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. It has been submitted that, read as they stand, the allegations in the FIR do not establish any offences under the provisions which have been invoked against them. ‘The jurisdiction of this court under Article 32 has been invoked on the ground that while dealing with the suo motu Covid-19 case 1, this court in its order dated April 30, 2021, has made categoric observations in regard to the need for restraint on the invocation of the coercive arm of the law against persons voicing comments critical to matters of governance which arise in the context of the Covid crisis. The member of Parliament has been granted bail by the court. “Having heard learned counsel, we are of the view that the ambit and parameters of the provisions of Sections 124A, 153A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, would require interpretation, particularly in the context of the right of the electronic and print media to communicate news, information and the rights, even those that may be critical of the prevailing regime in any part of the nation.” The bench issued notice to the government to reply within six weeks. YSR Congress MP Raju, who was earlier granted bail by the apex court, had alleged that he was subjected to third-degree torture by the state police for his critical views against the chief minister and for seeking cancellation of Jagan’s bail in a corruption related case. The court passed the order on Monday after the two regional channels challenged the FIR registered against them on May 14 under the IPC Sections 124, 153A, 505 and Section 120B based on an inquiry report of the deputy inspector-general, CID.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Khattar  accuses Kejriwal of playing politics over  vaccines||Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar on Monday accused his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal of playing politics over Covid vaccines, saying the national capital is exhausting its supply too soon while his own state is stretching it over a longer period. His comment on vaccine rationing invited a sharp reaction from the Congress, which said Haryana had vaccine doses but was administering them to people in small numbers over several days. “Deliberate delay in administering vaccines is also being termed as a strategy. He (CM) says the government has vaccines, but these will be administered to people in small numbers over several days. This is the reason why the people of Haryana are not able to get the vaccines..,” Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a tweet. Claiming that Kejriwal always has a critical tone, Khattar said Delhi was getting more vaccine doses considering the size of its population. Giving an example of his own state and virtually admitting to rationing of vaccines, Khattar said: “Even we (Haryana) can administer two lakh doses in one day and exhaust our stock. But we know how much stock we are getting and if we keep administering 50,000 to 60,000 doses to people daily, this (stock) will keep going on.” He said given the current pandemic situation, the Centre is doing its best to lend assistance to the states. “So far, all vaccination doses are coming from the Centre’s side. Delhi’s population is two crore, our population is 2.90 crore,” the Haryana chief minister said. “If we go by this ratio, Delhi has got 51 lakh vaccine doses and accordingly we should have got 74 to 75 lakh doses, but we have got only 58 lakh doses. If one goes by per million population, Delhi has got more and Haryana has got less vaccine doses,” he added. His remarks come amid Kejriwal’s demand for more vaccine doses from the Centre. “Whatever stock is available, it has to be distributed to the entire country. Delhi alone cannot get it. And if the entire country has to get it, then it will be given on a pro rata basis,” the Haryana chief minister said. Khattar said many states, including Haryana, are also making efforts to procure vaccines from abroad by floating global tenders. “The Centre is already giving vaccines and will keep giving in future too. But he (Kejriwal) always indulges in drama,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Lt Gen. Manoj Pande to take charge of the Eastern Command||Lt Gen. Manoj Pande will take charge as the General Officer Commanding in Chief (GOC-in-C) of the Eastern Command on Tuesday amid the ongoing border stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. The country’s only tri-services command, Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), which Lt Gen. Pande headed, will also get a new commander on Tuesday when Lt Gen. Ajai Singh will take over. Lt Gen. Pande will take the charge from Lt Gen. Anil Chauhan who retired as the Eastern Command chief on Monday. The Eastern Command looks after the critical LAC with China and borders with Myanmar in the east, besides anti-insurgency operations in the Northeast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Delhi High Court  glare on Gautam Gambhir ||Delhi High Court on Monday criticised the drug controller for not properly examining as to how BJP MP Gautam Gambhir procured a huge quantity of the Covid-19 drug Fabiflu. “You (drug controller) can’t take us for a ride. If you think we are so gullible, so naive, we are not,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said. The high court said its confidence in the drug controller has been “shaken completely” and rejected as “trash” its status report on the inquiry into procurement of the medicine by cricketer-turned-politician Gambhir. The high court took strong exception to the drug controller’s report, which concluded that the dealers had ample stock to supply to others, and said everyone knows that the medicine was in short supply and while Gambhir bought thousands of strips of the medicine, other people who needed it could not get it on that day. “Please don’t tell us there is no shortage. We know there was a shortage. You don’t have to swallow the report. You have to question your officers. You (drug controller) are wrong to say it was not in short supply…. You better do your job. If you can’t do your job, tell us, we will have you suspended and let someone else do your job,” the bench said. It also pulled up Gambhir for again making a statement that he will continue to do such work. “We have already said it is a malpractice. This tendency of people trying to take advantage and then trying to appear as a saviour when they themselves created the problem, has to be denounced. And then the person goes on to state he would do it again. If it continues, we know how to deal with it,” it said. “Thousands of strips he is obtaining. On the day people needed it, they were not able to buy it….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
01-06-2021||India||Toll in the Aligarh hooch tragedy climbes to 36 ||The toll in the Aligarh hooch tragedy climbed to 36 on Monday with 11 more deaths being confirmed by the district authorities. Viscera samples of 35 other people, who are suspected to have died after consuming spurious liquor, have been sent for examination to confirm the cause of death, chief medical officer Dr Bhanu Pratap Kalyani said. “A total of 71 bodies have arrived at the post-mortem house from Friday to Monday. Liquor poisoning has been confirmed as the cause of death for 36 of these people,” Kalyani said. Former Aligarh MLA Zameerullah Khan of the Samajwadi Party produced before the media the families of 12 people who he claimed died over the past three days after consuming spurious liquor and whose post-mortem was not conducted. He demanded that the state government provide compensation to all such families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Books by Adityanath and Ramdev to become part of philosophy syllabus ||Calling modern medicine a “stupid science” must be excellent philosophy. For yoga televangelist Ramdev is now officially a philosopher. Ditto chief minister Yogi Adityanath, though in his case it’s a self-anointment. Books by Ramdev and Adityanath will now be part of the philosophy syllabus at the state government-run Chaudhary Charan Singh University in Meerut following a recommendation from the Uttar Pradesh government, varsity authorities have confirmed. One of the books is Ramdev’s Yoga Chikitsa Rahasya, which deals with yoga’s proficiency in curing illnesses. The other is Adityanath’s Hathyoga: Swaroop evam Sadhana. They will be taught alongside books by giants like Plato and Aristotle. University authorities said the recommendations had come last week, that is, a few days after Ramdev had called allopathy a “stupid science”. “We didn’t take the decision on our own. We received a recommendation from the state government and included it in the undergraduate philosophy syllabus,” Y. Vimala, pro-vice-chancellor of the university, said on Monday. N.C. Lohani, dean of arts, said: “It was done keeping in view the need of the times.” A few months ago, the university administration had got its board painted saffron. A teacher at the university, speaking on the condition of anonymity, expressed frustration. “We understand they are appalling recommendations — powerful people are forcing us to teach from their books, which are substandard,” the teacher said. “Asking people to practise yoga isn’t the same thing as forcing them to read the books of people with half-baked knowledge.” However, the teacher said, the university had made the best of a bad situation by inducting books by three progressive poets into the Hindi literature syllabus as a trade-off. “Since the university administration was eager to accept the government recommendation, we (the varsity academic panel) pushed for the poetries of Bashir Badra and Kunwar Bechain of Meerut and Dushyant Kumar of Bijnore,” the teacher said. “This was accepted immediately because they knew we would not otherwise approve the books by Adityanath and Ramdev.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Kerala Assembly seeks recall of Lakshadweep administrator||The Kerala Assembly on Monday unanimously passed a resolution seeking the immediate recall of the Lakshadweep administrator and a rollback of his controversial reforms ranging from a ban on cow slaughter to measures facilitating land grab. Moving the resolution, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan termed the reforms as “an attempt to impose saffron agenda and corporate interests by denying the rights of the people”. “The administration has taken steps to deny the staple food of beef and thus implement the Sangh parivar agenda through the backdoor. They are moving to stop cow slaughter and ban beef and shut down all dairy farms. The administrator is now giving lead to measures that destroy a people’s culture and livelihood,” Vijayan said. Praful Khoda Patel, the first politician to be appointed administrator of the Union territory off the Kerala coast, has brought in several legislations that negate the people’s basic rights to food and land. Vijayan blamed the Centre for empowering the new administrator with unprecedented powers through an order. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan of the Congress extended support to the resolution and termed it as an example for other states to follow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Dogs eat bodies on a riverbank in Uttarakhand||A video has emerged showing dogs eating bodies on a riverbank, purportedly Kedar Ghat along the Bhagirathi in Uttarkashi, Uttarakhand. Residents said the bodies had presumably been dumped upstream into the river, a tributary of the Ganga, and had got stuck in the sandbars before the past few days’ rainfall raised the water levels and caused them to drift towards the banks. The smell apparently attracted street dogs, which pulled the bodies out of the water. Residents told reporters on Monday they had complained to the civic body in the morning. “But they didn’t show any interest,” a priest who didn’t want to be named said. Ramesh Semwal, chairman of the nagar palike, told reporters: “Some half-burnt bodies were seen on the ghat being eaten by dogs. We have assigned a sadhu who lives on the ghat to keep cleaning the area after last rites are performed.” He seemed to be suggesting that rather than floating down from elsewhere, the bodies had been cremated at the spot. He didn’t explain why they had remained half-burnt and how the sadhu would be “cleaning the area” of such bodies. Bodies have been seen floating down rivers in Uttar Pradesh and other states, apparently dumped by relatives amid the rising Covid deaths, shortage of cremation space and firewood, and spiralling funeral costs. Many families are burying their dead in the sand on riverbanks. Residents of Unnao and Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh reported seeing at least three dozen and six bodies, respectively, floating in the Ganga in the past 24 hours. Fatehpur sub-divisional magistrate Pramod Jha said: “Some corpses were spotted in the river. They were fished out and cremated.” Jha said he was informed about the bodies floating in the river on Sunday morning, following which a search operation was launched. Six decomposed bodies were found in the river, he said. The bodies could not be identified. Later in the day, a team of doctors performed the last rites at Bhitora Ganga Ghat, he said. Dayashankar Pathak, SDM of Unnao, said: “I visited the area but didn’t see any bodies.” Chief ministers Tirath Singh Rawat and Yogi Adityanath have been silent on the reports of floating bodies but claim the Covid situation has been “almost controlled” in their states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Covid: Vijayan writes to 11 chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states on vaccines ||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday wrote to 11 chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states seeking a united effort to press the Centre to procure Covid-19 vaccines and ensure free universal vaccination. “Wrote to 11 CMs in the spirit of Cooperative Federalism. Quite unfortunate that Centre absolves itself of its duty to procure vaccines, ensure free universal vaccination. United effort to jointly pursue our genuine demand is the need of the hour, so that Centre acts immediately,” Vijayan tweeted. In his letter, the chief minister said statements to the effect that the responsibility to provide vaccine entirely fell within the realm of the states defied the very basis of the cooperative federal system. “The need of the hour is a united effort from our side to put forth the genuine demand that the Centre should procure vaccine needed by the states and distribute them free of cost. This will be more cost-effective as well,” Vijayan said in the letter. “When the nation is passing through the second surge, it is quite unfortunate that there appears to be an attempt by the Centre to absolve itself of its bounden duty to provide adequate supply of vaccine to the states.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
01-06-2021||India||Kerala Assembly polls 2021: Election cash heat on BJP ||Kerala police’s questioning of seven BJP functionaries in a nearly two-month-old carjacking and robbery case has intensified charges of money-laundering and election malpractice against the party. On April 3, during the Assembly poll campaign, seven men allegedly hijacked a car in which money was being purportedly taken from Kozhikode to Alappuzha by two men, at least one of whom has been identified by the police as an RSS official, Dharmarajan. A complaint about the crime in Thrissur district was, however, filed only on April 7 – a day after the state elections — by the other occupant, Shamjeer. He said the occupants were carrying Rs 25 lakh in cash, which the carjackers took away. Shamjeer did not mention any BJP links, and the party has denied any connection with the money. However, the sum of Rs 25 lakh falls within the limit that an Assembly candidate is allowed to spend on electioneering. However, unconfirmed media reports alleged the cash robbed from the car was Rs 3.5 crore, leading to accusations that it was unaccounted money that the BJP planned to use to lure rival parties’ MLAs. The speculation has gained strength with the special investigation team (SIT) saying that Rs 90 lakh had been seized so far from the 19 people with criminal backgrounds arrested in the dacoity case, registered with Kodakara police station in Thrissur. The SIT has questioned state BJP organising secretary M. Ganesh, state office secretary G. Girish, Thrissur secretary K.R. Hari, district treasurer Sujay Senan, Ayyanthole area secretary G. Kasinathan, Thrissur office secretary Satheesan and Alappuzha treasurer K.G. Kartha. Kartha was grilled for over four hours after testimonies of some of those in custody and their telephone records showed they had contacted him several times after the heist, police sources said. They alleged that some of the accused had acknowledged spending the night before the heist in two hotel rooms booked by the Thrissur BJP office, implying an inside job. Salim Madavoor, national president of the Loktantrik Janata Dal’s youth wing, on Monday moved a petition before Kerala High Court seeking a directive to the Enforcement Directorate to take up the case, which he says comes under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Madavoor says he had earlier written to ED offices in Kerala and Delhi to probe the case. State BJP president K. Surendran has told reporters his party has no links with the case and that the police are taking a heist investigation “beyond their jurisdiction”. However, the incident seems to have triggered questions and resentment among party cadres, sparking infighting that led to a BJP worker getting stabbed and injured on Sunday. Police sources said two groups of BJP workers had got into an argument after one group blamed senior party leaders for the money-laundering controversy. This apparently led to fisticuffs when a BJP worker, Kiran, came with friends to get his Covid vaccine on Sunday in Thrithallur, Thrissur. A rival group member allegedly stabbed him in the stomach. Three suspects have been taken into custody and a search is on for a fourth, the suspected assailant. Kiran is in hospital. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan had in April complained to the Election Commission about alleged money-laundering by the BJP to sabotage the Assembly elections. The case has brought under focus Surendran’s pre-election claim that his party would come to power by winning just 35 of the 140 seats. Surendran had not explained how, but it was assumed the BJP planned to buy MLAs to grab power, a template it is accused of carrying out in several states, including neighbouring Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
