02-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi accuses Centre of hiding Covid death figures||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Wednesday accused the Central government of "hiding" the actual coronavirus death figures, even as he urged people to raise their voice for universal free vaccination. "GOI is hiding actual Covid deaths," he said in a tweet, tagging a media report that conducted a survey on who people thought were responsible for coronavirus deaths. Gandhi also launched a campaign to pressure the government for universal free vaccination in the country. "Vaccine is the strongest protection against the corona pandemic. You should also raise your voice for providing free vaccination to the people of the country - wake up the central government," he said on Twitter, using the hashtag #SpeakUpForFreeUniversalVaccination. He also shared a video highlighting the shortage of vaccines. His sister and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also tweeted for universal free vaccination and slammed the government over a "confused and dithering" vaccination program. "We are one of the biggest vaccine-manufacturers in the world. Yet only 3.4% of our population is fully vaccinated. Who is responsible for India's confused and dithering vaccination program," she asked in the tweet. She said that on August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had declared that there was a plan in place to vaccinate every Indian. But it is now mid-2021, and the country's inoculation rate is just 1.9 million people per day, whereas "we need 7 to 8 million people to be vaccinated per day to achieve that target", she said. "The Centre first took all responsibility, after that as the 2nd wave hit it started to abdicate responsibility to the states. Other federal countries like Germany and the USA have followed a completely different process, where the Centre has procured the vaccines and distributed it to states," she asked in a video tagged in the tweet. "Why did the Modi government not do so?" The Congress has been critical of the government's handling of the pandemic and has slammed the vaccination policy. The party has also been demanding free vaccination for all and has urged the Centre to procure jabs and provide them to states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
02-06-2021||India||Congress behaving like ‘ostrich reading economic data’, says Anurag Thakur||Hitting back at former Finance Minister P Chidambaram for his comments on the economy, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur on Wednesday said India's growth will rebound on the back of consistent reforms and strong fundamentals. Thakur also regretted that "leaderless Congress (was) behaving like an ostrich reading economic data". "Indian economy is resilient and will rebound in the times ahead based on consistent reforms that have ensured strong fundamentals through these difficult times. "I am not surprised that the former finance minister chose to ignore hard data and instead went ahead with 'whataboutery' - the Congress leadership has embodied this clueless approach over the years," the Union minister said in a press release. Consistent reforms and strong fundamentals have ensured that India had a swift rebound from a contraction of 24.4 per cent in the first quarter to a growth of 1.6 per cent in the fourth quarter of FY 2020-21, he pointed out. On Tuesday, Chidambaram termed the financial year FY 2020/21 as "the darkest year of the economy in four decades" and said the record negative growth has left "most Indians poorer than they were two years ago". Chidambaram had slammed the government for misleading the people, a reference to the "green shoots" claims of the finance ministry in July last year, after the first wave peaked and also for mishandling of the country's finances. India's economy -- which was experiencing a slowdown even before the pandemic broke out last year -- contracted 7.3 per cent during April 2020 to March 2021 fiscal (FY21), weighed down by nationwide lockdown that pummelled consumption and halted most economic activities. This is the first full-year contraction of the Indian economy in the last four decades since 1979-80 when GDP had shrunk by 5.2 per cent. On the issue of the gloomy forecast made by the former finance minister, Thakur said, "while you doubt the resilience of Indian entrepreneurs, small businesses, traders and MSMEs to revive themselves, various international agencies project India to grow by 12.5 per cent in FY 2021-22 making India the only major economy to have a projected double-digit growth". "Is the Indian economy an island in isolation; have other major economies not faced a GDP contraction? Are you not aware that France, Germany, Italy, the UK contracted by 8.2 per cent, 4.9 per cent, 8.9 per cent and 9.9 per cent, respectively," Thakur said. He also noted that Canada, Russia, South Africa, USA too have seen contraction in their GDP in the past year and that despite the disruptions in the globalised world, India has remained resilient. Further, the minister urged Chidambaram to shift gears from his gloom and doomsday prediction and stressed that lockdown saved lives while gradual unlocking allowed green shoots. On the issue of cash transfer to poor and farmers, Thakur said that during the NDA tenure (2014-19), the government disbursed Rs 8 lakh crore on procurement of wheat and rice as compared to Rs 3.74 lakh crore during the UPA tenure (2009-14). The government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi purchased 74 times more pulses at MSP (Minimum Support Price) than that procured during UPA tenure 2009-14, the minister said. He also noted that the NDA government procured 306.9 million tonnes of paddy and 162.7 million tonnes of wheat in the last five years as compared to 2009-13 during the UPA tenure wherein only 176.8 million tonnes of paddy and 139.5 million tonnes of wheat were procured. By opening 42 crore Jan Dhan accounts, Modi government has stopped leakages in the system ensuring every rupee reaches its intended beneficiary swiftly and even during the COVID pandemic, through Direct Bank Transfer (DBT), it provided financial support to millions, Thakur said. He reminded the former finance minister that DBT was also given under NSAP (National Social Assistance Programme) to widows, divyangs, senior citizens, to building and construction workers as well as to front load PM-KISAN for farmers and to make 24 per cent contribution to EPFO and Ujjwala. Noting that total transfers exceed Rs 68,000 crore, Thakur wondered whether these are not "cash in hand". While the UPA government during your (Chidambaram) tenure as the finance minister disbursed bad loans, Thakur said, Modi government provided Rs 3 lakh crore government guarantee through the ECLGS scheme to the industry to sustain and revive their businesses. Over Rs 2.65 lakh crore has been sanctioned by public and private sector banks, and NBFCs to over 92 lakh accounts as part of "cash flow for businesses" under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
02-06-2021||India||States must work together to procure vaccines, says Naveen Patnaik||Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday wrote to all the chief ministers in the country, urging them to build a consensus over procurement of the Covid vaccines by the Centre for distribution among the states. In the letter, Patnaik wrote that no state is safe unless all the states adopt vaccination as the topmost priority and execute it on war-footing. "The only way to protect our people against future waves and provide them with a hope of survival is vaccination," Patnaik wrote in the letter that he shared on Twitter, tagging all the chief ministers. "But this cannot be a battle among the states to compete against each other to procure vaccines," he added. Patnaik noted that after the Centre announced phase 3 of the vaccine policy, allowing vaccination for everyone above the age of 18 and opened procurement for the states and private sector, the demand increased. "Many states have floated global tenders for vaccine procurement. However, it is quite clear that the global vaccine manufacturers are looking forward to the Union Government for the clearances and assurances," he said. "They are unwilling to get into supply contracts with the State government. While the domestic vaccine manufacturers are having supply constraints and are not able to commit required supplies," the chief minister said. Patnaik said that under these circumstances, the best option available is for the Centre to centrally procure vaccines and distribute them among the states so that the people are vaccinated at the earliest. "At the same time, the execution of the vaccination programme has to be decentralised and States allowed the flexibility to determine their own mechanism to ensure universal vaccination," he mentioned. For example, many hilly areas cannot access the internet and therefore online registration has to be flexible, he said. Patnaik said that he has already raised the matter with the Centre and also spoken to a few chief ministers. "However, I would respectfully suggest that all the State Governments should come to a consensus on this issue for early resolution of this problem. We should act fast before any third wave comes and creates further havoc," he said. Maintaining that the Covid-19 pandemic is the greatest challenge that the country is facing since the Independence struggle, Patnaik urged the chief ministers to come together in the spirit of cooperative federalism, setting aside the political differences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
02-06-2021||India||SC asks Centre for vaccine purchase data, roadmap of  availability||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to place on record all relevant documents and file notings reflecting its thinking that culminated in the Covid-19 vaccination policy and the purchase history till date of all vaccines, including Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V. A special bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L N Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said, “While filing its affidavit, UoI shall also ensure that copies of all the relevant documents and file notings reflecting its thinking and culminating in the vaccination policy are also annexed on the vaccination policy.” "Hence, we direct the UoI to file its affidavit within 2 weeks,” the bench said in its May 31 order uploaded on Wednesday on its website. The bench asked the Centre to ensure that each issue dealt with by it in the order is responded to individually. The court noted that the Centre's policy of giving free vaccination to the 45-plus age group and having a paid system for those below, was "prima facie arbitrary and irrational". Mentioning several other issues, the court asked the Centre to review its vaccination policy and "place on record a roadmap of projected availability of vaccines till 31 December 2021". The bench asked for the “complete data on the Central Government's purchase history of all the Covid-19 vaccines till date (Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V). The data should clarify: (a) the dates of all procurement orders placed by the Central Government for all 3 vaccines; (b) the quantity of vaccines ordered as on each date; and (c) the projected date of supply.” On May 31, the top court had highlighted the digital divide between rural and urban India and posed searching queries to the Centre on mandatory registration on CoWIN for Covid jabs, vaccine procurement policy and differential pricing, saying the policymakers must have ears on the ground to effectively deal with the unprecedented crisis. Asking the Centre to "smell the coffee" and ensure that Covid-19 vaccines are available at the same price across the nation, the top court had advised the government to be flexible with its policies to deal with the dynamic pandemic situation The top court's order came in suo motu case on Covid-19 management. The top court also highlighted the pricing issue of vaccines, asking the Centre to submit a comparison of the prices of vaccines available in India to their international prices, reported ndtv.com. Calling the issue of vaccination "absolutely crucial", the court said currently people in the 18-44-year age group are not just getting infected, but suffering from severe effects of the infection, "including prolonged hospitalization and, in unfortunate cases, death". The "changing nature of the pandemic" has created a situation where this younger age bracket also needs to be vaccinated, "although priority may be retained between different age groups on a scientific basis," the bench said. "Hence, due to the importance of vaccinating individuals in the 18-44 age group, the policy of the Central Government for conducting free vaccination themselves for groups under the first 2 phases, and replacing it with paid vaccination by the State/UT Governments and private hospitals for the persons between 18-44 years is, prima facie, arbitrary and irrational," the order read. The government has said it will vaccinate the eligible population by December this year, the announcement met with much scepticism by the Opposition. Under the "liberalised" vaccine policy that came into effect May 1, the Centre is paying for vaccines of people above the age of 45. For those below, the states can buy up to 50 per cent of their vaccine requirements from manufacturers but they are paying a much higher price than the Centre. Private hospitals are paying even more. The court will take up the case again on June 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
02-06-2021||India||HC: Why start so many vaccine hubs when you can’t provide second dose?||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said if the Delhi government could not ensure that people get both the doses of Covaxin within the stipulated time, then it should not have started so many vaccination centres with "much pomp and splendour". Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand on whether it can provide the second dose of Covaxin to those who got the first jab, before expiry of the incubation period of six weeks between the two doses. The court also issued notice to the Centre on two pleas to make the second dose of both vaccines against Covid-19 -- Covaxin and Covishield -- available in the national capital. "Why did you (Delhi government) start it (vaccination) if you were not sure you can provide the second dose also? You should have stopped. Maharashtra stopped when it found it cannot provide a second dose. "You opened so many vaccination centres everywhere with so much pomp and splendour and now you say you don't know when the second dose stock would be available," the court said while hearing the two petitions. One of the petitions has been moved by a lawyer, Ashish Virmani, who received the first dose of Covaxin on May 3 and since May 29 has been unable to book a slot for receiving the second jab which has to be taken within six weeks of the first. Subsequently, he had to travel to Meerut in Uttar Pradesh to receive the second dose of the vaccine, advocate Pallav Mongia, representing Virmani, told the court. During the hearing, Delhi government additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal told the court that the matter of getting stocks was presently between the state and the manufacturer. He said even he is yet to receive his second dose and added that there is scarcity of Covaxin. Aggarwal said he will seek instructions on when the stock of Covaxin would be available and whether those who got the first jab can be provided the second dose within the stipulated time of six weeks. The court listed the matter for hearing on June 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
02-06-2021||India||Only one out of three strains found in India matter of concern, says WHO||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said only B.1.617.2, one of the three strains of the B.1.617 Covid-19 variant first detected in India, is a variant of concern now and noted that lower rates of transmission have been observed for the other two lineages. The B.1.617 variant was first detected in India and was divided in three lineages - B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3. In the Covid-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update published on Tuesday, WHO said available findings for lineages B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 were initially used to designate B.1.617 a global Variant of Concern (VOC) on May 11 this year. Since then, it has become evident that greater public health risks are currently associated with B.1.617.2, while lower rates of transmission of other lineages have been observed, WHO said. The UN health agency said that in order to reflect this updated information, B.1.617 has been delineated . “B.1.617.2 remains a VOC and labelled variant Delta. We continue to observe significantly increased transmissibility and a growing number of countries reporting outbreaks associated with this variant. Further studies into the impact of this variant remain a high priority for WHO. “The Delta variant has now been reported in 62 countries around the world as of June 1,” the update said. It added that the B.1.617.1 strain has been reclassified to a Variant of Interest (VOI) and labelled variant Kappa . While Kappa is also demonstrating increased transmissibility (in specified locations), global prevalence appears to be declining. This variant will continue to be monitored and reassessed regularly. The B.1.617.3 lineage is “no longer classified as either a VOI or VOC”. Relatively few reports of this variant have been submitted to date. On Monday, the WHO announced the new naming system for key Covid19 variants and the labels are based on the Greek alphabet (i.e. Alpha, Beta, Gamma, etc), making them simple, easy to say and remember. “The labels do not replace existing scientific names, which convey important scientific information & will continue to be used in research. The naming system aims to prevent calling #Covid19 variants by the places where they are detected, which is stigmatising & discriminatory,” WHO said in a tweet. WHO said that as the global public health risks posed by specific Covid-19 variants becomes better understood and evolves, it will continue to update the list of global VOIs and VOCs. This is necessary to adjust to the emergence of new variants, their changing epidemiology (e.g., the incidence of some variants is rapidly declining), and our understanding of their phenotypic impacts as new evidence becomes available and is shared. “Variants no longer classified as VOCs or VOIs will continue to be monitored as part of the overall evolution of SARS-CoV-2, and may be reassessed pending new evidence indicating an increased public health risk,” WHO said. The update further said that India reported the highest numbers of new Covid-19 cases in the past week at 1,364,668, a 26 per cent decrease compared to the previous week. Other countries reporting the highest numbers of new cases are Brazil (420,981 new cases; 7 per cent decrease), Argentina (219,910 new cases; 3 per cent increase), the United States of America (153,587 new cases; 18 per cent decrease), and Colombia (150,517 new cases; 40 per cent increase). The South-East Asia Region reported over 1.5 million new cases and over 29,000 new deaths, a 24 per cent and an 8 per cent decrease respectively compared to the previous week. Case incidence continued to follow a sharp decline for a third consecutive week, and death incidence decreased for the first time since early March 2021, primarily driven by trends reported in India, the update said. In the South-East Asia Region, the highest numbers of new deaths were reported from India (26,706 new deaths; 1.9 new deaths per 100,000; an 8 per cent decrease), Indonesia (1057 new deaths; 0.4 new deaths per 100,000; a 15 per cent decrease), and Nepal (1010 new deaths; 3.5 new deaths per 100,000; a 22 per cent decrease). Globally, the number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths continues to decrease, with over 3.5 million new cases and 78,000 new deaths reported globally in the past week; a 15 per cent and 7 per cent decrease respectively, compared to the previous week, the update said. The European and South-East Asia Regions reported the largest decline in new cases and deaths in the past week, while case incidence increased in the African and Western Pacific regions. Although the number of global cases and deaths continued to decrease for a fifth and fourth consecutive week respectively, case and death incidences remain at high levels and significant increases have been reported in many countries in all regions, the WHO update said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Media reports on May vaccination numbers factually incorrect: Centre||The Union health ministry on Wednesday termed as "factually incorrect and without any basis" media reports alleging that while the Centre has promised 120 million doses of anti-Covid vaccines in June, only around 58 million doses were administered of the 79 million doses available in May. According to the ministry's data at 7 am on June 1, between May 1-31, a total of 61.06 million vaccine doses were administered by the states and Union territories. A total of 16.22 million balance and unutilised doses were available with the states. The total number of vaccine shots available from May 1-31 was 79.45 million, the ministry said in a statement. The Centre has been supporting the efforts of the states for an effective vaccination drive under the "Whole of Government" approach since January 16. In order to streamline the availability of vaccine doses, the Centre has been in constant touch with the vaccine manufacturers and has opened up different procurement options for the states and Union territories since May 1. There have been several unfounded media reports that have peddled misinformation among the masses regarding this exercise of national importance, the ministry said, adding that the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 21,85,46,667. "There have been media reports alleging the Union Government promised 120 million doses of vaccines during June 2021 while administering only around 58 million doses from the total of 79 million doses available in the month of May. This report is factually incorrect and without any basis," the statement said. Some media reports have criticised India's vaccination policy based on unverified quotes, it said, adding that these reports, questioning the prioritisation of population segments, are not supported by full information on the matter. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) was formed in August last year to provide guidance on all aspects of vaccine introduction, including prioritisation of beneficiaries, procurement, vaccine selection and its delivery. The prioritisation of beneficiaries for Covid-19 vaccination was based on a review of available scientific evidence, WHO guidelines, global examples and practices followed in other countries, the ministry said. In India, the primary objectives of Covid vaccination are to protect the healthcare workers as part of the pandemic response system, prevent deaths and protect individuals at the highest risk and vulnerability of mortality due to the disease. Accordingly, the vaccination drive has been sequentially expanded to cover the prioritised groups, starting with the healthcare workers (HCWs), followed by the frontline workers (FLWs), then people aged 60 years and above and those aged 45-59 years with 20 identified comorbidities. Subsequently, from April 1, all citizens aged 45 years and above became eligible for vaccination. Such an approach has yielded positive results by achieving more than 81 per cent first-dose coverage among the registered HCWs and around 84 per cent first-dose coverage among the FLWs, thereby protecting these cohorts who are involved in providing healthcare services, surveillance and containment activities amidst the second wave of the pandemic. Also, 37 per cent beneficiaries in the 45 years and above age group have been administered the first dose of the vaccine, whereas 32 per cent of the eligible beneficiaries in this segment have received the second dose, the statement said. From May 1, all citizens aged 18 years and above became eligible for vaccination. A "Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy" was adopted on May 1 which is guiding the ongoing third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Under the strategy, every month, 50 per cent of the vaccine doses of any manufacturer cleared by the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) would be procured by the Centre. It would continue to make these doses available to the states and Union territories for free, as was being done earlier. The remaining 50 per cent doses are available for direct procurement by the states, Union territories and private hospitals, of which the states' share is on a pro-rata basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||DCGI waives norms for clearing foreign-made jabs to bolster availability ||India's apex drug regulator has waived the requirement of testing every batch of foreign-made Covid-19 vaccines by the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli and post-launch bridging trials for such firms, a move that will bolster the availability of vaccines. The decision by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) comes in the backdrop of Pfizer and Cipla putting forth similar demands during negotiations to supply imported vaccines to India. These exemptions have been made in light of the huge vaccination requirements in India in the wake of the recent surge of Covid-19 cases and the need for increased availability of imported vaccines to meet national requirements, according to DCGI. "It has been decided that for approval of Covid-19 vaccines in India for restricted use in emergency situations which are already approved for restricted use by US FDA, EMA, UK MHRA, PMDA Japan or which are listed in WHO Emergency Use Listing and which are well-established vaccines from the standpoint that millions of individuals have already been vaccinated with the said vaccines, the requirement of conducting post-approval bridging clinical trials and of testing every batch of vaccine by CDL, Kasauli can be exempted, if the vaccine batch/lot has been certified and released by National Control Laboratory of the country of origin," it said. However, scrutiny of their summary lot protocol and certificate of analysis of batch or lot shall be undertaken by CDL, Kasauli for release as per standard procedures and requirement of assessment on the first 100 beneficiaries for seven days for safety outcomes before the vaccine is rolled out for further immunisation programme, the DCGI said in a notice issued on June 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Google claims new IT rules not applicable to its search engine||Google LLC has contended that Information Technology rules for digital media are not applicable to its search engine, and urged the Delhi High Court on Wednesday to set aside a single judge order which applied the rules on the company while dealing with an issue related to removal of offending content from the internet. The single judge's decision had come while dealing with a matter in which a woman's photographs were uploaded on a pornographic website by some miscreants and despite court orders the content could not be removed in entirety from the World Wide Web and "errant parties merrily continued" to re-post and redirect the same to other sites. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government, Internet Service Providers Association of India, Facebook, the pornographic site and the woman, on whose plea the single judge's ruling had come, and sought their responses to Google's plea by July 25. The court also said that it was not going to issue any interim order at this stage. Google has contended that the single judge, in his April 20 judgement, "mischaracterised" its search engine as a 'social media intermediary' or 'significant social media intermediary' as provided under the new rules. "The single judge has misinterpreted and misapplied the New Rules 2021 to the appellant's search engine. Additionally, the single judge has conflated various sections of the IT Act and separate rules prescribed thereunder, and has passed template orders combining all such offences and provisions, which is bad in law," it has said in its appeal against the April 20 judgement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||India logs 1.32 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,207 casualties in a day||India added 1,32,788 new coronavirus infections taking the country's tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,83,07,832, while the daily positivity rate has further dropped to 6.57 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,35,102 with 3,207 fresh deaths. The active cases were recorded below 20 lakh for the second consecutive day, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 20,19,773 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 35,00,57,330, while the daily positivity was recorded at 6.57 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for nine consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 8.21 per cent. The active cases have reduced to 17,93,645 comprising 6.34 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 92.48 per cent. A net decline of 1,01,875 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 20th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,61,79,085, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.18 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,207 new fatalities include 854 from Maharashtra, 490 from Tamil Nadu, 464 from Karnataka, 194 from Kerala, 175 from Uttar Pradesh, 137 from West Bengal and 104 from Andhra Pradesh. A total of 3,35,102 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 96,198 from Maharashtra, 29,554 from Karnataka, 24,722 from Tamil Nadu, 24,299 from Delhi, 20,672 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,678 from West Bengal, 14,649 from Punjab and 13,077 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Chidambaram joins banker Uday Kotak to urge govt to ‘print money’ to save Covid-ravaged economy||First, it was billionaire banker Uday Kotak. Now it’s ex-Congress finance minister P. Chidambaram who has joined the print money club. Chidambaram has told the government to “print money” if necessary to spur growth after what he called the “darkest year” for the economy in four decades. This is “not the time to worry about the fiscal deficit,” Chidambaram told reporters in a video call. “This is the time to act boldly and decisively -- to borrow and spend (and) if necessary print money.” “Spend on healthcare, spend on infrastructure, but spend and, as part of spending, spend on welfare measures, which today means cash transfers plus distribution of rations,” he said. Chidambaram was speaking after government data showed that Gross Domestic Product (GDP) shrank 7.3 per cent in the financial year to March 31 from a year earlier. “2020-21 has been the darkest year of the economy in four decades. The first two (quarters) witnessed a recession (contractions of 24.4 per cent and 7.4 per cent)... (and) performance in the third- and fourth-quarters did not herald a recovery," he said. “We cannot lose another year like we lost the last year. The way the government is reacting it is like we are going to lose another year,” Chidambaram said. The senior Congress leader’s call chimed with an appeal by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) chief and billionaire banker Uday Kotak for the government to use fiscal “short-term steroids” to aid the economy’s recovery. Kotak, who’s the founder and managing director of Kotak Mahindra Bank, said last week the time had come for “the printing of money” by the central bank “to save the Indian economy for sustained growth.” Like Chidambaram, Kotak urged that direct cash transfers be given to “the poorest of the poor for meeting their day-to-day needs” and that work programmes like NREGA be strengthened – moves, he said, were crucial to shoring up vitally needed consumption. “We have to ensure the human (pandemic) cost is controlled and simultaneously the economic cost is given a breather so the economy can… bounce back,” Kotak said. Despite fears that expanding the money supply can fuel inflation, there has been a record wave of money printing globally to combat the pandemic. The country’s other main business group, FICCI, has also called on the government for a fresh fiscal stimulus package to offset the hit to household spending from soaring unemployment and Covid-19 health expenses. “Most Indians now are poorer than they were two years ago,” adding “some 23 crore people have been pushed below the poverty line and into debt,” Chidambaram said. He called “alarming” new figures from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) showing unemployment at close to 14.7 per cent in the week ending May 23, its highest level in a year, and noted the central bank has warned the economy faces the possibility of a crippling “demand shock.” The pre-budget Economic Survey in January pegged economic growth for this financial year to March 31, 2022, at 11 per cent, billing it as a “conservative” forecast. But due to the upsurge in Covid-19 cases which began in March and warnings about a third wave, optimism has dimmed. There has been a “sharp deterioration” in business confidence, FICCI reported. FICCI says business needs more low-rate lending, tax waivers and financial help as well as incentives like support for salary payments to avert layoffs. India’s chief economic advisor K.V. Subramaniam insisted Monday that the overall economic impact of the punishing second wave was unlikely to be “large.” He conceded, though, that “economic activity is inextricably linked to the path of the pandemic” and that "the speed and scale of the second wave do lend caution" to talk about the extent of the economic recovery. The Central Statistical Organisation (CSO) has already warned that macroeconomic estimates will likely “undergo sharp revisions” due to the “pandemic-led economic situation.” Economists had been pinning their hopes for growth on a rebound in consumer spending but now they have started slashing their bullish forecasts. Moody’s Investors Service has cut its full-year forecast to 9.3 per cent from 13.7% projected earlier. Chidambaram said the government had been selling “a false story” of “green (economic) shoots” and a V-shaped recovery. “If 2021/22 should not go as 2020/21, the government must wake up,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Kerala BJP brawl and sacking over carjacking ||A robbery and suspected money-laundering case that led to strife in the Kerala BJP and spilled to the streets with a stabbing incident has now led to the removal of a senior leader of its OBC wing from the party’s primary membership. Rishi Palpu, the state OBC Morcha vice-president, had slammed some BJP leaders in Thrissur over a carjacking and robbery of a large sum of money before the Assembly elections in April. In a sarcastic Facebook post, Palpu had accused the Thrissur district leadership of protecting those who stabbed a party colleague on Sunday over the fiasco instead of taking action against them. A brawl between two groups, one of them accusing the party’s district leadership of money laundering, ended with a member named Kiran getting stabbed in Thrissur on Sunday. “Apart from shaming the party that rules the country on Seva Hi Sangathan Day (to mark the completion of seven years of the Narendra Modi government), the Thrissur district leadership is protecting these great people who decided to stab and kill a party colleague,” Palpu had written. A gang of seven men had on April 3 waylaid a car that was carrying cash from Kozhikode to Alappuzha when it reached Kodakara in Thrissur district. But the occupants of the car — Shamjeer and RSS worker Dharmarajan — lodged a complaint about a heist of Rs 25 lakh only on April 7, a day after the Kerala Assembly polls. Unofficial information from police soon indicated that the actual amount was Rs 3.5 crore and it was unaccounted money belonging to the BJP, a claim the party has denied. Subsequent investigations have unearthed close to Rs 1 crore from the gang members and their associates, 19 of whom have been arrested. Palpu’s remarks came at a time the BJP was vehemently denying any role in the incident. State president K. Surendran has repeatedly said his party had nothing to do with the money. Palpu had pointed out that the BJP never lost a chance to attack the CPM over alleged corruption. “When we abuse the CPM over (gold) smuggling, terrorism and politics of murder, we should also turn around and look at ourselves.” He acknowledged that “there is a group fight going on in the party” over the “hawala” money robbery. Palpu on Tuesday told a news channel that Surendran had sacked him over phone. “I was not even given a showcause notice. No explanation was sought for my statement.” Police sources said Dharmarajan had admitted that the money that was robbed had been collected at the behest of BJP leaders, but had not named anyone. The police had asked him why some BJP district functionaries had made several calls to his mobile phone on the day of the heist. Thrissur BJP office secretary Satheesan, who was questioned on Monday over allegedly booking two hotel rooms — one for some of those who robbed the cash and another for Dharmarajan and Shamjeer — has told the police that he didn’t know Dharmarajan. It is not known whether the occupants of the two rooms knew each other or were aware of each other’s presence. Some district BJP functionaries whose phone numbers were found on Dharmarajan’s mobile call record on the day of the robbery had claimed they were following up on getting from him election publicity material he had been assigned with. But the police are not ready to but that argument since it has been found that Dharmarajan did not have any election duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Covid: ICSE council cancels Class XII board exams||The ICSE council has cancelled its 2021 Class XII (ISC) board exams, its chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said on Tuesday evening. The council said in a media release that after the declaration of the ISC results, if some students are not satisfied with the marks awarded to them, it will give an “option to such candidates to write the ISC (Class XII) Year 2021 Examination at a later date, when the situation is conducive to conduct the same”. Arathoon said: “We have cancelled the ISC (Class XII) exams. We took the decision because of the pandemic and though the number of fresh infections is on the decline in some places, it is still high in many states.” Arathoon said that the results would be based on the internal assessments conducted at the schools. “We have no other marks. The results will be based on the internal assessments of two years and we have asked schools to submit the marks. Once the data are submitted, experts will work on it and decide what the procedure would be,” he added. On May 27, the council had asked schools to submit the marks of Classes XI and XII for ISC candidates of Year 2021 by June 7. The decision to call off the exams brings closure to students who had been concerned about the uncertainty over the exams because their college admissions and academic career depend on when the Class XII results are announced. But a section of students are also feeling that it might not give them a level playing field. The principal of an ISC school said: “The academically strong students who are well prepared want to write the exams because it is a true reflection of their marks.” The ICSE council (the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations or CISCE) is yet to announce when it would publish the results of the Classes X and XII exams. The Class X exams were cancelled earlier. Hundreds of Class XII examinees have already got offer letters from foreign universities and are waiting for their results. “All these (foreign admissions, for example) will be taken into consideration. We are waiting for school principals to send us the data of Classes XI and XII as soon as possible to help us tabulate. Most schools have a digital record and do not have to do it manually so we expect schools to submit the data fast,” Arathoon said. In the media release, the ICSE council said: “In view of the present situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, the CISCE has decided to cancel the ISC (Class XII) Year 2021 Examination. The safety, health and well-being of our students, teaching faculty and all stakeholders is our topmost priority and of paramount interest.” It added: “The results will be processed on a mechanism which will also include the internal examinations conducted by the schools. The schools will be informed in due course of time of this mechanism.” Several school heads said that students and their parents would want to know how the marks would be calculated, now that the board exams have been cancelled. “Especially for students who have not yet secured college admission, they would want to know how the council will calculate their marks and what the criteria will be,” a principal said. The Bengal government has yet to take a decision on the Classes X and XII exams that are conducted by the state boards. Before the cancellation announcements came from Delhi on Tuesday evening, the state boards had announced a joint news conference on Wednesday where the schedules of the forthcoming HS and Madhyamik (Class X) exams are supposed to be announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Covid: Centre cancels CBSE Class XII board exams||The CBSE Class XII board exams for this year will be cancelled in view of the pandemic, it has been decided at a meeting chaired by the Prime Minister. The national board will come out with “well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner” to assess the students. Those seeking to improve their performance will get the option of appearing in traditional pen-and-paper exams “as and when the situation becomes conducive”. The Press Information Bureau (PIB) said in a media release: “In view of the uncertain conditions due to Covid and the feedback obtained from various stakeholders, it was decided that the Class XII board exams would not be held this year. It was also decided that the CBSE would take steps to compile the results of Class XII students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.” The Supreme Court had on Monday said the Centre must give a “tangible” reason if it decides to go ahead with the Class XII board examinations amid the pandemic. The court was hearing a plea alleging discrimination against Class XII students as the CBSE had already cancelled the Class X exams. This is the first time the decision to cancel a CBSE board exam has been taken at the level of the Prime Minister. Earlier, Narendra Modi had held three meetings on the CBSE board exams. Also, a group of minister (GoM) headed by the defence minister had discussed the possibility of conducting the Class XII exams. The GoM meeting was attended by state education ministers. Nearly 14 lakh students had registered for the Class XII exams. Principals, teachers and parents welcomed the decision. Some academics advised the CBSE to develop the assessment criteria keeping in mind the fact that schools usually adopt a conservative approach while awarding marks in pre-board exams. An academic cautioned against government interference in academic affairs of school boards and universities. The PIB release said the meeting chaired by the Prime Minister reviewed the wide and extensive consultations held over the exams and the views received from all stakeholders, including state governments. On May 23, the GoM had hinted that the exams might be held. That meeting had discussed two proposals for the conduct of the exams, triggering protests from ministers in Opposition-ruled states like Delhi, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had on Monday written to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to cancel the exams and announce results on the basis of internal assessments. According to the PIB release, the Prime Minister said that the decision to cancel the Class XII CBSE exams had been taken in the interest of the students. Tuesday’s meeting helmed by the Prime Minister was attended by the Union ministers of home, defence, finance, commerce, information and broadcasting, petroleum and women and child development, the principal secretary to the Prime Minister, the cabinet secretary, the secretaries of the school education and higher education departments and other officials, the release said. An academic and former chairman of a national school board who did not wish to be identified disapproved of the trend of politicians and bureaucrats taking key decisions on academic affairs, which “should be left to academic bodies and school boards”. “I can say with full conviction that the CBSE could have held the exams and certified students (in a way) that would have been valid and reliable. There is no need for any government or bureaucracy to interfere and make it a political issue,” he said. Education minister Pokhriyal had on December 31 announced that the Classes X and XII board exams would begin from May 4. Ideally, the students and teachers should have been vaccinated after the announcement of the dates, the academic said. The 21.5 lakh Class X CBSE students will be graded on the basis of a formula that will give 80 per cent weightage to school exams and 20 per cent to internal assessments. The internal assessment will be on performance in projects, notebook writing, homework and classroom activities. Each school will form a panel of teachers to award 80 marks to school-based exams whose break-up will be 10 marks for periodic tests, 30 marks for half-yearly exams and 40 marks for pre-board exams. Academic Usha Ram said schools were usually tight-fisted in awarding marks in pre-board exams. “Whatever criteria are developed (for Class XII), the board should keep in mind that bright students do not suffer,” she said. Ram said students planning to go abroad for higher studies might like to appear for the optional pen-and-paper exams when they are held. Sangita Bhatia, principal of KIIT World School, said the government had no choice but to cancel the exams. “It is not in the interest of students to hold exams in the physical space when they have been away from school since March 2020,” Bhatia said. Kiran Mehta, the dean of academics of Mother Mary School, highlighted the health risks associated with holding the exams in the middle of a pandemic. “In my opinion, this is the best decision. Students should not be subjected to exams at this point. They have not been vaccinated. The second wave has affected a large number of families,” Mehta said. Sanjeev Kumar, a parent, welcomed the decision and said the health of children was the priority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay  under Disaster Management Act||The Centre has asked Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former chief secretary and now chief adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, to explain in writing by Thursday why action should not be taken against him for violating the Disaster Management Act, 2005, by skipping the Prime Minister’s review meeting in Kalaikunda on Friday. A letter sent by the Centre to Bandyopadyay on Monday night said that after the Prime Minister arrived at Kalaikunda for a scheduled review meeting with the chief minister and chief secretary of Bengal, “the Prime Minister and other members of his entourage waited for nearly 15 minutes for the officers of the state government to arrive”. It added that “in view of the absence, the Chief Secretary was called by an official as to whether they wanted to participate in the review meeting or not. Thereafter, Chief Secretary, Government of West Bengal, arrived, along with the Chief Minister of West Bengal, inside the meeting room and left thereafter immediately.” The Centre said that by abstaining himself from the review meeting taken by the Prime Minister, who is also the Chairman of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), in the aftermath of cyclone Yaas, Bandyopadhyay “has acted in a manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directions of the central government”. The letter felt the abstention violated Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The section prescribes punishment for obstruction or refusal to comply with a directive given on behalf of the Centre or the state government. The offence carries a maximum jail term of two years on conviction. Several serving and former officers said the Centre had fallen back upon the Disaster Management Act to harass Bandyopadhyay as his retirement on superannuation — by refusing to opt for the three-month extension that was given to him unilaterally by attaching him to Delhi — had immunised him from any action under the IAS (Cadre) Service Rules, 1954. “This (showcause notice by the Centre) smacks of vendetta and nothing else. It is pure harassment of a senior IAS officer who retired yesterday,” former Union HRD secretary Anil Swarup told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Swarup said that under IAS service rules, the Centre could not have taken any justifiable action against Bandyopadhyay. “He has not been served a notice as a chief secretary per se. It is under a particular section of the DMA. The Centre could not find anything else against him so they picked it (the DMA) up,” he said. Swarup added that according to the Disaster Management Act, the Centre would have to first register an FIR and investigate the matter. A serving Union home ministry official attached to the internal security wing said the Centre’s action was totally “unwarranted”. “I think the action against the officer is the result of the Centre’s perceived vindictiveness towards the state government,” he said, requesting anonymity. “It is sad that a civil servant is getting caught in a political crossfire because he, being an officer in a state government, had to go by what the CM had said. No way he could have attended the meeting, and using the Disaster Management Act to punish him is very sad and unfortunate,” said a retired IAS officer who had served in the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). An IAS officer who had served as secretary in the home ministry said: “It’s simply shocking to come to know of the Centre’s priorities at a time thousands of people have died because of the pandemic. The Centre has chosen to harass an officer. This is nothing but a distraction from the key issues facing the country and hiding their own failures.” Sources in Nabanna said that Bandyopadhyay would send a reply to the MHA probably on Wednesday. “The tone of the letter will not be confrontational... He is likely to explain why he himself could not be present at the meeting venue on time. Moreover, as the district magistrate and the police superintendent were present there, it cannot be said that the protocol was not followed,” said a source. Sources in Nabanna said the version of the Centre about the review meeting at Kalaikunda was in divergence with what the chief minister had already explained. The chief minister had categorically pointed out during a news conference on Saturday that she had to wait for 20 minutes in Sagar, where she had gone to hold a review meeting after making an aerial survey of the area, before boarding the helicopter to reach Kalaikunda. “I didn’t mind it. I respect the Prime Minister’s security protocols,” the chief minister had said, indicating that she was asked to wait before boarding the chopper to Kalaikunda. She had also added that the chopper had to hover in the air for 10 to 15 minutes before landing at Kalaikunda. The chief minister had also said that when she reached Kalaikunda, a meeting was already on and she had to wait before handing over the list of damages to the Prime Minister at the conference room as his meeting had started. “Then I handed it over to the Prime Minister. He took it. And with his permission, I left (for Digha),” the chief minister had said. As the chief minister’s version made it clear that she would have landed at Kalaikunda at least 35 minutes earlier had she been allowed to proceed as planned, neither she nor Bandyopadhyay can be blamed for making the Prime Minister wait, the sources pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
02-06-2021||India||Two Bengal workers die on Modi project site in Varanasi||Two labourers from Bengal were killed and six injured in their sleep when a dilapidated building that the government was dismantling as part of Narendra Modi’s pet Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi collapsed early on Tuesday. Police have identified the deceased as Ebadul Momin, 27, and Aminul Momin, 45, hailing from Malda’s Kaliachak. The injured labourers, also from Kaliachak, are Mohammad Imran, Arif Momin, Shahid Akhtar, Sakiul Momin, Hakim Khan and Arif Momin (Aminul’s son). Local people claimed that a part of the rundown Goenka Hostel had been razed two days ago, but the local administration and the project contractors had asked the labourers to sleep there. Around 30 labourers were sleeping inside the building when it caved in around 4am, the locals said. Deepak Aggarwal, the local divisional commissioner, said “an inquiry would be conducted to find out why the labourers were sleeping in the dilapidated building”. Rajesh Kumar, the labour contractor, said no arrangements were made for the labourers to sleep and that they slept wherever they could. The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, launched by Prime Minister Modi in 2018, is a project under which the area around the Kashi Vishwanath temple is being beautified by broadening streets and removing structures. The temple is now obscured by a maze of narrow lanes and cheek-by-jowl constructions. The project is being implemented jointly by the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government. Awadhesh Kumar Pandey, additional commissioner of police of the Dashaswamedh area, said: “The injured have been admitted to Kabir Chaura Divisional Hospital in the city. The bodies of those who died have been sent for post-mortem. An inquiry will reveal why they were sleeping in the dilapidated building.” A resident said, preferring anonymity: “The building collapsed at 4am. We believe there were 30 labourers sleeping there. We pulled out two bodies before the police arrived and cordoned off the area.” This is the second accident at the project site in 10 days. “A three-storey building had collapsed at Lahori Tola on April 23. Five labourers had suffered serious injuries,” the resident said. The demolition of structures for the corridor had been opposed by Swaroopanand Saraswati, the Shankaracharya of Dwarka-Sarda Peetham. He had claimed that 20 small temples had been demolished in Varanasi to widen streets. Laying the foundation of the corridor on March 8, 2019, Modi had suggested that he had been chosen by God for the job. Modi had said Lord Shiva had told him: “Son, you speak a lot; come here and prove yourself by doing something.” The Prime Minister had claimed that the Mughals had vandalised the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Some historians believe that emperor Aurangzeb had been infuriated when the Maharani of Kutch was dishonoured inside the temple and ordered its demolition. Ahilyabai Holkar, the hereditary noble sardar of the Maratha Empire, had refurbished the temple between 1777 and 1780. Vishwambhar Nath Mishra, the mahant of Sankat Mochan temple in Varanasi, said he had come to know that a large number of labourers used to sleep at Goenka Hostel. Referring to Modi’s assertion in 2014 that “Mother Ganga” had called him to Varanasi to contest the Lok Sabha election, Mishra told The Telegraph: “Nobody had called him here. He is imposing his whims and fancies on the city in the name of the Ganga and Kashi Vishwanath. While bodies (suspected to be of the Covid dead) are now floating in the Ganga, people are also dying in Varanasi because of his mindless corridor project.” In Kaliachak, Aminul’s wife Asmina Khatun said he had promised to bring gifts for their children when he would have returned in a month. Ebadul’s father Kalimuddin Sheikh said: “He went to Varanasi only 12 days ago. His death has ruined the family.” Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||UP Assembly elections 2022: BJP team to prepare for next year polls||The central leadership of the BJP has kick-started preparations for the crucial Uttar Pradesh polls early next year, focusing on ironing out differences among state leaders, getting the caste matrix right and improving the image of the Yogi Adityanath government. Two leaders — general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh and former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh — held a two-day preliminary review meeting with the state leaders on Monday and Tuesday to get feedback for the central leadership on poll preparedness. Although the current BJP leadership is known to be constantly in election mode, the shock of the defeat in Bengal has sent party managers into an overdrive, given the significance of Uttar Pradesh. The state has 80 Lok Sabha seats. The Yogi Adityanath government’s failure in handling the Covid crisis has invited sharp criticism and party managers believe it has damaged the image of the state government, necessitating corrective measures. The results of the recent panchayat polls have also alarmed the party into advance stocktaking. The results showed that the party-backed candidates suffered defeats in strongholds such as Ayodhya, Mathura and Gorakhpur besides many other regions. Overall, if the results of the panchayat polls are any indication of the mood on the ground, it’s not something to be excited about, party leaders said. The state government and the party organisation have been asked by the central leadership to run a massive campaign to help Covid-affected people. The two central leaders reviewed the campaign, party leaders said. The choice of sending Santosh, in-charge of organisational matters and co-ordination with the RSS, showed the focus on reviewing organisational preparedness to face the polls, party leaders added. Differences among ministers and leaders in the crucial state, stemming mostly from Adityanath’s “autocratic style” of functioning, have dogged the party. Many party leaders feel the dismal performance in the panchayat polls was the result of infighting among local leaders. The anger over Adityanath’s style of functioning came out in the open during the Covid crisis when many MLAs of the party complained that they were powerless and could face action if they spoke against the government. The two central leaders also held separate meetings with the chief minister and his two deputies. Party insiders said the aim was to gauge the level of coordination between Adityanath and his deputies amid reports of differences. Party insiders said one of the deputy chief ministers, Keshav Prasad Maurya, had found himself sidelined by Adityanath and there were fears it could impact the support of backward castes. Maurya was the party chief in the run-up to the 2017 Assembly polls and his face was widely used to woo the backward castes. However, after the results, Adityanath, who hails from the upper Thakur caste, was made the chief minister. After meeting the Delhi leaders, Maurya, however, suggested all was well in the party. “We will win 300 seats in 2022,” he told reporters. Apart from strains in the backward caste support base, problems have also surfaced in the BJP’s traditional upper caste base. Sections in the party said Adityanath’s domineering governing model had annoyed the Brahmins who felt marginalised under “Thakurvad” pervading at all levels of the government. “The district officials don’t listen to us. We can’t even get simple things done for our people,” one backward caste MP of the party said. The MP added that there was unrest among backward caste voters and stressed the need for the party to address many issues. Party insiders said some significant changes in the government and the organisation could be made based on the assessment of the two central leaders. The buzz over replacing Adityanath, however, has been rubbished by insiders. “Yogi Adityanath is the darling of our core Hindutva votaries. The party can’t dare to drop him,” one BJP MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Appeal in Supreme Court against citizenship notification||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) on Tuesday urged the Supreme Court to stay the May 28 executive order of the Union home ministry to grant citizenship to non-Muslims from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan residing in 13 districts of India. In an application through its general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, the IUML has urged the apex court to declare the government’s decision as being violative of citizens’ fundamental rights to equality (Article 14), non-discrimination (Article 15) and life and personal liberty (Article 21) since the constitutional validity of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 2019, was pending adjudication. The court is hearing a batch of over 50 petitions, including that of the IUML. The petitions could not be taken up because of the pandemic. The interim application argued that by granting citizenship under the original Act, the Centre was trying to circumvent the assurance given to the apex court that there was no need to stay the CAA as its rules had not been framed. Neither the Citizenship Act, 1955, under which the Centre is inviting applications for citizenship in 13 districts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Punjab, nor its rules framed in 2009 provide for religion-based citizenship. The CAA proposes to fast-track Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan belonging to the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian communities who came to India before December 31, 2014. Critics argue that the law appears to be aimed at excluding Muslims. The CAA had sparked widespread protests for tying citizenship to religion. Last Friday, the Union home ministry issued a notification inviting people of these communities tracing their roots to Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh and residing in 13 Indian districts to apply for citizenship under the Citizenship Act, 1955. The IUML, a party based in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, submitted that the order issued by the home ministry is “manifestly illegal and runs counter to the provisions of the Act, as well as the Constitution”. The petition filed through advocate Pallavi Pratap has alleged that the home ministry has “illegally” permitted the collectors of the 13 districts to grant citizenship although such a provision was added only in the CAA, whose rules are yet to be framed. The 1955 Citizenship Act lays down in unequivocal terms that persons are eligible to apply for citizenship through registration or naturalisation. Through Section 16 of the CAA, a third procedure has been added, delegating the power to “collectors of certain districts to grant citizenship to persons”. “Therefore, the attempt being made by the respondent Union in whittling down the applicability of the two provisions through an executive order is illegal. That the two provisions read together do not permit the classification of applicants on the ground of religion and therefore the order goes beyond what is permitted by the provision itself,” the IUML plea said. “Furthermore, the order does not withstand the test of Article 14 inasmuch as it treats people within a particular class, i.e. persons entitled to apply for citizenship by registration and naturalisation, unequally by virtue of their religion,” the petition added. Pointing to the Centre’s assurance to the Supreme Court that the CAA need not be set aside as the rules had not been framed, the IUML said: “…The respondent Union, in a roundabout way, and in an attempt to circumvent the assurance given to this court, has sought to implement their malafide designs envisaged under the Amendment Act through the recently issued order dated May 28.” The IUML contended that if the Supreme Court struck down the CAA, the citizenship granted on the basis of religion under the 1955 Act would also have to be declared void. “Then, to take back the citizenship of these persons, granted pursuant to the present order, will be a Herculean task and would be near impossible to implement. In the event the said exercise is conducted, it would render the entire batch of writ petitions (challenging the CAA) as infructous,” the plea said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Covid surge spooks tea gardens||When Indian tea plantation worker Bholanath Natto and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 their biggest worry was not their health, but where they would quarantine and how they could get hold of food and drinking water without his wages. As some of the cities worst hit by India’s Covid-19 crisis see a lull in new cases, infections are rising among millions of tea pickers — many of whom live in cramped living quarters where measures to curb the virus’s spread are difficult to implement. The positive test result and hospital orders to quarantine have been a logistical nightmare for the Nattos, who have spent the last 15 days holed up in a wood shed behind the two-room plantation house they share with their children. “We converted a shed where we stored wood in case our cooking gas ran out into a makeshift room for my wife and me to live in isolation,” Natto, 55, said from his home in Bengal. “My teenage daughter stepped into the kitchen for the first time to cook, while her older brother tried to arrange drinking water for us. Nobody wanted to help us because everyone is scared. We are home alone, with food running out.” India reported its lowest daily rise in new infections since April 11 on Monday, but concerns have been voiced about rising numbers in the country’s east and northeastern regions, home to lush tea gardens that supply much of the world’s tea. Since the pandemic began, India has reported 28 million cases and 329,100 deaths, health ministry data showed, though the true figures are widely believed to be much higher. India’s tea estates employ some 3.5 million workers, thousands of whom are currently quarantining in small, overcrowded homes, struggling to access food, water and aid, union leaders said. In Bengal, more than 4,500 cases have been recorded across 300 of the state’s 800 tea gardens, according to government data. Cases in the tea gardens of neighbouring Assam have risen three-fold in the last 10 days, with more than 6,000 workers and family members testing positive, local media reported. “The situation is alarming,” said Abhijit Mazumdar, working president of the Tarai Sangrami Cha Shramik Union, which represents tea pickers in Bengal. “There are no facilities — no isolation centres, no doctors in defunct dispensaries — leaving workers to battle the disease alone. Fever cases are up, those testing positive are stuck at home with their families and simply resigned to fate,” he added. India is the world’s second-largest tea producer and the industry has long faced accusations of exploitative labour conditions. “The gardens are like isolated islands, each supposed to have all facilities for its workers who live on site. But in reality they are islands of neglect,” Mazumdar said. Tea industry group the Indian Tea Association said it was pushing for plantations to ensure on-site vaccination for all workers and their families. “We are not just concerned but fully involved with the district authorities to keep tea garden workers safe,” said Arijit Raha, the association’s secretary general. “There are customised guidelines for tea gardens and we are ensuring our members follow them. Fever checks, masks, sanitisation and Covid care centres are a must. We have managed to keep the infected numbers low, but the challenge remains.” But deep in the heart of the gardens, where ongoing tea picking season means non-stop work, workers said they had no access to separate quarantine facilities and were constantly worried they would spread the infection to their families. “There are up to three generations living in these two-room, often dilapidated homes, with one bathroom to share,” said Victor Basu, founder of Dooars Jagron, a charity working to defend tea workers’ rights. “It’s a recipe for disaster. Tea garden hospitals need to be made functional and if safe spaces for isolation are not created, the pandemic will spread like wild fire,” he added. In Banarhat in Bengal’s Jalpaiguri district, Gangaram Teli, who works as a security guard, has been watching with trepidation as coronavirus cases in his tea garden rise. “There is one tap for four houses,” said Teli, 39. “For affected families, accessing the water point or buying groceries is very stressful. The disease is such that neighbours hesitate to help.” While Natto’s fever has passed, the last few days of the couple’s three-week confinement have been particularly fraught because their savings have dried up. “I feel fine but cannot step out for another few days,” said Natto, who earns about Rs 7,000 per month and only gets four days of paid sick leave. “We need food in the house…. I have to go back to work.” Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Delhi govt enables home delivery of liquor ||The Delhi government on Tuesday notified an amendment to the excise rules enabling the home delivery of liquor ordered online or through mobile apps. However, the date of implementation is yet to be announced. The new rules also remove the additional fee on serving of alcohol in open spaces attached to hotels. Liquor shops have been closed since the capital went into lockdown on April 20, and serpentine queues outside the vends the previous day led to scuffles with police who were trying to enforce social distancing. Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Karnataka allow home delivery and app sales of liquor. Last year, the Supreme Court had observed that states should consider home delivery of liquor to prevent crowding at shops. The Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules 2021 notified in the Delhi Gazette on Tuesday allows for “Licence in Form L-13 for home delivery of Indian liquor and foreign liquor by ordering through mobile app or online web portal”. One of the conditions includes that “no delivery shall be made to any hostel, office, and institution”. Under flak from both the BJP and the Congress, a source in the Aam Aadmi Party government clarified: “L-13 is an existing licence which has been amended. No licence for L-13 or home delivery licence has been issued.” The 2010 rules had provisions for orders through email and fax under L-13 which was never implemented. In March, the Delhi government’s new liquor policy declared that the state would get out of liquor retail through its four PSUs — which own most of the capital’s liquor shops. So far, there has been no move by any of these companies to tie up with food delivery apps to deliver alcohol. The liquor industry welcomed the move. Suresh Menon, secretary general of the International Spirits and Wines Association of India, told The Telegraph: “Maharashtra created such an enabling provision in May last year… The state has been able to realise its targeted revenue from liquor which is one of the major sources of its revenue. We will wait for the government to announce the policy to see what concerns retailers raise. Unlike the FMCG market, liquor is a turf market so there is a possibility of a retailer objecting to loss of customers from his area to a retailer in some other area... It would change the buying experience which currently involves jostling in queues and not being able to get a brand of one’s choice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Covid: Odisha plea to govt to buy foreign vaccines||The Odisha government has asked the Centre to buy Covid-19 vaccines from foreign manufacturers and provide them to states after getting a poor response to its global tender for their procurement. In a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday, state health and family welfare minister Naba Kisore Das said: “Odisha floated a global tender for procurement of vaccines. However, there has been limited response to the tender as observed during the pre-bid stage. Serum Institute of India (which manufactures Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (which produces (Covaxin) have not participated in the pre-bid meeting. It is understood that at their present capacity they won’t be able to provide vaccines on a large scale to states and there is an urgent need to scale up their capacities.” “It might be faster and economical if the procurement of global vaccines is made at the country-level rather than by individual states. Our chief minister Naveen Patnaik is committed to provide vaccines free of cost to our people and the state will bear the necessary cost of the vaccines.” Pointing out that other states which floated tenders have also received poor response from vaccine manufacturers, Das said: “It seems that the global vaccine manufacturers like Pfizer and Moderna are concerned about indemnity related issues, among others. Secondly, they are willing to deal with federal-level central procurement only, at this stage. Global vaccine manufacturers will be requiring the central government’s statutory clearances for supplying to the states.” However, the minister said: “States may be given the flexibility to design and decide on distribution of vaccines taking local factors into consideration (for example in many hilly terrains, Internet connectivity is poor and we can’t make online registration mandatory in those districts).” Odisha has informed the Centre that it would give priority for vaccination of Plus Two students and their family members in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Covid: 9346 orphaned during the pandemic, says NCPCR report||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has informed the Supreme Court that it has received a tentative figure of 9,346 children left orphaned or abandoned by their parents because of the pandemic from March 2020 till date and has recommended that the respective states reimburse the tuition fees of such children studying in private schools. In an affidavit filed through advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, the NCPCR has listed the measures it has undertaken to safeguard the orphaned or abandoned children from trafficking rackets. It added that a large number of individuals and NGOs were seeking to adopt such children through illegal means. Of the 9,346 children, 140 have been abandoned by their parents while 1,742 have lost either of their parents to the pandemic, the commission said. The commission has furnished the information in response to a direction from the top court last week. According to the NCPRC, through a letter dated May 27 it has, among other things, made the following recommendations for the state governments, district education officers (DEOs) and schools: ⚫ In case of death of one or both parents of the child and/ or the earning member of the family and if the child is studying in private school, the expenditure on elementary education of such a child in the same school may be borne by the appropriate government under Section 12 (1) (c) of the RTE Act, 2009 ⚫ For this, the child along with guardian/ any member of the family; and/or the school where the child is studying shall approach the child welfare committee (CWC) of the district. Based on proceedings before the CWC, the child may be included in the list of children already admitted in the school under Section 12 (1)(c) of the RTE Act, 2009. The school shall then follow the appropriate procedure to raise the demand for reimbursement of the expenditure as per respective state RTE rules ⚫ The implementation of these recommendations made in the enclosed documents and herein shall apply to all categories of schools entrusted with the responsibility under Section 12(1) of the RTE Act — aided, unaided private schools; specified category schools. Schools with minority institution status and all residential schools shall also follow the procedure and ensure that no such child is forced to leave the school in any manner against the child’s choice due to non-payment of fees. ⚫ For classes above VIII (beyond RTE), the state government shall devise guidelines for the schools and/ or issue necessary directions and/or devise a policy for reimbursing the expenditure of education of these children. According to the NCPCR, child welfare committees, under Section 27 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 have been established at district level to exercise its powers and discharge the duties conferred on them in relation to children in “need of care and protection” under the Act. Therefore, every such child affected by Covid-19 and found to be in distress and without family support must be produced before the child welfare committee concerned under Section 31 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. “The commission has been receiving many complaints in the recent past, alleging that there are private individuals and organisations, who are involved in data collection of such children stating that they want to provide assistance to the children and the families and also, these organisations/individuals are giving away these orphaned children to families in adoption without following the procedure given under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015,” the affidavit said. “In response to these complaints, the commission took out an advisory dated 02.05.2021 to chief secretaries of all states/UTs informing about the growing problem of illegal adoption during the second surge of Covid-19 and advising to produce the children before the child welfare committees, so that necessary action can be taken in the best interest of those children,” it added. The commission also stated that it had been receiving complaints of disclosure of children’s (children who have lost both or either of the parent to Covid) information by government authorities to private NGOs and organisations in violation of Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. The said provision prohibits disclosure of the identity of children through name, school, age and address. “The commission has been taking cognisance of these complaints under Section 13(1)(j) of the CPCR Act, 2005 and asking the state governments and law enforcement authorities to take necessary actions. A letter informing about these complaints was also issued to chief secretaries of all states/UTs on 26.05.2021 to look into this matter and ensure that no information of any child is disclosed to any person/entity/organisation. “The commission, in furtherance to its function as a monitoring authority under Section 109 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, has devised an online tracking portal “Bal Swaraj” for children in need of care and protection, especially for children living in streets,” the affidavit said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||UN officials accuse NIA of torture of PDP leader Waheed Para||The United Nations’ working groups on human rights and special rapporteurs have written to the Centre alleging that an aide of Mehbooba Mufti was brutally tortured in the National Investigation Agency custody for speaking against atrocities in Kashmir before UN representatives. The NIA has denied the allegation of torture on PDP leader Waheed Para. The central agency had earlier said that Para had been arrested on the charge of having links with militants. Para was believed to have been in the good books of the Centre when the BJP was running a coalition government with Mehbooba’s PDP but fell from grace when the alliance unravelled in 2018. The UN report has coincided with Jammu and Kashmir police filing a chargesheet against Para on Tuesday in another militancy-related case. Para is now in police custody. In their letter to the Union external affairs ministry, the UN officials have written that Para had on July 20 last year engaged with current and future members of the UN Security Council during a virtual meeting and raised alarm over the government’s actions in Jammu and Kashmir and its treatment of Muslim minorities. “He was held in a dark, underground cell at subzero temperature, was deprived of sleep, kicked, slapped, beaten with rods, stripped naked and hung upside down. His ill-treatment was recorded. Mr Para was examined by a government doctor three times since his arrest last November and three times by a psychiatrist. He requested medication for insomnia and anxiety,” the report said. It said Para had been subjected to “reprisal” for his engagement with the UN Security Council members and his denunciation of human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir. The UN officials’ report said Para had received threats following the meeting, “with the NIA indicating that he was inviting trouble by engaging in such events”. “They gave him an ultimatum that if he did not cease speaking out about the government, action would be taken against him,” it said. Para was among thousands of people arrested in Jammu and Kashmir during the clampdown that followed the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status. He had been a bitter critic of the move and continued to oppose the government after his release in 2020. On November 25, he was arrested on terrorism charges by the NIA. An NIA spokesperson contacted by The Telegraph said the allegations in the report were false. “The fact is that when he was in custody he was taken for medical examinations every second day. The allegations (that he was arrested as a reprisal for speaking to the UN Security Council) is also false,” she said. The UN report also sought the government’s response on the alleged custodial death of Irfan Ahmad Dar, a shopkeeper from Sopore, last year and the 2019 disappearance while in custody of Naseer Ahmad Wani, a 19-year-old youth from Shopian. The UN rights group and rapporteurs said Para was arrested three days after he filed his nomination to run for the District Development Council elections. The report claimed that Para was subjected to abusive interrogations, which lasted 10 to 12 hours at a time. On January 9, the report said, a judge in an NIA court ruled that the anti-terror law UAPA did not apply in the case. Para was subsequently granted bail by the NIA but hours before his release on January 11, he was arrested and detained by the counter-insurgency wing of the police in a case related to providing financial assistance to a militant group. Para, who heads the PDP’s youth wing, was said to have unbridled access to the Union home ministry, to which the NIA reports, during the PDP-BJP rule. In 2018 as secretary of Jammu and Kashmir’s sports council, Para had organised a huge gathering of sports enthusiasts for then home minister Rajnath Singh in Srinagar, a rare feat for any politician amid relentless stone throwing by locals those days. “For that (channelising the energy of the youth of Jammu and Kashmir in a positive direction), I want to specially congratulate the secretary of the Jammu and Kashmir sports council, Waheed Para. He has organised a wonderful programme here,” Rajnath had told the audience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Covid: Experts submit plan to bolster India’s preparedness for possible paediatric cases||An expert panel has submitted a plan to bolster India’s preparedness for possible future outbreaks of pediatric Covid-19 although all available evidence indicates that only a small proportion of children require hospital care, a top health official said on Monday. The plan seeks to strengthen the nationwide capacity to manage pediatric Covid-19, said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national Covid-19 task force and member of Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank, and a senior paediatrician. “The latest medical evidence and our national experience suggest that only two to three per cent of Covid-19 infected children require hospital care,” Paul said. “But our preparedness will be for two-fold or 2.5-fold of that level.” “We’re working systematically, comprehensively to address paediatric Covid disease for now and the future,” Paul said. “We will strengthen facilities, do an audit of what might be required in a worst-case scenario. Steps will be taken and put into action.” Medical studies from across the world suggest that the vast majority of children infected with Covid-19 develop only minor symptoms such as mild fever or cold or sore throat. But a small proportion might develop pneumonia and require hospital or even critical care. A tiny proportion of children who have recovered from Covid — even after mild illness — have been observed to develop a serious inflammatory condition marked by high fever, body rash, diarrhoea and vomiting, or bleeding. The Indian Academy of Paediatrics had last month asserted that children made up only a small proportion of hospitalised cases during the country’s first wave of Covid-19 last year as well as the current wave. “There has never been any extra or unusual burden on our paediatric care infrastructure,” Paul said. “But we need to keep all future scenarios in mind… the virus can change its behaviour or some other epidemiological dynamics may change,” Paul said. “We’re increasing preparedness through guidelines that will be adopted in a day or two.” Senior paediatricians not involved in the exercise to create the guidelines said there is need to both disseminate guidance for clinical management of Covid-19 and post-Covid inflammatory syndrome and improve skills and infrastructure in geographic regions with shortages of paediatric specialists. “Paediatric care, including paediatric nursing, needs special training and some interior parts of the country may not have adequate specialist staff,” said Dhanya Dharmapalan, a paediatrician in Mumbai and member of the IAP’s Covid-19 committee. Paediatric doses of medicines, for instance, need to be finely calibrated according to a child’s weight, Dharmapalan said. “Even drawing blood from a child for a test requires special care. A plan to improve the paediatric infrastructure would be welcome.” While the number of Covid-infected children needing hospital care has been higher during the second wave than during the first wave, doctors attribute this to the much larger epidemic in the second wave compared with the first. “When overall numbers rise three-fold, so would the absolute number of children,” Dharmapalan said. “But we have not so far observed any increase in the proportion of the children falling seriously ill.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Congress begs Centre to spend on reviving economy||The Congress on Tuesday said 2020-21 had become the “darkest year of the economy” in four decades because Prime Minister Narendra Modi refused to pay heed to good advice and the global experience of management during the time of pandemic and lockdown. Former finance minister and Congress veteran P. Chidambaram said: “The current state of the economy is no doubt largely due to the impact of the pandemic, but it has been compounded by the ineptitude and incompetent economic management of the government. Good advice by distinguished economists and renowned institutions has been rebuffed. Worldwide experience has been ignored. Suggestions on fiscal expansion and cash transfers have been turned down. Hollow packages like Atmanirbhar have fallen flat.” Lamenting that the government didn’t take the required steps last year, the former finance minister said the country could not afford to lose another year, adding, “fortunately, we are only at the beginning of this year. But if you don’t take the steps we are advocating, things will not get better. If you do nothing, it will be a disaster. Take steps now. Don’t worry about the fiscal deficit. It doesn’t make any difference. Print money if needed. But spend. Spend on health, on welfare, on infrastructure. The purpose is to revive the economy”. He added: “We are glad that the two leading chambers of business and industry — CII and Ficci — have, in the last few days, echoed our views and pleaded for fiscal expansion, including cash transfers to the poor. “The RBI’s monthly review has flagged the ‘demand shock’ and its consequences. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) report on loss of jobs and growing unemployment is alarming. The research and survey reports of Aziz Premji University have concluded that 23 crore people have been pushed below the poverty line and into indebtedness. Yet, even as recently as yesterday (Monday) morning, the finance minister gave a long interview to some newspapers defending her misguided and disastrous policies.” Chidambaram was addressing the media on the provisional estimates of Annual National Income for 2020-21 released by National Statistical Office on Monday. “As expected, the GDP at constant prices recorded a negative growth of minus 7.3 per cent, the first time India has recorded negative annual growth since 1979-80. Three numbers of GDP at constant prices will highlight the parlous state of the economy: 2018-19: Rs 140,03,316 crore; 2019-20: Rs 145,69,268 crore; 2020-21: Rs 135,12,740 crore. The increase in 2019-20 was modest at 4.0 per cent, but the decline in 2020-21 was severe at minus 7.3 per cent. The net result is that the GDP in 2020-21 is lower than the GDP of two years ago (2018-19).” Recalling that the finance minister and her chief economic adviser began to sell the story of a recovery when the first wave of the pandemic appeared to subside last year, he said: “They saw ‘green shoots’ when no one else did. They predicted a V-shaped recovery. It was a false story and we had expressed our strong reservations and warned there were no signs of a recovery. We had pointed out that what the economy needed was a strong dose of stimulus, including increased government expenditure, direct transfers of cash to the poor and liberal distribution of free rations. Our pleas fell on deaf ears, and the result is a negative growth of minus 7.3 per cent.” He obliquely questioned the credentials of chief economic adviser K. Subramanian by saying that nobody he knows takes him seriously. Arguing that the deeply worrying conclusion is that most Indians are poorer than they were two years ago, the Congress leader said: “What is most worrying is that the per capita GDP has fallen below Rs 1 lakh, to Rs 99,694. In percentage terms it is a decline of minus 8.2 per cent over the previous year. It is lower than the level achieved in 2018-19 (and maybe even 2017-18). The NSO reveals that most economic indicators are worse than what they were two years ago. Examples are: private consumption, gross fixed capital formation (GFCF), exports, imports.” Accusing Modi of wiping out the gains of the Manmohan Singh government in lifting millions of people out of poverty, he said: “This government is insensitive, not concerned about what is happening to the lower middle class and the poor. The very rich have become richer over the last year. The upper middle class is secure behind gated communities. The lower middle class have become poor and the poor are pushed below poverty line.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
02-06-2021||India||Covid: Space runs out for graves in Bhubaneswar||The second wave of Covid-19 has brought to light harrowing images from across the country of bodies of victims lined up outside crematoriums or graveyards with families waiting for hours to perform the last rites of their loved ones. With casualties mounting, the cemetery located in the heart of Bhubaneswar is struggling to cope with the rush of bodies. Spread over an acre, the cemetery has graves dug up in every plot of available land. “It’s painful to show disrespect to the soul of the man who has departed from the world unexpectedly and in pain because of Covid-19. But given the large number of bodies coming for burial, we find ourselves completely helpless,” said Father Dibkahar Parrichha. Bhubaneswar has only one cemetery that caters to the Christian community. “Suddenly the number of deaths has risen because of Covid-19. People from as far as Sundergarh come here for treatment and their family members often die in hospitals here. The relatives bring these bodies to the cemetery in Bhubaneswar. This is an important reason why the pressure on the cemetery has gone up,” said Father Bhaskar Parrichha. He pointed out that the cemetery was planned when the population of Bhubaneswar was around one lakh. Now the population of the city has increased exponentially and the number of faithful has gone up accordingly, he added. “We have asked the state government to allot us land at other places on the outskirts of the city for burial. Almost six years have passed but we are yet to hear from the government,” he said. Hemanta Kumar Nayak, the relative of a Covid victim, said: “My uncle Bijay Kumar Nayak, who was a priest in a church in Jatani, passed away last Sunday. When we brought his body for burial, the situation at the cemetery was horrible. We didn’t know where to bury him. As per tradition, we have to give respect to the departed soul. We believe in resurrection. But now there is no space to even to keep the coffins properly, forget about funeral rites.” He added: “As per tradition, the bodies need to be lined up. But such is the situation at the cemetery that they are being placed one upon another. The gap between the graves is also shrinking due to lack of space. We have never witnessed such a situation. We used to come once a year to place flowers on the graves of our relatives. But now even that does not seem to be possible.” The cemetery, the graveyard and the crematorium are located adjacent to each other at Satyanagar here. There are similar problems in burying the dead in the graveyard (kabaristhan). “No space. Such is the situation that people sometimes dig up old graves, take out the remains and bury bodies. This happens in a hush-hush manner. It’s a terrible situation,” alleged S.K. Nizamuddin, former corporator of the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation. The problem of cremation has acquired serious proportions as well. “Such is the flow of bodies to the crematorium that sometimes there is lack of space even for performing rituals before the bodies are put in the incinerator. Sometimes the incinerator’s chimney does not work and people have to arrange firewood to cremate the bodies,” said retired state government employee Prashant Mohanty. He said there is invariably a queue outside the crematorium these days with authorities calling out names of people waiting to cremate their family members or loved ones to ensure order. “I have visited this crematorium several times since my childhood but I have never seen such desperation, frustration and even fear among people. They are really scared,” he said. Mohanty referred G.N. Devy’s column published in The Telegraph on May 31 to describe the prevailing situation. “What we are facing is not just an individual’s tragedy: it’s a large, unprecedented and universal catastrophe, a nakba or nauba,” Mohanty said quoting Devy (Nakba means a great catastrophe or a phenomenal disaster, while nauba means a situation or a condition inviting catastrophe).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
02-06-2021||India||Covid: Health officials suggest jab criteria to ease lockdowns||Districts across the country should relax lockdowns after vaccinating 70 per cent of their populations 60 years or older and those above 45 years with chronic health disorders, top health officials said on Monday, underlining criteria for easing restrictions. The officials who are guiding India’s response to Covid-19 signalled the need for caution alongside steps to ease restrictions, pointing out that the epidemic is currently shrinking only because lockdowns and other precautions have suppressed transmission of the virus. “Unlocking has to be done very patiently, guided by the amount of vaccination done for the vulnerable (population) groups,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and member of the national Covid-19 task force. A test positivity rate — the proportion who test positive among those tested daily — in a district should be less than 5 per cent over a week for the district authorities to consider relaxing restrictions, he said. The test positivity rate is a measure of the epidemic’s size and should be ideally lower than 5 per cent. The number of districts with test positivity rates 5 per cent or lower has increased from 92 in the week ending on May 7 to 350 in the week ending May 31, but 248 districts, including 16 in Bengal, have test positivity rates 10 per cent or higher. Bhargava said the second criterion should be vaccination coverage. “Vulnerable individuals — those above 60 years and those above 45 with comorbidities (chronic health disorders) — should be vaccinated. Vaccination coverage should be up to 70 per cent,” he said. “This is an important criterion — districts could prioritise such vulnerable population groups and achieve 70 per cent coverage within days to weeks,” Bhargava said. India’s count of active Covid-19 patients fell to about 1.89 million on Monday after a steady decline since a peak of over 3.56 million cases on May 7. Only Ladakh, Manipur, Mizoram and Sikkim have added to the total number of cases over the previous 24 hours. But health officials say testing results underline epidemics that need to be better controlled in at least 248 districts where test positivity rates are still 10 per cent or higher — including in Calcutta, Darjeeling, Hooghly, Howrah and Nadia, among others in Bengal. Thirty-four districts in Tamil Nadu, 25 in Karnataka, 21 in Odisha and nine in Maharashtra are also among those with test positivity rates higher than 10 per cent. “We have to be very cautious. We have only suppressed the virus. We cannot make mistakes,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national Covid-19 task force, urging continued adoption of the standard responses such as testing and containment efforts and the use of masks and avoiding crowds “We need to prepare ourselves for future scenarios…. If we adopt the protocols individually and collectively, why should another wave come? In five or six months, our vaccination plan would have advanced to a point where our population would be protected,” Paul said. The nationwide vaccination campaign that started on January 16 had until May 31 inoculated over 45 million people nationwide with the two doses required for full protection. This is around 5 per cent of the eligible population estimated to be between 900 million and 950 million. Health officials are hoping that increased production of the existing Covid-19 vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — and the entry of new domestic and imported vaccines will allow India to vaccinate all eligible persons by the end of this year. Health experts say that India would need to inoculate over 4 million persons every day through the rest of the year to meet that target. The average daily inoculation during May was around 2 million doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
