04-06-2021||India||More Indians got their first jabs than Americans: Centre||India has overtaken the US in terms of the number of people who have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the government on Friday said and noted that the vaccination campaign will be further intensified in the coming days. Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said 43 per cent of the 60 plus population has been covered with at least one dose and over 45 years, 37 per cent of the population has been covered. Citing the ourworldindata updated on Thursday, India, in terms of number of people who received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, has administered 17.2 crore doses and the US which was leading the pack is 16.9 crore. "We have overtaken the US in terms of the number of people who have received at least a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine. It is reassuring that we are steadily improving and intensifying the vaccine campaign and it will be intensified so much more in the days to come," Paul said. "I want to appeal to enhance the pace of their vaccination and I want to appeal to senior citizens to get themselves vaccinated. Let us hope to make it to 50 per cent in the coming few weeks," he said. Paul said while the second wave is declining in the context of global data it may be worth mentioning that Covid cases per 10 lakh population in India are 20,519, while the world average is still higher at 22,181. "So even with the second wave the overall burden experienced, adjusted for population, is relatively modest. Covid deaths per million in India are 245 per million population, while the world average is 477," he said. Noting that this situation was achieved due to strong action by the people of India, states, UTs, municipalities, districts, villages, panchayats and families, Paul asked the people to maintain discipline even when the restrictions are lifted. "What is working is we are not back to wearing masks more diligently, what is working is now the testing is more generous. What is working is we have imposed restrictions in many many districts and that is making it difficult for the virus to reach other people. "It is not the wish of the virus to forget us but we are making it difficult for the virus to travel. The connotation is when we reverse this process the situation can again become unacceptable and that is something we need to keep in mind," he said. He said if containment measures, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour or vaccination pace slackens, the situation can again go into a difficult phase. "...if we suddenly get into the same behaviour that we were doing in January and February as a society, it (peak) will come back again in a certain way," he said. Paul underscored the need to buy time to achieve high vaccination coverage. "We have to buy time and we have to buy time particularly to ensure that we achieve a high coverage of our vaccination and that is the duration of intense discipline that we want to exercise. "So remember the journey is still tough and we have to be responsible. This situation is a result of efforts and these efforts need to be continued in a calibrated way for us to open up but not to allow the virus to overtake us," he said. Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said there has been a continuous decline in the daily new Covid-19 cases. "Almost 68 per cent decline in Covid cases has been noted since the highest reported peak of cases on May 7," he said. He said there has been a decrease in active cases by more than 21 lakh since the peak of active cases on May 10. Registering a decline of 56 per cent after around 50 days, active cases have been recorded at 16,35,993. "The number of districts reporting more than 100 average daily new Covid-19 cases have decreased from 53`8 (between April 29 to May 5) to 257 (between May 27 to June 2)," he said. Agarwal said there has been a steady decline in weekly case positivity even while testing increased multifold since the last four weeks. "The number of districts reporting less than 5 per cent case positivity has increased from 92 (on week ending May 7) to 377 (on week ending June 3)," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
04-06-2021||India||NIOS cancels Class 12 exams in view of Covid||The National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) has cancelled its Class 12 examination in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Friday. "Keeping the safety and security of our students on priority, NIOS cancels class 12 examinations. Students will be evaluated based on objective criteria to be announced soon. This will benefit around 1.75 lakhs students," the minister tweeted. According to S K Prasad, Director (Evaluation, NIOS), students who are not satisfied with the assessment will be given the option to appear in a public examination or an On-Demand Examination (ODE) when the situation becomes conducive. "In such circumstances, the result of the concerned learner in public examinations or ODE will be treated as final," he said. Earlier, the CBSE board cancelled Class XII board exams after a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was decided that the national board would come out with “well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner” to assess the students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
04-06-2021||India||Delhi HC dismisses lawsuit filed by Juhi Chawla against 5G network technology ||The Delhi High Court Friday dismissed with a cost of Rs 20 lakh actress Juhi Chawla's lawsuit challenging 5G wireless network technology and said the plea was defective and filed for gaining publicity. Justice J R Midha said the plaintiffs -- Chawla and two others -- have abused and misused the process of law and wasted the court's time. The court said the suit was filed to gain publicity which was clear as Chawla circulated the video conferencing link of the hearing on her social media account which resulted in repeated interruptions by unknown persons. The court also issued contempt notices against unknown persons and asked the Delhi Police to identify them. After pronouncement of order, Chawla's counsel sought a stay on the verdict which was outrightly denied by the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
04-06-2021||India||Punjab govt under scanner over allegations of selling vaccines to private hospitals||Punjab's Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday said he has ordered a probe into the Oppositions' allegations that the state government has been diverting Covid vaccines to private hospitals. Sidhu made the statement when he was specifically asked about the Oppositions' allegation. “What I have learnt through media, I have already ordered for a probe and we will order a proper inquiry. We will keep the issue before the chief minister,” he said. Without going into the specifics of the allegations, he said he will first wait for the entire picture to emerge. On the Opposition allegations, Sidhu, at the outset, said the vaccine programme is not concerned with his department. “The vaccine programme is not concerned with my Health Department and is under the control of Chief Secretary and Vikas Garg, who is the state's nodal officer for the vaccination drive,” said Sidhu. He said his department conducts testing, treatment and administering vaccines. As much as the supply of vaccines is made available to our department, we have been administering them free of cost in our hospitals and in the health camps which the department conducts, he said. Punjab's Opposition party SAD had on Thursday accused the state's Congress government of diverting Covid vaccines to private hospitals at hefty margins . Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, in a statement here, had alleged that vaccine doses were not available in the state but they were being sold to private institutions instead of being given free of cost to the common man. He claimed that a Covaxin dose costing Rs 400 to the state was being sold to private institutions at Rs 1,060. He said the private hospitals are further charging people Rs 1,560 for each dose. This amounts to a cost of Rs 6,000 to Rs 9,000 per family for a single dose . Badal had alleged that in Mohali alone, 35,000 doses were sold to private institutions to earn a profit of nearly Rs 2 crore in a single day. He said it was immoral for the Congress government to make a profit from the sale of vaccines. The government was also punishing people by forcing them to cough up Rs 1,560 per dose during a time of economic slowdown, he alleged. Badal had demanded a high court-monitored probe into how the Congress government was allegedly creating an artificial shortage of vaccines for the common man by selling its doses at a hefty profit to private hospitals, the SAD said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
04-06-2021||India||Visas of stranded foreigners extended till August 31||The visas of foreign nationals, stranded in India due to the COVID-19 pandemic, have been extended by the government till August 31 on gratis basis or free of charge. The Union Home Ministry said that due to the non-availability of normal commercial flight operations on account of the pandemic since March, 2020, a number of foreign nationals who came to India prior to that date on valid Indian visas got stranded in the country. Keeping in view the difficulties being faced by such foreign nationals in getting their visas extended due to the lockdown, the Home Ministry had issued an order on June 29, 2020 conveying that the Indian visa or stay stipulation period of such foreign nationals expiring post June 30, 2020 shall be deemed to be valid until 30 more days from the date of resumption of normal international flight operations, on gratis basis. However, such foreign nationals have been applying for extension of their visas or stay stipulation period on a monthly basis, the Home Ministry said in a statement. The matter has now been reconsidered by the ministry in the light of non-resumption of normal commercial flight operations, and it has accordingly been decided that the Indian visa or stay stipulation period of such foreign nationals stranded in India will be considered as deemed to be valid till August 31, 2021 on gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty, the statement said. These foreign nationals will not be required to submit any application to the FRRO or FRO concerned for extension of their visas. Such foreign nationals may apply for an exit permission to the FRRO or FRO concerned before exiting the country, which would be granted on gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Allow us to open IOA office for Olympic-related work, Batra appeals to Kejriwal||Indian Olympic Association (IOA) President Narinder Batra has requested Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to allow them to operate from their office premises for completing administrative work linked to the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. Due to the COVID-19 surge in the national capital, the Delhi government had ordered shutting down of all premises that don't fall under the essential category. However, the number of cases has reduced in recent days and the capital is inching towards easing of restrictions. "We request and appeal to You Sir to allow the office of Indian Olympic Association to function from Monday 7th June 2021 to enable IOA to upload the mandatory required data," Batra wrote in his letter to Kejriwal. Batra had announced on Thursday that India will have a 190-member contingent with around 125 to 135 athletes in Tokyo. The administrative work which includes filling up forms and other operational work isn't always possible to be completed from home, Batra wrote. "The Indian contingent for Tokyo Olympics has to go to Tokyo in July 2021. A lot of exhaustive data is to be filled online for approximately 240 athletes and officials going to Tokyo," he stated. "This work requires tremendous amount of time and we are now running out of time due to lockdown and will make it difficult to complete uploading the data by working from home," he further wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Doctors need protection from Covid, Centre's callousness, says Rahul Gandhi||Critical of the government's handling of Covid, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said doctors need protection from coronavirus and the BJP dispensation's callousness as he made an appeal to save them. Gandhi has criticised the government's policies to check the spread of the pandemic and the vaccination drive. "Doctors need protection from coronavirus as well as BJP governments' callousness. Save the saviours," he said on Twitter. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also attacked Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy for asking all states to speak in one voice on vaccines. "All I ask Jagan is: who made the vaccine issue Union vs States? Who unilaterally decided the Union government will abdicate vaccinating 18-44 year olds? Why weren't states consulted before this policy was rolled out? Why don't you ask the PM these questions," Ramesh questioned him. Reddy had said that in a "states versus Union" situation, the chief ministers should should "speak in a single voice" on vaccines and urged them not to indulge in politics by pointing fingers at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Earlier, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik wrote a letter to all chief ministers for a consensus on centralised procurement of vaccines by Government of India in view of the challenges faced by states. "Spoke to some CMs who shared my views. No state is safe unless all states adopt vaccination as a top priority and execute it on war-footing," he had said. Some non-NDA ruled chief ministers have criticised the Centre over its vaccination policy and urged the central government to procure vaccines for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Delhi man calls PCR, threatens to kill Modi||A 22-year-old man was arrested from northeast Delhi's Khajuri Khas area after he called the Police Control Room (PCR) and allegedly threatened to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi, officials said on Friday. The accused, who has been identified as Salman alias Arman, told police that he made the call as he "wanted" to go to jail. He is addicted to drugs and was sent to a juvenile correction home in 2018 in a murder case, they said. The accused called the PCR on 112 around Thursday midnight and threatened to kill PM Modi, the police said. The number from which the call was received was immediately traced and shared with the district police unit, which then located him to Khajuri Khas, a senior police officer said. According to preliminary investigation, Salman was under the influence of drugs at the time of making the call. He was scolded by his father around 10 pm. During interrogation, the senior officer said, the man told police that he made the call as he "wanted" to go to jail. When asked why he wanted to go to jail, he said, "Wahin mann lagta hai mera (I like being there)." Salman also told police that he is addicted to drugs and that he took some smack around 7 pm on Thursday, he said. Senior officers of the Delhi Police will further interrogate him with Intelligence Bureau officials in accordance with the protocol before taking any legal action, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Modi hails Indian scientists for developing Covid vaccine ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lauded Indian scientists developing made-in-India vaccine against Covid and boosting other measures to fight the pandemic within a year of its outbreak. Addressing a meeting of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Society via video conferencing, he cited India's experience in the previous century to say that it used to wait for years to lay its hands on innovations achieved abroad, but its scientists are now working shoulder to shoulder with their counterparts outside. They are working at the same quick pace, he said. Noting that the world is grappling with the biggest challenge in a century, the prime minister praised the scientific community, saying it is perhaps unprecedented that vaccines were prepared within a year. On the occasion, Modi reiterated his call for an "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (Self-reliant) and strong India, saying the COVID-19 crisis may have slowed its pace but our resolve remains the same. India wants to be self-reliant in a number of sectors, ranging from agriculture to astronomy, disaster management to defence technology, vaccine to virtual reality, and biotechnology to battery technology, he asserted. He said India is now showing the way to the world in sustainable development and clean energy, and is playing an important role in progress in other countries with its role in software and satellite development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||India logs over 1.32 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,713 casualties in a day||India reported 1,32,364 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,85,74,350, while the recovery rate crossed 93 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,40,702 with 2,713 fresh deaths, while the active cases were recorded below 20 lakh for the fourth consecutive day, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 20,75,428 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 35,74,33,846. The daily positivity was recorded at 6.38 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 11 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 7.27 per cent. The active cases have reduced to 16,35,993 comprising 5.73 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.08 per cent. A net decline of 77,420 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 22 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,65,97,655, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.19 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,713 new fatalities include 643 from Maharashtra, 514 from Karnataka, 460 from Tamil Nadu, 153 from Kerala, 108 each from West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 3,40,702 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 97,394 from Maharashtra, 30,531 from Karnataka, 25,665 from Tamil Nadu, 24,447 from Delhi, 20,895 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,921 from West Bengal, 14,840 from Punjab and 13,139 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Covid: Jab order for Delhi teachers||Delhi government schoolteachers who have been working as frontline workers during the pandemic must be vaccinated immediately, the directorate of education (DoE) has said. In a letter to district education officers and school principals, DoE director Udit Prakash Rai has asked that vaccination be facilitated for the teachers at the earliest. “Government schoolteachers have been spearheading the Covid response of the Delhi government. Teachers have been deployed on several fronts to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Teachers have gone beyond the call of duty in management of containment zones, airports, vaccination drives, ration distribution, oxygen management, etc,” the letter stated. “The teachers of the DoE who are the frontline workers for the Delhi government have led the efforts of the government in containing the infection and breaking the transmission. They have also spared no efforts in managing the second wave of the Covid-19 crisis which unfolded in the months of April and May,” it added. Rai has pointed out that it is imperative that the DoE ensures that all government schoolteachers get vaccinated immediately. The DoE directed that “all necessary steps towards vaccination of all the government schoolteachers” are taken at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Taunted Congress feels vindicated with Supreme Court decision ||The Congress on Thursday said it felt vindicated after the Supreme Court accorded legitimacy to the questions its leaders have asked over the past few months that attracted sarcasm, taunt, contempt and insult from the Narendra Modi government. The Supreme Court has asked similar questions on vaccine procurement and protocol, demanding answers from the government in the form of an affidavit, encouraging the Congress to declare that the country would have been in a much better shape had Prime Minister Modi paid heed to the constructive suggestions by Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. The use of harsh words — arbitrary and irrational — about the vaccine policy by the apex court echoed the sentiments expressed by the party. Drawing parallel between the views of the court and the Congress on vaccine procurement, pricing and the need for free universal vaccination, party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “We are not interested in singing ‘we told you so’. But we want to say the country would have been better placed today had the government accepted our suggestions. Precious time has been lost. The arrogant Modi government offered us — through two ministers and the BJP president — sarcasm, contempt, taunt, insult…” Singhvi added: “What pains us is that an eminent person like former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was insulted. India would have benefited if his specific, pointed suggestions made on April 18 were accepted. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul also made suggestions on transparency, procurement, differential vaccine pricing, expansion of production of vaccines, etc… Now the court has asked for data, plan, purchase history. What crime Sonia Gandhi committed by making the same arguments except being the president of the Opposition party? The Prime Minister’s hubris inflicted countless wounds on the country.” The Congress was branded anti-national and accused of spreading negativity for doing what the Supreme Court is doing now, he said. “The Supreme Court asking questions, sitting during vacation, doesn’t answer the core questions. Why didn’t you plan, why did you fail, why didn’t you accept good advice after your strategy failed? Even now there is time to change your attitude. Make fun of us, attack us but act on our good suggestions. It is not a political matter, the country will be benefited.” The Congress also broached the topic of consensual politics, at least during this unprecedented national crisis, by refreshing its demand for an all-party meeting. Many chief ministers have also objected to the Centre’s vaccination policy and accused the Prime Minister of sermonising instead of creating space for a meaningful conversation. Singhvi lamented that the government’s approach was not to take the suggestions on merit as it presumed there was no point in paying heed to what the Opposition said. There is not one point in the Supreme Court’s queries which has not been already in public discourse. The government has also been repeatedly accused of ignoring specific suggestions from its own empowered group on Covid and the parliamentary standing committee on health on issues like oxygen shortage and vaccination policy. While the BJP passed a resolution to hail the Prime Minister’s role in handling the pandemic, Modi had boasted how India proved the experts wrong and saved the world by defeating coronavirus. The Congress also caught the government on the delay in giving clearance to foreign-manufactured vaccines. Citing a government order issued on June 1, former finance minister P. Chidambaram said: “Our suspicion that the government  had not approved any vaccine other than Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik has been proved correct. Why did the government go through the charade of negotiating quantities with Pfizer and Moderna without first giving emergency use approval (EUA) to their vaccines? Why has it taken eight-nine months for the government to decide to give approval when the US and other countries had granted approval? Remember, Manmohan Singh had made this specific suggestion in his letter which got a rude reply from the Union health minister!” The order by the Directorate General of Health Services modified the earlier directive, relaxing the conditions for approval of foreign-manufactured vaccines. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh also posted that order and tweeted: “Hope law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will now gracefully withdraw his unwarranted remarks, where he accused Rahul Gandhi and others of lobbying for foreign pharma companies. The same decision if taken months ago, would have saved many more Indian lives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Unease over appointment of poet Imran Pratapgarhi as chairman of Congress minority department||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday appointed poet Imran Pratapgarhi as chairman of the party’s minority department. Pratapgarhi, who has gained popularity among Muslim youths because of his strident anti-Narendra Modi stand at mushairas (poetry sessions), joined the Congress in 2019 and unsuccessfully contested the parliamentary elections from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. Although believed to be in the good books of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Pratapgarhi’s appointment generated unease in the party, with both Hindu and Muslim leaders expressing shock at the choice. A veteran leader summed up the mood in the party, saying: “We are afraid both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have not understood that the nature of politics has changed in the last decade. They still think charisma will do the magic whereas the need of the hour is building the organisation brick-by-brick in towns and villages. “The party should have created a mature Muslim leadership over the past decade who can rebuild the bridge with the society and offer intellectual resistance to the lure of the likes of (AIMIM chief and Hyderabad MP) Asaduddin Owaisi.” Even younger Muslim leaders of the Congress felt Patrapgarhi’s popularity should rather have been used in campaigning, and that an experienced hand was required to head the organisation. “Probably the party leadership now believes politics is all about thrill; they have greater faith in the likes of Raj Babbar, Mohd Azharuddin, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Govinda and Imran Pratapgarhi. They also think youth is needed in the organisation, deciding on the basis of age, not merit,” a Muslim leader who rose through the ranks of Congress students’ wing NSUI and Youth Congress said. Pratapgarhi, who has more than 1.55 million subscribers to his YouTube channel, also draws crowds at rallies where people lap up his aggressive formulations based on the bitter experience of Muslims during Modi rule. He has replaced Nadeem Javed, another young leader from Uttar Pradesh, whose performance as minority department chief had not been satisfactory. There had been resentment over Javed’s appointment too, with the dominant view being a senior leader should have mentored him for a couple of years before being given full charge of the department. But the Congress has been preferring younger leaders for bigger roles. The mantle of the Mahila Congress was given to Sushmita Dev at the risk of attracting allegations of inexperience||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Message on dead man’s phone: 2nd Covid jab done||A 65-year-old man, who had died on April 25 after getting his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, received a message on his mobile phone on May 14 confirming the successful administration of the second dose. Lalit Mohan Garg’s family members said they noticed in his mobile on May 14 a message that read: “You have been administered the second dose of vaccine successfully.” Lalit’s son Manoj, a grocer like his father, said: “This message came as another shock to us at a time we were yet to overcome the shock of my father’s death.” A resident of Subhas Nagar, Manoj said his father had developed complications after taking the first dose of vaccine in the second week of April. “His condition deteriorated on April 24. A doctor said he needed to be put on a ventilator. We searched all over the city for a hospital bed with ventilator but failed. He passed away at home the next day,” he said. “On May 14, a message came on his phone that he had received the second dose of vaccine at 5.04pm and can download his certificate,” Manoj said. Sudhir Kumar Garg, chief medical officer of Bareilly, said: “There is some technical problem in the portal through which the vaccine slot is booked. We are trying to correct it.” The Yogi Adityanath government has claimed in a media release that 18,679,320 people have been vaccinated in Uttar Pradesh till June 2. “Is this how they increase the number of vaccinated people? Manoj asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
04-06-2021||India||Five people, including two women, die after consuming spurious liquor in Aligarh||Five people, including two women, died on Wednesday night after consuming spurious liquor in Aligarh days after another hooch tragedy killed at least 87 in the district. The five deceased, who used to work in a brick kiln in Jawan area, are residents of Jehanabad and Gaya districts in Bihar. “Some people came to Rohera village in a truck on Wednesday evening and threw hundreds of liquor pouches and bottles near a canal. There were some brick kiln workers from Bihar who were living near the canal. They picked up the pouches and bottles and drank the liquor,” said Ranjit Singh, sub-divisional magistrate of the area. Singh said that around 10pm on Wednesday, he came to know that some people had taken ill after consuming the liquor. “A woman was already dead when we reached Rohera. There were 22 people who complained of vomiting, nausea and blindness. We admitted them to different hospitals in Aligarh city where four more died after a few hours. Currently, there are 18 people under treatment. The majority of them are on dialysis,” he added. The deceased have been identified as Usha Devi and Chotelal Singh from Jehananbad and Sharda Devi, Suresh Kumar and Kailash Kumar from Gaya. The death toll in the previous hooch tragedy in Aligarh’s Gonda-Lodha area reached 87 on Thursday. On May 29, the villagers had alleged that some local people involved in the manufacturing and sale of hooch had distributed it to them free of cost the previous evening. “In the previous incident, we have performed the post-mortem of 87 people till date. The autopsy of the new bodies would also be done,” said Dr B.D. Kalyani, chief medical officer of Aligarh district. He said 29 victims of the previous incident were still under treatment. Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, said: “We are trying to identify the people who brought the liquor in the truck to Rohera village. In the previous case, we have arrested 35 people till date. We will also start the process of confiscating their properties.” Chandra Bhushan Singh, district magistrate of Aligarh, said: “Out of the arrested accused in the previous case, seven are hooch mafias. We have decided to ban the sale of country liquor in bottles and pouches except tetra packs.” The DM said it was easy for the criminals to manufacture bottles and wrappers or fill illegal liquor in empty bottles collected from model shops. No arrest has been made in the latest case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Kerala BJP payoff scandal salvos||Kerala BJP president K. Surendran on Thursday accepted he had received a call from a person who pointed fingers at him in a payoff scandal but denied paying a rival to join the NDA. “I’m not saying I did not get that call. But in today’s world audio clips can be edited,” Surendran said, breaking his silence a day after the controversy broke. He sought a probe into the audiotape. However, a BJP veteran, P.P. Mukundan, called for the leadership to “reveal what really happened and remove confusion”, and sought an investigation on the ground that “the voice recording we heard is about agreeing to give money”. Praseetha Azhikode, treasurer of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP), who had on Wednesday accused Surendran of agreeing to pay Rs 10 lakh to her now-suspended party leader C.K. Janu to get her to return to the NDA, denied the tape was “edited”. In the audio, leaked on Wednesday, a woman tells a man that another woman who had sought Rs 10 crore was ready to accept Rs 10 lakh and “the Bathery seat” to abandon the CPM and be present “at Amit Shah’s programme on the seventh”. The man says “we can give it when she comes in person on the seventh” and later says: “Let her come on the sixth, I shall give it.” Praseetha had on Wednesday said hers was the female voice and Surendran’s the male voice, and that the tape was leaked by a group within her party. The JRP had switched allegiance from Left Democratic Front and returned to the NDA before the April 6 Assembly polls, and Janu had unsuccessfully contested from Sultan Bathery. Janu was on the dais during Shah’s March 7 event in Thiruvananthapuram. She was suspended by her party on the suspicion of trading votes after she polled far fewer votes than expected. Janu has denied Praseetha’s allegations and threatened to lodge a police complaint. Surendran on Thursday tried to portray the controversy as an attack on an Adivasi leader, alluding to Janu’s career as a tribal rights activist before she turned to electoral politics. “You have all the freedom to accuse me. (But) based on someone’s audio clip, you are accusing a social worker who has fought for Kerala’s Adivasis and Dalits,” he said. “You can accuse the BJP of anything but a person like Janu — why is Janu being attacked so often? Is it because she is an Adivasi leader?” He said the BJP had taken care of Janu’s campaign expenses since she was an NDA candidate. “But that was purely legal,” he said. Surendran called for a detailed investigation, implying the charge was absurd: “Think about it, from Rs 10 crore the amount falls to Rs 10 lakh....” Praseetha threw a dare: “Let him go and complain. Janu said yesterday that she would lodge a complaint, now Surendran is saying it’s fake.” She added: “It was not edited at all. If I had wanted to edit it, I could have removed the portion where I asked for money.” While the female voice is heard seeking money for herself too in the audio, Praseetha said on Wednesday she had sought the money for party work. Praseetha said Surendran had visited Horizon Hotel in Thiruvananthapuram where she, Janu and other JRP leaders were staying on March 7. “Janu was at the hotel on the seventh. But when Surendran came in we were asked to stay outside (the room). They (Janu and Surendran) settled everything,” she said. “Janu admitted to me she did collect the money.” Mukundan had been the only BJP leader to speak on the audio controversy on Wednesday, suggesting an “internal probe” and punishment for the “guilty”. On Thursday, Mukundan said it was time the party’s core committee met and discussed the payoff and money-laundering scandals haunting the BJP following its rout in the state polls. Kerala police recently questioned several BJP leaders after carjackers robbed an RSS worker of what police sources believe was Rs 3.5 crore in unaccounted cash, although the FIR mentions only Rs 25 lakh. Surendran on Thursday iterated that the BJP had nothing to do with the money or the robbery. “I feel the BJP core committee should reveal what really happened and remove the confusion in the minds of party workers,” Mukundan said. A leader from the old school who is against splurging money on elections and disapproved of Surendran’s chopper rides during the campaign, Mukundan suggested the audio clip should be investigated. “The state president is saying there are no links with the hawala money. But the voice recording we heard is about agreeing to give money (to Janu),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Covid: Rs 1,500-crore advance purchase pact with Biological E for 300 million jabs||The Union health ministry on Thursday announced a Rs 1,500-crore advance purchase pact with Hyderabad-based vaccine-maker Biological E to procure 300 million doses of a Covid-19 vaccine currently under global clinical trials. The ministry said the vaccine was “currently undergoing” a phase-3 clinical trial after showing promising results in phase-1 and phase-2 trials and the Rs 1,500 crore advance payment was for doses expected to be produced between August and December 2021. This is the ministry’s first advance purchase pact for a large quantum of doses of a candidate Covid-19 vaccine still under evaluation through a clinical trial, health experts familiar with vaccine development efforts and vaccine industry executives said. “Had a similar decision been taken during the second half of last year with other Covid-19 vaccines that were under clinical trials then and are now in use, India would have had access to more vaccines now,” a health expert who requested anonymity told The Telegraph. Biological E had announced on April 24 that the company had received approval for phase-3 clinical trial that would assess the candidate vaccine for protective efficacy against Covid-19 in 1,268 healthy volunteers at 15 sites across India. But company executives on Thursday declined to say whether phase-3 clinical trials have started in India or specify the locations of the sites. They also declined to say how many doses per month the company expects to produce starting August. “We cannot say now. We will provide details later,” one executive told The Telegraph. The company has said the phase-3 trial in India will be part of a larger global phase-3 study. Biological E has developed the vaccine through technology procured from US-based institutions, BCM Ventures, the Baylor College of Medicines commercialisation team, and Dynavax, a biopharmaceuticals corporation. The vaccine’s phase-1/2 clinical trials conducted in 360 health volunteers in eight hospitals across the country have shown it to be safe, well tolerated by recipients and capable of generating a promising immune response. “This vaccine could one day fill the gaps and vaccine supply shortages in Africa, Latin America and low-income Asian countries,” Peter Hotez, professor and dean at the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor had said in April after the phase-1/2 results. India’s health officials have included 300 million doses of Biological E’s vaccine into a projected inventory of doses through which they say the country will acquire a cumulative two billion doses between August and December 2021 — sufficient for 900-950 million eligible recipients. The country is currently relying on 65 million doses per month of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and 20 million doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, the production capacities as stated by the health ministry in an affidavit in the Supreme Court last month. The health ministry has said it expects 750 million Covishield doses, 550 million Covaxin doses and 150 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V in addition to other vaccines still under development during the five months from August to December. Health experts and industry executives have attributed India’s current vaccine shortages to what some have described as the policymakers’ failure to anticipate the number of doses India would require and take steps to secure them. Many countries, including Brazil, the UK and the US, had signed advance purchase pacts with vaccine makers before December 2020 to secure doses when the vaccines become available. “The Indian government did not invest in at-risk production, even after October last year when early clinical trial results from Covishield and Covaxin had arrived,” said an industry executive. “But what is the point discussing that now?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Rights activists question Justice Mishra’s NHRC appointment||Several civil rights activists have criticised the appointment of former Supreme Court judge Arun Mishra as the National Human Rights Commission chairperson. The activists alleged that the appointment reflected the systematic stifling of Opposition voices by dismantling the independence granted to institutions like the NHRC, Reserve Bank of India, National Investigation Agency, Central Bureau of Investigation and the Election Commission. Contacted on Thursday evening, Justice Mishra told The Telegraph he did not want to join issue with the activists. “Why should I comment on their statements or justify my appointment?” Justice Mishra asked. Justice Mishra said he had not seen the statements made by the activists. In response to a question, he said he was not privy to any decision of the selection panel that picked the names for the NHRC. In a joint statement issued on Wednesday night, 67 activists led by People’s Union for Civil Liberties president Kavita Srivastava deplored the appointment. In a separate statement, the Campaign for Judicial Accountability (CJAR), an NGO, on Thursday added its voice to the outcry against the appointment. The 67 activists said Justice Mishra’s appointment had been made in spite of a suggestion by the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, that a person representing Dalits, Adivasis, minorities or other marginalised sections be appointed the chairperson considering that most victims of State abuse come from these communities. The joint statement said: “The suggestion was ignored and no reasons for discarding the same have been placed on record by the government. Very clearly, the decision shows open contempt for the mandate of the NHRC…. What exposes the deliberateness of choosing someone close to the government is exposed by the fact that reportedly within the zone of consideration for the post of chairperson, NHRC, were 3 former CJIs. “This was an opportunity to nominate a retired CJI or retired justice, with a proven track record of a concern for human rights, thereby augmenting the reputation of the NHRC as an institution serious about redressing human rights violations. The public have a right to know the basis for the decision of the selection committee.” The statement added: “By appointing Justice Arun Mishra, whose tenure as a former Supreme Court judge was very controversial, the (Narendra) Modi government has demonstrated once again that the basis for their selection is not guided by the requirements of a head of the NHRC….” “Instead, what matters is whether the person selected was close to the ruling dispensation,” the statement alleged, while referring to Justice Mishra’s remarks at a global judicial conference on February 20 last year, at which the Prime Minister was the chief guest, that Modi was “an internationally acclaimed visionary… a versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally….” “It is, therefore, not strange that throwing democratic proprieties to the wind, the government has appointed Justice Arun Mishra as the chairperson of NHRC. Through such arbitrary and partial action, the government has demonstrated their scant respect for the foundational principles of good governance and constitutional rule — which requires independent institutions which remain autonomous from the control of the executive; impartial institutional leaders who exhibit allegiance not to a leader but to the Constitution of India; and whose working ethos embodies the principles of transparency, accountability and responsibility,” the statement said. In the separate statement, the CJAR, which includes activists like Shanti Bhushan, Prashant Bhushan, Arundhati Roy, Kamini Jaiswal, Manoj Mitta and Cheryl D’souza (secretary), said the government had again demonstrated its disregard for human rights and its desire to subvert independent regulatory institutions of the country. “…It cannot be said that there were no better people available for the choice of chairman, NHRC. Several judges recently retired from the Supreme Court, with outstanding human rights records, which include Justice Madan Lokur, Justice Deepak Gupta, Justice Kurien Joseph, etc, were not considered,” it said. According to the CJAR, Justice Mishra’s appointment to this crucial institution at a time when there is an unprecedented onslaught on human and democratic rights, is designed to make the NHRC into a totally moribund institution, which has been the government’s design with several other democratic institutions that have been systematically dismantled or misused for political purposes by hounding the Opposition, civil society and dissenting voices. “His appointment signals the death knell for the protection and promotion of human rights, for which purpose the National Human Rights Commission was set up in India,” the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||CBSE, CISCE to lay down 'objective criteria' for assessing Class XII students||National school boards CBSE and CISCE on Thursday informed the Supreme Court they would lay down “objective criteria” for assessing Class XII students, now that the board exams had been cancelled in view of the pandemic. Before attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the CBSE, made the submission, the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari had granted two weeks to the two boards to come up with guidelines based on the “objective criteria” to be adopted. On Tuesday, a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had decided that this year’s Class XII CBSE exams would be cancelled in the interest of the students. The CISCE too scrapped the ISC exam the same day. The Class X board exams had been cancelled earlier. The court on Thursday refused to entertain a plea by counsel K. Das, appearing for the CISCE, seeking four weeks’ time to place the details before the bench. The court said a decision ought to be taken within two weeks as any further delay would affect the future prospects of students both within and outside the country. “You (the CISCE) can do it overnight. Four weeks’ time is a little longer. We cannot give you three-four weeks’ time. You please place it before us in two weeks as students will have to take admission in colleges. Nowadays all communication is happening virtually,” the court told Das. The court asked Venugopal: “What’s the objective principle you are going to apply?” The attorney-general replied that it would be determined by the CBSE and the CISCE. “We are happy to note that the government has taken the decision to cancel the Class XII board exams but we want that the objective criteria fixed for assessment of marks be placed before us,” Justice Khanwilkar said. The court told Venugopal: “There’s apprehension over getting admission to higher courses and courses outside the country…. Please impress upon your client that this is an urgent issue on which a decision has to be taken. You can have a virtual meeting.” The top court said it would go through the objective parameters for assessment of marks so that if anyone has objections, it can be dealt with. The bench, however, refrained from passing directions on the plea of the petitioner, advocate Mamta Sharma, that all state education boards be asked to cancel this year’s Class X and XII exams. The court said it would consider the plea at the next hearing. “You should have patience and not rush things like this. You have only asked for cancellation of board exams by the CBSE and now you are saying state boards. You are asking for the heavens. First let the CBSE place on record the objective criteria and then we will see about other boards,” the court told Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||SC quashes sedition FIR registered against journalist Vinod Dua||The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed a sedition FIR registered against veteran journalist Vinod Dua in Himachal Pradesh for his criticism of the Narendra Modi government’s handling of Covid and the use of the Pulwama attack and Balakot airstrike to seek votes. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Vineet Saran upheld citizens’ “right to criticise or comment upon the measures undertaken by the government and its functionaries” and said Dua’s March 30, 2020, statements had neither incited people to violence against the government nor created disorder. His comments were at best an “expression of disapprobation of actions of the government and its functionaries so that the prevailing situation could be addressed quickly and efficiently”, the court said. It virtually endorsed Dua’s comment about a lack of testing facilities and protective equipment at the time, rejecting the Himachal government’s charge that these were false claims and had spread panic among migrants. The court underlined that the migrants’ painful journeys had already begun in a situation that was “alarming” and that Dua may have as a “journalist... showed some concern”. Dua was accused of saying in a video show that “Narendra Modi has used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes” and of creating panic by “spreading false information that the government does not have enough testing facilities” for Covid. In the video, Dua did not explicitly say Modi “has used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes”. He had said the Pathankot and Pulwama terror attacks and the Balakot airstrike had been “politicised” to seek votes. He had also said the government lacked enough testing facilities and had made false statements about the availability of PPE kits. He had added that ventilator and sanitiser exports had been stopped only on March 24, 2020. An FIR was registered on a local BJP politician’s complaint 37 days after the show — on May 6, 2020 — at Kumarsain police station in Shimla. Dua later petitioned the Supreme Court to quash the FIR, which invoked several Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections such as 501 (printing matter known to be defamatory) and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief) apart from 124A (sedition). To quash the FIR, the apex court relied on a series of past decisions, particularly the 1962 five-judge constitution bench ruling in the Kedar Nath Singh case that sedition charges can be invoked only if the accused incites people to violence against the State and creates public disorder through his or her statements. “A citizen has a right to criticise or comment upon the measures undertaken by the government and its functionaries so long as he does not incite people to violence against the government established by law or with the intention of creating public disorder; and that it is only when the words or expressions have pernicious tendency or intention of creating public disorder or disturbance of law and order that Sections 124A and 505 of the IPC must step in,” Justice Lalit, who authored the judgment, said. “In our view, the statements by the petitioner... can at best be termed as expression of disapprobation of actions of the government and its functionaries so that the prevailing situation could be addressed quickly and efficiently.” The court said Dua’s statements were not defamatory and could therefore not attract IPC Section 501. It said the allegation that Dua had violated the restrictions imposed under the Disaster Management Act and IPC Section 188 (disobedience to public authority) could not be entertained. “We are, therefore, of the firm view that the prosecution of the petitioner for the offences punishable under Sections 124A and 505(1)(b) of the IPC would be unjust,” the judgment said. Section 505(1)(b) punishes those aiming to or likely to cause fear or alarm among the public, thereby inducing someone to commit an offence against the State or public tranquillity. “Thus, all the offences set out in the FIR, in our considered view, are not made out at all,” the court said. “Considering the size of the population of this country, the testing facilities to gauge and check the spread and effect of the pandemic, at least in the initial stages of the surge, were not exactly adequate,” the court said. “If in that light, the petitioner made any comments about testing facilities or PPE suits, N95 masks and masks… those comments in first two statements, cannot be anything other than appraisal of the situation then obtaining. It was not even the case of the respondents (the Himachal government) that these two statements were factually incorrect.” The bench noted that when Dua made the statements, migrant workers were moving towards their hometowns and villages in huge numbers. “In the circumstances, there would naturally be some apprehension about the shelter and food to be provided to them en route.... He (Dua) would be within his rights to say that as a journalist he was touching upon issues of great concern so that adequate attention could be bestowed on the prevailing problems,” it added. “It cannot be said that the petitioner was spreading any false information or rumours. It is not the case of the respondents that the migrant workers started moving towards their hometowns/ villages purely as a result of the statements made by the petitioner. Such movement of migrant workers had begun long before.” So, Dua’s statements cannot be taken as an attempt to incite the migrant workers to start moving towards their hometowns or villages, nor can they be taken as an incitement to cause food riots, the bench said. “The situation was definitely alarming around 30.03.2020 and as a journalist if the petitioner showed some concern, could it be said that he committed offences as alleged?” the court asked. The court, however, dismissed Dua’s plea that any FIR for sedition against a journalist with over 10 years’ experience should be vetted in each state by a committee headed by the high court chief justice or a judge nominated by him or her. The bench said such a provision could be enacted only by Parliament. But it added a rider: “It must however be clarified that every journalist will be entitled to protection in terms of Kedar Nath Singh, as every prosecution under Sections 124A and 505 of the IPC must be in strict conformity with the scope and ambit of said sections as explained in, and completely in tune with the law laid down in Kedar Nath Singh.” Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh, who successfully defended Dua, told The Telegraph that Delhi High Court had last year stayed an FIR registered against the journalist in the capital over the same set of comments. Since the Supreme Court was hearing the Himachal case, the high court had refrained from passing any directions. Singh said that with the apex court giving its decision, the decks were now clear for the high court to pass its verdict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Covid: Govt guidelines for care and protection of affected children||The government has come out with guidelines for the care and protection of children affected by Covid-19 and fixed responsibilities for the states, district magistrates, police, panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies. In a letter to the chief secretaries of all the states and Union Territories, women and child development ministry secretary Ram Mohan Mishra on Wednesday said that to streamline and facilitate the actions being taken, the major responsibilities of the primary duty holders had been enlisted to ensure the best interest of children during the pandemic. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), in an affidavit to the Supreme Court, had said 9,346 children had lost at least one parent to the virus, including over 1,700 who had lost both parents, according to data received from the states. Defining the roles of the states, district magistrates (DMs), police, panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies, Mishra issued detailed guidelines. The states need to identify the children in distress through outreach and surveys and prepare a database with a profile of each child, along with the details of their specific needs and requirements, and ensure that the data are uploaded on the Track Child portal. Mishra told the states and Union Territories to temporarily allocate child care institutions (CCIs) to house those children whose parents had been unwell due to Covid-19 and provide necessary support to them in case the extended family was not available to take care of them. The women and child development ministry has asked the states to issue directions to hospitals to collect the contact details of trustworthy persons known to the patients in the admission form to be contacted for taking care of children in case of any eventuality. “Immediate temporary rehabilitation of children through the existing child care facilities supported under the child protection services scheme must be ensured,” Mishra said. The states have also been asked to make suitable arrangements for isolation facilities within the CCIs to take care of children suffering from Covid and prepare a roster of child psychologists or counsellors to visit the facilities and interact with them. Mishra further asked the states to launch a local helpline manned by experts to offer psychosocial care or support to children in distress. On the role of the DMs, he said they should be the guardians of the vulnerable children impacted by Covid. “The DM shall make efforts that such children are rehabilitated in the following order of preference, in the manner as prescribed under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015,” he said. The DMs need to create a district-level multi-departmental task force to map the needs, monitor the progress and ensure that all benefits reach the affected children and all civil society organisations may be asked to positively inform the child welfare committee or the district child protection unit about any vulnerable child noticed by them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Covid: Kashmir’s fight, without and with Internet ||As the coronavirus pandemic began to spread last year, charities in Kashmir lacked a key tool that was available to most others in the country — high-speed mobile Internet. The Centre had instituted an Internet shutdown after its decision on August 5, 2019, to end Kashmir’s semi-autonomous status. The Internet blackout eased in some places last year and by the time high-speed mobile Internet was restored statewide on February 5, it was the longest shutdown in India’s history. “Even sending a message on WhatsApp was impossible, not to mention uploading photos or videos on social media,” said Bilal Khan, a senior staff member of Athrout, a Kashmir-based non-profit that provides medical help and food to Covid-19-hit families. “Our volunteers were not able to identify those who needed help,” said Khan, adding that the organisation was unable to use social media for creating awareness of the pandemic or raising funds. This time around, as the state struggles with a deadly second wave of the pandemic along with the rest of the country, the scenario is totally different, Khan told Reuters. “Now, we are using social media effectively,” he said. “We post at least four or five times a day, sending out videos which get a lot of traction,” he said, adding that YouTube, Twitter and Instagram are particularly useful. Besides affecting health services and contact tracing last year, the shutdown hampered the efforts of non-profit groups such as Khan’s, even as charities and citizens nationwide turned to social media for everything from oxygen cylinders to drugs. “We couldn’t have done what we are doing if we were not able to utilise social media,” said Mohammad Afaaq Sayeed, director of the charity Social Reforms Organisation-Kashmir, which has helped more than 10,000 Covid-19 patients so far. “This year, our job became much easier because of 4G mobile Internet. Otherwise, we would have to use more laborious methods like going to peoples’ homes, which would have consumed a lot of time,” he said. The organisation, which helped supply oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, ventilation machines and ambulances, as well as food kits with essentials such as lentils and oil, was also able to raise funds through social media, he said. Some charities, including Athrout, found the especially helpful in raising funds during the holy month of Ramadan this year, said Bashir Nadvi, the charity’s chairman. “Muslims like to do charity during Ramazan,” he said. “When they saw the videos of our work on social media and which were shared by other people as well, it motivated them — including overseas Kashmiris — to donate.” Access to social media has also helped small businesses thrive — and help those affected by the coronavirus. Rayees Ahmad Dar, who started his small food business Tiffin Aaw in February last year, said he began delivering food to Covid-19 patients and quarantined families at reduced rates after high-speed was restored. “When word spread on social media, people started coming forward to support me — with donations and also as volunteers — and we are able to supply an average of 700 food packets a day,” he said. Organisations like Mehram, a non-profit started by three Kashmiri women last year, say they are also better able to help women deal with domestic violence during the pandemic. Mehram has offered legal and other assistance to an average of three women per week during the Covid-19 lockdowns, as cases of domestic violence against women surged worldwide. Mehram started a WhatsApp group to reach out to and support women suffering from domestic violence, said staff member Arshie Qureshi. “Recently, one of the most satisfying things for us was rescuing a woman who was locked up at her in-laws’ home and was being subjected to repeated violence,” she said. “One of her close relatives got in touch with Mehram through WhatsApp — which would not have been possible before.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Centre: Teachers Eligibility Test certificate valid for life ||The validity of the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) qualifying certificates has been extended from seven years to lifetime, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced on Thursday. “The government has decided to extend the validity period of the Teachers Eligibility Test qualifying certificates from seven years to lifetime with a retrospective effect from 2011,” the minister said. “The respective state governments and UTs (Union Territories) will take necessary action to revalidate and issue fresh TET certificates to those candidates whose period of seven years has already lapsed,” the statement added. Pokhriyal said this would help boost employment opportunities for aspiring teachers. A TET qualifying certificate is one of the essential qualifications for eligibility for appointment as a schoolteacher. Guidelines dated February 11, 2011, of the National Council for Teacher Education had laid down that TET would be conducted by the state governments and the validity of the certificates would be seven years from the date of passing the exam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Covid claims 17 Air India, IndiGo and Vistara pilots in May||Seventeen pilots of Air India, IndiGo and Vistara died due to Covid-19 in May when the country saw the peak of the coronavirus pandemic’s second wave, sources said on Thursday. IndiGo lost 10 pilots and Vistara two, aviation industry sources said. Air India officials said five senior pilots — captains Harsh Tiwary, G.P.S. Gill, Prasad Karmakar, Sandeep Rana and Amitesh Prasad — of the national carrier had died of Covid. Air India and Vistara did not respond to queries sent by PTI on the deaths. While IndiGo did not comment about the pilots’ deaths, the carrier said it had given the first vaccine dose to around 20,000 of its 35,000 employees and those of its ground-handling subsidiary Agile. “We are committed to covering our entire workforce by mid-June,” said Raj Raghavan, senior vice-president and head of human resources, IndiGo, in a statement. IndiGo has a “robust” welfare scheme and a “benevolent policy” under which the family of every deceased pilot would receive Rs 5 crore, sources said. They added that around 450 IndiGo pilots had tested positive for Covid-19 during the second wave. Private carriers such as Vistara and AirAsia India have given at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine to around 99 per cent and 96 per cent of their eligible employees, respectively. Those who are being treated for Covid-19 or have recently recovered from the disease are not considered eligible for vaccination. Air India had on May 4 said it would vaccinate all its employees against Covid-19 by the month-end as a pilots’ body had demanded inoculation of the flying crew on a priority basis, citing risk to their lives from the deadly infection. Six days later, the carrier had to tell its employees that it would not be able to hold vaccination camps for them at the Delhi airport on May 11 and May 13 due to “non-availability” of vaccines. It is not clear by when Air India would be able to complete the first dose of vaccination of all its employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
04-06-2021||India||Monsoon arrives in Kerala, officially||The southwest monsoon made an onset over Kerala on Thursday after a delay of two days, marking the commencement of the four-month rainy season in the country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. “The southwest monsoon has made an onset over the southern parts of Kerala,” said IMD director-general Mrutunjay Mohapatra. The normal onset date for the southwest monsoon over Kerala is June 1. The southwest monsoon is likely to advance into the remaining parts of south Arabian Sea and some parts of central Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Kerala, Lakshadweep, some parts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Rayalaseema, and south and central Bay of Bengal during the next two days, the IMD said. This is the third time in the last six years that the monsoon has arrived late. In 2016 and 2019, the southwest monsoon had made its onset over Kerala on June 8. The IMD had earlier forecast that the monsoon would arrive in Kerala around May 31. The southwest monsoon is likely to be normal in north and south India, above-normal in central India and below-normal in east and northeast India, the Met department had said in its second long-range forecast for the southwest monsoon on Tuesday. A good monsoon is critical to the Indian economy, which is still largely based on agriculture and its allied activities. Most parts of the country are expected to receive normal to above-normal rainfall during the season, the IMD said. Skymet, a private weather forecasting station, had said the southwest monsoon entered Kerala on May 30. However, the IMD had said the conditions were not ripe for declaring the onset of monsoon. Many places in Kerala  received rain on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Delhi High Court summons Ramdev but no gag now||Delhi High Court on Thursday issued summons to yoga televangelist Ramdev on a plea accusing him of making statements against allopathic medicines and at one point claiming Patanjali’s Coronil kit was a cure for Covid-19. The court, however, refused to restrain him at this stage, saying the allopathic profession was not so fragile. The high court orally asked Ramdev’s counsel to tell him not to make any provocative statements. “Mr Rajiv Nayar is a very respectable senior (advocate). I am sure his client will listen to him,” Justice C. Hari Shankar said. The high court issued summons to Ramdev on a suit filed by the Delhi Medical Association (DMA) and asked him to submit his response in three weeks, listing the matter for hearing on July 13. Ramdev had been seen in a widely circulated video saying that allopathy was a “stupid science” and claiming that lakhs of people had died after taking allopathic medicines. He had also claimed that drugs such as remdesivir and Fabiflu had failed to treat Covid. In response to calls for action against him, Ramdev had said “nobody’s father” would be able to arrest him. He has also been seen in videos ridiculing doctors, engineers and other professionals. Justice Shankar said on Thursday: “Considerable time has passed since the passing of allegedly injurious statements. The counsel says defendant No. 1 (Ramdev) continues to make statements. No injunctive order can be given without giving an opportunity to the plaint, especially in view of the objections. Issue summons on the suit,” Justice Shankar said. The court also issued summons to social media platforms Twitter and Facebook and Astha channel, which have been made parties to the petition. The DMA, on behalf of its doctor members, submitted before the court that Ramdev’s statement were misleading as Coronil does not cure Covid. The DMA has claimed a token damage of Rs 1 from him. Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, representing the DMA, said the claim had affected doctors as Coronil does not cure the coronavirus disease and this was a suit for the civil rights of doctors. The court said it could not say as to whether Coronil was a cure or not and that it was something to be decided by medical experts. The judge said he was “least concerned” with the association’s argument that Ramdev was a powerful person having a large number of followers. “Ramdev is a person who doesn’t have faith is allopathy. He believes everything can be cured by yoga and ayurveda. He may be right or wrong,” Justice Shankar said. He added that the court could understand the argument that Ramdev’s statements were affecting the public but here “you say oh my God, Ramdev has done something. You people should be spending time to find a cure for the pandemic instead of wasting the court’s time”. On the point of the locus of the DMA to file the suit, Dutta said Ramdev’s public statements against allopathy were affecting the public and also the members of the DMA. The judge replied: “If I feel some science is fake; tomorrow I will feel homeopathy is fake. Do you mean they will file a suit against me? I put it on Twitter. You will say take down the Twitter account. It is a public opinion. I do not think your allopathic profession is so fragile.” Justice Shankar said Ramdev’s comments had to be tested on the touchstone of free speech. Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing Ramdev, argued that prima facie the DMA suit was not maintainable as the association was asking for an injunction and raising the ground of public good. Dutta said the Ayush ministry had stated that Coronil was not a cure for Covid-19 and could not be advertised as such and had also asked Patanjali to give details, after which Ramdev had clarified that it was an immunity booster. The court noted that Ramdev had issued a clarification and the DMA should no longer have a grievance on this count. The DMA’s counsel further claimed that Patanjali had made Rs 25 crore from Coronil sales after it had been touted as a cure for Covid-19 and that Ramdev had a vast following in the country. The court said: “Is he to be blamed for people buying Coronil?” It suggested that the DMA file a public interest litigation instead of pursuing the suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Order to CBSE on corrections in certificates ||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the CBSE to process, without creating impediments, the applications for correction or change in name or other particulars in certificates issued by the board, saying it was intrinsic to identity. The top court ordered the Central Board of Secondary Education to take immediate steps to amend its relevant by-laws to incorporate a mechanism for recording corrections or changes in certificates that have already been issued or are to be issued. It held that the CBSE cannot impose the precondition of applying for correction consistent with the school records only before publication of results as such a rider will be “unreasonable” and “excessive”. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari said there was no reason for the CBSE to turn down such requests or attach any precondition except a reasonable period of limitation and keeping in mind the time frame for which the board had to maintain its records under the regulations. “…We direct the CBSE to process the applications for correction or change, as the case may be, in the certificate issued by it in the respective cases under consideration,” the bench said, while disposing of a batch of 22 petitions led by a student, Jigya Yadav, related to corrections or changes in particulars of students in certificates. The court said the board can insist that the students comply with other conditions, such as filing a sworn affidavit making necessary declarations and indemnifying the CBSE from any claim. The bench said the CBSE would be justified in insisting for surrender or return of the original certificate or the duplicate original certificate issued by it for replacing it with the fresh certificate to be handed out after carrying out necessary corrections with captions and annotations against the changes carried out and the date of such corrections. “It may retain the original entries as it is except in respect of correction of name effected in exercise of the right to be forgotten. The fresh certificate may also contain the disclaimer that the CBSE cannot be held responsible for the genuineness of the school records produced by the incumbent in support of the request to record corrections in the original CBSE certificate,” the court said. The bench, however, said that if the request for recording a change was based on altered school records after the publication of results and the issue of certificate by the CBSE, the candidate would be entitled to apply for recording such a change within the reasonable limitation period prescribed by the CBSE. “In this situation, the candidate cannot claim that she had no knowledge about the change recorded in the school records because such a change would occur obviously at her instance. If she makes such application for correction of the school records, she is expected to apply to the CBSE immediately after the school records are modified and which ought to be done within a reasonable time,” the court said. Dealing with the request for “change” of particulars in certificates, the bench said this could be done in two scenarios — on the basis of public documents like birth certificate, Aadhaar card/voter card and when the request for change is due to the acquired name by choice at a later date. The court said that in the first category, such public documents cannot be ignored by the CBSE. In the second scenario, the request may be entertained after insisting on prior permission or declaration by a court and publication in the Official Gazette.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Algae shadow on river water near Varanasi||Fish and other aquatic animals are in danger as a thick layer of algae has spread over the river water along Varanasi’s ghats, not an alluring advertisement for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pet “Clean Ganga” project in his own constituency. Scientists have said that while the oxygen level in the water was decreasing fast because of the growth of algae, the concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorous were increasing, posing a threat to aquatic life and disturbing the ecosystem of the river in the holy town located 300km east of Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow. “A thin layer of algae had been spreading over the surface of the river for the past few days. But it has suddenly become thick over the past 24 hours,” said an employee involved in the Namami Gange programme of the central government who didn’t want to be named. The river water needs to be cleaned regularly and the water must not be allowed to stagnate to prevent the growth of algae. A member of the Union water ministry committee monitoring the Namami Gange project said on the condition of anonymity that the algae had come floating from Allahabad and had not bloomed in Varanasi. He said it would be cleaned soon. B.D. Tripathi, a scientist in Varanasi, said: “Normally, the temperature under the river during this time of the year is 25 degrees Celsius. But it has increased to 35 degrees Celsius because of the algae. The algae should be removed immediately to save the fish and other aquatic animals.” Kripa Ram, a scientist at the Institute of Environment and Sustainable Development of Banaras Hindu University, told reporters in Varanasi: “Algae bloom forms in water when eutrophication happens. The enhancement of nutrients exceptionally catalyses the growth of plant life and adversely affects the oxygen level in the water.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Mayawati sacks one-time loyalists over panchayat polls||Mayawati on Thursday suspended two senior Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs, who had once been among her most trusted lieutenants, on the charge of “anti-party activities” during the recent panchayat elections. Lalji Verma, MLA from Katehri, and Ram Achal Rajbhar, the legislator of Akbarpur, both in Uttar Pradesh’s Ambedkarnagar district, had allegedly been hobnobbing with BJP and Samajwadi Party leaders over the past few weeks, BSP sources said. A statement issued from the state headquarters of the BSP said: “Two MLAs who had been elected on BSP tickets have been suspended from the party with immediate effect following their anti-party activities during the panchayat elections.” “The office-bearers of the party have been directed not to call these leaders to its programmes. They will not be fielded in any election in future from the BSP,” the statement added. The BSP’s strength in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly has now come down to 16 from 18. Verma had also been the leader of the BSP legislative party. Rajbhar had been the BSP’s Madhya Pradesh unit in-charge. The BSP said Shah Alam alias Guddu Jamali, the MLA from Mubarakpur in Azamgarh, would replace Verma as legislative party leader. Verma and Rajbhar had been cabinet ministers in Mayawati’s government between 2007 and 2012 and were considered her most trusted followers. “Out of power since 2012, these leaders were concerned about their future. Being a BSP MLA no longer appeared attractive for them. We had been receiving reports that they were meeting BJP as well as SP leaders over the past few weeks,” said a BSP leader who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Centre sets up expert group to recommend a minimum wage ||The Centre has set up an expert group to recommend a minimum wage and given it three years to submit its report, prompting allegations of apathy and intentional delay from trade unions and labour policy researchers. An earlier committee had recommended a minimum wage of Rs 375 a day and the constitution of a new panel suggests that the government has not accepted the proposal, they said. The country does not have a stipulated national minimum wage, only an advisory that suggests an amount of Rs 176. The unions and experts questioned the rationale behind forming a new committee at a time no fresh data, which would be needed to calculate a minimum wage, had been generated since the previous panel submitted its report. The new committee formed by the labour ministry will be chaired by Prof. Ajit Mishra, the director of the Institute of Economic Growth. The mandate is “to provide technical inputs and recommendations on fixation of minimum wages and national floor minimum wages”. “The group has been constituted for a period of three years…,” said a media release from the Press Information Bureau. Other members of the committee are Prof. Tarika Chakraborty of IIM Calcutta; Anushree Sinha, Senior Fellow, National Council of Applied Economic Research; Vibha Bhalla, joint secretary in the labour ministry; and H. Srinivas, director-general of the V.V. Giri National Labour Institute. “To arrive at the wage rates, the group will look into the international best practices on the wages and evolve a scientific criteria and methodology for fixation of wages,” the media release said. Under the new Code on Wages Act, the Centre has the power to notify a “floor wage” keeping in mind the minimum living standards. The floor wage will serve as the threshold below which no state can prescribe a rate. The previous committee had calculated the minimum wage rate of Rs 375 based on the July 2018 price level. It had worked out an evidence-based formula that took into account a balanced diet of 2,400 calories, 50 grams of protein and 30 grams of fat per day per person. The panel had also accounted for expenditure towards clothing, education and housing, and multiplied the cost by 3.6 to include the spouse, two children and elderly parents. A researcher on labour policies said, requesting anonymity: “There is no new evidence or data since the earlier committee gave its report in 2018. This exercise (of forming a new panel) has no relevance and rationale.” The minimum wage notified by most states is around Rs 200 a day. The Centre has been notifying every second year a National Minimum Floor-Level Wage (NMFLW) that is not binding on the states. The NFLMW notified in July 2017 was Rs 176. A revision is due since July 2019.“The economy has to be revived now. If the government is serious about the economy, it has to increase wages, which is very low compared with the rates in comparable economies,” the researcher said. He said giving three years to the expert group made no sense. “By the time the report comes, it will be June 2024, when a new government would possibly have come. That government will decide on implementation. This work should not take more than six months since reports are already available for reference,” he added.Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar pointed out that no representatives from trade unions and employers had been included in the panel. Another labour economist alleged that the government had set up the panel under pressure from corporates, who do not want any increase in wages. Senior labour and employment adviser to the government and member secretary of the committee, D.P.S. Negi said: “The tenure of the committee is three years but it will submit its report at the earliest. The members will look into all related issues and it is wrong to say there are no experts on wage in the committee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Covid: Pandemic exposes critical importance of data||Even if we didn’t know that her official motto since 1956 is “In God We Trust”, those readers who have visited the US would be familiar with this phrase since it appears on many American currency notes and coins. William Edwards Deming, a statistician and electrical engineer from the US, visited the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta, in 1946-47, 1951 and 1971, on invitation from Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, the doyen of statistical science in India. Deming was one of the architects of the post-war economic miracle of Japan. Between 1950 and 1960, Japan became one of the leading economies of the world after suffering from near-complete devastation. Deming emphasised the pivotal role of data and statistics in enhancing quality and productivity in industry and ensured the implementation of statistical quality control. He also helped initiate these systems in the Indian industry. For his seminal contributions, Deming was awarded the National Medal of Technology by President Ronald Reagan in 1987 and, in the following year, the Distinguished Career in Science award by the US National Academy of Sciences. Deming is also known for his famous statement “In God we trust, all others must bring data”. He emphasised the importance of data in development. This pandemic has exposed the critical importance of data. However, data is not knowledge. Data have to be transformed into knowledge to provide a basis for action. In pandemic times, data have to be analysed rapidly for actionable inferences. This requires data to be shared openly in real-time, to enable many scientists to analyse and provide to policy makers the knowledge thus gained. Data are collected through public funds. Therefore, citizens have a right to data access. To deny them this right is to deny them health security during the pandemic. In many countries, data pertaining to the spread of SARS-CoV-2, nature of clinical outcomes of infection by the coronavirus, reinfection after vaccination, new variants arising and their local spread are publicly available. The knowledge gained from analyses of these data has influenced policy on implementation of restrictions such as lockdowns, estimation of logistical requirements such as oxygen cylinders, hospital beds and ventilators in local areas, and have also impacted public health systems. Open rapid data-sharing enhances transparency to citizens on reasons for decisions taken by the government. RNA sequence data of a large number of coronavirus specimens are being generated everyday and made publicly available very rapidly in many countries. The volume of sequence data being generated in India is very small. Further, viral sequence data that have been collected from India are being sparingly shared in the public domain. The time lag between data collection and data sharing is about an order of magnitude higher than that of many other countries, thereby rendering such data of little immediate public health utility in India. If a dangerous variant of the coronavirus arises somewhere in our country, it will have spread rather widely before we can identify it based on sequence data. Data must be at the core of any public health system. All public health decisions must be evidence-based. Data collection must be done systematically with a statistical design so that the collected data can inform a national public health system without bias. Possibly, none of us has ever encountered a pandemic. And, each of us is hoping that we don’t encounter another. To make this hope come true, a high level of preparedness is essential. Preparedness to identify a local outbreak without delay. Preparedness to monitor and contain spread. Preparedness to care for the infected. Preparedness to identify new variants. And much more. We need to establish an unbiased, systematic and wide method of data collection. We need to build a robust system for rapid data-sharing, analysis and dissemination of results. Only then can our preparedness be sound. As Deming had said, we must bring data to the table to enable preparedness. In a country such as ours, systematic and wide data collection is of even greater importance because we are a group of people with varied ancestries that has resulted in a heterogeneous gene pool. This genomic diversity among the people of India implies that we may not be equally susceptible to an infection, we may not display the same set of symptoms if we are infected, we may not respond equally to a vaccine. This imposes a heavy burden of data collection on us, because we need to be inclusive of the various ethnic groups in our country. One size does not fit all!. Frustrated that data collection was not being systematically done during the pandemic and the inability to obtain access to data collected, on April 29, 2021, a group of about 200 scientists wrote an open appeal to the Prime Minister “for systematic data collection and timely data release”. The number of signatories to the appeal snowballed to over 900 within a couple of days, indicating how widespread the concern of scientists in India is. The appeal evoked a supportive response from the principal scientific adviser to the Prime Minister. He stated: “Wide and correct access to data and information and wide collaboration are important at any time and most urgent now.” He also promised to take “proactive measures” and provided details of contact persons for “specific questions, concerns, and suggestions about data access”. I, and many others, had immediately contacted them to gain access to specific data. As we were then told, we also submitted “concept notes” explaining why we needed access to the data and how we planned to utilise these. That was over a month ago. We are still waiting for data access. Unfortunately, in our country, time is never the essence. Data-hungry scientists wished to find patterns in the data in a bid to help the government curb the disastrous course of the disease. But alas! It’s time for the scientists to go to bed hungry, with frustration that they were unable to use their expertise for societal benefit. The author is a National Science Chair, Government of India, and an Emeritus Professor of Indian Statistical Institute||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
04-06-2021||India||Covid vaccine hesitancy hits drive in rural Bihar||People across rural areas in Bihar are reluctant to take the Covid-19 vaccine despite all efforts by the health department and district officials. Around 89 per cent of the over 12 crore population of Bihar live in villages. Unlike several other states, vaccine shots are available in the state for those aged 45 and above, but there are no takers. Mobile vaccination vans are being allegedly attacked in villages in different districts. People are not turning up at the primary health centres and temporary vaccination camps set up at different locations and the vaccination drive has been severely hit. “A mobile vaccination van was moving towards villages in Rangra block to inoculate people with the Covid-19 vaccine. A group of people stopped and attacked it. Our team was forced to flee from there. They (vaccination team) are now apprehensive about their safety while on duty. Vans are still going around but people are refusing to take the shots. This is also leading to a wastage of public money,” Bhagalpur  district civil surgeon Umesh Sharma told The Telegraph. Sharma blamed rumours like death, illness and infertility after vaccination were doing the rounds among the people. This has led to an aversion in taking the shots that could help save them from Covid-19, he added. “Each mobile van tagged with the 16 primary health centres here has to inoculate 200 people each every day. Each stationary team at the hospitals also has the same target. However, we are managing to achieve only around 20 per cent of the figure. You can imagine the gravity of the situation,” Sharma said. The same story is repeated in Hasanpur block of Samastipur district. The health workers and officials just keep waiting in vain for people to turn up to take vaccine shots. “This was not the case in the beginning when vaccination started here around two months ago. People were eagerly coming initially to take the shots, but have now stopped coming due to various rumours. This has nothing to do with religion because nobody is turning up,” said Hasanpur PHC health manager Wahab Alam. Bihar has vaccinated 1.04 crore people, including 20 lakh people who have received both the doses since January 16 this year when the vaccination campaign started. Among them 74 lakh are in the age group of 45 and above. However, the figures have slipped drastically with only 46,000 people of all age groups taking vaccine on Monday (May 31). Among them around 30,000 were in the age group of 45 and above who turned up for their first dose of the vaccine, which just around a third of the numbers that used to flock to the vaccination centres in March and April. Unnerved by the development, the state government is now considering starting a vigorous publicity campaign, roping in various stakeholders and religious leaders to create awareness among the people. “There have been reports of hesitancy towards taking the Covid vaccine among people in the age group of 45 years and above residing in the rural areas. People have attacked mobile vaccination at various places in the state,” state health secretary and executive director of the State Health Society, Manoj Kumar, told this newspaper. “We are now planning to start an information campaign to tackle this hesitancy and make people understand the importance of getting vaccinated. We will rope in all stakeholders, public representatives and men of religion in the information campaign,” Kumar added. He pointed out that Bihar was comfortably placed in providing vaccine for the people above 45 years, but was facing severe shortage for those in the age group of 18 to 44 years. “Right now we don’t have any vaccine for those in the age group of 18 to 44 years. We are expecting vaccines for them to arrive from June 7. The situation will be better from June 10,” Kumar said. Bihar has witnessed 5,163 deaths due to Covid-19 so far, a majority of the casualties occurring during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. The state government data has put the total number of detected coronavirus infections at seven lakh, including 16,235 active cases at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
