05-06-2021||India||Centre stopped our doorstep ration delivery scheme, says AAP govt||The Centre has stopped the Arvind Kejriwal government's ambitious doorstep delivery of ration scheme that was set to be launched soon, official sources in the Delhi government said on Saturday. According to them, all preparations for the doorstep delivery of ration scheme were in place and it was scheduled to be launched from next week. "The scheme was stopped by the Centre on the basis that its approval was not sought before implementation," they said. "Delhi government was all set to launch the Doorstep Delivery of Ration scheme across Delhi within 1-2 days, benefiting 72 lakh poor beneficiaries across Delhi. Based on central government's suggestion, Delhi cabinet has passed a decision to remove the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna” for the scheme and to implement doorstep delivery of ration as part of the existing NFS Act, 2013. This addresses all the concerns of the central government," the AAP government said in a statement, according to a report by ndtv.com. “LG (Lieutenant Governor) has rejected the file for implementation of Doorstep Delivery of Ration citing two reasons – centre is yet to approve the scheme, and an ongoing court case. No approval for launching such a scheme is required as per existing law," the statement added. The AAP on its Twitter handle slammed the Centre, saying, “Mr Prime Minister, what kind of an arrangement do you have with the ration mafia that you had to stop the Kejriwal government's 'Ghar Ghar Ration Scheme'?" Under the scheme, each eligible beneficiary would have been delivered ration including properly packaged wheat flour and rice, after their biometric verification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Milkha Singh's health condition stable, informs hospital||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh, who is battling COVID-19 in the ICU of PGIMER here, is stable and his condition is "better than yesterday", the hospital authorities said on Saturday. "Flying Sikh Shri Milkha Singh ji, being unwell due to COVID-19, has been admitted in the ICU of NHE Block of PGIMER since June 3. "On the basis of all the medical parameters today, that is June 5, his condition has been observed better than yesterday," Prof Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson of PGIMER, said in a statement, quashing rumours about his death doing rounds in the social media since Saturday morning. The statement also informed that Milkha, 91, was being closely monitored by a team of three doctors. Milkha was was brought to the hospital on Thursday with dipping levels of oxygen. On Friday, Milkha had received a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquiring about his health. Modi spoke to Milkha and expressed hope that the iconic sportsman will be back soon to "bless and inspire athletes, who will be participating in the Tokyo Olympics." Milkha was discharged from a private hospital in Mohali on Sunday last where he received treatment for the infection. He, however, continued to be on oxygen support at home also. Milkha's 82-year-old wife Nirmal, who had also contracted COVID-19 days after her husband got the infection, continues to be in the ICU of the Fortis hospital. Milkha's son and ace golfer Jeev had reached Chandigarh from Dubai on May 22. His elder sister, Mona Milkha Singh, who is a physician in the United States, had also reached here. Milkha is suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help. The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. His timing at the Italian capital was a national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998. He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Centre gives ‘one last chance’ to Twitter to comply with IT Rules||The government on Saturday issued a notice to Twitter giving it “one last” chance to “immediately” comply with the new information technology rules and warned that failure would lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. The ministry of electronics and information technology said Twitter’s refusal to comply demonstrated the microblogging site’s “lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform”. The new IT rules for social media companies that came into effect last month mandate large platforms like Facebook and Twitter to undertake greater due diligence and make these digital platforms more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them by appointing grievance redressal officers from among Indian residents. “Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, it is beyond belief that Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create a mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India-based, clearly identified resources,” the IT ministry said. The ministry said that though “consequences follow” for non-compliance after May 26, “as a gesture of goodwill, Twitter Inc is hereby given one last notice to immediately comply with the rules, failing which the exemption from liability available... shall stand withdrawn and Twitter shall be liable for consequences as per the IT Act and other penal laws of India”. The notice did not specify a date to comply with the rules. Twitter declined to comment to an email sent by PTI on the note. “It is clear from your responses that till date Twitter has not informed about the details of the chief compliance officer as required under the rules,” the ministry said. Twitter on Saturday removed and later restored the verified blue tick on the personal account of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu. Officials in his secretariat said Naidu’s personal handle had been inactive for a long time and the Twitter algorithm had removed the blue badge. The blue badge had also been removed from the accounts of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and other functionaries, but restored after cries of “tech feudalism”. Twitter said that according to its rules, the blue badge and verified status could be automatically removed from an account if it is incomplete or inactive for six months. “Inactivity is based on logging in. To keep the account active, the account holder must make sure to log in at least every 6 months,” Twitter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Maharashtra to lift Covid restrictions in 5-level plan from Monday||The Maharashtra government has announced a five-level plan to relax the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state, based on the weekly positivity rate and the occupancy of oxygen beds. A notification to this effect was issued late on Friday night. The order will come into effect from June 7 based on the positivity rate and the oxygen bed occupancy level of June 3, it said. The lockdown-like restrictions in the state were imposed in April this year when the second wave of the pandemic intensified. Under the notification, each municipal area and district has been treated as a separate administrative unit. In the first category, cities and districts, which have a positivity rate of five per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent, will open up completely with regular timings of essential and non-essential shops, malls, theatres, auditoriums, restaurants, private offices, public places, sports establishments. Film shootings, social and political gatherings can resume at such places. Manufacturing, agriculture and economic activities will be allowed. There will be no curfew or prohibitory orders and no e-pass will be required unless the travel is to cities or districts which come under the fifth category (where the positivity rate is more than 20 per cent and the oxygen bed capacity is more than 75 per cent). In the second category, cities and districts where the positivity rate is five per cent and oxygen bed occupancy is 25 to 40 per cent, essential and non-essential shops will be allowed to open as per the regular timings, but malls, theatres, multiplexes, auditoriums and restaurants will function at 50 per cent capacity, it said. There will be a restricted entry in local trains and it will be allowed for those working in medical and essential services only. Public places and private offices can be opened. Social and political gatherings will be allowed with 50 per cent capacity. Curfew orders will remain in place. Gyms, salons, beauty centres can open with 50 per cent capacity. Easing of curbs under the third category will be applicable for the places where the positivity rate is five per cent to 10 per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy is more than 40 per cent. At such places, essential shops can remain open till 4 pm, while non-essential shops can remain open till 4 pm only on weekdays. Malls and multiplexes will remain shut and restaurants can open with 50 per cent capacity till 4 pm on weekdays. The facility of parcel, takeaway and home delivery of food will continue. Local trains will be restricted for medical and essential staff. Offices can operate with 50 per cent staff. Film and TV shootings will take place in bio-bubble with no movement outside after 5 pm. Only 50 persons can attend a marriage ceremony, while only 20 people can attend a funeral. Social and political gatherings will be conducted with 50 per cent capacity. The fourth category is for the places where the positivity rate is 10 to 20 per cent and oxygen bed occupancy is more than 60 per cent. Essential shops there will be open till 4 pm. Only food parcels and takeaways will be allowed and local trains will be restricted for medical and few essential staff only. Public places will be opened, but they will be shut on the weekends. In the fifth category, where the positivity rate is more than 20 per cent and the oxygen bed capacity is more than 75 per cent, only essential shops will remain open till 4 pm and the office attendance will be 15 per cent. The notification said that every Thursday, the state public health department will declare the number of oxygen beds and the positivity rate, based on which the disaster management authority will decide the level of an administrative unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Delhi markets to open on odd-even basis from Monday, announces Kejriwal||The Delhi Metro will operate at 50 per cent capacity and markets and malls in the national capital will open on an odd-even basis from June 7, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday as he announced further relaxations in lockdown. He also said the Delhi government will set up two genome sequencing labs at the LNJP Hospital and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences to determine the coronavirus variant that led to a surge in cases in the city. The lockdown in Delhi, which was to end at 5 AM on Monday, will be extended further but several relaxations will be allowed, Kejriwal said during an online briefing. Government and private offices will be allowed to reopen with 50 per cent attendance. Markets and malls will be allowed to open on an odd-even basis from 10 AM to 8 PM, he said. Kejriwal said the Delhi government is preparing for the third wave of COVID-19 keeping in mind that 37,000 daily cases may be reported at its peak and making arrangements for beds, ICUs and medicines. A paediatric task force has been set up to decide the number of beds, ICU facilities and other equipment needed for children, who are feared to be affected in the third wave, he said. Delhi is also creating an oxygen storage capacity of 450 MT, purchasing 25 oxygen tankers and installing 64 small oxygen plants. A team of experts and doctors will prescribe useful medicines and a buffer stock of Covid medicines will be created, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Twitter removes, then restores, blue tick on Vice President’s account||Twitter on Saturday removed and later restored the verified blue tick on the personal account of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu. Officials of the Vice President Secretariat said the personal Twitter handle of Naidu @MVenkaiahNaidu was inactive for a long time and the Twitter algorithm removed the blue badge. They said Twitter was in the process of restoring the verification badge. The last tweet posted from the personal handle was on July 23 last year. The account has 1.3 million followers. The officials said Twitter was contacted after they noticed this morning that the blue tick was removed. Before 10.30 am, the blue tick badge was restored, they said. "The referenced account has been inactive since July 2020. As explained in the Twitter verification policy, Twitter may remove the blue verified badge and verified status if the account becomes inactive or is incomplete. The verified badge of the Vice President's account has now been restored," Twitter said in a statement. Twitter said the account has been inactive since July 2020. It said the verified badge has now been restored. The Vice President uses the official Twitter handle @VPSecretariat to send out tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||India records 1.20 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,380 casualties in a day||India reported 1,20,529 fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest single-day rise in infections in around two months, taking the infection tally to 2,86,94,879, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll from COVID-19 climbed to 3,44,082 with 3,380 new fatalities, while the number of active cases was recorded below 20 lakh for the fifth consecutive day, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily new cases are the lowest in 58 days, the ministry said. A total of 20,84,421 tests were done on Friday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for the detection of COVID-19 in the country to 36,11,74,142. The daily positivity rate further dipped to 5.78 per cent, less than 10 per cent for the 12th consecutive day, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 6.89 per cent, it said. The active case count has reduced to 15,55,248, which comprises 5.73 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.08 per cent, the data showed. The number of recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 23 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,67,95,549, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.19 per cent, the data stated. The 3,380 new fatalities include 1,377 from Maharashtra, 364 from Karnataka, 463 from Tamil Nadu, 136 from Uttar Pradesh, 135 from Kerala, 113 from West Bengal. A total of 3,44,082 coronavirus-related deaths have been reported so far in the country including 98,771 from Maharashtra, 30,895 from Karnataka, 26,128 from Tamil Nadu, 24,497 from Delhi, 21,031 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,034 from West Bengal, 14,927 from Punjab and 13,162 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore COVID-19 cases on May 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Delhi govt likely to announce further lockdown relaxations||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to announce further lockdown relaxations from the next week amid a dip in the city's daily COVID-19 case count, officials said on Saturday. Kejriwal, who is scheduled to address a press conference later in the day, is also expected to announce the steps to deal with the possible third wave of the coronavirus. An official said the government may allow markets and other activities from June 7 as the COVID-19 situation has gradually been improving. Last week, the government had allowed manufacturing and construction activities in Delhi beginning phased unlock process. The lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19. The city recorded 523 fresh COVID-19 cases and 50 fatalities on Friday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.68 per cent, according to Delhi government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Novel coronavirus gains 'strategic' mutations capable of dodging jabs and immune responses||The novel coronavirus has gained “strategic” mutations that may allow it to escape immune responses and vaccines, researchers in India and the US have said in a study that they say underscores the need for continual vaccine redesign. Their study has found that the emergence of these mutations, which represent subtle changes in a viral protein structure that some scientists view as the virus’s Achilles heel, has coincided with sharp surges in infections in 12 countries, including India. The prevalence of one such mutation among coronavirus samples from Covid-19 patients in India increased 13-fold — from 1.1 per cent in February this year to 15 per cent in April — coinciding with a 15-fold surge in daily infections during the country’s second wave. Similar surge-associated mutations have been detected in at least 11 other countries, rising 38-fold in Chile, 82-fold in the UK and 114-fold in France over two or three months during which those countries too experienced surges. (See chart below) While mutations are expected to occur over time and drive biological evolution, the study suggests the virus is also accumulating strategic mutations that alter a key protein structure called the “antigenic supersite”. This is the virus’s Achilles heel and is a common target for multiple antibodies that neutralise the virus. “This evolutionary trait appears strongly with infection surges, suggesting some immune-evasive mechanisms in play that aid rampant human-to-human transmission,” Venky Soundararajan, the scientist who led the study, told The Telegraph. Soundararajan and his colleagues at nference, a biomedical data science company with offices in Cambridge, Massachusetts and Bangalore, working with doctors at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, analysed over 1.3 million coronavirus genomes from 178 countries and looked for patterns between mutations and epidemic surges. Their study, not yet peer-reviewed but posted on medRxiv, an online preprint server, is the first to connect the epidemic’s features — measured through the test positivity rate (the proportion of positive results among those tested) in specific geographic regions — with virus mutations. Their findings suggest that SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, may be relying on mutations that accumulate on the antigenic supersite as a novel escape strategy to evade immune responses resulting from natural infections or mass vaccination campaigns. Clinical trials and real-world studies have established that multiple Covid-19 vaccines are effective in protecting people from the infection and disease, but people already inoculated have been infected too in what are being termed “breakthrough infections”. The nference-Mayo researchers sequenced 53 coronavirus specimens from patients who had become re-infected or had breakthrough infections and, in samples from three patients, detected mutations in the same viral protein structure where surge-associated mutations have been seen. “There is an urgent need to identify the immuno-evasive features of SARS-CoV-2 to develop effective countermeasures,” said Soundararajan. “Our study provides a foundational platform for designing new vaccines and biological therapies to counter the immune-evasive strategies of SARS-Cov-2.” The study also underlines the need for a massive scale-up of the coronavirus genome-sequencing efforts in low and middle-income countries, and for efforts to link sequence data with health records of patients and vaccinated people worldwide. Over 50 per cent of the 1.3 million SARS-CoV-2 genomes available for scientific analysis are from the US, the European Union or the UK. India has sequenced over 25,000 SARS-CoV-2 genomes so far and is just starting out to establish connections between the sequences and the countrywide vaccination status. Satyajit Rath, a senior medical immunologist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, said: “Their call for what needs to be done is absolutely correct. There is a need to broaden and deepen surveillance and to diversify the vaccine design strategies.” However, while the study has used computational methods to identify previously undetected patterns that suggest a link between mutations and infection surges, Rath said, there is no real evidence yet that the surges have occurred mostly because of re-infections or breakthrough infections. Besides, immunologists have underlined that the antigenic supersite is also the region the virus uses to infect cells, and it is possible that the mutations are driven by natural-selection pressure created worldwide through physical distancing. “What is emerging then might be variants that bind better to human cells and are therefore more efficiently transmitted from person to person,” Rath said. “The immune-evasive correlation might then be incidental and dependent on the fact that vaccines are directed at generating antibodies that stop the virus sticking to cells.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Call for tribute in memory of those lost to Covid, lockdown, lynch mobs or hunger||Every Sunday, light a lamp or candle for those killed by Covid or the long walk back home amid the lockdown, by lynch mobs or hunger, to remember the humanity of people now turned into a statistic. And to keep alive your own humanity in so doing. This was the appeal sent out on Friday by a host of people who included actors Parambrata Chatterjee and Richa Chadha, badminton player Jwala Gutta, singers T.M. Krishna, Moushumi Bhowmik and Rupam Islam, Assam MP Ajit Bhuyan, Gujarat MLAs Chhotubhai Vasava and Jignesh Mevani, Bihar MLAs Manoj Manzil and Mahboob Alam, Jharkhand MLA Vinod Singh and former navy chief L. Ramdas. Joining them were writers and academics V. Geetha, S.V. Rajadurai, Samim Ahmed, Du Saraswati, Rajendra Chenni and Rahamath Tarikere, Kannada filmmakers Giriraj and B. Suresh, and actor Chetan “Ahimsa” Kumar. Apart from lighting a lamp at home, in the neighbourhood or at the workplace every Sunday, the statement encourages people to sing, share pictures and post messages on social media on the theme if they want to. “It’s a really simple activity: one just has to light a candle of remembrance. This collective mourning will perhaps be cathartic,” Chadha told The Telegraph. “A lot of people are numb or gutted right now. It will take a long time to heal. People aren’t just statistics: they are colleagues, papas, betis (daughters), dadis (grandmas), classmates and wives.” The appeal says: “Governments do not want to count the dead or even admit they have died. They are even removing the shrouds from the riverside graves so that the world may not be able to count our dead. By refusing to count them, they are seeking to forget our precious loved ones. “But we cannot let our loved ones be forgotten: each has a name, each must be remembered, each must continue to be loved. “We must remember not only those who fell to Covid-19 but those who fell to other disasters and violence — migrant workers killed walking home, kids and the elderly who died of hunger, those killed in cyclones, droughts, victims of lynching by mobs instigated by hatred and fake news, victims of targeted communal, caste or patriarchal violence, victims of police firing, manual scavenging deaths.” Gutta told this newspaper: “It is to keep our sanity and human-ness.... As humans we want to talk about what is positive but we should not and cannot ignore the negative, or not envy other countries that have moved on.... We can’t overlook those who distract us from the crisis like Baba Ramdev who demoralises our healthcare personnel.” She added: “We cannot exist as a society without (remembering) those who lost their lives, like the workers who died on the roads. I shall be surprised if no human feels for these people.” The appeal adds: “No need to gather in large numbers and risk spreading the virus: you can join in from wherever you are, without any crowds. Just try and reach out to neighbours and strangers, and share their losses.” Krishna told this newspaper: “We have had deaths caused by an uncaring government. The migrant workers dying is a classic example. There are people dying for lack of oxygen. Do you call it Covid deaths? “For so many years now you have had people dying because of lynching, communal hatred — not to forget police firing. We need a cultural change to remember those who are not remembered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
05-06-2021||India||Covid: Navodaya Vidyalaya staff prodded to donate salary to fund kin of fallen colleagues||Employees of the central government-run Navodaya schools have been prodded to donate two days’ salary towards a benevolent fund for the families of colleagues who have died of Covid or other causes since March 2020. But many among the 24,000 teaching and non-teaching employees at these 600 schools and even some of the prospective beneficiaries have protested, saying it’s the government that should provide the compensation instead of resorting to crowd-funding. N.K. Pahwa, deputy commissioner of the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS), wrote to all the regional offices of the organisation on May 7 asking the school principals to secure employees’ consent to the initiative. The letter said the bereaved families would also be offered a contractual job each. Since the employees’ response was not “encouraging”, NVS joint commissioner Sameer Pandey wrote to all the regional offices on May 27, telling them to ask the principals to motivate those employees who had not given their consent. The NVS runs residential schools, mainly for talented rural students. A senior employee at a Navodaya school said the Centre should have helped the families with its own money. “Last year, the government forced us to donate two days’ salary to the PM CARES Fund while the staff of the central universities and the IITs donated a day’s salary,” the employee said. “Earlier, we had been asked to donate a day’s salary towards flood relief in Kerala, and we did. Does the government not have any responsibility?” An NVS official said nearly 150 teachers and other staff had died of Covid in the past one year, and a few others of other causes. With the donations, the NVS wants to create a benevolent fund and give Rs 2 lakh as assistance to every family. Last year, NVS staff had donated Rs 7.48 crore from their salaries to the PM CARES Fund. “It has therefore been decided that as a one-time measure, the dependent family member/ nominee of the deceased regular employees will be granted immediate financial assistance, out of the contribution from the regular employees of NVS,” the May 7 letter said. The letter said: “In view of the above, it is requested that each member of Navodaya Family (regular employees only) may contribute a minimum two days’ salary (basic + DA) for the above noble cause, on voluntary basis.” An NVS official said the organisation had Rs 200 crore of unutilised funds left over from last year, and had received Rs 300 crore in additional grants this year. Besides, its hostel mess funds remain unused because the students are at home. Altogether, the NVS has over Rs 1,000 crore at its disposal with which it can “easily pay the families of deceased staff”, the official said. Subhank Singh Thakur, son of the dead NVS clerk Surendra Singh Thakur from Mandla, Madhya Pradesh, criticised the move for crowd-funding and the offer of a contractual job. “My father worked his entire life for the NVS. The assistance should come from the NVS and not from contributions of other staff,” he said. “I won’t accept the contractual appointment unless the NVS assures us in writing that we will be regularised when vacancies arise,” Subhank, who is qualified to be a teacher, added. Emails sent to NVS commissioner Vinayak Garg and the Union education ministry on May 21 asking why the government wasn’t compensating the families with its own funds have brought no answers. The Kendriya Vidyalaya Progressive Sikshak Sangh, a teachers’ body, has requested the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan to compensate the families of employees who have died of Covid, with money and a job. A teacher said nearly 200 employees of the organisation’s over 1,200 schools had died of Covid. An email sent to KVS commissioner Nidhi Pandey on May 25 seeking a reaction to the teachers’ demand has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||SKM accuses govt of trying to shift movement from Delhi borders to Haryana||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has accused the Narendra Modi government of trying to orchestrate a shift in the epicentre of the farmers’ movement from Delhi’s borders to Haryana by constantly provoking agitating peasants in the latter state. Given that Haryana is the state most invested in the movement against the Centre’s new farm laws after Punjab, there have been frequent face-offs with the administration as farmers have been boycotting or gheraoing events attended by leaders of the BJP and ally JJP, triggering sporadic clashes and arrests. The latest face-off was at Tohana in Fatehabad district on Thursday after farmers protested outside the residence of JJP legislator Devender Singh Babli. Matters have escalated and farm leader Rakesh Tikait, who has emerged as a face of the movement after a reluctant start, is now sitting on a dharna at the Tohana toll, demanding the release of the farmers arrested for the incident. Tikait, too, had alleged on Thursday night that the Centre was conspiring to shift the movement to Haryana. Stating that the gherao of Babli was one in a series of episodes where farmers are being provoked into action and then arrested, Yudhveer Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) announced on Friday that since the Haryana government likes to imprison people, Rakesh Tikait and BKU (Haryana) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni will lead farmers to the Tohana city prison on Saturday for a “jail bharo” agitation. “This will not be a one-day programme but we will continue to do this. Let us see how much space they have in their jails,” Yudhveer Singh said while addressing the media after a meeting of the SKM general body at the Singhu border protest site. The SKM is an umbrella outfit of 40 farm unions spearheading the movement against the three new laws. Chaduni said that while farmers would continue to boycott or gherao BJP and JJP leaders in Haryana, this would be restricted to the politicians’ public appearances for official programmes, not when they are out on personal engagements. As for the protests along Delhi’s key borders of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, the SKM leadership maintained that there was no question of going back after having come this far and staying for over six months now. Upset with the manner in which the government is once again trying to weaken the movement using state power in Haryana, the SKM has decided that batches of farmers from the state will proceed to the three borders keeping in mind Covid protocols. The new protest action in Haryana notwithstanding, the SKM will continue with its plan to observe Saturday — June 5 — as “Sampoorna Kranti Divas” in memory of Jayprakash Narayan’s call for Total Revolution given on this day in 1974. For the protesting farmers, this is now a “black day” as it was on June 5 last year when the Modi government had introduced the three farm laws as ordinances in the midst of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Defence Acquisition Council approves plan to build six subs||The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC), headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, on Friday cleared a project worth Rs 43,000 crore to build six conventional submarines to counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet, sources in the ministry said. “This is a landmark approval, being the first case processed under the Strategic Partnership model. This would be one of the largest ‘Make in India’ projects and it will create a tiered industrial ecosystem for submarine construction in India,” Rajnath said on Twitter. The submarines will be built under the strategic partnership model that allows domestic defence manufacturers to join hands with leading foreign firms to produce high-end military platforms to reduce import dependence. The six submarines will be conventional, diesel-electric vessels and are likely to be equipped with land attack missiles and anti-ship cruise missiles. Sources said the Indian Navy plans to acquire 24 new submarines, including six nuclear attack submarines, to bolster its underwater fighting capability. It now has 15 conventional submarines and two nuclear submarines. The navy has been focusing on significantly bolstering its capabilities in view of China’s efforts to increase its military presence in the Indian Ocean region. The DAC on Friday also approved proposals concerning capital acquisition of various equipment for modernisation and operational needs of the Indian Armed Forces amounting to Rs 6,800 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Editors Guild welcomes Vinod Dua verdict||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) and other associations of journalists have welcomed the Supreme Court verdict on the sedition case against journalist Vinod Dua. The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed a sedition FIR registered against Dua in Himachal Pradesh for his criticism of the Narendra Modi government’s handling of Covid and the use of the Pulwama attack and Balakot airstrike to seek votes. Lauding the verdict, the EGI demanded repeal of the “draconian” and “antiquated” sedition laws. The Indian Women’s Press Corps (IWPC) hoped that the judgment would provide “immediate relief” to journalists who are in jail under sedition charges. “The EGI expresses satisfaction with the Supreme Court’s concerns over the chilling effect that sedition laws have on free media and our democracy,” the Guild said in a statement. “The Guild demands repeal of these draconian and antiquated laws that find no space in any modern liberal democracy.” The IWPC said: “We have noticed with dismay a growing trend in India in recent times where both the central and the state governments have routinely slapped sedition charges on journalists for articles, tweets, Facebook posts that criticise government policies, actions of their functionaries and shortcomings in governance”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Valley police registers FIR against scribe for status on WhatsApp||Police in Jammu and Kashmir have registered an FIR against a local journalist after he put up a WhatsApp status of a picture showing 20 children who died in a boat accident 15 years back with the word “martyr’s” inscribed on it. Journalist Sajid Raina, who works in Bandipora district, said he received a call from police informing him that an FIR has been lodged against him under Sections 153 and 505(b) of the Indian Penal Code. Section 153 relates to provocation which might cause rioting, while 505(b) is related to intention to cause fear or alarm which might induce a person to commit an offence against the State or against public tranquillity. A police statement said an FIR was lodged against “one person namely Sajid Raina”, without describing his profession, for his WhatsApp status on May 30, saying it “attracts investigation into the contents and intention behind it”. “It was not against anyone’s profession particularly journalists as being circulated in social media. Investigations are underway,” the statement added. Twenty school children had died on May 30, 2006, after a boat capsized in the Wullar lake, an accident not related to militancy. “I put up a WhatsApp status on May 30 simply in memory of the kids that died that day in 2006. There was nothing political about it and there was no other intention. The words ‘Wullar martyr’s’ were already inscribed in the picture,” Raina told The Telegraph. “In Islam, we believe one who dies in an accident or by drowning is a martyr. I do not know what is offensive about that.” Raina, who works for a local news agency, said he received a call from a police official about the WhatsApp status after which he deleted the picture. “It was there for just five hours and was seen by no more than 20 people. Today, I was summoned by a police official.” Sajad Gul, a colleague, tweeted that he was also booked by Bandipora police recently and claimed the police “wants to criminalise journalists in Bandipora and stop them from factual reporting”. Gul was booked for “rioting, trespassing, and assault” after he wrote a story for a website in which villagers alleged a tehsildar was harassing and threatening them for opposing a demolition drive. The journalist claimed he was booked for stone pelting and shouting slogans during the demolition drive although he was in Srinagar that day. Valley journalists have been in the crosshairs of the government, facing arrests, thrashing, intimidation and FIRs after the revocation of the state’s special status in 2019. Police also routinely book other men for apparently small issues. Local journalist Aasif Sultan recently completed three years in prison. Police claim he was arrested for his militancy links but his family and various journalist bodies have been protesting that he was targeted for his professional work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India|| BJP sacks its recalcitrant Bihar MLC Tunnaji Pandey||The BJP on Friday sacked its recalcitrant Bihar MLC Tunnaji Pandey whose utterances against chief minister and Janata Dal United leader Nitish Kumar were putting a strain on the tenuous relations between the two alliance partners. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal issued Pandey’s order of suspension, copies of which have been made available to the media, a day after the legislator was issued a showcause notice by disciplinary committee head Vinay Singh. Jaiswal has pulled up Pandey for having spoken “in violation of party discipline”, without making a specific mention of Nitish, and referred to the showcause notice. The action came after Pandey insisted on Thursday that he was stating a fact and, when asked about the party notice, remarked: “I will reply to it when I receive the same. At the most, the party can throw me out. I do not depend on the party for running my household.” The row started earlier this week with Pandey taking potshots at Nitish over gangster and former Siwan MP Muhammad Shahabuddin’s death from Covid-19 in Tihar jail in Delhi. “Shahabuddin’s body could have been brought to Siwan for burial if Nitish wanted to. Recently, the body of a Covid victim was brought to Bihar from Sikkim, but the body of Shahabuddin, who was a four-time MP and twice an MLA was disposed of in Delhi on the pretext of Covid protocol,” Pandey said. He further said that Shahabuddin was punished for speaking the truth about Nitish being “a chief minister of circumstances”. “It is true that Nitish is a chief minister of circumstances. Presently he is holding the post despite representing the third largest party, while previously he was the chief minister while his JDU was the second largest party in the state. I will never say Nitish Kumar zindabad. He is not fit to be our leader because he never contests polls,” Pandey said. A couple of days later he followed this up by tweeting that the public had chosen Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the chief minister “but Nitish ji is ruling today by misusing the government machinery”. Pandey also accused Nitish of being in nexus with the liquor mafia. “He (Nitish) indulged in a liquor scam in 2009I will get him sent to jail soon for this.” The two parties have been attacking each other intermittently since the Assembly elections held last year. The JDU accused the BJP of conniving with Chirag Paswan of the Lok Janshakti Party to ensure that Nitish’s party gets fewer seats. Pandey’s statements were enough to infuriate JDU leaders. The party’s parliamentary board chairman Upendra Kushwaha on Wednesday questioned the silence of the BJP state leadership on the issue. “This statement must have been reaching you Sanjay Jaiswal ji (Bihar BJP unit president). Had any JDU leader given such a statement about the BJP or any of its leader… then…,” Kushwaha tweeted. JDU MLC and spokesperson Sanjay Singh said: “He (Pandey) was a liquor trader. He has come into politics accidentally. People should not lose their nature and behaviour in politics. Nobody has taken birth who can send Nitish Kumar to jail because he has never indulged in corruption. Everybody knows that Pandey’s brother is an RJD MLA and he has been doing everything to help the Opposition party despite being in the BJP. We cannot tolerate anybody abusing our leader (Nitish). It is up to the BJP to take cognisance and action on the issue.” Pandey has always been surrounded by controversies. He was accused of eve-teasing while travelling in a train to Bihar and was arrested. Former minister Vikram Kunwar accused him recently of swindling public money by purchasing ambulances that normally cost around Rs 7 lakh each at Rs 22 lakh. Kunwar has written a letter to Nitish about the alleged scam in the purchase of ambulances and the chief minister’s office has sought a report on the issue. “Pandey was elected to the Legislative Council in 2015 and his six-year term is ending in July this year. He could be attacking Nitish in an attempt to get close to the Opposition parties and get a ticket for the upcoming elections to the upper House of the legislature,” a BJP leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. BJP spokesperson and former MLA Prem Ranjan Patel said: “The statements made by Pandey are his personal opinion. He has moved away from our party and is never called to our meetings. However, he has not been suspended from the party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Covid: AIIMS scan on infections after receiving vaccines||A study at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, of 63 so-called “breakthrough infections” among people who had received Covid-19 vaccines has noted high viral loads, stable disease but no deaths. The study that tracked the course of the disease in 63 Covid-19 patients who had turned up at the AIIMS emergency department is also the first to document breakthrough infections after Covaxin, the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, had been administered. Previous breakthrough infections in India had been reported among recipients of Covishield, the other vaccine currently used in the nationwide inoculation campaign. The patients were ill enough to approach the emergency department, but the disease did not worsen, their biomarkers were stable, and all of them survived, researchers at the AIIMS and the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology who conducted the study said. “The zero mortality observed in this set of breakthrough infections is fresh evidence for the protection available from vaccines,” a medical researcher at the institute told The Telegraph. Among the 63 patients, 53 had received Covaxin and 10 had received Covishield. The researchers have asserted that their study was not designed to measure any differences in breakthrough infections between the two vaccines. Twenty-four patients were healthcare workers at AIIMS, an institution that provides only Covaxin. Many others were local residents who might also have received their vaccines at AIIMS. Among the 63 patients, 36 had taken two doses, while 27 had taken a single dose. The researchers found that viral loads in the patients were high irrespective of the vaccination status or which vaccination they had received. Some patients also showed high counts of antibodies which, the researchers said, “puts in doubt the protection offered and the clinical relevance” of the antibody counts to immunity from Covid-19. Vaccine science specialists have underlined earlier that vaccinations do not work only through antibodies but are expected to generate other immune responses that can also fight the coronavirus. The AIIMS-IGIB study also genome sequenced coronavirus specimens available from 36 of the 63 breakthrough infections and found 23 (63 per cent) were the variant designated B.1.617.2. But the proportion of the variant among the samples from breakthrough infections was similar to its proportion in Covid-19 samples collected in Delhi during March and April. “The similar proportions tells us that B.1.617.2 is not turning up more frequently as breakthrough infections — its prevalence seems to be what we see in the general community,” a senior researcher said. Urvashi Singh, a clinical microbiologist at AIIMS, and Sridhar Sivasubbu, a scientist at IGIB, led the study that involved 18 others, including AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and IGIB scientist Vinod Scaria. The researchers posted their study on bioRxiv, an online server for preprints, on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Covid: Lost days, death fear fuel jab hesitancy in residents of Aligarh district village||Residents of a village in Aligarh district of Uttar Pradesh have refused to take the Covid-19 vaccine, the health department failing to convince them to take the shots for the third consecutive day on Friday. Eyewitnesses said while the men in Jeevangarh village refused to talk to reporters, the women said they have developed distrust for “certain things” and don’t want to “die”. “There are many people who contracted coronavirus after taking the first vaccine dose. We have heard that we need to stay at home for a few days after receiving the jab. This is not possible as we have to go out to work daily to feed our families. Also, we don’t want to die. Certain things have happened in Uttar Pradesh in recent weeks which have created a fear psychosis,” said Mehran Nisar, an agricultural worker, apparently alluding to hundreds of bodies seen floating in the Ganga. “Some villagers who had taken the first dose developed some infection and were admitted to hospital. They eventually died there. We don’t want to die,” Rukhsana Begum, another resident, told reporters. Earlier, the villagers of Nai Basti in Mathura had refused to take the vaccine. Out of a population of 1,500, only 20 have received the jab. Last week, around 1,000 out of 1,500 residents of Sisaura in Barabanki district had jumped into the Ghaghra river when a medical team reached there to administer the vaccine. Those who stayed back in the village were equally sceptical about taking the shot. Rajiv Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate of Barabanki, said: “So far 14 villagers have taken the vaccine. We are trying to make them understand the necessity of vaccination and hope that they will come around soon.” “Those who had jumped in the river realised later that we were not forcing them to go for vaccination. We were only trying to tell them the benefits of the vaccine,” added Shukla. State health minister Jai Pratap Singh said: “There maybe some people who have been misinformed by some politically motivated persons. However, we believe that people are slowly realising that vaccine is the only way to control the effect of the virus. We are continuing the (vaccination) drive and hope to complete 100 per cent vaccination in the next two months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Village refuses Covid vaccine, power supply goes off||Over 100 families of Chhibramau village in Kannauj district are living in darkness for the last three days because they didn’t want to get vaccinated against Covid-19. “A team from the health department had visited our village on Wednesday morning. They wanted the entire village to be vaccinated. However, around 40 per cent of the villagers refused to take the vaccine because they believed that their immunity level would go down for a few days and they might fall sick,” a villager, who didn’t want to be named, told reporters on Friday. The medical team called the sub-divisional magistrate and informed him about the resistance. “The SDM arrived in the village and tried to convince us to get vaccinated. When we kept refusing, he suddenly got furious and called the electricity department officials. They disconnected the power supply in our houses on the order of the officer,” the villager added. “Even on Friday, some officers came and asked us to get inoculated, failing which they would take legal action against us. We know that they cannot take any legal action, but the way they are threatening us is alarming,” Mahendra Singh, another villager, said. Gajendra Kumar, additional district magistrate of Kannauj, said: “Many villagers haven’t paid their power bills. The electricity department repeatedly served them notices, but they ignored them. This was the reason the electricity supply was discontinued in those houses. The connection would be restored as soon as they clear their dues.” He denied this had anything to do with vaccine hesitancy. “However we will also try to persuade the villagers to take the vaccine,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Covid: Reliance seeks nod to buy Johnson & Johnson’s jabs||The Reliance Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries, has sought the government’s authorisation to import 20 lakh doses of US-based Johnson & Johnson’s Covid-19 vaccine for captive consumption and to inoculate its workforce pan-India, sources said. “Reliance Foundation will import and receive the shipment of Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen Covid-19 vaccine from the USA with the purpose of captive consumption and to administer our entire workforce pan India. Import of this vaccine shall be administered within the organisation only and not at all for commercial purpose,” a source quoted the Reliance Foundation as having communicated to the health ministry. The Foundation may source additional quantities too, the company is learnt to have said. It may also explore the possibility of importing jabs from other vaccine producers for internal use only, the organisation has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
05-06-2021||India||Indian team returns as Dominica adjourns hearing on Choksi’s habeas corpus petition||India that had flown to Dominica to bring back Mehul Choksi, the diamantaire wanted in the Rs 13,500-crore Punjab National Bank scam, is headed back home on a Qatar Airways private jet after the island nation’s high court adjourned the hearing on his habeas corpus petition, sources said. A habeas corpus petition is filed for producing before a court a person who is under arrest or in unlawful detention. Publicly available flight data showed that the jet took off from Melville Hall airport in Dominica at 8.09pm (local time) on June 3 and was travelling towards Madrid, Spain. The multi-agency team of officials is on board, the sources said. The team led by CBI DIG Sharda Raut had been stationed in Dominica for nearly seven days to bring back Choksi, who is accused of defrauding the bank along with his diamantaire nephew Nirav Modi who is now in a London jail. On Thursday, Dominica High Court adjourned the hearing on Choksi’s habeas corpus petition. It is likely that the next hearing may take place after a month and the businessman will remain in Dominica, local media has reported. Judge Bernie Stephenson will decide the next date of hearing after meeting both sides, Antigua News Room said. The adjournment is to allow Choksi’s lawyers and the Dominica government “to agree on the language to be used with respect to the injunction filed to prevent his removal from Dominica”, the media outlet said. Thursday’s hearing was conducted through videoconferencing as a group of protesters stood outside the high court building in Roseau carrying placards with messages seeking to know the truth behind the controversy. “Who brought Choksi to Dominica?” read one of the placards, a photo of which was published by many media outlets. Choksi had gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen since he fled Delhi. He was detained in the neighbouring island country of Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade. His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen who appeared to be Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. The judge had on Wednesday ordered Choksi’s production before a magistrate to face charges of illegal entry into Dominica. The 62-year-old wheelchair-bound diamantaire, who has a pending Interpol Red Notice against him, arrived at Roseau Magistrate Court in black shorts and a blue T-shirt from Dominica-China Friendship Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment. His application for bail was rejected. Choksi and Nirav had fled India in the first week of January 2018, weeks before the PNB scam rocked the Indian banking industry. The duo had allegedly bribed officials of the government bank to get letters of undertaking (LoU) on the basis of which they availed themselves of loans from overseas banks that remained unpaid. Some bank officials allegedly did not enter these LoUs in the core banking software of PNB, thus evading scrutiny. The non-payment of the LoUs or bank guarantees worth Rs 13,500 crore resulted in default and became a liability on the bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||India||Delhi and Kerala: Two states, two contrasting battles with Covid||Covid-19 is a wake-up call for the government to reconsider its priorities and acknowledge that health care is the basic right of every citizen. I came to Kochi in Kerala on May 7 to attend a workshop on cinema and tested positive for the coronavirus four days later at Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital run by the state government. I was stunned and a cold fear gripped me. Many disturbing questions flashed across my mind. What will happen now? How will I manage the infection? What if my oxygen level falls, what if my condition deteriorates? Will I survive? What made me more anxious was what I had seen back home in Delhi, where I am a research student. The health infrastructure in the capital had collapsed under the weight of sharply increasing coronavirus infections. I did not have lakhs to spend on treatment, nor did I know anyone in Kerala who could arrange for oxygen or a hospital bed if the need arose. That was my biggest concern. I had spent four days at the workshop with 20-odd people and was scared to inform them, lest they got angry. Neither did I want to cause them any anxiety. I felt I would be responsible if anyone else caught the infection and landed in hospital or had to stay in quarantine. The doctor at the taluk hospital noticed that I was feeling uneasy and restless and asked me where I had put up. I told her I was staying at a hotel and was worried sick that I may have infected the others there. She calmed me down and assured me that I only had mild symptoms. She said I had nothing to worry and asked me to quarantine at the hotel. She told me to inform the persons with whom I had been in close proximity. She said I could either quarantine myself at the hotel or shift to the Covid ward of the government hospital where treatment would be free of cost. The organisers of the workshop suggested that I isolate myself at the hotel itself without thinking about the expenses. They also directed the hotel staff to give me food and medicines by maintaining physical distancing. The other workshop participants and staff were advised to quarantine for seven days. Right from Day 1, I began receiving calls from various departments of the Kerala government, enquiring about my health. They advised me to call up the emergency number if needed and told me not to leave my room. After seven days of quarantine, I tested negative but was advised to remain indoors. The entire process — from testing positive to returning to health — was so smooth and I did not have to spend a single rupee for my treatment. Meanwhile in Delhi the entire healthcare system had crumbled and the situation was even worse than when I had left. My family, friends and teachers advised me to stay on in Kerala to avoid complications. While in quarantine, bad news kept trickling in. On the third day of quarantine, my uncle passed away. The next day, Covid claimed a friend’s father. The tragedy had just about started to sink in when a friend in Delhi called me up to say that she had tested positive and was having difficulty breathing. We are a group of four friends and all of us were down with Covid. One was in Delhi, another in Patna and I in Kochi. We frantically worked the phone lines to try to arrange for a hospital bed for the friend who was having breathing problems. But no bed was available anywhere. We tried all possible means but failed. Then we tried to get her an oxygen cylinder at her home but these attempts also proved futile. Luckily, an old university friend who is a research scholar at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) helped us to get a hospital bed in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, 160km from Delhi. The next challenge was to arrange an ambulance with an oxygen cylinder. We got an ambulance around 4am. She set out for Aligarh, accompanied by our other Covid-positive friend in Delhi. He sat in the front seat, wearing a PPE kit. After she got admitted to the Aligarh hospital, the doctor said remdesivir would be needed. Thus began another battle. We got in touch with all sources but could not find the medicine anywhere. Finally, one of our friends could arrange two doses, which were administered urgently. My ailing friend’s father, 59 and vulnerable to the infection, arranged four more doses of remdesivir in Kashmir where he lives. He travelled to Aligarh, risking his own health. My friend survived and is stable now. We were not alone in our miseries. Thousands and thousands of others have been struggling everyday for hospital beds, oxygen, ambulance, remdesivir, and then if they are not as lucky, at crematoriums where too they have to wait in long queues for the last rites of their loved ones. To protect my sanity and mental health, I stopped watching news, kept off social media and decided to stay put in Kerala. I could avoid the horrific situation in Delhi, but my friends and family are suffering. Apart from the physical suffering, the mental suffering too is unfathomable. Worse, it is intangible. So now, instead of arranging for oxygen and remdesivir, which I cannot do alone from so far away, I am calling up my friends and family regularly and trying to spread some positive energy. In the coming months, Covid will take a heavy toll on our mental health also. This is my experience with Covid in two states. I am not returning home anytime soon. In Kerala, I will get proper medical care, or at least oxygen. Nehal Ahmed is a research scholar at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||India||Covid: Kerala finance minister announces Rs 20,000cr package||Kerala finance minister K.N. Balagopal announced a Covid stimulus package of Rs 20,000 crore in the revised budget presented on Friday. This is the second stimulus package after his predecessor T.M. Thomas Isaac announced a similar amount to tide over the first wave of the pandemic in March 2020. An amount of Rs 2,800 crore from the package would be spent on handling the health emergency, Rs 8,900 crore for providing monetary relief to those who lost their livelihood due to the pandemic and Rs 8,300 crore for providing loans and interest subsidy to people to overcome the crisis. The finance minister noted that there was a sense of hope when daily cases reduced to 3,110 and deaths to 19 when Isaac presented his full budget in February. But the second wave led to a spike in daily cases to 43,000 and deaths at 213 before they began to come down. Balagopal said one of the main objectives of the government was to provide free vaccines to as many people as possible before a third wave. “Some central policy decisions are still creating some impediments. But vaccines will be made available by solving them by any means,” the finance minister said. He set aside Rs 1,000 crore for providing free vaccines to everyone above 18 years of age, and another Rs 500 crore for purchasing medical equipment needed to fulfil the mission. Balagopal also proposed to enhance pediatric facilities in view of the scientific community’s warning that the third wave could impact children. In the first phase, Rs 25 crore would be spent on adding beds in existing pediatric ICUs. New pediatric ICUs would be developed in district hospitals and medical college hospitals. The budget set aside Rs 10 crore for the Institute of Advanced Virology to begin research on vaccines and explore the possibility of setting up vaccine manufacturing units in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||India||'Reckless' abandonment of old values led to Kerala BJP’s electoral failures , say veterans||A “reckless” abandonment of old values in the quest for easy success and a disconnect with the grassroots, even its own cadres, lie behind the Kerala BJP’s electoral failures and the scandals engulfing it, some party functionaries feel. A leaked audiotape has triggered accusations that Kerala BJP president K. Surendran bribed a Left ally to join the NDA, and an April 3 car robbery has left the state unit fighting allegations of using money power to influence the April 6 Assembly elections. However, BJP insiders who spoke to The Telegraph suggested the rot didn’t begin with the under-fire Surendran but stemmed from “systemic flaws” that had developed over several years. “None of this recklessness happened because of one individual named Surendran. The main reason is the systemic flaws arising from years of ignoring the old school values established by our veteran leaders,” a senior state BJP functionary, who declined to be named, told this newspaper. “Had they followed the path of the past leaders whose approach was based on an adequate outreach to the people and a connect with party workers, no (current) leader would have dared taken any such controversial decisions.” He was alluding to the allegations, which Surendran has denied but which have prompted questioning and infighting within the party, causing a state-level BJP official to be sacked and a party worker to be stabbed in a factional clash. Another BJP source argued that merely changing the state leadership would not help. “If not Surendran, someone like him will take over the reins, and that will solve nothing unless the system changes.” Asked what the reason for the “disconnect” was, the first source said the current leaders were “immersed” in social media. “They are immersed in Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter. They go by the massive following each of them enjoys on these platforms without realising that this doesn’t translate into votes or grassroots support,” he said. “Our leaders don’t answer or return calls from party workers and local functionaries. Party workers often call some of us seeking solutions to problems when the big leaders ignore them. We try to pacify them although there’s little we can do.” The source added: “Once we lose our relationship with the party workers, they lose the enthusiasm for grassroots work. It’s this disconnect with the workers that has led to this big defeat.” While the BJP lost the lone seat it had won in 2016, the NDA’s vote share shrank from 14.96 per cent to 12.4 per cent between the two state elections. The source attributed the top leaders’ failure to understand the pulse of the people to their lack of electoral experience. “Take Surendran, (national executive member) P.K. Krishnadas, (state organising general secretary) M. Ganeshan and the others close to them. None of them has even won an election to a cooperative bank,” he said. The second source said Krishnadas was planning moves to replace Surendran. “But I don’t think it would make any difference unless they imbibe some lessons from our veteran leaders who built the party in Kerala,” he said, alluding to leaders like P.P. Mukundan and C.K. Padmanabhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||India||Covid mishandling  and Bengal poll debacle  shake BJP top brass||The drubbing in the Bengal elections and its impact on national politics where Narendra Modi’s aura of invincibility has been sullied, coupled with the possibility of a third Covid wave on the back of a fierce second, appears to have shaken the top leadership of the RSS-BJP. The brass has been holding hectic parleys to take stock and prepare for impending challenges. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and nine other top leaders of the BJP’s ideological fountainhead are in the midst of a three-day informal meeting in Delhi to discuss, among other things, the “post-poll violence in Bengal” and a third pandemic wave in the aftermath of a second that has exposed the shortcomings of the Modi government like never before. BJP chief J.P. Nadda is scheduled to chair a session on Saturday and Sunday with party general secretaries, again to size up the emerging situation with special focus on preparations for the next round of Assembly polls. BJP leaders feel the Bengal elections, where Mamata Banerjee single-handedly took on and trounced the entire might of the BJP led by Modi and Amit Shah, has shattered the perception of the BJP being unbeatable, and careful planning is needed on all fronts. Before these two meetings, RSS and BJP leaders had separately and jointly held unscheduled discussions, signalling the jitters in the ruling camp. RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale first met BJP leaders in Delhi and then travelled to Lucknow, the headquarters of Uttar Pradesh where elections are due early next year, to get a feedback. Internally, party strategists feel the Bengal defeat, made worse by the extreme anger over the Centre’s mishandling of the second Covid wave, has severely dented the BJP’s image. Now if a third Covid wave sweeps the country, it could have a devastating impact on the party’s politics, apart from playing havoc with people’s lives and livelihood. Six states — Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and Gujarat — go to the polls in 2022. Barring Punjab, the BJP rules all the other states. While Uttar Pradesh is the cynosure of the elections to be held in the first half of 2022, Gujarat, Modi and Shah’s home state, will attract attention in the latter half of the year. BJP strategists feel the outcomes of the state polls in 2022, particularly in Uttar Pradesh, will set the tone of the country’s politics. Although RSS leaders claimed that Bhagwat’s three-day meeting had nothing to do with politics, at the same time they conceded that post-poll violence was top on the agenda of the discussions. “The post-poll situation in Bengal is very disturbing. It needs the attention of the country,” an RSS leader said. “We also need to prepare for a possible third wave of Covid, taking lessons from what the country faced recently.” The RSS-BJP had hurled itself with full force into the Bengal elections, turning it into a high-stakes battle in a state the saffron camp considers significant to its ideology. The outcome has come as a big blow, BJP leaders acknowledged. The BJP’s desperation has become all the more evident given the way the central government and the party have been trying to assert themselves in Bengal, through the governor and the investigative agencies, despite the rejection by the people. The RSS, too, has in a statement urged the Centre to intervene and “take all necessary steps” to ensure the Mamata government acts against those engaged in post-poll violence. The BJP had alleged that its cadres and voters were being targeted by Trinamul, also trying to give it a communal spin in keeping with its campaign tactics that bit the dust. As top RSS leaders met, a junior Union minister and a BJP spokesperson on Thursday held a virtual interaction with party cadres in Kerala over the post-poll violence in Bengal, trying to widen its drive. The main reason behind the continued push in Bengal and the disruptive tactics, according to BJP insiders, was the fear of losing leaders, cadres and even voters in the run-up to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. After the Bengal debacle, both the RSS and the BJP are worried about the Uttar Pradesh elections, fearing that the political fallout and the anger of the people over the government’s tackling of the pandemic could make the party vulnerable. “While the second coronavirus wave seems to be subsiding, we are worried about a third wave. Elections in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled in February-March and if the third wave strikes just before that, we could be in trouble,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
05-06-2021||India||Child chokes to death after hospital ‘refusal’  at Muzaffarpur ||An eight-year-old Dalit girl lost her life at Muzaffarpur Sadar Hospital in Bihar after the doctors there allegedly refused to attend her in the absence of a Covid-19 test report. The child — Radha Kumari — was choking after swallowing a litchi seed on Wednesday. Her father Sanjay Ram, of Raghunathpur Madhuban village under Kudhani block in Muzaffarpur district rushed her to the government hospital, but what happened was unimaginable for him. “She was choking after swallowing the litchi seed. I immediately took her to the local government hospital at Kudhani where the doctor referred her to Muzaffarpur Sadar Hospital. I rushed to the emergency facility there, but the doctors refused to treat her and asked me to bring her corona test report,” Sanjay alleged. “All my entreaties to the doctors went in vain. They said they would not touch her till her corona test report comes. They made me run from one counter to another for more than an hour with my daughter on my shoulder. By the time I got the report, she was no more,” an inconsolably weeping Sanjay told reporters. Though Sanjay returned to his village, his allegations raised questions of ethics, duty and responsibility of doctors in such a situation during the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Muzaffarpur civil surgeon S.K. Chaudhary termed the allegations serious and asserted that the primary duty for doctors posted at any hospital’s emergency was to save lives instead of focusing on various protocols. However, Chaudhary conducted a half-hearted enquiry, asserted that the child was already dead when she arrived at the hospital, and absolved the doctors of any negligence. “I called the two doctors posted in Muzaffarpur Sadar Hospital’s emergency on that day and conducted an enquiry in my chamber to know the truth about the incident. That patient’s name was not registered at the registration counter of the hospital,” Chaudhary told The Telegraph on Friday. However, he did not check whether any Covid test was done in the name of Radha at the hospital. He also did not check the CCTV footage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
