06-06-2021||India||Delhi govt asks private centres to keep Covaxin only for 2nd jabs||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
06-06-2021||India||Court rejects plea to produce Umar Khalid, Khalid Saifi in handcuffs||A court here turned down a plea of Delhi Police to produce former JNU student Umar Khalid and activist Khalid Saifi in handcuffs before trial courts, noting that they are not gangsters . The plea application which came up for hearing before Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav sought to produce the 2020 Delhi riots accused in handcuffs in both hands from back side , contending that they are high-risk prisoners . The judge dismissed the plea observing that it is devoid of merits and filed in a mechanical manner and without application of mind by the high echelons of the Delhi Police and prison authority. The accused persons, who are sought to be produced in fetters and handcuffs, are admittedly not previous convicts. They are not even gangsters, the Additional Sessions Judge stated in an order dated June 5. He further said that the plea is not required at this stage as the accused are not being produced in the court physically due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The judge also noted the replies submitted by the Superintendent of Mandoli and Tihar jail, Additional DCP (Special Cell) and DCP of third battalion of Delhi Police, on the plea. The DCP told the court that in the aftermath of an attempt made by armed assailants to free an undertrial prisoner at GTB Hospital, the police had decided to request the court for permission to handcuff high-risk prisoners who are prone to escape. As part of the exercise, the current application for handcuffing UTPs Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi was moved for the consideration of Hon'ble Court, the senior police officer stated in a reply submitted to the court on April 26. However, in the reply given by the Additional DCP of Special Cell, it was stated that no such application seeking to produce both the accused in handcuffs, was filed before any court or other authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||Central Vista revamp to raise green cover, 1,753 new trees to be transplanted||As many as 1,753 new trees will be transplanted and 2,000 tree saplings planted in the Central Vista area under the government's ambitious redevelopment plan, which will increase the overall green cover there, official sources said Sunday. They also said that as per the proposed plan, 3,230 trees will be moved out of the Central Vista area and transplanted to the NTPC Eco Park in Badarpur after obtaining necessary clearance from the Ministry of Environment & Forest, and a permission from the Forest Department. After all the transplantation and plantation, they said, the Central Vista area will have a net gain of 563 trees. One of the sources said, “1,753 new trees will be transplanted within the project sites and 2,000 new tree saplings are to be planted within Central Vista area.” The proposed plan also includes compensatory plantation that will ensure a substantial increase in the overall green cover of the national capital, the sources said. “A total of 36,083 tree (saplings) will be planted in the city and overall green cover will increase substantially, including 32,330 trees to be planted in the NTPC Eco Park in Badarpur as compensatory plantation,” an official source said. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The government has been facing criticism from the opposition for executing the Central Vista Redevelopment Project amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Slamming the opposition, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had on Monday said a false narrative is being created over the Central Vista redevelopment plan and asserted that it is not a “vanity project”, but a necessity. Under the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue which comprises Rajpath, leading from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, 48 trees are proposed to be transplanted and of them, permission has been granted for 25, including 22 Jamun trees, till date, sources said. However, no old tree planted as per Lutyen's original plan, including Jamun trees, is proposed to be transplanted, they said. Transplantation of the trees approved is in progress, they said. On Sunday, the government sought to bust “myths” around the Central Vista project, saying that all laid down procedures have been followed. “The cost for the PM's residential complex has been mischievously exaggerated in media. It is part of many projects, as mentioned earlier, whose neither the design has been approved nor the cost estimate or tendered cost has been firmed up," they said. Detailed environment impact assessment has been carried out for all the 10 Buildings under the Common Central Secretariat, Common Conferencing facility, Prime Minister's Residence, Prime Minister's Office and Vice President Enclave. “The Expert Appraisal Committee which is an independent body of field experts has examined this and recommended for clearance on May 2 this year. Environmental Clearance has been granted by MoEF&CC on May 31. “Therefore, these statements that piecemeal approach has been taken to surmise adverse impact of this project is unfound and totally false,” they said. The Congress has been asking the BJP-led Union government to shelve its plans on the central vista redevelopment project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure during the COVID-19 pandemic to save people's lives. The government said that all the paintings, sculptures, manuscripts, collections and other significant heritage and cultural artefacts that are presently housed at the National Museum, National Archives of India and Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) are carefully preserved. According to the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, the entire project will be carried out in a heritage-sensitive manner. The existing documents and artefacts will be moved to upgraded facilities, with modern infrastructure, to ensure their longevity, it has said. The entire exercise will be spearheaded and monitored by the Ministry of Culture, ensuring compliance to the heritage conservation guidelines. All the relevant heritage-sensitive approvals and clearances will be obtained from Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) before initiating the project, it has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||CSIR begins clinical trial of Niclosamide drug for Covid-19 treatment||The CSIR and Laxai Life Sciences Private Limited have initiated phase II clinical trials of anti-helminitic drug Niclosamide' for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, a statement said on Sunday. The trial is a multi-centric, randomised, open label clinical study to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Niclosamide for treating hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Niclosamide has been extensively used in the past for treating tapeworm infection in adults as well as children. The safety profile of this drug has been tested over time and has been found safe for human consumption at different dose levels, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) said. Ram Vishwakarma, advisor to Director General CSIR, pointed out that in a screen to identify drugs that can inhibit syncytia formation, Niclosamide was identified as a promising repurposed drug by a research group from King's College London, which collaborated in this project. The syncytia or fused cells observed in the lungs of patients with novel coronavirus infection probably result from the fusogenic activity of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and Niclosamide can inhibit this syncytia formation. Independently, a collaborative research between CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), Jammu and the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru had recently demonstrated that Niclosamide was also a potential SARS-CoV2 entry inhibitor, blocking the viral entry through pH dependent endocytic pathway. Given these two independent experimental studies, Niclosamide has now emerged as a promising drug candidate for clinical trial in Covid-19 patients. Srivari Chandrashekhar, director, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) Hyderabad highlighted that the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) is being made by Laxai Life Sciences based on improved technology developed at IICT and the lab is a partner in this important clinical trial which could provide cost effective therapeutic options for patients if the ongoing trial is successful. Ram Upadhayaya, CEO, Laxai Life Sciences noted that realising the potential of Niclosamide, efforts were initiated last year itself to undertake the clinical trials. Having received approval from drug regulators, the clinical trial has been initiated this week at different sites and is expected to be completed within 8-12 weeks, the CSIR said. Based on successful clinical evidence generated during the clinical trials in Indian studies, emergency use authorisation may be sought so that more treatment options are available to Covid-19 patients, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||Pregnant women should be vaccinated on priority, says report||Amid rising deaths of pregnant women due to Covid-19, a report has made a strong case for their vaccination on a priority basis. For Covid not to further aggravate the already heavy burden of maternal and under five mortality, there is a strong case for inclusion of pregnant women as a high priority group for vaccination, a report prepared by a group of doctors led by Yamini Sarwal of Delhi-based Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital said. "We recommend including Covid-19 vaccination in the routine protocol for antenatal care in all countries, particularly India and Indonesia, in view of their high dual burden," it said. Currently, either pregnant women are not included for vaccination, or the policies are ambiguous with the decision being often left to the woman, the report said. Evidence is emerging of the safety and efficacy of Covid vaccination, which along with benefits of passing on the protection to the newborn, call for including pregnant women in the high priority group for vaccination, it said. Observing that pregnant women are known to be at significantly higher risk for severe coronavirus-related complications compared with non-pregnant women, it said, the issue of protecting such women is critical. Vaccination has emerged as a reliable protective measure against severe Covid-19 infection, the report noted. Of the top 20 Covid affected countries, nine allow vaccination of pregnant women, of which two preferentially vaccinate them. In contrast, four of the 20 high under-five mortality countries allow vaccination of pregnant women, while none include them in the preferential group. India and Indonesia, with one fifth of the world's population, fall in both the groups but do not include pregnant women for vaccination. Many organisations have represented the government for inclusion of pregnant women for inoculation. Last month, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) moved the Supreme Court against the January 14 advisory of the Union government excluding pregnant and lactating women from vaccination. Arguing for prioritisation, the report said pregnant women experience more severe Covid-19 disease than non-pregnant women. They are more likely to require hospitalization, admission to ICU, receive invasive ventilation and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation when compared with non-pregnant women, it said, adding, there is a 70 per cent increased risk of death among symptomatic pregnant women as compared to non-pregnant ones. Women who get coronavirus infection while pregnant, experience a higher maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality, it added. Observing that Covid vaccination in pregnancy has dual benefits, it said, both the mother and newborn get antibodies which have been demonstrated in cord blood and breast milk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||Don't speak Malayalam, Delhi hospital tells nurses; revokes order after flak||Facing flak over a circular asking its nursing staff not to use Malayalam at work, the Delhi government-run G B Pant hospital on Sunday revoked the order and said strict action will be taken in the matter. The circular which was issued by the Nursing Superintendent, G B Pant Hospital, without any instructions or knowledge of the hospital administration and the Delhi government stands withdrawn with immediate effect, a new order issued by the Medical Director Dr Anil Agarwal read. "The matter is being investigated and strict action will follow," Dr Agarwal told PTI. The circular issued on Saturday read, "A complaint has been received regarding Malayalam language being used for communication in working places in GIPMER. Whereas maximum patients and colleagues do not know this language and feel helpless causing a lot of inconvenience. "So, it is directed to all nursing personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication. Otherwise, serious action will be taken," it had said. An official of the G B Pant nurses' association said there are around 850 nurses working at the hospital, of which around 400 are Malayali. The association's president, Liladhar Ramchandani, claimed the circular was issued based on a complaint sent by a patient to a senior officer in the health department, regarding use of Malayalam language at the hospital, while adding that "the union disagrees with the wordings used in the circular". The circular invited criticism from the medical fraternity, political leaders and the public. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called for stopping language discrimination. Party leader Shashi Tharoor said that the order was unacceptable, crude, offensive and a violation of the basic human rights of Indian citizens . Last year, the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences had also issued an order advising staff that regional languages should not be spoken in its premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||Rahul: BJP busy fighting for blue ticks, people must be self-reliant for vaccines||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a swipe at the Modi government, saying it is fighting for a blue tick while leaving people to become "aatmanirbhar" (self-reliant) to get Covid vaccines. Gandhi's remarks came a day after outrage over the removal of the 'blue tick' badge from the personal accounts of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and RSS top functionaries, including Mohan Bhagwat, by Twitter, only to restore it later. "The Modi government is fighting for the blue tick. If you want a Covid vaccine, then be self-reliant," he said in a sarcastic tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "#Priorities". Taking a dig at Gandhi, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said doing politics on Twitter is his (Gandhi's) "most important subject" and "biggest platform". Patra asserted that the Modi government has done an admirable job in spearheading such a big inoculation programme and providing free ration to the poor. Hitting back at the Congress leader, the BJP said he should get out of social media and work on the ground. The party also asked him to speak to chief ministers of Congress-ruled states regarding alleged scams and irregularities in the Covid vaccination programme there. Meanwhile, the former Congress president also talked about stopping language discrimination after a Delhi government hospital asked its nurses not to converse in Malayalam. The hospital order has been revoked. "Malayalam is as Indian as any other Indian language. Stop language discrimination," Gandhi said in another tweet. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also shared the concern and posted the order of the Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research warning the nursing personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication, else serious action will be taken. "This order is a violation of the basic values of our country. It is racist, discriminatory and utterly wrong," she said in a tweet in Malayalam, saying Malayali nurses are risking their lives in Covid times to save people. "This order is also an insult. We owe them a debt of gratitude and respect. It should be withdrawn as soon as possible and an apology should be published," she demanded. In another tweet, Priyanka alleged that the Modi government reduced oxygen beds by 36 per cent, ICU beds by 46 per cent, ventilator beds by 28 per cent between September 2020 and January 2021. "Is the health of Indian citizens less important than the Central Vista project?" she asked, alleging that the government has declared the project as an essential service with people working day and night to complete it by 2023. "When every expert in the country, the Parliamentary Committee on Health and their own sero-surveys warned them that additional beds would be needed for an inevitable second wave," she said as part of her 'ZimmedarKaun' (Who is responsible) campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||BJP’s UP in-charge meets governor amid reports of cabinet reshuffle||BJP national vice-president and Uttar Pradesh in-charge Radha Mohan Singh on Sunday dismissed the possibility of a cabinet reshuffle in the Yogi Adityanath government. His remarks came after a meeting with Governor Anandiben Patel here, which he described as a formality. Asked about the possibility of a reshuffle in Uttar Pradesh, Singh told reporters "there is nothing as such". "After becoming the (party's) in-charge of UP, I have not met the Governor. When she was the chief minister (of Gujarat), I was the Agriculture minister, I had an old association with Gujarat. Since, I could not meet her in the past six months, hence I met her today. This was a personal meeting and a formality," Singh said. Praising Adityanath, he said, “Everyone believes in his mettle. Everyone knows that he has done the work of Corona recently.” He said the Uttar Pradesh government and the organisation are moving very strongly. "The strongest organisation and most popular government are working in UP," Singh said. Ironically, there had been reports of despair and helplessness and widespread criticism of the Adityanath government over its tackling of the pandemic that had apparently prompted the central leadership to rush BJP national secretary B.L. Santhosh and former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh to Uttar Pradesh for the stock-taking exercise. Reports of the central leadership mulling a reshuffle were also doing rounds. Several of the BJP’s own ministers and MLAs have been resentful of the administration’s handling of the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||India had over 9.2 lakh severely acute malnourished children till November: RTI||More than 9.2 lakh children in India are ‘severely acute malnourished', with the most in Uttar Pradesh followed by Bihar, according to government data, underscoring concerns that the Covid pandemic could exacerbate the health and nutrition crisis among the poorest of the poor. An estimated 9,27,606 ‘severely acute malnourished' children from six months to six years were identified across the country till November last year, the Women and Child Development Ministry said in response to an RTI query from PTI. Of these, Uttar Pradesh counted for 3,98,359 and Bihar 2,79,427, according to the figures shared by the ministry. Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Nagaland, Manipur and Madhya Pradesh reported no severely malnourished children. Except for Ladakh, none of the anganwadi centres in the other four, including Madhya Pradesh, one of India's largest states, reported any data on the matter, according to the RTI reply. The World Health Organisation (WHO) defines ‘severe acute malnutrition' (SAM) by very low weight-for-height or a mid-upper arm circumference less than 115 mm, or by the presence of nutritional oedema. Children suffering from SAM have very low weight for their height, and are nine times more likely to die in case of diseases due to their weakened immune system. The Women and Child Development Ministry had last year asked all states and union territories to identify SAM children for their early referral to hospitals. The figure of 9,27,606 came following that exercise. The worry is that the numbers could not just be an underestimation but also rise in view of the ongoing pandemic with fears that the third wave could impact children more than others. "There is rise in unemployment, there is rise in an economic crisis which is bound to have repercussions on hunger and when there is hunger there will be malnutrition. The government has a clear cut protocol and they need to ramp that up," Enakshi Ganguly, co-founder of the HAQ Center for Child Rights, told PTI. While Uttar Pradesh and Bihar top the list for SAM children, they are also home to the highest number of children in the country. According to 2011 census data, Uttar Pradesh has 2,97,28,235 (2.97 crore/29.72 million) children aged 0-6 years while Bihar has 1,85,82,229 (1.85 crore/18.5 million). According to the RTI response, Maharashtra reported 70,665 SAM children followed by Gujarat at 45,749, Chhattisgarh at 37,249, Odisha at 15,595, Tamil Nadu at 12,489, Jharkhand at 12,059, Andhra Pradesh at 11,201, Telangana at 9,045, Assam at 7,218, Karnataka at 6,899, Kerala at 6,188 and Rajasthan at 5,732. The identification of SAM children was done by over 10 lakh Anganwadi centres from across the country. Ganguly stressed on the role of anganwadi centres in helping improve the nutrition status of the children. "The anganwadis have to become much more functional and if the possibility of children reaching anganwadis is going to become hard because of lockdowns, then the anganwadis need to reach the children. So what are the plans for that? she asked. Malnutrition will be a huge comorbidity if what they are saying that children will be affected more in the next wave holds true, then malnutrition will be a huge comorbidity and how are they going to address that?" Dola Mohapatra, executive director, Rise Against Hunger India, agreed that COVID-19 could further exacerbate the situation with shrinking food diversity and low intake combined with episodes of missing food at times. He said solutions have to be both home-based care and facility-based care. "Since SAM has direct connection with food availability, utilisation and awareness the immediate task is to appropriately build linkages with the government systems to ensure families receive not just ration/food, but required education and support," he said. COVID-19 has been a big impediment in organising community based interventions, so new ways/methods to disseminate info to the mothers and caregivers have to be found out," he said. Mohapatra also stressed on the need to strengthen Nutrition Rehabilitation Centres (NRCs) which are meant to treat SAM cases "There are studies that suggest that NRCs have not been very effective. In many cases, we have seen that SAM cases have been discharged early because either the centre could not continue to keep the same case for a continued period, or the caregivers could not stay for a longer duration at the facility, or there was simply not enough supervision by the higher ups." He also stressed on the need for designing customised menus in consultation with experts for SAM cases and formulating guidelines. For administrative and operational convenience, as well as for better accountability, SAM cases could be segregated into smaller units and responsibility to manage/coordinate and monitor smaller units could be handed over to independent entities such as medical colleges, local NGOs, women's collectives under the overall guidance of the District/Block health staff," Mohapatra said. While data is not updated year on year, the last available figure of SAM children is from NFHS-4 (National Family Health Survey) in 2015-16 according to which, the prevalence of severe acute malnutrition among children was reported at 7.4 per cent. NFHS-4 gathered information from 601,509 households, 699,686 women, and 112,122 men. Information on 265,653 children below age 5 has been collected in the survey NFHS-5, released in December last year, which gave figures for 22 states and UTs also presented a grim scenario. It said malnutrition increased among children in 2019-20 from 2015-16 in 22 states and UTs. Around 13 states and UTs out of the 22 surveyed recorded a rise in percentage of children under five years who are stunted in comparison to 2015-16; 12 states and UTs recorded a rise in percentage of children under five years who are wasted; 16 states and UTs recorded a rise in the percentage of children under five years who are severely wasted and underweight in 2019-20. The NFHS-5 was conducted on 6.1 lakh sample households. Wasting is low weight for their height among children, reflecting acute undernutrition. Wasting is a strong predictor of mortality among children under five years of age. To tackle high persistence of malnutrition in the country, the Centre launched the Poshan Abhiyan programme in 2018 to reduce low birth weight, stunting and undernutrition and anaemia among children, adolescent girls and women. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||Kejriwal: If pizza can be delivered, why not ration?||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why the doorstep ration delivery scheme by his government was stalled by the Centre and appealed to him to allow its implementation in the national interest. He said the scheme should be implemented across the country in view of Covid-19 otherwise ration shops will act as super-spreaders. "If pizza, burgers, smartphones and clothes can be delivered at home, then why can't ration be delivered at their doorstep," Kejriwal asked. He alleged that the Centre was fighting with everyone, including Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra, Delhi and Jharkhand governments, farmers and the people of Lakhsadweep. "People are distressed that the central government is fighting everyone. If we fight like this, how will we tackle Covid-19, the chief minister said in an online briefing. "The Delhi government did not require the Centre's approval for the implementation of the scheme, but it sought permission five times to avoid any dispute," Kejriwal said. The Delhi government on Saturday had claimed the doorstep delivery of ration scheme was rejected by the Lt governor saying the Centre's approval was not sought and that a litigation was pending in the high court regarding it. He said the scheme would have finished the powerful ration mafia in Delhi. "If you stand with the ration mafia, who will stand with the poor people" the chief minister said, adding that the scheme was intended to benefit 72 lakh people in the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||Labour codes likely to see the light of day in two months||The four labour codes are likely to see the light of day in a couple of months as the Centre is now keen to go ahead with the implementation of these laws, which among others will result in reduction in take-home pay of employees and higher provident fund liability of companies. Once the wages code comes into force, there will be significant changes in the way basic pay and provident fund of employees are calculated. The labour ministry had envisaged implementing the four codes on industrial relations, wages, social security and occupational health safety & working conditions from April 1, 2021. These four labour codes will rationalise 44 central labour laws. The ministry had even finalised the rules under the four codes. But these could not be implemented because many states were not in a position to notify rules under these codes in their jurisdiction. Labour is a concurrent subject under the Constitution of India and therefore both the Centre and states have to notify rules under these four codes to make them the laws of the land in their respective jurisdictions. "Many major states have not finalised the rules under four codes. Some states are in the process of finalising rules for the implementation of these laws. Central government cannot wait forever for states to firm up rules under these codes. Therefore it is planning to implement these codes in a couple of months as some time would have to be given to establishments or firms to align with new laws," a source told PTI. According to the source, some states had already circulated the draft rules. These states are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Punjab, Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttarakhand. Under the new wages code, allowances are capped at 50 per cent. This means half of the gross pay of an employee would be basic wages. Provident fund contribution is calculated as a percentage of the basic wage, which includes basic pay and dearness allowance. The employers have been splitting wages into numerous allowances to keep basic wages low to reduce provident fund and income tax outgo. The new wages code provides for provident fund contribution as a prescribed proportion of 50 per cent of gross pay. After the implementation of new codes, the take-home pay of employees would reduce while provident fund liability of employers would increase in many cases. Once implemented, employers would have to restructure the salaries of their employees as per the new code on wages. Besides, the new industrial relation code would also improve ease of doing business by allowing firms with up to 300 workers to go ahead with lay-offs, retrenchment and closure without government permission. At present all firms with up to 100 employees are exempted from government permission for lay-off, retrenchment and closure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
06-06-2021||India||Have we really gone Green?||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||India records 1.14lakh new Covid cases, lowest in 60 days||India reported 1,14,460 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 60 days, while the daily positivity rate further dropped to 5.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 2,88,09,339. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,46,759 with 2,677 daily deaths, the lowest after around 42 days, while the active cases dropped below 15 lakh, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 96,982 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on April 6. Also, 20,36,311 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 36,47,46,522, while the daily positivity has further declined to 5.62 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for 13 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 6.54 per cent. The active cases have reduced to 14,77,799 comprising 5.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.67 per cent. A net decline of 77,449 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber the daily new cases for 24 consecutive days.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,69,84,781, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.20 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Defense ministry appoints monitors for Pakistan and China border projects||The defence ministry has appointed two independent external monitors for the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and Military Engineering Services (MES) to oversee the ongoing infrastructure projects along the Pakistan and China borders. The move comes amid China’s objections to India building strategic roads along the Line of Actual Control, which has triggered a standoff between their armies in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Both countries have since then been aggressively deploying men and machines along the frontier. The ongoing border infrastructure projects are key to India’s deployment of forces. Former Intelligence Bureau chief Rajiv Jain and former chief information commissioner Sudhir Bhargava are the external monitors who will for three years oversee the functioning of the BRO and the MES. The BRO is a military outfit that builds and maintains roads along India’s frontiers. The MES is an inter-services organisation that has army and civil components and deals mainly with construction. China particularly wants India to stop building the 250km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road that connects Leh to the Karakoram Pass. This road runs parallel to the LAC, meandering through elevations ranging between 14,000 feet and 16,000 feet. Its strategic significance is that it connects Leh to Daulat Beg Oldie at the base of the Karakoram Pass, which separates China’s Xinjiang Autonomous Region from Ladakh. Completion of the border roads will ensure faster deployment of Indian troops in the region. India and China have both ramped up strategic reserves in their rear bases near the frontier by rushing in artillery, infantry combat vehicles and military equipment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Odd-even reopen plan for Delhi malls and liquor shops ||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that malls and liquor shops would open on an odd-even basis and the Delhi Metro would resume services with 50 per cent capacity from Monday. In a webcast on Saturday, Kejriwal said: “All markets and malls will be opened up on an odd-even basis — half the shops will be operational on one day and the other half the following day. This will be from 10am to 8pm, based on the shop numbers... Delhi Metro will become operational with a 50 per cent capacity.” Delhi Metro said it would be able to return to the pre-lockdown frequency of trains by Wednesday. A clarification issued by the government after the chief minister’s webcast specified that liquor shops would also be allowed to function on odd-even basis. However, theatres, restaurants and bars, gyms, spas, hair and beauty parlours, and shops selling entertainment or amusement products would remain shut. “All private offices can be opened up at 50 per cent manpower. But efforts should be made to ensure that more people should work from home. Private offices should make attempts to stagger their work hours so that not everyone should come out at the same time,” the chief minister added. The Delhi government slammed the Centre for disallowing its scheme to deliver ration to the doorstep citing litigation. However, the Migrant Workers Solidarity Network wrote to Kejriwal on Saturday that even distribution of ration at designated centres to those without rations cards — as relief for loss of employment — was happening with arbitrary caps on the amount of grain given. It also complained against insistence on Aadhaar cards and OTPs in violation of court guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India|| 50-year-old man shot dead by cow vigilantes in Mathura||A man was shot dead after a village mob in Mathura attacked him and his seven associates, alleging they were cattle smugglers ferrying stolen cows in their truck for slaughter. While Mohammad Shera, 50, joined the list of the dozens lynched by cow vigilantes in the past few years, his injured and hospitalised associates have denied the cows were for slaughter. They said they had bought the six cows from farmers in Hathras and were travelling to Haryana on Friday to sell them when a mob stopped their truck in Tumaula village, pulled them out and began thrashing them. Pramod Panwar, inspector in charge of the local Kosikalan police station, said the matter was being investigated but did not hesitate to label the victims as cow smugglers. He also backed the villagers’ claim that the men on the truck had fired at them on being stopped, an allegation the injured victims have denied. A PTI report spoke of firearms having been seized from the spot without specifying who they belonged to. Panwar, however, accepted that an “unidentified villager” had fired and killed Shera, and said the police were trying to identify him. Villagers said residents of neighbouring Jawa and Tumaula had gathered on the highway after one of them was “tipped off about cow smugglers travelling on a truck”. It wasn’t clear who exactly was “tipped off” or by whom. All the attackers have been labelled “unidentified” in the statement the police have recorded from Shera’s son Shahrukh, one of the injured. It reads: “Unidentified villagers stopped the truck, pulled us out and thrashed us mercilessly. They opened fire when we tried to escape.” Rahman, another injured, told reporters from his hospital bed on Saturday that the victims had managed to get back onto the truck during the assault and tried to drive away, with Shera at the wheel. “Someone fired at Shera and the truck tipped over. Shera died on the spot.” The police have also recorded a statement from Chandrashekhar, a sadhu from nearby Nandgaon who claimed to have been at the spot and to whose cowshed the villagers have handed over the six cows. Chandrashekhar has said that when the villagers stopped the truck, “someone fired at them” and that “when the truck jumped off the road, a stray bullet hit Shera and he died there”. Six of Shera’s companions were admitted to a hospital in Mathura city. The injured have been identified as Shahrukh, Rahman, Shahzada, Anis, Kadim and Sonu. Panwar said the police had registered cases of cow smuggling and firing against the truck occupants, a murder case against an unidentified villager, and assault cases against two dozen unidentified villagers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Internecine strife in Punjab Congress unit bares lack of crisis management system||Punjab, which the Congress hopes to retain in elections early next year, has been dogged by internecine strife that has exposed the lack of a crisis management system in a party that has not been able to resolve its leadership issue since Rahul Gandhi relinquished office two years ago. While the discord in Punjab has erupted now because of the impending Assembly elections, most state Congress units have been in ferment, desperately waiting for corrective measures instead of preparing for political battles. While nobody — neither the entrenched veterans nor the middle-rung leaders — is ready to accept the young Anil Chaudhary’s leadership in Delhi, most senior leaders are awaiting the removal of Ajay Kumar Lallu as state president in election-bound Uttar Pradesh. Many other state Congress units are grappling with similar internal feuds: while veterans aren’t happy with state chief Amit Chavda in Gujarat, the young Hardik Patel, appointed working president last year, is feeling restive because there apparently is no freedom to work. Deep distrust between state president Kumari Selja and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda is an open secret in Haryana. The Bihar unit is almost defunct under Madan Mohan Jha, while newly appointed Maharashtra chief Nana Patole has left the entire Congress leadership in the state unhappy. Kerala, where the Congress recently lost the Assembly elections primarily because of a protracted internal feud, witnessed another burst of discontent when senior leader Ramesh Chennithala wrote to party president Sonia Gandhi over how humiliated he had felt by the manner in which V.D. Satheesan was appointed leader of the Opposition. In Karnataka, despite the dynamic D.K. Shivakumar taking over the party’s reins, the unhappiness of former chief minister Siddaramaiah is known to all. While factionalism and dissent aren’t new in the Congress, what has accentuated the sense of frustration is the absence of a crisis-management mechanism. State leaders don’t know who to talk to in the high command structure after the demise of Ahmed Patel and there is no way to convey their feelings to Sonia directly. Rahul doesn’t get directly involved in organisational matters on the ground that he is no longer the party president. The general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, is not perceived by cadres as someone interested in organisational issues. When Punjab was threatening to slip out of hand, with chief minister Amarinder Singh and dissenter Navjot Singh Sidhu sniping at each other publicly, Sonia constituted a committee of senior leaders to resolve the crisis. While the intervention should have been made six months ago, which would have prevented the ugly spectacle of intra-party warfare before elections, what is more disturbing is that many leaders believe the situation reached such a pass because Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lent their weight behind Sidhu, seen as a trouble-maker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Retired bureaucrats seek withdrawal of overbearing reforms in Lakshadweep||Over 90 retired bureaucrats have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the immediate withdrawal of the overbearing reforms in Lakshadweep and the appointment of a “full-time, people-sensitive and responsible administrator”. In a long memorandum, the retired bureaucrats from the Constitutional Conduct Group on Saturday registered their concern at the disturbing developments in the isles off the Kerala coast. Referring to the slew of draft laws brought after Praful Khoda Patel, the administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, took additional charge of Lakshadweep, the memorandum noted they were all part of a “larger agenda”. “It is clear that each of these draft regulations is part of a larger agenda that is against the ethos and interests of the islands and islanders,” the 93 signatories stated. “Taken together, the actions and far-reaching proposals of the administrator, without due consultation with the islanders, constitute an onslaught on the very fabric of Lakshadweep society, economy and landscape as if the islands were just a piece of real estate for tourists and tourism investors from the outside world.” Among the signatories are former foreign secretary and national security adviser Shivshankar Menon, former adviser to the Prime Minister T.K.A. Nair, former Bengal special secretary Gopalan Balagopal, former cabinet secretariat special secretaries Vappala Balachandran and Rana Banerji, and retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro. Among the contentious decisions of Patel are a move to ban beef, a crackdown on dissent, a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants, a drive against non-vegetarianism and destruction of the fishing infrastructure — all of which have sparked fears of Lakshadweep being turned into “another Kashmir” through repression and intimidation. The retired bureaucrats cited the draft laws that are pending with the Centre, such as the Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR), Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (or Goonda Act) and the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation (LAPR). They have also referred to the amendment to the Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation. The administration has already removed beef from school mid-day meals, brought draft laws to take over any resident’s land for development projects and closed down two dairy farms. The Goonda Act empowers police to detain anyone for a year without trial.  The administration has claimed it is only trying to usher in more tourism by modelling the isles on the Maldives. “Claiming that there has been no development in Lakshadweep for the past 70 years, the LDAR reflects a model of land and tourism development which includes resorts, hotels and beachfronts on the ‘Maldives model’ unmindful of the differences between the two island groups in size, population, number of islands and their spread,” the Constitutional Conduct letter said. Pointing out that the crime rate in Lakshadweep was very low, they came down heavily on the Goonda Act and stated that it had “generated fears that the real purpose of the regulation is to smother dissent or protests against the policies and actions of the administrator or on any other issue”. “Other regulations proposed by the administrator target food and dietary habits and religious injunctions of the local islanders, 96.5 per cent of whom are Muslims,” the letter added. “Each of these measures smacks not of development but of alien and arbitrary policy making, in violation of established practices that respect the environment and society of Lakshadweep,” the signatories alleged. The Lakshadweep administration has ordered that all fishing boats have a government official on board to monitor their crew and gather intelligence. The department of ports, shipping and aviation of the Lakshadweep administration issued the new guidelines on Wednesday. “This is a baffling decision. I am unable to see any logic in ordering that each fishing vessel have a government official on board,” Lakshadweep district panchayat member Thaha Malika of the Congress, who is also the chairman of the local body’s standing committee on fisheries, told The Telegraph on Saturday. “Fishing boats set sail between 3am and 5am and return only around 5pm. I wonder how government servants would be able to board them so early in the day when their duty hours begin at 10am,” Malika said. Kavaratti district panchayat member Asif Ali of the Nationalist Congress Party said the authorities were “trying to portray us as terrorists and give an impression to the outside world that something very dangerous is going on here”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Researchers document breakthrough infection after vaccination with Covishield||India’s largest yet data analysis of the so-called breakthrough infections after inoculation with Covishield has found that 16 in every 1,000 fully vaccinated healthcare workers developed Covid-19 infections, about threefold the incidence observed in a US study after Pfizer or Moderna doses. A team of doctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has documented 48 Covid-19 infections among 3,000 healthcare workers who had completed two weeks after both doses of Covishield before they tested Covid-positive. “The incidence of breakthrough infection was 1.6 per cent, the median time from receipt of the second dose to the breakthrough infection was 29.5 days,” Venkatamaha Laksmi Pinnaka and his colleagues at PGIMER wrote in their report in The New England Journal of Medicine. Medical researchers caution that the incidence of breakthrough infections among healthcare workers cannot be extrapolated to the general public because the former are more likely to be exposed to the infection and make up a vulnerable population group. The PGIMER study, however, is being viewed as significant because it followed up over 7,170 healthcare workers who had received the first dose of the vaccine and 3,650 who had received the second dose since the start of the nationwide vaccination campaign that began in January. The doctors found that 184 (2.6 per cent) among the 7,170 were infected after the first dose, and 72 (2 per cent) among the 3,650 were infected after the second dose, of whom 48 (1.6 per cent) were among the 3,000 who had completed two weeks after the second dose. Earlier observations of breakthrough infections in India had involved smaller samples. A hospital in Delhi had, for instance, last month counted 15 breakthrough infections among 113 vaccinated healthcare workers. Experts say the larger the samples, the greater the statistical reliability of the results. A study at the Rockefeller University in New York had detected breakthrough infections in two (0.05 per cent) of 417 healthcare workers who had been fully vaccinated with either the Pfizer or the Moderna vaccines at least two weeks earlier. The study from India’s PGIMER and other efforts to gather additional data “provide important contributions regarding risk (of breakthrough infections)”, Robert Darnell and his colleagues at the Rockefeller University said, responding to the Chandigarh-based institute’s findings in the journal. But doctors have cautioned that breakthrough infections do not distinguish between vaccine failure and infections after successful immune responses produced by the vaccination. It will be “especially important” to combine data on breakthrough infections with the course of the infection and disease outcomes in the patients, they said. Studies on small samples of breakthrough infections in two Delhi hospitals have observed moderate and severe disease but no deaths. But anecdotal accounts have recorded deaths among healthcare workers after two doses. Medical researchers believe there is an urgent need to expand studies on breakthrough infections in relation to coronavirus variants amid evidence that a widely circulating variant, designated B.1.617, appears likelier to cause post-vaccination infections than other circulating variants. A joint study of 27 breakthrough infections by the National Centre for Disease Control and the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi had found that 19 had been infected by the B.1.617.2 variant and two had been infected by the B.1.617.1 variant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||KVS asks Class XII students to thank PM for cancelling board exams||Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) authorities have asked their schools in at least two regions to get their Class XII students to tweet video messages under the hashtag “Thank You Modi Sir” for cancelling their board exams, several principals and teachers have said. A number of academics said the move would have undermined the dignity of the schools and the teachers, who had to pass on the diktat to the students, and amounted to schoolchildren being used for political propaganda. A senior official at a private school in Delhi said this was an attempt to burnish Modi’s image amid the criticism over the mismanagement of the Covid crisis. When the Nazis ruled Germany, the ministry of public enlightenment and propaganda had exercised control over schools, too. While the nudge from the KVS came “unofficially” in a WhatsApp message, several teachers emphasised that the schools had no choice but to obey. The principals of the 51 Kendriya Vidyalayas in the Bangalore region — which covers the whole of Karnataka — received the WhatsApp message on Thursday from the deputy commissioner for the region, Sirimala Sambana. “All principal (sic) Bangalore region. Please send at least 5 videos of hashtag/ retweet by your students ‘Thank You Modi Sir’ by 4pm today (Thursday) for onward transmission to… hq,” the message attributed to “DC Bangalore” said. “Please share among teacher/ students, if not shared immediately, and get at least 5 videos,” the message added. A principal and two teachers independently confirmed that they had received the message. A June 1 meeting chaired by Modi had scrapped the CBSE Class XII exams. A KVS official said a similar message had been sent to the principals of the Ernakulam region, which covers Kerala and has 39 Kendriya Vidyalayas. A video message from a student in Kerala under the hashtag “Thank You Modi Sir” said: “I… wish to express my sincere gratitude to our honourable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for relieving lakhs of students from the entire country from the uncertainty regarding the Class XII board examinations 2021. Covid 19 has definitely disturbed many families and lakhs of students have gone through harrowing times. This decision of our honourable Prime Minister has definitely come as a healing touch to the entire student community. Thank you, Sir, and a big salute to you.” The KVS official said the Union education ministry had unofficially prodded the KVS to get its students to post such tweets. The central government-funded KVS has 25 regions and runs over 1,200 schools in the country and three abroad. An email this newspaper sent to the education ministry on Friday, and another to KVS Commissioner Nidhi Pandey on Saturday, have brought no response. Calls from this newspaper to Sambana went unanswered. Several Bangalore principals passed on the “DC’s” message to the class teachers immediately, sources said. The teachers put out the message in their students’ official WhatsApp groups, which have the class teacher as the administrator. “Many teachers also phoned the students and asked them to post the tweet,” a teacher at a Bangalore Kendriya Vidyala said. The teacher said: “The students follow whatever their class teacher says without any questioning. They began tweeting and the screenshots of the tweets were forwarded by the schools to the KVS regional office for further transmission.” While Sambana’s message spoke of “at least five videos”, the schools asked every Class XII student to tweet a written message or a video, sources said. Each section of a class at a Kendriya Vidyalaya tends to have about 40 students. Assuming a school has two sections per class on an average, some 4,000 students from the 51 schools in the Bangalore region would have been expected by their teachers and principals to post the tweets thanking Modi. Educationist Anita Rampal, former dean of Delhi University’s faculty of education, said: “It’s unfortunate that the autonomy of institutions and teachers and their dignity is being undermined to the point of making them sycophants of politicians.” She added: “What will the students learn from this? One wonders what respect they will carry for their institutions and leaders.” The senior official from the Delhi private school said the Class XII exams would have had to be cancelled anyway because of the Covid situation, and that the Twitter campaign was just an attempt to build hype around Modi. “There was no other choice but to cancel the exam. The board should have taken this decision earlier,” the official said. “But now the government is using social media platforms to manufacture popularity for the Prime Minister, who has been facing criticism over his handling of the Covid crisis.” A Kendriya Vidyalaya principal in Bangalore said that over the past few years, the KVS had been sending official communications to the schools asking students to participate in government programmes such as Swachh Bharat. Another such programme is the Pariksha Pe Charcha, an interactive session the Prime Minister holds with students annually to discuss exam stress. This year’s programme was held online in April. “As a government employee, you have very little choice, frankly,” the principal said. An academic in Delhi who did not wish to be quoted said the latest KVS move reflected an attempt to please the Prime Minister. “The education minister and other ministers are busy tweeting more and more because the Prime Minister follows Twitter. This is being done to please the Prime Minister. The autonomous institutions are being brought into this too,” the academic said. Last year, the education ministry --- then known as the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) --- had asked each IIT to prepare a presentation on its Covid-related research. Saying that HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal would post a tweet on the basis of the presentations, the ministry verbally suggested that all the IIT teachers re-tweet it. This was officially communicated by the IIT Bhubaneswar PRO to institute staff. “The MHRD wants maximum momentum to HRD minister’s tweets and has asked that from our institute end, all the deans, heads of schools including all the faculty members and all students to re-tweet the same tweet from their individual Twitter handles,” the email from PRO Shalin Sasidharan Nair said. However, the communication was withdrawn after sometime. In another email, the PRO said the first mail had been erroneously sent to all the teachers although he intended to discuss the matter only with the deans of student affairs and faculty planning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Imam's appeal dispel fear, hundreds get vaccinated in Mathura, Etawah||Announcements by two imams over their mosque loudspeakers have persuaded hundreds of Hindus and Muslims in Mathura city and Etawah town to shed their unfounded fears of the Covid vaccine and take the jab. Some 1,500-odd residents of the Raya locality in Mathura city were hesitant to take the vaccine. But three days of encouragement over the local mosque’s public address system had led to 80 per cent of them getting themselves vaccinated by Saturday morning. The rest have some or other health issue and are waiting for their doctors to declare them fit to take the jab. “Sixty per cent of the locality’s population is Muslim and 40 per cent is Hindu. All of them were opposed to receiving the jab, because three people from the neighbourhood had died three to seven days after getting inoculated,” a resident, Rahim Qureshi, said. It’s unclear what these people died of since they did not undergo Covid-19 tests. “However, an announcement by the imam of the local mosque worked wonders,” Qureshi said. Hafiz Islam Khan, the imam, said: “It was a difficult decision to appeal to the people over the mosque loudspeaker to take the vaccine. I feared that people would accuse me of misusing my position.” He added: “However, I was amazed to see the response of the Hindus as well as Muslims. A large number of residents came out of their homes to get vaccinated within a few hours of my announcement on Thursday morning.” The imam had announced in Hindi: “Are you listening to me? Listen to me. Those who have not taken the vaccine must take it now so that we get rid of the disease. Go and take the vaccine to make the country corona(virus)-free. The injection is necessary to force the disease out.” Dr Rachna Gupta, chief medical officer of Mathura, said: “There was problem in Raya area but people have started coming to the vaccination booths in the last three days. I cannot tell you the exact number at the moment but the problem has been sorted out there.” The imam told reporters: “From today (Saturday), I shall be going door to door to tell people to keep their areas clean and wear masks whenever they step out. I shall ask the mothers and sisters in particular to ensure that all family members stay home even after taking the jab, as the virus is changing its character very fast.” Maulana Zahid Raza Qadri, imam of the Masjid Panjabian in Etawah town, made a similar announcement on Friday and Saturday. “I asked people to ignore the rumours (about purported side-effects) and trust the doctors and scientists. Many have taken the vaccine in the past two days. I’m thinking of continuing the announcement for a few days,” Qadri said. “There are Hindus as well as Muslims here, and both communities are responding to my appeal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
06-06-2021||India||Farmers' protest:  Copies of three new farm laws burnt  in North and South||Farmers burnt copies of the Centre’s three new farm laws near the residences of BJP leaders and at other places in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, observing the day of the promulgation of the farm ordinances last year as “Sampoorna Kranti Diwas” (Total Revolution Day). Thousands of kilometres away in Tamil Nadu, too, farmers took part in similar agitations. The protesting peasants in Punjab and Haryana, the epicentres of the farm movement, carried black flags and raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre for not scrapping the legislations, which they said would “destroy” the farming community. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella outfit spearheading the agitation, had given the call to observe Sampoorna Kranti Diwas. Protests were held across Amritsar, Jalandhar, Mohali, Abohar, Hoshiarpur, Barnala, Nawanshahr, Patiala, Chandigarh, Sirsa, Jind, Karnal, Panipat and Ambala. In Phagwara in Punjab, farmers burnt copies of the farm laws near the residence of Union minister Som Parkash at Urban Estate. The protesters assembled near GT Road and marched towards the BJP politician’s home. Police had put up barricades on the road leading to Parkash’s house to prevent protesters from reaching there, officials said. The Union minister of state for commerce and industry was not at home. Farmers also held a protest near another of Parkash’s residences in Mohali district. In Chandigarh, a protest was held against the Centre for not repealing the farm laws, the main demand of the agitating farmers besides a legal guarantee on minimum support price. In Hoshiarpur, farmers took out a protest march from the local Gurdwara Singh Sabha to the BJP office at Shastri Market where they burnt copies of the three legislation. In Karnal, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar appealed to farmers not to disturb law and order during their protest. In Ambala in Haryana, farmers held a demonstration near the residence of Haryana home minister Anil Vij. A group of farmers affiliated to the Bharatiya Kisan Union gathered at National Highway 1 near Ambala Cantonment, around 500 yards from the residence of the home minister. The entry point to Vij’s residence at Shastri Colony was barricaded and the police were deployed. Protests were also held near the residence of BJP MLA from Ambala City, Aseem Goyal. Goyal was not at home when the farmers burnt copies of the laws. In Panchkula, the police lathicharged farmers who tried to force their way through barricades to head towards the home of Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta. After being promulgated as ordinances on this day last year, the farm bills were passed by Parliament in September. The President gave his assent to the bills later that month. Down south, members of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, a farmers’ outfit, burnt copies of the three farm laws, demanding their withdrawal. Protests were held in various parts of the state with farmers assembling in small groups wearing face masks and maintaining physical distance owing to the pandemic. Recalling the year-long protests by farmers across the country and their sacrifices during the six-month picketing of New Delhi’s borders, Sangam state general secretary P. Shanmugam urged Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin to take steps to pass a resolution against the farm laws in the Assembly. “Our chief minister wrote to the Union government recently, seeking the withdrawal of the three farm laws for the welfare of the farming community,” Shanmugam said. At Tambaram near Chennai, 15 people led by Shanmugam gathered to burn copies of the laws. They raised slogans denouncing the Centre for enacting the “anti-farmer laws”. Policemen doused the flames with a bucket full of water. Shanmugam said the protests were peaceful. “In districts such as Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, the CPI and the CPM extended support to us,” he said. Scores of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year demanding that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support prices for all crops. The government, however, has been maintaining that the laws are pro-farmer. Eleven rounds of talks between the agitating farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock. The last round of talks was held on January 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India||Kerala Assembly polls 2021: Fresh payoff slur on Kerala BJP chief||Kerala BJP chief K. Surendran has again found himself in the thick of poll payoff allegations with a Bahujan Samaj Party nominee accusing him of getting him to pull out of the race in Manjeshwar in exchange for Rs 2.5 lakh, a cellphone and the promise of a wine shop. K. Sundara, the BSP nominee for the Manjeshwar seat in Kasaragod district, which Surendran eventually contested, had withdrawn his nomination papers on March 22 and immediately joined the BJP. The BSP later sacked him. “I withdrew because he (Surendran) asked me to…. He spoke to me over phone, but never met me,” Sundara told a news channel on Saturday. “They gave me Rs 2.5 lakh, (of which) Rs 2 lakh was handed over to my mother and Rs 50,000 to me…. I had asked for Rs 15 lakh. They also gave me a mobile phone worth Rs 15,000,” Sundara told another television channel. He said he had also demanded a wine shop. “I had asked them for a wine shop. But nothing happened after the election as no one called me,” Sundara said. Surendran, who unsuccessfully contested from Manjeshwar and Konni (in Pathanamthitta district), is yet to respond to Sundara’s claims. The Kasaragod BJP leadership has vehemently denied Sundara’s allegations. Ironically, many in the BJP believe that the similarity in the names of Surendran and Sundara that may have confounded voters cost the former the Manjeshwar seat in the end. Sundara’s claims have also offered a glimpse of the depth of the desperation to score electoral points, especially in a state that has always staved off the BJP, as efforts were purportedly made to ease out an adversary who had polled just 467 votes in the last election. Earlier, a leaked audiotape had triggered accusations that Surendran had bribed a Left ally to join the NDA, and an April 3 car robbery has left the state BJP unit fending off allegations of using money power to influence the April 6 Assembly elections. Praseetha Azhikode, treasurer of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party, had on Wednesday accused Surendran of agreeing to pay Rs 10 lakh to her now-suspended party leader C.K. Janu to get her to return to the NDA. Both Surendran and Janu have denied the allegation. The funds from the alleged payoffs are being linked to the highway robbery on April 3. Although the complainant named Shamjeer had claimed that Rs 25 lakh in cash had been robbed by a gang that carjacked the vehicle in which he and RSS worker Dharmarajan were carrying the money in Kodakara, Thrissur, police have so far unearthed more than Rs 1 crore of the suspected Rs 3.5 crore that was in the car. Dharmarajan had allegedly been entrusted with ferrying money for the BJP. A special investigation team of the police on Saturday questioned Surendran’s driver Libeesh and secretary Dipin in connection with the heist. Sources said Libeesh and Dipin were questioned over call records that suggested they had been in touch with Dharmarajan. According to the sources, the duo have claimed that they had called up Dharmarajan as he had been entrusted with ferrying posters and other printed materials for the elections. Sundara, the politician who has made fresh allegations of bribery against Surendran, has been under the media spotlight ever since the 2016 Kerala Assembly elections in which he had polled just 467 votes as an Independent. Many in the BJP had suspected that some voters had confused Surendran with Sundara when the state unit chief lost the Manjeshwar seat this time by a wafer-thin margin of 89 votes. In the largely Kannada and Tulu-speaking part of the northern Kerala district of Kasaragod, bordering Karnataka, Surendran is called “Surendra” by people in Manjeshwar. Kasaragod BJP president K. Srikanth denied that any money had been paid to Sundara. “This is a baseless allegation. We did not give him any money to withdraw his nomination papers,” Srikanth said, accusing the CPM and the IUML of getting Sundara to spread lies. “We suspect that Sundara is making these allegations at the behest of the CPM and the IUML. What is coming out is a conspiracy against the BJP,” Srikanth said. BJP veteran and former Kerala unit president C.K. Padmanabhan said the guilty would be punished. “Those who have erred will pay for it. That is how the law of nature works.” Padmanabhan was one of the party seniors who had come out against Surendran’s style of functioning and leasing a helicopter for his election campaign. CPM politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan termed the scams being linked to the BJP as “only the tip of the iceberg”. “What has been disclosed is only the tip of the iceberg. A comprehensive investigation is needed,” he told reporters. Congress leader and Lok Sabha member K. Muraleedharan also called for a detailed inquiry by a retired judge. “A detailed investigation is needed to probe the use of hawala money, his (Surendran’s) travel by helicopter and payoffs to rope in new partners,” Muraleedharan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
06-06-2021||India||Bihar government mission to plant 5cr saplings||The Bihar government rolled out “Mission 5.0” on Saturday to plant five crore saplings in 2021-22 to mark World Environment Day. The state government has engaged paramilitary forces, farmers and several other institutions to make the drive a success. The aim is to increase the green cover — area covered by plants or trees in a certain terrain — in the state ravaged by climate change, and increase awareness about environment protection. Chief minister Nitish Kumar inaugurated the mission by planting a mahogany sapling at his 1 Aney Marg residence in Patna. The mission was simultaneously launched across the state, including various forest divisions. “We started the Hariyali Mission in 2012 to increase the green cover in Bihar. It had decreased drastically after Jharkhand separated from the state, but has now gone up to 15 per cent due to the state government’s continuous efforts,” Nitish said. The plantation drive has also been incorporated in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Jeevika didis, who are part of women self-help groups created under the Bihar Rural Livelihood Project, paramilitary forces stationed in the state, and several civil society organisations have also been made a part of the mission to plant five crore saplings. Various nurseries belonging to the environment and forest department have prepared 5.5 crore saplings to meet the target. These will be provided free of cost for planting. Around 1.24 crore of these saplings will be planted as part of projects undertaken by different government departments, two crore will be planted as part of MGNREGA work and 1.5 crore by the Jeevika didis. Different central paramilitary forces stationed in the state, civil society organisations, boards and clubs will plant over 20 lakh plants as part of the mission. Around 50 lakh saplings of fruit-bearing plants will also be provided to the farmers in an attempt to increase their income. The government will give Rs 60 to them for every surviving plant after three years. A government official said most of the planting would be completed during the rainy season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
