07-06-2021||India||‘Sushil Tiwari Hindustani’ gets accredited for his social activities by B-Town Celebs||A philanthropist, actor, and social worker, ‘Sushil Tiwari Hindustani’, steps up to volunteer for the betterment and upliftment of the communities. Renowned names in B-town like Navjot Singh Sidhu, Sonu Sood have acknowledged his efforts. MP Manoj Tiwari also appreciated the man for producing a drug-related documentary. The Flying Sikh, Milkha Singh, thanked him for reawakening the youth and confronting such strong powers. Along with Sonu Sood, Sushil has been assisting thousands of people at all hours of the day and night, as well as offering the best facilities. Despite coming from a poor family, he has always been positive, earning him the title of "Most Helpful" in school. In his early days, he met many famous people, including Harbhajan Singh, Khali, and others, establishing him as a public figure. He has been an individual from the RSS since he was in primary school, and his political race as president brought him extraordinary bliss. From that point forward, his essential point in life has been to serve his country and government. He made the 'Youth Nation Building' association determined to help individuals in the public arena for a similar reason, and he got a great deal of help for it. His association's main goal is to help those out of luck, and he urges the more youthful age to go without drugs and commit their lives to support the individuals who are less lucky in the public eye. Talking about his ventures, Sushil Tiwari says, “I am trying to make the best use of my resources in procuring an environment worth living. It brings me immense joy to se4e the world around smiling and realizing that I somewhere have contributed for that.” Though he does not make a lot of money still his top priority is public service and helping the less fortunate people. He also assists the public in communicating with the government policies that are sent to his region by the government. Sushil is known for his devotion to his country and his willingness to help people at all hours of the day and night, which distinguishes him from others. One could for certain say that his commendable efforts have brought a big change in the communities he is a part of. He is surely a tireless philanthropist at work||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
07-06-2021||India||Centre to provide free vaccines for all above 18  ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that Covid-19 vaccinations will be free for all Indians above 18 and that the Central government will take over the task of procuring vaccines from both foreign and Indian manufacturers. The prime minister said 75 per cent of all vaccines produced would be passed on to the state governments free of charge and the other 25 per cent of vaccines will be sold to private hospitals which will have to deliver it at a fixed price plus a service charge of Rs 150. Considerable chaos had broken out in recent weeks after the Centre handed over the task of procuring and delivering vaccines to the different state governments. The states floated global tenders but discovered that foreign manufacturers, which are snowed under with demands for vaccines, refused to deal with anyone except the Central government. States like West Bengal had been demanding that vaccinations should be free, but the Centre had been resisting this call for several months, partly because of the huge cost involved. The new vaccination scheme will come into effect two weeks from now on June 21. The Prime Minister said that vaccine supply would increase in coming weeks and that seven companies were producing vaccines or at advanced stages of trials. The products being put on trial include a nasal vaccine which would be one of the first of its kind to be developed globally. India’s vaccination programme is far behind schedule and that situation is unlikely to change in next two to three months, at the very least. Modi began his 35-minute broadcast by defending the government’s efforts to control the pandemic and how it had tried to control the highly infectious second wave. “This is the deadliest pandemic in the last 100 years. The modern world has not seen such a pandemic. Our country has fought this pandemic at many levels,” Modi said. Modi congratulated all Indians for the way they had battled the disease. He also pointed to the way medical oxygen production had been hiked by around 10 times when shortages built up during the deadly second wave. He added that a new health infrastructure had been developed in the last 15 months since the pandemic first began. “We ran Oxygen Express (trains), IAF and Navy were involved. The production was increased tenfold,” the Prime Minister said. The government’s about turn came in the wake of being asked by the Supreme Court for a "vaccine roadmap". The bench led by Justice D. Y. Chandrachud had asked the government to undertake a "fresh review of its vaccination policy addressing the concerns raised.” It pointed out that asking people between the age of 18-44 to pay for the vaccine was "prima facie arbitrary and irrational". The Prime Minister also announced that around 800 million poorer people will be offered free ration untill Diwali under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. Modi also stressed his government’s successes and pointed out healthcare workers had almost all been vaccinated when the second wave began and that this had helped enormously. He warned, however, that people should not lower their guard. The government had, the Prime Minister said, changed the way of procuring and delivering the vaccines. “We changed the way vaccinations were done. So, we gave 25 per cent of the work to states. Now they have started to realise the difficulty the work involves.” Overall reaction to the Prime Minister’s speech was favourable since most medical experts and others have been demanding that the government do all the buying and also offer free vaccinations to all who want it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
07-06-2021||India||Modi addresses nation ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 5 pm on Monday, his office said. The Prime Minister's address comes at a time Covid cases are on the wane after a deadly surge in April-May and parts of the country are emerging from strict lockdowns. Modi has addressed the nation a number of times since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic last year, offering suggestions to people and outlining measures his government has been taking to deal with the situation. He has also made new announcements at times in the address. Reports suggest PM Modi will speak on his government's vaccination policy, which has been criticized by states and experts and has also been questioned by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court last week called the centre's liberalized policy of free vaccines for people who are 45 and above, and paid doses for the 18-44 group, "arbitrary and irrational". Flagging several other flaws -- including shortage of vaccine doses and problems faced by rural people in accessing vaccines -- the court asked the centre to review its vaccination policy and "place on record a roadmap of projected availability of vaccines till 31 December 2021". The Centre was asked to furnish complete details on its vaccination policy, including all documents and file notings, and also clarify how ₹ 35,000 crore announced in the Budget was used in procuring vaccines. The Supreme Court also asked states to clarify whether they would be vaccinating people free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
07-06-2021||India||India’s airline industry seen racking up $8 billion in Covid losses over two years ||India’s aviation industry faces pandemic-induced losses totalling some $8 billion for this year and last and is “standing on the edge of a cliff,” the CAPA Centre for Aviation warns in its yearly industry outlook. “We have run out of words to describe the state of Indian airlines,” CAPA says tersely in its India Airline Outlook report for the financial year 2022. “The industry is standing on the edge of a cliff," the aviation consulting firm adds. The twin Covid-19 waves have resulted in a “high level of solvency risk for most airlines which could impact the entire industry, including airports,” CAPA says. Airlines around the world have been suffering badly from the pandemic but the devastating second wave has pushed the once high-flying Indian aviation sector to the brink. “Even airlines with "access to large pools of money" are facing huge problems, it said. Indian airlines will lose a consolidated $4.1billion in this financial year to March 2022, similar to the level of losses seen last year after the first pandemic lockdown, CAPA forecast. Full-service carriers (FSCs) are expected to account for $2.1billion of losses while low cost-carriers would represent $2.0 billion. The government must “provide immediate fiscal relief to the sector,” said CAPA. Underscoring the crisis facing the sector, budget airline IndiGo reported on the weekend a bigger-than-expected loss as passenger load levels contracted with Covid-19 on the rampage. The airline, run by InterGlobe Aviation, reported a loss of Rs 11.5 billion in the fourth quarter of the last financial year ended March 31.  That compared with a loss of Rs 8.7 billion the previous year and was much larger than analysts’ forecasts of a Rs 4.5 billion loss. CAPA projects the airlines could carry between 80 million and 95 million domestic passengers in this financial year which began in April after taking into account the pandemic second wave and assuming there won’t be a third wave to trigger further lockdowns. However, it adds a caveat to this prediction, saying: “Bearing in mind the considerable uncertainty that exists in the market, our guidance based on currently available information is for traffic towards the bottom end of the range at around 80 million.” Still, even the lower-end figure would be better than last year's number when Indian carriers had only 52 million passengers. But it’s nowhere near the almost 140 million passengers who flew on domestic routes in the financial year 2020. Out of the $8 billion in combined red ink over the two years, two airlines, Air India and IndiGo alone are likely to wrack up losses of $4.5 billion between them, CAPA says. Full-service carriers like Air India will together post losses of $2.1 billion and low-cost carriers like IndiGo and SpiceJet will have losses of $2 billion, the consultancy reckons. Start-up airlines Despite the parlous state of the industry, CAPA believes one or two new start-up airlines may launch once the worst of Covid-19 is over and there could be eight to nine domestic carriers totally. The desperate state of the industry can be judged from the fact that once-busy routes like Mumbai-Thiruvananthapuram that pre-pandemic had three to four daily flights now have only four flights weekly. And on several key domestic routes, there have been cases during the punishing second wave of planes taking off with only one or two passengers. Passenger load factors of barely 20 per cent have become commonplace. CAPA predicts a “moderate recovery” in June after the “massive slump in April and May”. It adds, “We expect to see rising confidence and continued traffic recovery in the second half of this financial year,” barring any major renewed Covid-19 outbreak. The report forecasts international traffic of between 16 million and 21 million passengers but warns that this will be very dependent on border restrictions. Besides that, Indian carriers are scheduled to begin flying on new international routes again. Vistara, for instance, is scheduled to start flying to New York later this financial year. Airport charges India’s airports, which have been badly hit by falling traffic, are also expected to hike charges steeply to offset their sharp income loss since last March. The airports are in a particularly tight corner because they had been spending heavily to cope with the boom in air traffic between 2014 and 2018. Delhi airport, for instance, has been expanding to increase capacity from its current 60 million to 100 million in coming years. New airports are also scheduled to come up at Navi Mumbai and Jewar just outside Delhi. The aviation industry experienced double-digit growth from 2014 to 2018 and in 2017 more than 158 million passengers flew on domestic and international routes. Compared to that, this year is not expected to see more than 120 million passengers at the very best. With all the airlines bleeding money copiously, CAPA estimates they will together require some $5 billion for recapitalisation in this financial year “just to survive”. It says that about $1 billion, “is in the pipeline in the form of IPOs, QIPs and other instruments.” The report notes that massive, perennial losses have created a debt trap which has resulted in most airlines having very limited means of recapitalisation. The government: is providing almost no direct support; lenders have by and large closed their doors to airlines, even for restructuring purposes; and lessors will soon have no option but to start applying pressure on defaulting airlines.” Additionally, the industry could be pushed further into the red because of rising oil prices. CAPA estimates that oil prices could climb to about $70 a barrel and might possibly even touch $75. Fleet likely to shrink India’s airlines are expected to induct about 70 aircraft this year but these will mostly be replacements for around 80 planes slated to be retired. In all likelihood, therefore, the combined fleet of aircraft will probably shrink. GoAir, Vistara and IndiGo have made the most progress on fleet renewal, the report says. This state of affairs “cannot continue. If we are to achieve the Honourable Prime Minister’s vision of affordable connectivity as a critical enabler of economic transformation, the viability of the airline sector must receive the highest level of attention and support,” CAPA said. The Government has imposed price controls and also controls on the number of flights that can be scheduled and these are unlikely to be lifted in FY2022. But the report points out that if these are lifted it could harm the industry because it might lead to price wars. The report recommends that the government should, “develop a framework for conducting a financial stress test of carriers prior to removing price and capacity regulations.” The one bright spot is cargo. Some carriers like SpiceJet have turned a number of aircraft into cargo carriers and created a dedicated freighter fleet. Cargo made a valuable contribution to airline financials in the last financial year and will remain an important segment this year with carriers expected to achieve a 15-per-cent year-on-year increase in cargo revenue. Air India CAPA says the Government appears to be totally committed to the privatisation of Air India but the airline’s losses could mount to astronomical levels in the coming year and this could mean that “bidders may find it difficult to prepare a bid in the current challenging environment. It is therefore not certain at this stage whether the privatisation will succeed unless changes are made to the offer.” The group adds: “The Government of India must have a Plan B for Air India in place now, which can be immediately operationalised if required….Closing Air India would not only be extremely challenging politically but will have a notable impact on the market, especially in the international segment.” To help turn around the dire situation, the report says that aviation turbine fuel should be brought under GST and the fuel excise should be brought back to 4 per cent. CAPA also suggests GST should be reduced on aircraft spares. “Without these measures, it will hurt any remote chance of recapitalisation,” the group concludes bluntly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
07-06-2021||India||Covid: unlocking process begins in states||As India witness the fall of second Covid-19 wave with fresh cases decreasing in a consistent manner, a host of states began the unlocking process from Monday. Delhi, Mumbai, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Leh have started easing up the Covid induced restrictions. The announcements were made in the last couple of days as the active infection cases dipped further in the past week. However, these states will still be under partial lockdown and only some relaxations have been made keeping the economy in mind. Delhi will next review the Covid situation on June 14 while Maharashtra on June 15. The Uttar Pradesh government has lifted curfew in all districts except for three — Meerut, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur. With this, curfew has been lifted in 72 of 75 districts of UP. Delhi Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday extended the ongoing lockdown but announced some more relaxations. From Monday, he said, markets and malls would be allowed to open on an odd-even basis from 10 AM to 8 PM. The Delhi Metro will operate at 50 per cent capacity, government and private offices will be allowed to reopen with 50 per cent staff. Delhi began its 'unlock' process on May 31, when it allowed only construction and factory activities. Maharashtra Maharashtra is under lockdown till June 15. However, it will begin a five-level unlock process from Monday. According to a government notification, cities and districts which have a positivity rate of less than five per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent will open up completely. But in places where the positivity rate is more than five per cent and oxygen bed occupancy is over 25 per cent, restrictions with varying degrees will remain effective. The state government has, however, planned different levels of restrictions based on the infection positivity rate and bed occupancy. For instance, places which have a positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent will have lesser restrictions than, say, places with over 10 per cent positivity rate. Same goes with bed occupancy. At places where the positivity rate is more than 20 per cent and the oxygen bed capacity is more than 75 per cent, only essential shops are allowed to open till 4 PM and office attendance will be 15 percent. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday released detailed guidelines for the next week beginning June 7. The civic body said that the city had fallen under level-3 of the unlock plan of Maharashtra. It said restaurants, shops selling non- essential items and public places will reopen from Monday but malls, theatres and multiplexes will continue to remain shut. Local trains, considered the lifeline of the maximum city, will remain available only for specific categories. Leh The Leh administration has announced gradual unlocking after a month-long curfew. Leh District Disaster Management Authority chairman Shrikant Suse on Sunday issued new guidelines to start gradual unlocking from June 7 till June 14. The administration has allowed commercial activities covering almost all segments. However, public transport, private offices, salons, barber shops, beauty parlours, spas and gyms would continue to remain closed till further orders. Development activities and construction work where labourers reside on the work site have also been allowed. For restaurants, only home delivery service would be allowed on weekdays, while the hotels would be allowed to operate dine-in services with a 30 per cent seating capacity for in-house guests. Non-essential vehicular movement would be allowed on odd/even systems with 50 per cent seating capacity. Besides, Kargil DDMA chairman Santosh Sukhadeve issued an order extending the curfew in the district till 7 am on June 14. Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh has lifted Covid restrictions in all districts except in Meerut, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur. Active cases of the coronavirus are above 600 in Meerut, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur. On Saturday, the state government extended relaxations in the curfew to Bareilly and Bulandshahr districts from June 7, allowing shops and markets outside the containment zones to open for five days a week. However, the night curfew and weekend curfew will continue to remain. Haryana Haryana has extended the lockdown by another week till June 14, while easing several restrictions that were in place earlier. Further relaxations regarding opening of shops and shopping malls have been given. Religious places have also been allowed to open with 21 people at a time, corporate offices have also been permitted to open with 50 per cent staff and gatherings of up to 21 people have been allowed at weddings, funerals and cremations. Restaurants and bars, including in hotels and malls, are allowed to open from 10 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent seating capacity. Home delivery from hotels, restaurants and fast food joints will be permitted till 10 pm. Shops other than the stand-alone ones are allowed to open from 9 am to 6 pm (earlier, it was from 9 am to 3 pm) following the odd-even policy -- those with odd numbers will open on odd dates and those with even numbers on even dates. Malls, which were last week allowed to open from 10 am to 6 pm, can now remain open till 8 pm. For gatherings other than weddings, funerals and cremations, the maximum number of people allowed is 50. For gatherings of more than 50 people, prior permission from the deputy commissioner concerned shall be required. Club houses, restaurants and bars at golf courses are allowed to open with 50 per cent seating capacity from 10 am to 8 pm. Uttarakhand The Uttarakhand government has extended the restrictions till June 15. As per new lockdown guidelines, general stores will be open from 8 am to 1 pm between June 9 and June 14. The government also decided to open retail shops for two days in this week, the liquor shops will be opened for three 3 days. On June 9 and June 14, grocery shops will be opened from 8 am to 1 pm, while on June 9, 11, and 14, liquor shops will be opened from 8 am to 1 pm. Stationery and book shops will also be opened on 9 and 14 June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
07-06-2021||India||Priyanka accuses Centre of 'suppressing' Covid data||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday accused the Centre of suppressing data related to the Covid pandemic, and said the Modi government's emphasis on propaganda over saving lives had caused "immense damage". Going ahead with her "Zimmedaar Kaun (who is responsible)" campaign, in which she has been asking questions to the government over its handling of the pandemic, the Congress general secretary focused on the data related to Covid put out by the government. Is it more important to save the prime minister's image than it is to save Indian lives, she asked in her posts on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram while alleging that the government was using data as a "propaganda tool". "From the very start of the pandemic, the Modi government's attitude towards data was to utilize it as a propaganda tool rather than an invaluable weapon in the fight against COVID-19," Priyanka Gandhi added in a statement. The government's propaganda machinery repeatedly indulged in the "suppression and manipulation" of data to serve the government's political agenda even as lives were lost in battling the scourge of a century", she alleged. To emphasise her point, Priyanka Gandhi said right from the beginning of the pandemic, deaths and infections were reported as a ratio of the population while testing was reported as an absolute figure. "This was designed to mislead the public into believing that the infection and death rates were not alarming, while the testing rates were sufficient. In fact, it was exactly the opposite," she said. The Modi government seems to be following the exact same pattern on data surrounding the vaccination programme today, Priyanka Gandhi said. "The Modi government's emphasis on propaganda over saving lives has caused immense damage. It is answerable to the people of India," Priyanka Gandhi asserted. Experts from across India have been demanding that data surrounding the virulence and spread of the pandemic should be made public, but this has never been done, she asserted. Citing the examples of states like Uttar Pradesh, she said the government presented RT-PCR and antigen test data together in order to "manipulate the truth". "In fact, it is widely known that antigen tests are unreliable in comparison. In UP even now, the ratio of RT-PCR tests versus antigen tests is 65:35 per cent," Priyanka Gandhi said. Both infections and the actual number of deaths have been actively "suppressed" by the government in an effort to save face, she claimed. Citing news reports claiming 2,000 dead bodies were found along an 1,100 kilometer stretch on the banks of the Ganga, Priyanka Gandhi said the stretch spanned 27 districts of UP and none of these deaths find space in government records. "Instead, when drone footage revealed hundreds of shallow graves along the Ganga in cities like Prayagraj, the UP government immediately set up a Safaai Abhiyan (cleaning programme) aimed at obliterating any sign of the graves," the Congress general secretary in-charge of UP alleged. News reports from the state revealed a glaring difference between the official death records and those kept by graveyards and crematoriums in cities like Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jhansi and Meerut, Priyanka Gandhi said. The latter being many multiple times greater than the former, she claimed. Posing questions to the government, she asked why the Modi government summarily ignored the advice of scientists and experts and not make the data around the spread of COVID-19 transparent and public. Did the Centre not understand the importance of correct use of data as one of the most essential tools to fight COVID or was there some other reason behind its actions, she asked. Pointing to the alleged difference between official death records, death certificates issued and crematorium/graveyard records across India, Priyanka Gandhi asked why the Modi government was doing nothing to rationalize these differences and put the true figures before the people of India. "Does the Modi government's image management matter more than COVID management? Is it more important to save the Prime Minister's image than it is to save Indian lives?" Data is a double-edged sword, she said. On its own, it can never reflect the true human cost of a tragedy as it cannot account for the pain, the trauma and the suffering of people, yet it is critical in the management of any natural disaster -- especially a pandemic -- of the scale being experienced today, Priyanka Gandhi asserted. The Congress has been critical of the Centre's handling of the Covid situation in the country, but the government has dismissed the criticism of the Opposition party, accusing it of politicising the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||AIIMS Delhi starts screening of children for Covaxin trials||The screening of children for trial of Covaxin, India's first indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccine, among those aged between 2 and 18 started at the AIIMS here on Monday. The trial on children has already started at AIIMS Patna to see if the Bharat Biotech jab is suitable for children. Participants would be given the vaccine after their screening report comes. The trial is to be conducted on 525 healthy volunteers. In the trial, the vaccine will be given by intramuscular route in two doses at day 0 and day 28. "The screening of children for conducting trial of Covaxin has started. Participants would be given the vaccine after their screening reports come," Dr Sanjay Rai, Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine at AIIMS, said. India's drug regulator had granted permission for conducting the phase 2/3 clinical trial of Covaxin in the age group 2 to 18 years on May 12. Covaxin is being used on adults in India's ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive. The government last week cautioned that even though COVID-19 has not taken a serious shape among children till now, its impact can increase among them if there is a change in virus behaviour or epidemiology dynamics, and said preparations are being strengthened to deal with any such situation. A national expert group has been formed to review COVID-19 infections in children and approach the pandemic in a renewed way to strengthen the nation's preparedness, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul had said at a press conference. The group has examined signs which were not available four-five months before, he said. It has also considered available data, clinical profile, the country's experience, disease dynamics, nature of the virus and the pandemic and has come up with guidelines, which will be publicly released soon. While we have been systematically reviewing scientific developments in this area, the group has been formed to take an updated view of the situation," Paul said. Asked if the Pfizer vaccine, if it comes to India, will it be considered for children between the age of 12 and 15 years as being approved by the UK, Paul had said that the country has its own vaccines which are being readied for children. "Child cohort is not a small cohort. My rough guess is that if it is between 12 to 18 years, this itself is about 13 to 14 crore population and for which we will need about 25-26 crore doses. "We cannot have some people getting and others not getting. So we will have to take this into account when we strategise and make a decision based on how many doses of which vaccines are available. he said. He further shared that Zydus Cadila's vaccine is already being tested in children. "So when Zydus comes for licensure, hopefully in the next two weeks, may be we have enough data to take a view on whether the vaccine can be given to children," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||India adds over 1 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,427 casualties in a day||India reported 1,00,636 fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 61 days, taking the infection tally to 2,89,09,975, while the number of active cases dropped to 14,01,609, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Monday. The death toll due to coronavirus reached 3,49,186 with 2,427 new fatalities, the lowest in around 45 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 96,982 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on April 6. Also, 15,87,589 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 36,63,34,111, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 6.34 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 14 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 6.21 per cent. The number of active cases has reduced to 14,01,609, comprising 4.85 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.94 per cent. A net decline of 76,190 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 25 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,71,59,180, while the case fatality rate has further increased to 1.21 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. The 2,427 new fatalities include 618 from Maharashtra, 434 from Tamil Nadu, 320 from Karnataka, 227 from Kerala and 107 from West Bengal. A total of 3, 49,186 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,00,130 from Maharashtra, 31,580 from Karnataka, 27,005 from Tamil Nadu, 24,591 from Delhi, 21,236 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,259 from West Bengal, 15,076 from Punjab and 13,217 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Kejriwal appeals to people to follow Covid guidelines as Delhi Metro, markets reopen||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour amid the unlocking process in the national capital. "Many activities are resuming in Delhi from today. But take all the precautions to prevent corona completely - wear a mask, keep social distance and keep washing hands, there should be no laxity at all," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "One has to stay away from corona infection and also bring the economy back on track," the chief minister added. Jolted by the devastating second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, the national capital moved slowly towards normal life as markets and malls reopened after nearly two months. The Delhi Metro, the lifeline of the city, also resumed service with 50 per cent seating capacity and nearly half of its train fleet running from early morning. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a tweet, appealed to people to follow COVID-19 guidelines amid the unlocking process in the national capital. Atul Bhargav, president of New Delhi Traders Association representing shop owners in Connaught Place, said all arrangements were in place to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. "However, the odd-even formula for opening retail shops is against our interests. We have enough space here in Connaught Place and most of the shopkeepers and their employees have already got the jabs. The government should treat retail and wholesale sectors differently," Bhargav said. Police and the district administration have formed teams to ensure no Covid norms are broken as the markets, malls and complexes reopen from 10 am to 8 pm. "Our teams have been deployed in the field for enforcement and awareness so the unlock process operates smoothly, a senior officer in west Delhi district said. Besides the markets and malls, standalone shops also reopened in the city adding a hint of busy city life. "I am dusting and readying the shop as it was closed for so many days. People are still under awe of their experience in the last two months of Covid surge. I hope the situation will improve and customers will return in the coming days," said Varun, an electronic goods shop owner in Laxmi Nagar. A senior police officer said the shop owners in markets have been briefed to follow norms to protect themselves from the infection. "Our teams are in the field. People are normally following the precautions but we are keeping watch as the day progresses and more people are on the roads and markets," he said. The chief minister on Saturday had announced various relaxations in the ongoing lockdown that was imposed on April 19, saying Covid situation was improving and the economy of the city needed to be revived.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Tohana police station in Haryana emerges as new rallying point in farmers' movement||Tohana police station in Haryana has emerged as a new rallying point in the farmers’ movement against the three laws forced on them by the Narendra Modi government last year, with tents being pitched at the site as part of a “jail bharo” campaign after three protesters were arrested and a ruling alliance MLA hurled abuses at them. The siege began on Saturday and had not been lifted till late on Sunday evening. The farmers were insistent that the police drop the charges against the three farmer leaders, one of whom was arrested on a complaint filed by Devinder Babli, an MLA of the JJP, a partner in the BJP-led government in the state. Babli expressed regret on Saturday night for using inappropriate language and agreed to withdraw the cases, but the Fatehabad district administration refused to follow suit. As the standoff spilled over into Sunday, it added fuel to fire and protest sites on Delhi’s borders — where thousands of farmers have been on a sit-in since November 26 — saw a fresh inflow of protesters from Punjab even though the tents at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur have been damaged in the thunderstorm that lashed the national capital last week. While Tohana police station is not the only place in Haryana where farmers have been booked for boycotting or gheraoing ministers and BJP and JJP MLAs, it became a flashpoint after Babli abused some farmers during one such protest last week. Rakesh Tikait, who leads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union that is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, reached the area and picketed the toll plaza on Thursday. On Saturday, in line with a protest programme announced on Friday by the Morcha, Tikait and Gurnam Singh Chaduni of BKU-Haryana led farmers into the Tohana mandi from where they went to the police station. As the farmers marched to the police station, they were constantly reminded by their leaders to remain peaceful and not direct any anger at the police. The Morcha leadership, which has been spearheading the campaign against the three laws, is aware that the non-violent nature of the farmers’ struggle has been its strength and also that security personnel are essentially farmers in uniform. The farmers know that the Modi government would use any violence to turn the narrative against the movement with the help of what they call “godi (pliant) media”. Veteran farmer leader Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union said Haryana police had arrested one of the union leaders, Makkhan Singh, on Thursday night on a complaint from Babli. Before that, Tohana police had arrested 27 farmer leaders while they were going to protest outside Babli’s house, and later sent two of them, Ravi Azad and Vikas Sisar, to Hisar jail in the dead of night. “We decided to court arrest in protest against such strong-arm tactics. The administration agreed to talk to the farmers on Saturday evening and it was decided that two of the farmer union leaders would be given bail and brought to them,” Darshan Pal said. “Babli too agreed to withdraw the case against Makkhan Singh. We had three rounds of talks but the administration refused to give an assurance that the cases against the three would be withdrawn. Our leaders sitting in Tohana have now given a call to farmers from other districts to come to Tohana, and also picket police stations across the state on Monday.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium considers reforming appointment process||The Supreme Court collegium is considering reforming the judicial appointment process by inducting more members of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, minorities and women as judges of the high courts and the apex court, sources in the judiciary said. There’s now no statutory framework or constitutional requirement that ensures adequate representation of the various castes, communities and women among judges, in contrast to higher-education seats and government jobs. It would, therefore, be a first in the history of the Indian judiciary if the Supreme Court and the high courts adopt a policy of appointing what they consider an adequate number of judges from the socially disadvantageous sections, even if without a legislative or constitutional mandate. Sources told The Telegraph that Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had on Friday evening broached the subject during extensive discussions with the chief justices and acting chief justices of all the 25 high courts. Justice Ramana said the high court collegiums must recommend a number of candidates from the Dalit, tribal, OBC and minority communities and women for the posts of their judges, following which the appointments could be cleared by the Supreme Court collegium, the sources said. They said Justice Ramana had repeatedly emphasised the need to give adequate representation to the marginalised sections to ensure “the functioning of the high court truly reflects the vast social diversity of the country”. The reported move comes amid complaints from the Bar and civil society that Dalits, tribal communities, minorities and women are not adequately represented among Supreme Court and high court judges. For instance, the Supreme Court has never had a woman Chief Justice or Christian Chief Justice and currently has little representation from the Dalit, tribal or minority communities. The top court now has only one Dalit judge in Justice Bhushan Gavai who will become the Chief Justice of India on May 14, 2025, for a brief period of six months and 10 days. It also has only one Muslim judge, Justice Abdul Nazeer, and a single woman judge, Justice Indira Banerjee. The Supreme Court has, however, had four Muslim Chief Justices in the past: Justice M. Hidayatullah, Justice M. Hameedullah Beg, Justice A.M. Ahmadi and Justice Altamas Kabir. Sources privy to Friday's meeting said Justice Ramana had asked the high court collegiums to keep in mind the constant demand from the Bar associations that advocates of standing who have completed 10 years’ practice be considered for appointment as Supreme Court and high court judges. The 25 high courts are now functioning with 650 judges against a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080, with the vacancies numbering a staggering 430 as of June 1, 2021. The Supreme Court has four vacancies from a sanctioned strength of 31 judges, including the Chief Justice. Two judges — Justice R.F. Nariman, the second senior-most judge, and Justice Ashok Bhushan — are to retire on August 12 and July 4, respectively, this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Covid: Study sparks call to cut Covishield dose gap||India should consider reducing the Covishield dose gap to eight weeks from the current 12-16 weeks, sections of experts have said amid new evidence that the coronavirus variant called B.1.617.2 has triggered explosive outbreaks and caused infections in partially immunised people. The evidence from India’s National Centre for Disease Control and the Institute for Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi has indicated that B.1.617.2 is “over-represented” (appears more frequently) in post-vaccination breakthrough infections than in the general population. “B.1.617.2 is capable of creating fast-rising outbreaks with vaccination breakthroughs,” researchers at the NCDC-IGIB said in their study. “We would reemphasise that prior infections… and partial vaccination are insufficient impediments to its spread.” A UK study whose findings emerged on May 22 had found that the AstraZeneca vaccine — Covishield in India — was 33 per cent effective against symptomatic Covid-19 cause by B.1.617.2 three weeks after the first dose and 60 per cent effective after the second dose. Health authorities in the UK had cited those results and reduced the AstraZeneca vaccine’s dose gap from 12 weeks to eight weeks, prompting sections of experts in India to call on this country’s vaccination advisers to reduce the gap for Covishield too. Experts have underlined that the observed 33 per cent protection against B.1.617.2 after the first dose was lower than the 50 per cent protective threshold prescribed by the World Health Organisation and adopted by India’s regulatory authorities. “India should consider the shorter interval between two doses because we know this variant is in wide circulation in the country,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, a research and training institution. Reddy and others believe the NCDC-IGIB results bolster the evidence for a shorter gap. Among a set of 27 people who had breakthrough infections, B.1.617.2 accounted for 19 (76 per cent) cases. The study suggests that B.1.617.2 had played a key role in Delhi’s sharp surge in the 7-day average of daily new infections that increased from less than 400 cases in early March to over 20,000 by April-end. “This is real-world evidence from India — this lends support to arguments for shortening the gap to 8 weeks,” said Santhanu Tripathi, former professor and head of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. “When new knowledge comes in, we must examine it and, if acceptable, apply it.” But the country’s vaccination advisers had in mid-May expanded Covishield’s dose gap to 12-16 weeks from their earlier recommendation of 6-8 weeks and appear unwilling to so quickly revise the gap alongside the UK and lower it to eight weeks. Narendra Arora, a senior adviser to the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), an expert panel that guides the government on vaccines, said the panel would wait for more evidence to emerge and take into account observations in India before taking a decision on the dose gap. “We will look at all available evidence in two or three months – and if required reconsider the dose interval,” another member of NTAGI who requested not to be named told The Telegraph. The current dose gap of 12-16 weeks would allow the country to provide more people first doses of Covishield while those who have received the first dose wait for their second dose. A senior vaccine science specialist said it was still unclear what would yield India the greater public health gains – immunising more people with single doses during the 12-16 week dose gap and taking a chance with breakthrough infections, or shortening the dose gap and ensuring as many people receive two doses in the shortest possible time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||BJP leader Radha Mohan Singh meets Uttar Pradesh governor, rumours fly ||Radha Mohan Singh, BJP national vice-president and party-in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, met governor Anandiben Patel for about 30 minutes on Sunday. BJP sources said Singh had an envelope in his hand when he had gone to the Raj Bhavan. “I had not met the governor ever since she came to Uttar Pradesh and so it was a courtesy call,” Singh told reporters. Four hours later, Singh went to the residence of Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit and held another 30-minute meeting. Asked about the rumour that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah were unhappy with chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s working, Singh told reporters: “We have the strongest organisation and a popular government in Uttar Pradesh. There are government committees to which 17,000 party workers have been nominated.” Sources said Modi wants Adityanath to make Arvind Kumar Sharma a minister in his cabinet but the chief minister is delaying it. Sharma, a former IAS officer who had worked with Modi in Gujarat and New Delhi for about two decades, was elected a member of a state legislative council (MLC) in January 2021. Since then, he has been looking after Varanasi, Modi’s parliamentary constituency. When Dixit was asked about Sunday’s meeting, he said: “Radha Mohan Singh is my old friend. He is also an old colleague. I liked it when he called me in the morning and said he would meet me. We mostly discussed literature and ancient history today.” However, such explanations have not been able to put the lid on rumours that Modi and Shah are in favour of a change of guard in Uttar Pradesh. Ambrish Kumar, a veteran journalist, said: “We cannot say what exactly is going to happen but Modi is in the habit of giving surprises. The defeat of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh is definite in today’s situation when the government has completely failed in Covid-19 management.” “We need to see how Modi brings the government and the BJP out of this crisis of trust deficit. However, in case Adityanath is removed as the chief minister, then only the Prime Minister would be blamed if the BJP loses in 2022 and Modi knows this very well,” he added. “I also believe that the actual fight in the BJP is to become number two. A silent war is going on between Shah and Adityanath,” Kumar said. When asked, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh echoed Radha Mohan and said: “The government of Yogi is working excellently. It is a people’s government.” Later, asked about reports of an imminent cabinet expansion, Radha Mohan told PTI: “No expansion is going to take place now…. When it takes place, it will be known.” He also denied there was a rift between Modi and Adityanath, saying: “In fact, we are of the view that Yogiji is the most competent person to fulfil the dreams of Modiji.” The BJP vice-president dismissed as a “figment of imagination” reports of a possible change of leadership in the government or party. “This is a figment of imagination. No question arises of this. Both the government and the organisation are working fine,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Cong, BJP slam Delhi govt over hospital circular asking nursing staff not to converse in Malayalam||The Congress and the BJP on Sunday slammed the Delhi government over a controversial hospital circular issued a day earlier asking its nursing staff not to converse in Malayalam. Terming the order of Delhi government-run GB Pant hospital unconstitutional and amounting to denial of fundamental rights, the Congress on Sunday demanded strict action against the authorities. “Malayalam is as Indian as any other Indian language. Stop language discrimination,” Rahul Gandhi said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra  posted the order of Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research asking its nursing staff to use only Hindi and English for communication and said serious action would be taken if it was not followed. “This order violates the basic values of our country,” she said in a tweet in Malayalam and termed it as “racist, discriminatory and completely wrong”. She said the order was an insult to nurses and health workers from Kerala who made us secure by risking their own lives during the pandemic. “We owe them debt of gratitude and respect,” she said, adding that the order should be withdrawn immediately and an apology issued. The BJP said it was ironical that the Delhi government requested Kerala for oxygen, but had now attempted to snatch its people’s right to speak in their language with each other. The medical director of GB Pant hospital on Sunday said they had revoked the order. “The matter is being investigated and action will follow,” medical director Dr Anil Agarwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Court rejects Delhi police plea to produce Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi in handcuffs ||A court here turned down a plea of Delhi police to produce former JNU student Umar Khalid and activist Khalid Saifi in handcuffs before trial courts, noting that “they are not gangsters”. The application, which came up for hearing before additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav, sought to produce the 2020 Delhi riots accused in “handcuffs in both hands from back side”, contending that they are “high-risk prisoners”. The judge dismissed the plea observing that it is devoid of merits and filed in a mechanical manner and without application of mind by Delhi police and the prison authorities. “The accused persons, who are sought to be produced in fetters and handcuffs, are admittedly not previous convicts. They are not even gangsters,” the additional sessions judge stated in an order dated June 5. He further said the plea is not required at this stage as the accused are not being produced in the court physically because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The judge also noted the replies submitted by the superintendent of Mandoli and Tihar jail, additional deputy commissioner of police (special cell) and deputy commissioner of police of third battalion of Delhi police on the plea. The deputy commissioner of police told the court that in the aftermath of an attempt made by armed assailants to free an undertrial prisoner at GTB Hospital, the police had decided to request the court for permission to handcuff high-risk prisoners who are prone to escape. “As part of the exercise, the current application for handcuffing UTPs Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi was moved for the consideration of Hon’ble Court,” the senior police officer stated in a reply submitted to the court on April 26. However, in the reply given by the additional deputy commissioner of police of special cell, it was stated that no such application seeking to produce both the accused in handcuffs was filed before any court or other authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
07-06-2021||India||Covid lockdown: Bihar to send jardalu mangoes for President, PM, CJI and other dignitaries||Bihar has decided to keep up the annual tradition of sending its special ‘jardalu’ mangoes of Bhagalpur as gifts to the President, Prime Minister, Chief Justice of India and other dignitaries in New Delhi despite the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown. These bright yellow mangoes with their unique taste, fragrance and just the right amount of fructose, unlike many others that are either very sweet or a bit sour, were plucked on June 4. They were awarded the GI (Geographical Indication) tag in 2018. They were packed in cardboard boxes the next day and loaded on the Delhi-bound Vikramshila Express on Sunday.  A whopping 10,000 kg is being procured from the orchards of mango growers. Two officials from the agriculture department will accompany the jardalus and hand them over to the Bihar Bhavan in Delhi on Monday, which will oversee their distribution among the VVIPs. Each box will bear the message: ‘With love from chief minister Nitish Kumar, government of Bihar.’ “We are sending 2000 cartons, each containing 5kg of jardalu mangoes, to Delhi this time. The dispatch has been delayed by a few days due to Covid-19. We are taking all precautionary measures in the light of the pandemic. Those involved in plucking, packing and ferrying the fruits will wear masks and keep sanitising their hands,” Bhagalpur district magistrate Subrat Kumar Sen told The Telegraph. A four-member committee led by the deputy development commissioner of Bhagalpur has already marked the farmers and their orchards from where the jardalus will be procured while keeping in view their quality and size. “Our officials and a scientist from Bihar Agriculture University are ensuring uniform quality of the jardalu mangoes that will be sent. They have already checked the fruits for disease and insects. These jardalu mangoes are not found anywhere else except Bhagalpur,” Dilip Kumar Singh, in-charge, Bhagalpur district agriculture officer (DAO) said. The move to send mangoes to Delhi has lifted the mood of jardalu growers in the region. They have been distressed due to the pandemic and lockdown that hampered the movement and sales of their produce. “The jardalu mango crop has been quite good this year, but their market and the demand has been down due to Covid-19. We had been finding it difficult to transport and sell them in distant markets due to the ongoing lockdown. However, the Bihar government’s decision to send the fruits to VVIPs in Delhi will boost the confidence of people and perk up the demand,” said Srikant Pal, a jardalu orchard owner in Bhagalpur. Expressing happiness on the Bihar government’s move to send jardalu mangoes to Delhi this year too, Bhagalpur Mango Federation president Ashok Choudhary pointed out that the growers or farmers have been facing several difficulties of late. “The jardalu and other varieties of mangoes in the region have been hit by red-banded caterpillar, which starts boring into the mangoes when they are unripe and destroy the fruit from inside. The state government has not done anything till now to address this problem. Our mango farmers could be ruined due to this pest,” Choudhary told this newspaper. Choudhary also added that fruit flies are also devastating the mango crop and special measures need to be taken to curb them. The legend about jardalu mangoes popular in Bhagalpur is that the variety was developed during the Mughal era especially for the ruling class. The locals say that the fruit’s unique fragrance and taste is partly due to the use of various herbs and perfumes used in watering the plants when they were first planted during that period, and partly due to the soil, climate and water quality of the area. However, some documents indicate that Maharaja Rahmat Ali Khan Bahadur of Haveli Kharagpur (now in Munger district neighbouring Bhagalpur) planted the first jardalu sapling around 1810-20. The locals assert that the sapling grew into a tree and still stands tall after two centuries at Tagepur village under Jagdishpur block. It acted as the mother tree for other jardalu plants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Covid: Reserved beds for health workers in Odisha||The Odisha government will reserve five per cent of general and ICU beds for healthcare workers in hospitals. A senior health official said the decision was taken as part of the appropriate precautions to ensure that the workers remains free from Covid infection. “It will help us to face a possible third wave of the virus. They (healthcare workers) are the backbone of the health system. We don’t want any of them to face any difficulties while coming for treatment,” the official said. According to the notification issued by the state health department, all healthcare workers will be provided with PPE. All of them have been asked to abide by the Covid guidelines. Thermal detectors will be used to screen people at all the entry points to hospitals. The healthcare workers are entitled to all benefits according to the guidelines. The health department has also asked hospitals to screen all patients with suspected Covid symptoms by conducting rapid antigen tests. The Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneswar has advised people to take all precautions to avoid the possible third wave. “We need to be careful to avoid a possible outbreak of a third wave. All will be hit, including children. The effects of the third wave depend on three aspects — vaccination, mutation of virus and adherence to Covid guidelines,” said Dr Ajaya Parida, director of the ILS. Director, health services, Bijay Mohapatra said: “The state government is fully prepared to tackle the third wave. We have adequate ventilators, oxygens and ICU beds.” On Saturday, the state breached the eight-lakh Covid cases mark after 7,395 more people tested positive for the infection. Odisha’s total caseload now stands at 806,094. Khurda district, under which state capital Bhubaneswar falls, reported the maximum number of new cases at 1,069, followed by Cuttack at 868, Jajpur at 561 and Angul at 443.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||BJP MP slams Naveen Patnaik over Niti Aayog report||BJP MP from Bhubaneswar, Aparajita Sarangi, on Saturday targeted the Naveen Patnaik government over its poor performance in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) report which has ranked Odisha among the bottom five states of the country. The report prepared by the Centre’s apex think tank Niti Aayog, that evaluates progress of states and Union Territories on various developmental parameters like economic growth, gender, health, education, climate change, environment and gender, was released on June 3. “It speaks a lot about our model of governance,” said Sarangi, a former Odisha cadre IAS officer while posing five questions to the state government. Addressing a news conference here, Sarangi said: “In the category of sustainable development goal 1 of zero poverty, Odisha ranks third from the bottom with 33.89 per cent of the state’s total population still under the national poverty line. The situation has not changed since 2019. It speaks a lot about the state of administration.” The MP said that compared to 2019, the overall performance of the state government has deteriorated further. “It’s unfortunate and we should be ashamed of it,” she said. Stating that employment under the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) has decreased while the crime rate has gone up in the state, she said: “The state government has failed to provide security to women. Crimes against women have gone up and harassment cases continue to rise,” she alleged. She claimed that the state had fared badly in achieving the target of zero hunger with nearly 29 per cent of children below five years still malnourished and underweight. “What has the state government done for so many years to improve the status of the children and ensure the dignity of women? Has Mission Shakti failed? The government has miserably failed to safeguard the women of our state,” she said. Hitting out at the government for its poor performance on the economic front, the MP said that Odisha ranked second from bottom among 28 states on economic growth in the Niti Aayog report. “The state secured a big zero as far as ease of doing business is concerned. This despite the government having organised much-touted programmes like Make in Odisha,” she said. However, Biju Janata Dal Rajya Sabha member Amar Patnaik refuted the allegations made by Sarangi. Patnaik told The Telegraph: “It’s an aspirational report. No one should indulge in politics over the issue. We are not talking about how other states like Uttar Pradesh are performing. People should go to the field to assess the ground reality.” Patnaik pointed out the data provided by the state had not been taken into account while preparing the SDG report. “In ease of doing business, the state has been shown to have achieved zero. How is that possible when Odisha has attracted FDI even more than Maharashtra last year? We are not critical of the report but there must be some error. Internet service has not reached many villages but the report states that 123 per cent Internet penetration has been achieved,” he said, adding that the report needs a relook.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Odisha government to shoot documentary on cyclones||The Odisha government will shoot a documentary on the processes related to a cyclone including preparedness, landfall impact, evacuation and restoration. The documentary will act as a base book for the state administration on how to face a cyclone in future and how it should act to save lives and properties. Odisha has received appreciation from the United Nations several times for its handling of natural disasters, particularly cyclones. The documentary will cover all the cyclones starting from the Super Cyclone that hit the state in 1999 in which more than 10,000 people had lost their lives. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena said: “Chief minister Naveen Patnaik during a review meeting asked officials to make a documentary as it would be helpful for the future generations to read the exact nature of cyclones, how it affects the common man and how proper preparation saves lives. We are always working with a zero casualty mission.” Cyclone Yaas that made landfall between north of Dhamra and south of Balasore on May 26 had wreaked havoc in Balasore and Bhadrak district. However, timely evacuation saved lives and any major loss of property. Nearly 128 villages were marooned by the tidal surges and rains triggered by Cyclone Yaas. Meanwhile, the state government, which had got an assurance from the Centre to get Rs 500 crore assistance for repair and restoration work, has pegged its losses at Rs 610  crore due to Yaas. Jena said: “As many as 60 lakh people in 11,000 villages were affected by Yaas. Government infrastructure worth Rs 520 crore and Rs 90 crore worth private property was damaged owing to the impact of Cyclone Yaas. We have spent Rs 66 crore in relief operations.” The power sector was badly hit by Yaas. According to a government estimate, 30 lakh consumers were affected by the cyclone. “We have restored power connection to nearly 99.9 percent consumers who had suffered power cuts because of the cyclone,” Jena said. The state has already suggested to the Centre come out with a long-term plan on how to save the power sector from the impact of cyclones. Nearly 230 transformers will be replaced with new ones which would create a financial burden of nearly Rs 150 crore on the state. The panchayati raj department estimated its losses at Rs 277 crore, the water resources department pegged losses at Rs 108 crore, works department of Rs 75 crore and the rural development department estimated losses to the tune of Rs 60 crore. The other departments have also sent the detailed list of losses they incurred during the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Rival seeks bribery case against state BJP president K. Surendran||The losing CPM candidate from Kerala’s Manjeshwar constituency has written to the Kasaragod district police chief seeking the registration of a case against state BJP president K. Surendran for allegedly bribing a Bahujan Samaj Party candidate to pull out of the fray. V.V. Rameshan, who finished third from Manjeshwar where the Indian Union Muslim League candidate narrowly defeated Surendran, has suggested the BJP chief be booked under Indian Penal Code sections 171b (election-related bribery) and 171e (punishment for bribery). His complaint follows Saturday’s claim by BSP nominee K. Sundara that Surendran had got him to pull out of the April 6 election in exchange for Rs 2.5 lakh, a cellphone and the promise of a wine shop. Rameshan’s lawyer C. Shukkur told The Telegraph the CPM politician would approach a magistrate’s court on Monday to seek sanction to file an FIR against Surendran. “Since bribery related to elections is a non-cognisable offence, the complainant has to get a sanction from the magistrate’s court. The FIR will be filed once we get the sanction,” said Shukkur. Sundara had polled 467 votes in 2016 contesting from Manjeshwar, while Surendran had lost by just 89 votes. The BJP apparently thought that some voters had mixed up Sundara with Surendran because of the similarity between their names. Surendran lost by 1,143 votes this time to A.K.M. Ashraf of the IUML, a constituent of the Congress-led United Democratic Front. Sundara told reporters on Sunday that BJP workers had threatened his aged mother after his allegations of Saturday, and told her to get him to deny the family had received any money from the BJP. He conceded “it was wrong to take money to withdraw my nomination” but added: “I have spent all the money.” Sundara denied the BJP’s allegation that the IUML and the CPM had influenced him to accuse Surendran. “No one has influenced me; I’m saying all this on my own,” he said. Surendran has already been accused of paying Rs 10 lakh to get the Janadhipatya Rashtriya Party, led by tribal activist C.K. Janu, to join the NDA before the election. JRP treasurer Praseetha Azhikode has made the allegation. Surendran has denied any payoff, as has Janu who has been suspended from the party. Adding to Surendran’s troubles, his son may now be questioned in connection with investigations into an April 3 carjack and robbery that have led to allegations of a BJP plan to use cash to influence the elections. Police sources have said the car, carrying RSS worker Dharmarajan and a man named Shamjeer, was ferrying Rs 3.5 crore in cash although Shamjeer’s complaint says the duo possessed only Rs 25 lakh. The BJP has denied any connection to the cash or the heist, but the police have questioned several leaders of the party in the case. Police sources said they had unearthed call details that showed Surendran’s son K.S. Harikrishnan speaking to Dharmarajan several times around the time of the robbery. They said the police would question Harikrishnan. The state BJP’s core committee met on Sunday to try and douse the fire and present a picture of unity although some in the party have called for a leadership change. Senior BJP leader Kummanam Rajasekaran accused the Left Democratic Front of implicating his party in false cases. “Why aren’t the police disclosing details about the CPM workers who have been arrested?” he said at a news conference in Kochi ahead of the meeting. The BJP claims that some of the 21 people arrested in connection with the robbery have links with the CPM and the CPI. Surendran seemed on the defensive when asked about his son’s possible connection with Dharmarajan. “Let the police investigate whether he called Dharmarajan. I’m already an accused in 300 cases despite doing nothing. I had expected this from this government,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Priyanka promises help to girl who cycled back with her injured dad from Gurgaon to Bihar during last year's lockdown||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has offered to help Jyoti Kumari, who had cycled back with her injured father from Gurgaon to their village in Bihar, around 1,200km away, during the lockdown in May last year, so that she can continue her studies and her passion of cycling. The Congress leader called up Jyoti, 16, a resident of Sirhulli village in Darbhanga district of Bihar, on Thursday to console her on her father’s demise and asked her not to worry about how her family will survive in the absence of the sole bread-earner. Jyoti’s father Mohan Paswan passed away on Monday. Jyoti had shot to international fame after she carried her father, who had fractured his leg while working as an e-rickshaw driver, on a bicycle from Gurgaon Haryana to her village during the Covid-induced lockdown in May 2020. Jyoti’s feat attracted the attention of the Cycle Federation of India (CFI), which wanted to groom her as a racer. She was also awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar. Priyanka contacted Jyoti through local Congress leader Mashkoor Ahmad Usmani. “I told Priyanka Didi about my dreams and the things I was planning to do and how they were dashed due to my father’s death as I have now to think of my two brothers, sister and mother. She asked me not to worry till she is there and promised to bear the expenses. I think I will be able to continue with my studies,” Jyoti told mediapersons. Though Jyoti did not demand anything over phone, she did express a desire to meet Priyanka, who agreed to the request after the coronavirus pandemic subsides. “Priyanka Didi asked me to inform whenever I need anything. I was very worried after my father’s death, but her words have come as a huge relief,” Jyoti added. Mashkoor and other local Congress leaders distributed soaps, masks and medicines in Jyoti’s village on Thursday. He also handed her a condolence letter sent by Priyanka. “Priyanka ji herself spoke to Jyoti and we handed over the condolence letter that she wrote. She has promised to bear the expenses. Apart from this, our entire party is ready to help Jyoti whenever she needs any assistance. We will take her (Jyoti) to Delhi to meet Priyanka ji as soon as the Covid pandemic subsides,” Mashkoor said. The country had witnessed a mass exodus of several lakh migrant workers from different parts of the country to Bihar during the lockdown last year in an effort to escape hunger and penury with the central and state governments accused of faulty planning and arrangements and entrepreneurs, industrialists and landlords charged with mercilessness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||AAP stays aloof from Opposition grouping on Covid and farm laws||The Aam Aadmi Party has been conspicuous by its absence from joint statements of the Opposition parties at the national level this year on Covid-19 and the new farm regime, preferring to be a lone wolf in protests against the Centre and prompting questions on its interest in a consolidation against the ruling dispensation. Although vocal against the new farm laws as well as the Centre’s handling of the pandemic, the AAP — which runs the Delhi government — has chosen to plough a lonely furrow rather than be part of the Opposition’s unity efforts. General secretaries of the CPM and the CPI — national parties that are supportive of the AAP — have last month publicly questioned Arvind Kejriwal’s party’s silence on an Opposition axis. When the AAP had vehemently opposed the downgrading of the Delhi government’s powers by a central legislation in March, most Opposition parties had closed ranks behind it. However, the AAP, which had earlier been accused of pursuing the Hindutva agenda and siding with the Centre on key issues, has remained silent on the new Union government-appointed administrator’s controversial decisions in Lakshadweep. Most Opposition parties have slammed administrator Praful Khoda Patel’s alleged attempts to impose a “Sangh parivar” agenda on the Muslim-majority archipelago. Several MPs have written to the President and a united Opposition is preparing a mass petition to Ram Nath Kovind for the administrator’s recall. There have been fears that Lakshadweep is being turned into “another Kashmir”. In 2019, the AAP had supported the Centre’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and its bifurcation into two Union Territories. This time, the AAP has not uttered a word on the CBI’s action on Trinamul Congress leaders, including two ministers, and the Centre’s other alleged disruptive measures in Bengal after the BJP bit the dust in the Assembly elections. Last Monday, Kejriwal offered a guarded disapproval of Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s transfer on Twitter, without naming him. This despite the Trinamul Congress sending its MPs for the debate in the Rajya Sabha on the Delhi power rejig despite the frenetic election campaign in Bengal in March. Many Opposition parties have slammed the CBI action in the Narada case, accusing the Centre of misusing the investigation agency for political vendetta. Asked, an AAP senior leader denied ever being approached to be a part of the Opposition consolidation last month, putting the onus on the Congress to bring together the forces. “I am unaware of any attempts by the Congress to bring us on board... You need not worry about our stand as we were and always will be secular. In Parliament, we have cooperated with other Opposition parties. Outside, we will continue to speak up on issues that affect the public even if we stand alone,” he told The Telegraph, preferring anonymity. However, an AAP strategist claimed that the party did not see any political value in “signing statements”. He said: “People don’t care about joint statements. The BSP (Bahujan Samaj Party), for example, chooses to sign some statements and not sign others depending on its convenience on that day. That’s simply because there is not any political mileage to be gained from statements…. “During the pandemic, we have focused on policy and not politics as citizens want to see a government that works and a party that takes up their problems, and not merely fights the BJP.” He said the AAP’s current focus was restricted to wresting power from the BJP in all three municipal corporations of the capital next year — which would dismantle any threat to its continuance as the pre-eminent party of Delhi. The AAP is keen to hold on to the status of the party that has the leader of the Opposition in Punjab. Surveys conducted by the AAP give it a fighting chance at debuting in the Assemblies of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Goa — all of which go to polls early next year. Besides Punjab, all the other states are ruled by the BJP. However, the AAP sees its vote bank in Congress voters. “If we want to be a regional leader, we can’t stand with the parties we seek to displace. The Congress has to be our enemy number one. Our success in the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls has come at the expense of the Congress,” the AAP strategist said. “Muslims are disappointed with us after the Delhi riots but we will win them back not by pandering to them like the Congress or the Samajwadi Party, but by establishing ourselves as the strongest anti-BJP force,” the strategist added. The AAP recently drew flak for targeting the Centre on vaccine exports by emphasising on the allocation to Muslim countries. “The centrist BJP voter can vote for the AAP if we project ourselves as an alternative. We won’t waste our political capital speaking about issues from which we have nothing to gain, like Lakshadweep or the Bengal violence,” the strategist said. An AAP fundraiser recently pointed out that he who pays the piper calls the tune. “Even donors are keen that we emerge as a national alternative. Our regular donors are hard-pressed as most of them have devoted funds for Covid relief. But in Uttarakhand for example, a prominent donor of the BJP has offered to fund us if we emerge as an alternative to the BJP and the Congress,” the strategist said. “That can’t happen with Opposition unity. Kejriwal’s national ambitions in the long term can be realised only if we break the Congress in these key states and Gujarat, where too we got traction in the municipal polls,” the strategist added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Scrutiny of RSS links puts Jammu and Kashmir government in spot||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has invited Sangh parivar fury by asking government departments in Jammu for details of employees who were “over-ground” or “underground” RSS workers, appearing to club the organisation with outlawed groups like the Jamat-e-Islami and triggering rumours of an impending ban. After many employees and the parivar expressed outrage, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s administration is learnt to have stopped the process, which seems to have been a somewhat incautious response to an RTI query. Both the Union Territory administration, controlled directly by the Centre, and the BJP have been caught off guard and left embarrassed by the episode. Officials said the government had in April received an RTI application from Jammu resident Sudhir Kumar that sought details of the employees linked to the RSS — which many government staff in Jammu are — and their participation in RSS shakhas. The general administration department (GAD) forwarded the application to other departments seeking these details. Employee scans for “over-ground” and “underground” members of banned organisations is common in militancy-hit Jammu and Kashmir. Responding to the GAD query, several government institutions in Jammu, including colleges, sought online declarations from their employees that they were not associated with the RSS – which is the usual method adopted for such inquiries. This had the grapevine agog with rumours that the government planned to ban the RSS. Following the uproar, the central public information officer (CPIO) of the GAD disposed of the RTI application on June 4, saying the records did not contain the information sought. “Whereas, the Right to Information Act, 2005, the rules made thereafter and the law laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court… clearly prescribes that only such information is to be provided which is already available with the central public information officers and no information is required to be created,” the CPIO’s order read. Officials said the order would “put the controversy at rest” and stressed that departments are not required to seek any such information from their employees. BJP spokesperson Anil Gupta admitted to anger in the RSS and said he had sought an investigation. “The RSS is not a banned organisation; such data are kept only relating to the banned organisations. The CPIO in the GAD should have replied clearly on those lines,” Gupta told The Telegraph. “But I don’t know what his motive was. I have been given to understand that he did not take clearance from the GAD secretary. He did it on his own.” Gupta said that since the order had come from the GAD, other departments began collecting the data. “Generally, people were annoyed about what was happening. The rumour went that they wanted to ban the RSS.... So the anger increased,” he said. “It’s a temporarily resolved issue. One needs to go into the details how this episode started — (find out) who is responsible and who is the person who bypassed channels... and personally he should be held accountable.” In March 2019, months before the abrogation of Article 370 provisions, the then state government had banned the separatist Jamat-e-Islami and the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front. Following this, scores of their leaders and activists were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
07-06-2021||India||Disabled man lynched over a glass of water in Bihar||A middle-aged man with a polio-affected leg was beaten to death in Bihar’s Begusarai district for drinking a glass of water from a pitcher in the sweltering afternoon without asking the householder. Hours later on Friday night, a young man from Nepal was lynched in the border district of Madhubani after he was allegedly caught stealing a tractor. Chhote Lal Sahni, 50, of Badepura village in Begusarai was thrashed because he had drunk a glass of water from a pitcher placed outside Dinesh Sahni’s home “after having touched fish”, police said. Chhote Lal had been fishing in a pond when the heat made him thirsty, so he walked up to Dinesh’s home. “Dinesh saw Chhote Lal drinking water without taking his permission. He and his son Deepak assaulted him with sticks. The injured man somehow reached home but his condition deteriorated,” Chahari station house officer Raghvendra Kumar told reporters. “The villagers took him to the Begusarai Sadar Hospital from where he was referred to the Patna Medical College and Hospital. He was rushed there but died during treatment.” Kumar said Dinesh had been arrested while Deepak was in hiding. Nepal resident Sikandar Yadav, 25, and a few associates had allegedly tried to steal farmer Kundan Mishra’s tractor at Padma village in Madhubani, the police said. As the alleged thieves started the engine and set off, the noise woke the household who raised the alarm. Several villagers stopped the tractor and caught hold of Sikandar. The rest escaped. Sikandar was taken to Mishra’s home and held captive in a room where several people brutally assaulted him, police sources said. A widely circulated video shows an injured youth lying on the floor, his hands and legs tied with ropes, while a group of men are kicking him. The youth seems hardly conscious. Police on Saturday took an unconscious Sikandar to a government hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. The police later identified Sikandar — a resident of Hakpara village in Nepal’s Siraha district — from documents he was carrying. They registered an FIR and informed the victim’s family. “We have arrested Kundan Mishra so far. Three others have been named as accused but are in hiding. Several other unidentified men too have been accused. We are continuing our investigations,” Ladania station house officer Santosh Kumar Singh told The Telegraph on Sunday. Sikandar’s uncle and brother have arrived to complete the formalities and take the body back to Nepal after the post-mortem. “My nephew drove an earthmover machine for the last seven years. He has left behind a wife and a daughter,” Sikandar’s uncle Paras Yadav told reporters. “How he came here during the lockdown and why he was killed is a mystery to us. But he was not a thief and never stole anything.” The killing could further strain relations between Nepal and Bihar. The Nepal border police had fired on Bihar villagers twice last year, killing two and injuring several people. In one instance, the Nepal police accused the victims of having crossed the border and violated the lockdown; in the other the Indian villagers alleged the victims had entered Nepal to look for lost cattle. Nepal has also objected to river embankment repairs and road construction in Bihar’s border areas, forcing the projects to be halted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
