08-06-2021||India||Onsite registration, new rules of vaccine allocation in Centre’s Covid guidelines||Use of non-transferable electronic vouchers approved by the Reserve Bank of India will be encouraged to enable people to financially support Covid-19 inoculation of economically weaker sections at private centres, according to the revised guidelines issued by the Centre on Tuesday. While the Co-WIN platform provides every citizen the facility of conveniently pre-booking vaccination appointments, all government and private vaccination centers will also provide onsite registration facility, available both for individuals as well as groups of individuals, for which detailed procedure is to be finalised and published by states/UTs, the Revised Guidelines for implementation of National Covid Vaccination Program' stated. According to the guidelines which will come into effect from June 21, vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to states/UTs based on criteria such as population, disease burden and progress of vaccination. "Wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively," the revised guidelines issued by the Union health ministry said. As announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, the revised guidelines stated that the Government of India will procure 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by manufacturers in the country. The vaccines procured will continue to be provided free of cost to states and UTs as has been the case from the commencement of the national vaccination programme. These doses will be administered by the states/UTs free of cost to all citizens as per priority through government vaccination centres. Within the population group of citizens more than 18 years of age, states/UTs may decide their own prioritisation factoring in the vaccine supply schedule, the revised guidelines stated. In order to incentivise production by vaccine manufacturers and encourage new vaccines, domestic vaccine manufacturers are also given the option to provide vaccines directly to private hospitals. This would be restricted to 25 per cent of their monthly production, it stated. "To promote the spirit of ‘Lok Kalyan', use of non-transferable electronic vouchers which can be redeemed at private vaccination centers, will be encouraged. This will enable people to financially support vaccination of economically weaker sections at private vaccination centres," the revised guidelines said. The states/UTs will aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution of vaccines between large and small private hospitals and regional balance. "Based on this aggregated demand, the Union government will facilitate supply of these vaccines to private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority's electronic platform. This would enable the smaller and remote private hospitals to obtain timely supply of vaccines, and further equitable access and regional balance," the ministry said. The price of vaccine doses for private hospitals will be declared by each vaccine manufacturer, and any subsequent changes will be notified in advance. All citizens irrespective of their income status are entitled to free vaccination. Those who have the ability to pay are encouraged to use private hospitals' vaccination centres, the guidelines said. States may also optimally utilise the common service centres and call centres to facilitate prior booking by citizens. The revised program provides states/UTs with additional central government support across funding, procurement and logistics. The Covid vaccination in the country commenced with vaccination to all healthcare workers. The program was expanded with time to include vaccination of frontline workers, citizens more than 60 years of age, those more than 45 years of age and eventually those more than 18 years of age. Under the National Covid Vaccination Program, from January 16 to April 30, 100 per cent of vaccine doses were procured by the Government of India and provided free of cost to state governments. State governments were in turn to administer vaccination free of cost to defined priority groups. To increase the pace of vaccination, participation of private hospitals was also enlisted where individuals could also choose to get vaccinated at a prescribed rate, the ministry said. In response to suggestions of many state governments to be permitted the flexibility to procure vaccines directly and administer them as per their own prioritisation based on local requirements, the central government revised the guidelines. The state governments and private hospitals were now also empowered to directly procure from the remaining 50 per cent vaccine pool. "Many states have, however, now communicated that they are facing difficulties in managing the funding, procurement and logistics of vaccines, impacting the pace of the National Covid Vaccination Program. "It has also been noted that smaller and remoter private hospitals are also facing constraints. Keeping in view the aforesaid aspects, the experiences gained from May 1 and the repeated requests received from states, the guidelines for National Covid Vaccination Program have been reviewed and revised," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
08-06-2021||India||Pune scientists identify new Covid strain from two international travellers||Scientists at Pune's National Institute of Virology have isolated and characterised a coronavirus variant from two travellers -- one who returned from the UK and the other from Brazil -- that exhibits increased disease severity in hamsters but doesn't pose a public health problem at the moment. The two samples of the B.1.1.28.2 variant are the only ones of its kind isolated by Indian labs so far. The variant was isolated from nasal/throat swabs from a traveller who returned to India from the UK in December 2020, and another who came back from Brazil in January 2021. The samples of the variant, first identified in Brazil last year, were collected as part of the ongoing SARS-CoV-2 genomic surveillance. The finding is significant since the variant is classified as a variant of interest by the World Health Organization, said study lead author Pragya Yadav from ICMR-NIV Pune. “We also observed an increased disease severity and neutralisation reduction in the study which point towards the need for screening the current vaccines for efficacy,” Yadav told PTI. To understand the pathogenicity of the variant, researchers infected nine Syrian hamsters with the B.1.1.28.2 variant and compared it to nine animals infected with the B.1 variant, which is defined by one mutation of concern in spike protein, i.e D614G. Spike protein helps the virus to infect and enter human cells. The authors of the yet-to-be-published study, posted on the preprint repository BioRxiv on May 24, noted that B.1.1.28.2 induced body weight loss, viral reproduction in the respiratory tract, lung lesions, and caused severe lung disease in the infected hamsters in comparison with those infected with the B.1 variant. The blood plasma isolated from hamsters infected with the B.1.1.28.2 variant of coronavirus efficiently neutralised the B.1 variant. However, a six-fold reduction in the antibody neutralisation was seen in case of blood serum isolated from the B.1 mutant infected hamsters on the B.1.1.28.2 coronavirus variant. Antibody neutralisation renders the virus no longer infectious or pathogenic. A mutation means a change in a nucleic acid base or amino acid molecule, and a virus containing this change is termed a mutant. Mutations eventually accumulate to generate variants that differ from the original virus more and more, and so, a variant can have limited or even cumulative mutations, Yadav explained. The findings of increased disease severity and antibody neutralisation reduction is of great concern and point towards the need for screening the current vaccines for efficacy, the researchers noted in the paper. Yadav said the variant has shown potential reduction in neutralisation by some monoclonal antibody treatments and reduced neutralisation by post-vaccination blood serum from some mRNA vaccines. While RNA is the genetic material of the coronavirus, messenger RNA or mRNA vaccines teach our cells how to make a protein or a part of it that triggers an immune response inside our bodies. Monoclonal antibody therapy uses lab-made antibodies to treat Covid-19 in patients at high risk for developing severe illness. According to Yadav, the variant at the moment does not pose a public health problem for the country. She said the research team had performed another study in April to assess the neutralisation potential of the blood serum from natural SARS-CoV-2 infected individuals and recipients of the Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine developed by the Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech. She said the two-dose inactivated virus vaccine significantly neutralised the B.1.1.28.2 variant, adding, therefore, that immunisation should protect individuals against it. Over the year of the Covid-19 pandemic, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Corona virus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) has accumulated severe mutations leading to the emergence of new variants. The first SARS-CoV-2 variant of concern, B.1.1.7 was identified in late December in the UK which is now reported in more than 62 countries. The recent emergence of B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 has caused concern in India, with some blaming the variants for the devastating second wave in the country. Yadav said active epidemiological surveillance is ongoing in India with the partnership of multiple agencies and the country is capable of detecting any warning signals in time to alert the concerned authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
08-06-2021||India||Centre orders 44 crore doses of Covishield & Covaxin ||The Centre on Tuesday said it has placed orders for 44 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre would take over the state procurement quota and provide free jabs to state governments for inoculation of all above the age of 18. These 44 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be delivered by their makers between August and December 2021, the Union Health Ministry said. "In immediate follow-up of the prime minister's announcement of these changes in the Guidelines of National Covid Vaccination programme yesterday, the Centre has placed an order with Serum Institute of India for 25 crore doses of Covishield and with Bharat Biotech for 19 crore doses of Covaxin. "Additionally, 30 per cent of the advance for procurement of both the Covid-19 vaccines has been released to Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech," an official said. The official said the Centre has been supporting the efforts of states and union territories for an effective vaccination drive under the "whole of government approach" since January 16 this year. Based on various representations received by the Centre, the vaccination for all adults above 18 years of age was opened in Phase III of the vaccination strategy beginning May 1. "Now with the aim to further universalise the countrywide vaccination drive, all citizens above 18 years of age can receive the Covid-19 vaccine doses free of cost at government health facilities," the official said. The central government will provide free coronavirus vaccines to states and union territories for inoculation of all above 18 years of age from June 21, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, announcing that the Centre will take over the 25 per cent state procurement quota. Asserting that vaccine supply would be increased significantly in the coming days, the prime minister said the Centre has now decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers for free supply to states, while private sector hospitals will continue to procure the remaining 25 per cent. Considerable chaos had broken out in recent weeks after the Centre handed over the task of procuring and delivering vaccines to the different state governments. The states floated global tenders but discovered that foreign manufacturers, which are snowed under with demands for vaccines, refused to deal with anyone except the Central government. The new vaccination scheme will come into effect two weeks from now on June 21. The government’s about turn came in the wake of being asked by the Supreme Court for a "vaccine roadmap". The bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud had asked the government to undertake a "fresh review of its vaccination policy addressing the concerns raised.” It pointed out that asking people between the age of 18-44 to pay for the vaccine was "prima facie arbitrary and irrational".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
08-06-2021||India||HC asks Centre to provide information on anti-Mucormycosis drugs allocation||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Union government to submit details of the quantity of anti-fungal drugs allocated to various states for treating Mucormycosis, a rare infection found in recovering or recovered COVID-19 patients. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni said it wanted to ascertain whether the Union government was ensuring an "equitable distribution" of drugs based on the number of active cases of Mucormycosis in each state. In the course of hearing on a plea, the bench suggested allocation of more quantity of anti-fungal drugs to Maharashtra given the number of Mucormycosis cases reported in the state. The bench said that the central government must give wide publicity to its advisory on preventing and managing Mucormycosis, also called "black fungus". It said the government must give publicity to the dos and don'ts of Mucormycosis and ensure that citizens followed them "scrupulously." The bench was hearing a suo motu Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The HC was hearing submissions from the Maharashtra government and the Centre on current cases of Mucormycosis and Aspergillosis (also a type of fungal infection) and the state's preparedness for an anticipated third wave of COVID- 19. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who appeared for the Maharashtra government, told the HC that as on June 1, the state had a total of 5,126 cases of Mucormycosis. Kumbhakoni said 42 government hospitals and 419 private hospitals across the state were currently treating Mucormycosis patients. He said Maharashtra is expected to receive 40,000 doses of an anti-fungal drug, Amphotericin-B, that is being produced in-house by the state in association with Mumbai- based phara company Haffkine. As per the state's submissions, Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad, Solapur and Nashik districts had the highest number of Mucormycosis cases in Maharashtra. The Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, told the HC there were a total of 28,252 cases of Mucormycosis in the country currently. At this, the bench said considering the large number of cases of the fungal infection in Maharashtra, the Union government must allocate it adequate quantity of drugs. Singh said the Centre's allocation for anti- Mucormycosis drugs for Maharashtra so far was over 91,000 vials. The court, however, noted that the state had placed an order over and above the Centre allocation of medicines. "There is a shortage of drugs in Maharashtra. How many cases are there in other states? At least a quarter of the allocation of the country should come to Maharashtra," the bench observed. "So you have to show us the numbers. How many patients are there in other states? We want to see if there is an equitable allocation," it said. The HC directed the Maharashtra government to submit details of the number of paediatric beds and drugs, among other resources, available across the state for treating cases of COVID-19 among children. The HC will continue hearing the PIL on June 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
08-06-2021||India||Oxygen supply cut off as part of mock drill in Agra hospital, probe ordered||The Agra administration on Tuesday ordered an enquiry after a video clip surfaced in which the owner of a private hospital here is purportedly heard saying that he conducted a "mock drill" in which oxygen supply was cut off for Covid patients for five minutes. In the video which went viral on social media on Monday, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital is also heard saying that the bodies of some patients started turning blue after the oxygen supply was cut off. District Magistrate Prabhu N Singh told reporters that action will be taken against the owner under the Pandemic Act. He said the hospital will be sealed and patients will be shifted to other hospitals. In the April 28 video, Dr Arinjay Jain allegedly claims that there was acute oxygen shortage at the hospital during the second wave of coronavirus. "Start discharging people, there is no oxygen availability anywhere, even the chief minister cannot get you oxygen. Modi Nagar is dry," he said. "We talked with families of the patients but no one was ready to discharge their patients. So we decided to conduct a mock drill so that we could segregate the critically ill patients. After shutting off the oxygen supply for five minutes, bodies of 22 patients started turning blue," Jain said. He said that families of the remaining 74 Covid patients were asked to arrange for oxygen cylinders. However, the district magistrate said there wasn't a scarcity of oxygen at the hospital and that no patient died due to oxygen shortage at the hospital. Talking about the deaths of Covid patients at the hospital, he said four patients died on April 26 while three succumbed to the infection on April 27. "Shri Paras Hospital had enough oxygen and it is not true that 22 patients died there due to oxygen shortage. However, the video that is being circulated will be examined and the required action will be taken," the DM said. Chief Medical Officer, Agra Dr R C Pandey told PTI that a team has been sent to the hospital to investigate the matter. When contacted, the owner of the hospital was not available.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Chief Election Commissioner writes to Law Minister, reminds him of pending electoral reforms||Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra has written to Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad requesting for expedited action on the electoral reform proposals pending with the government, including the one which seeks an enhanced two-year jail term for those furnishing incorrect information in their poll affidavit. "I have written to the law minister to expedite these proposals and hopefully they will be taken up early by the ministry," Chandra told PTI. The letter was sent by the CEC last month. Enhancing the imprisonment period for those furnishing incorrect details in poll affidavits from existing six months to two years is a key electoral reform proposal of the Election Commission. A two-year jail term could bar the candidate from contesting elections for six years. "The present six-month imprisonment does not lead to disqualification," lamented Chandra. The Election Commission has also proposed making paid news an electoral offence under the Representation of the People Act to provide a strong deterrent against the malpractice. The poll panel, reminded the CEC, has also proposed a ban on political advertisements in newspapers during the "silence period" between the end of campaign and the day of polling so that the electorate is not influenced and can exercise the franchise with a free mind. The move will require changes in the Representation of the People Act. A committee, tasked with proposing changes in electoral laws dealing with campaigning in the 48 hours prior to polling, had recommended a ban on advertisements in newspapers on the day of polling. As of now, only the electronic media is barred from showing election publicity material during the 48 hours before conclusion of polling. But the committee recommended bringing the print media under the ambit of Section 126 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The chief election commissioner said another key proposal pending with the government relates to linking electoral roll with the Aadhaar ecosystem to root out multiple enrolments. Law Minister Prasad had recently said in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha that the EC proposal was under the consideration of the government and that this would require amendments to electoral laws. "The matter is under the consideration of the government," he had said. According to the EC proposal sent in August 2019, the electoral law should be amended to empower electoral registration officers to seek Aadhaar number of existing voters as well as of those applying to enrol themselves in the voter list. In August 2015, a Supreme Court order on Aadhaar had put the brakes on the Election Commission's project to link Aadhaar number with electoral data. The poll panel was then collecting Aadhaar number as part of its National Electoral Roll Purification and Authentication Programme (NERPAP). Seeking to check multiple entries in electoral rolls and to make them error-free, the Election Commission had embarked on the ambitious project to link Aadhaar numbers with electoral data. Since the Supreme Court order makes it clear that sanction of law is required to collect Aadhaar number, the Commission has proposed changes in electoral law, a poll panel functionary had recently explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Uddhav meets PM Modi, talks Maratha quota, GST, cyclone relief||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday and discussed issues related to the Maratha reservation, Metro car shed and GST compensation. Deputy Chief Minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar, and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan accompanied Thackeray. "Discussed issues related to the Maratha reservation, Metro car shed, GST compensation with the prime minister," Thackeray said. Cyclone Tauktae relief for Maharashtra was also discussed in the meeting. He said the prime minister assured to look into the issues. The meeting lasted for an hour and a half, Pawar said. This is Thackeray's second visit to the national capital after taking over as the chief minister of the state in November 2019. “We may not be politically together but that doesn't mean our relationship has broken. I didn't go to meet a Nawaz Sharif. So if I meet him (PM) separately in person, there is nothing wrong with it,” NDTV quoted Thackeray as saying, regarding his separate meeting with Modi. The Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government wants to move the Metro car shed to Kanjur. The state and the Centre both claim the land as theirs. The matter is currently pending with court. The previous Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government had decided to construct the Metro car shed in Aarey, but the move came under opposition from environmentalists. After assuming office, the Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation announced the decision to shift the car shed to Kanjur. Since then the site for the car shed has become contentious. Pawar, who is also the Finance Minister of Maharashtra, said issues pertaining to the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation was also discussed in the meeting. Pawar said Maharashtra was expected to get approximately Rs 46,000 crore as GST compensation but it has only received Rs 22,000 crore. He said Maharashtra still has to receive Rs 24,306 crore. "The state is battling coronavirus pandemic and this will have an impact on its revenue and the compensation amount should be given at the earliest," Pawar said. The Maratha reservation issue was on top of the agenda. The composition of the delegation assumes significance as it included two senior Maratha leaders --- Pawar and Chavan. The Maratha is a dominant community in the state and it has been demanding reservation in jobs and educational institutions. The state government came up with a law to provide reservation to the Maratha community, but it was struck down by court. The state government's review petition was scrapped by the Supreme Court last month. Since the verdict, pressure has been mounting on the government to act. Briefing reporters, Chavan said after the Supreme Court scrapped the quota for Marathas in jobs and educational institutes, all power has now been vested with the Centre to decide on this. He said the Centre should take steps to uncap the sealing of 50 per cent on reservation in educational institutions. Thackeray said the issue of giving Marathi the status of classical language is also pending with the Centre. Pawar said the delegation also asked Modi to direct Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari to approve nomination of 12 members to the state legislative council, as decided by the state Cabinet. The delegation also demanded a bulk drug park for Maharashtra and central allocation of Rs 1,000 crore for it. It said the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has selected a 250-acre land for the purpose. Earlier in the day, the PMO had tweeted, "Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Shri @AjitPawarSpeaks and Cabinet Minister Shri @AshokChavanINC called on PM @narendramodi. @OfficeofUT @CMOMaharashtra."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Twitter blocks Jazzy B, three other accounts||Microblogging platform Twitter has "withheld" the accounts of Punjabi singer JazzyB, hip-hop artist L-Fresh the Lion and two others in response to a legal demand in India, even as it draws flak over delay in complying with the new IT rules in the country. According to an information on Lumen database, Twitter received legal request from the Indian government on June 6 for actioning four accounts, including that of JazzyB. Requests received by Twitter for withholding content are published on Lumen database - an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content. Users checking Jazzy B's account are shown a message saying "account has been withheld in India in response to a legal demand". When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said when it receives a valid legal request, it reviews it under both the Twitter Rules and local law. "If the content violates Twitter Rules, the content will be removed from the service. If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter Rules, we may withhold access to the content in India only," the spokesperson added. The spokesperson noted that in all cases, it notifies the account holder directly so that they're aware that the company has received a legal order pertaining to the account. "We notify the user(s) by sending a message to the e-mail address associated with the account(s), if available... Twitter is committed to the principles of openness, transparency, details of the requests to withhold content have been published on Lumen," the spokesperson said. Reports suggest that Jazzy B had frequently tweeted in support of farmers' protests. Earlier this year, more than 500 accounts were suspended and access to hundreds of others in India blocked after the government ordered the microblogging platform to restrain the spread of misinformation and inflammatory content related to farmers' protests. Over the past many months, Twitter has been embroiled in a number of issues. Twitter had drawn flak after it marked several tweets by ruling BJP leaders on an alleged strategy document of the Opposition to target the government over COVID as containing 'manipulated media', triggering a sharp rebuke from the government. The row over Twitter's handling of certain messages had recently blown up into all-out war of words between the Centre and the social media platform. Last week, the government issued a notice to Twitter giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules and warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India, as per data cited by the government recently. The new IT rules for social media companies that came into effect last month mandate large platforms like Facebook and Twitter to undertake greater due diligence and make these digital platforms more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them. The rules also require significant social media intermediaries - providing services primarily in the nature of messaging - to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines the sovereignty of India, the security of the state, or public order. The new IT rules require significant social media intermediaries - those with other 50 lakh users - to appoint a grievance officer, nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel are required to be resident in India. Under the new rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity, pornography etc. The Centre had said the new rules are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Non-compliance with the rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari meets Home Minister Amit Shah||BJP MLA and Leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed various issues concerning the state. Adhikari, a former minister in the last Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, had joined the BJP just before the 2021 state assembly elections. "Shri @SuvenduWB ji called on Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah ji," Shah's office tweeted with a picture of the home minister and the West Bengal leader. In his first meeting after becoming the leader of opposition in the state assembly, Adhikari also met Union minister Mansukh Mandviya. He is also scheduled to meet BJP national president J P Nadda, party sources said. Adhikari may also have a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a source said. The Leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly said in a tweet that he discussed with Shah several matters concerning the state and sought his blessings for Bengal. "Honourable HM assured, he was and he will be there for Bengal always," he said. Adhikari had defeated TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a closely fought battle in Nandigram during the state assembly polls held in March-April this year. Adhikari's meeting with top brass of the BJP comes days after his presence in Modi-Mamata meet over cyclone Yaas review had irked the TMC leader. According to sources, Mamata Banerjee had arrived late at the aforementioned meeting and left after submitting a report on the impact of the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload dips below one lakh after over two months||India reported less than one lakh new coronavirus infections after a gap of 63 days, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 4.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A single day rise of 86,498 cases were registered, the lowest in 66 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,89,96,473. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,51,309 with 2,123 daily deaths, the lowest in 47 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 81,466 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on April 2. Also, 18,73,485 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 36,82,07,596. The daily positivity rate has dropped to 4.62 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for 15 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 5.94 per cent. The active cases reduced to 13,03,702 comprising 4.50 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.29 per cent. A net decline of 97,907 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 26th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,73,41,462 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.21 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 23,61,98,726 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,123 new fatalities include 351 from Tamil Nadu, 340 each from Maharashtra and Karnataka, 211 from Kerala, and 103 from West Bengal. A total of 3,51,309 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,00,470 from Maharashtra, 31,920 from Karnataka, 27,356 from Tamil Nadu, 24,627 from Delhi, 21,333 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,362 from West Bengal, 15,160 from Punjab and 13,243 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses plea of forest encroachers||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Faridabad Municipal Corporation in Haryana to take immediate steps for razing all unauthorised structures dotting the Aravalli forest near a village as it declined to entertain the plea of around 10,000 families who had sought a stay on the imminent demolition. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari asserted that it would not brook any violation of the court’s earlier orders passed in February 2020 and April this year. The bench while seeking a compliance report with six weeks warned that it would make the officers concerned responsible for any defiance at its next hearing and proceed against them accordingly. The court passed the directions while rejecting the petition filed by 10,000 families living in a slum in Khori Gaon Basti in Faridabad. They have been residing on government land since 1980. “Most of them, however, are unable to show any proof of existence,” senior advocate Colin Gonzalves appearing for the petitioners told the bench during the hearing. The bench said: “…In our opinion, the petitioners are bound by the directions given by the high court and reiterated by this Court in order dated 19th February, 2020, and again on 5th April, 2021, in another proceedings pending before this Court with regard to the same subject matter. The relief claimed by the petitioners in this writ petition can be considered de-hors compliance of the directions given on earlier occasions by this Court in orders dated 19th February, 2020, and 5th April, 2021, respectively.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Covid: Latest guidelines exclude Hydroxychloroquine & ivermectin||The Union health ministry has eliminated hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin and kept out the anti-viral favipiravir from its latest Covid-19 treatment guidelines, a revised document that some doctors say reflects for the first time evidence-based medicine. The nine-page document released by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), a unit of the health ministry, has outlined in high precision the circumstances for using other medications and cautioned against the abuse of high-resolution CT scans of lungs. The ministry’s Covid-19 treatment guidelines first released last year and updated several times, including on May 19 this year, have long evoked criticism from sections of doctors who said they listed medications for which there was no evidence of benefits to patients. “Many of us are pleasantly surprised,” said Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha, who received the guidelines via a social media group of doctors on Sunday. “The medications in the revised guidelines are all backed by high-quality robust evidence. We are for the first time seeing guidelines from the ministry that are as close to science and evidence based as they can get. Whoever wrote the revisions deserves high praise,” Kalantri told The Telegraph. Kalantri and others had decried the inclusion of hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin in the ministry’s guidelines and the inclusion of the anti-viral favipiravir in some state guidelines which, they say, had encouraged doctors nationwide to prescribe medicines without evidence. The earlier May 19 guidelines developed by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, and the Indian Council of Medical Research Covid-19 task force that had retained hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin are contradictory in content with the latest DGHS guidelines dated May 27. Senior AIIMS doctors, however, said they had stopped prescribing hydroxychloroquine to patients several months ago. An institute doctor told this newspaper: “When the evidence was no longer there, we stopped.” The earlier guidelines “encouraged low-value care and provided doctors justification for prescribing medications that gave no benefit to Covid-19 patients,” said Vivekanand Jha, executive director of The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Jha and his colleagues Soumyadeep Bhaumik and Oommen John had last week in a commentary in The Lancet Global Health expressed concern that the guidelines and resulting prescriptions had “enabled others to engage in pandemic profiteering.” They said favipiravir had become a top-selling drug in India during April 2021 even though it was not recommended by the ministry’s guidelines. Blood-thinning agents were prescribed to patients who were not at risk of clotting, against the recommendations of most international expert panels. “Because 90 to 95 per cent of Covid-19 patients recover — no one really can tell whether the patients recover on their own or because of medicines. This allowed the practice of prescribing unproven medicines to continue,” said Vijoy Sinha, a senior physician, who had criticised the AIIMS-ICMR guidelines. Under the new DGHS guidelines, patients with asymptomatic Covid-19 need no medicines and no tests at all. Patients with mild illness have been recommended only paracetamol and cough syrup, if needed, and another drug called budesonide, also only if needed. Mild patients may need tests only if symptoms persist or worsen. The guidelines recommend oxygen, steroids, and a class of blood-thinners called anti-coagulants for moderate disease. The blood tests recommended have also been rationalised, doctors who have seen the revised guidelines said. The guidelines recommend “extreme caution” when ordering CT scans, , with four bullet points on why routine CT scans should not be done and four bullet points on when CT scans should not be ordered, Kalantri said. The page that mentions remdesivir and tocilizumab urges caution, underscoring that remdesivir is an “experimental drug and has a potential to harm.” “We see a good job done, but this could have been done last year,” Jha said. “The challenge ahead is to ensure that these new guidelines reach everyone who has become used to the questionable practices. No one should be heard louder in the noise. Effective dissemination and education is going to be critical.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||18 workers die in Pune factory fire||At least 18 workers, mostly women, were charred to death in a devastating fire that broke out at a chemical unit in an industrial area in Pune district on Monday afternoon, officials said. According to the officials, the fire broke out at SVS Aqua Technologies, which manufactures chemicals like chlorine dioxide and is located in the Pirangut MIDC (Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation) area of Mulshi tehsil on the outskirts of Pune city. “So far, 18 bodies have been recovered from the firm’s premises. We have stopped the search operation because of darkness and heat caused due to the blaze. The search operation will resume on Tuesday morning to find out if any worker is still missing,” said Sandesh Shirke, sub-divisional magistrate, Mulshi division. He said according to company officials, there were less than 20 employees, including 15 women, at the site where the blaze started. All the bodies, which were completely charred, were sent to the government-run Sassoon General Hospital for autopsy, Shirke said. The bodies were burned beyond recognition and their identity will have to be ascertained by conducting DNA test, he said. A worker escaped with burn injuries and was admitted to the Sassoon General Hospital, where he is stated to be out of danger, Shirke said. Fire brigade officials said the bodies were found in multiple groups with the victims clinging to each other in a desperate attempt to stay together and escape the inferno. Devendra Potphode, chief fire officer, PMRDA (Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority), said six to seven fire tenders were rushed to the chemical unit to douse the flames. Asked about the possible cause of the blaze, Potphode said according to the company officials, the fire started during packing of plastic materials on the premises. “Due to some spark at the (packaging) section, the fire broke out and as there was plastic around, it spread rapidly,” said Potphode. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh, who visited the spot, said an inquiry has been initiated into the tragic incident. “A committee, led by the SDM, Mulshi, with the chief fire officer of MIDC, PMRDA and other officials as its members, has been formed to probe the incident and they will submit their report,” he said. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, in a statement, said an inquiry has been ordered to find out the exact cause of the fire and a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each will be given to the next of the kin of the deceased. The firm, located near Uravade village, around 40km from the city, is into manufacturing of chemicals, including chlorine dioxide, which are used in water purification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Covid: Modi’s latest vaccine policy triggers savage retort from Cong||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attempt to make a virtue out of compulsion triggered a savage retort from the Congress, which said a “faltering and frightened” government had been forced to take corrective steps on the vaccination policy under pressure from the judiciary, political opposition and a widespread national outcry. Although the Prime Minister did his best to blame state governments, political rivals and critics for the policy confusion, it is not open to dispute that the Opposition and experts had fiercely opposed differential pricing and consistently demanded free universal vaccination by the Centre. The Modi government’s decision on April 19 to wash its hands of the responsibility of vaccinating adults under 45 was a break from the country’s universal immunisation programme, under which the Centre supplies the states with vaccine doses. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had bluntly said the Prime Minister was directly responsible for the death of lakhs of people because he didn’t formulate an effective vaccine policy. The Supreme Court’s tough posturing — it called the Centre’s vaccine policy “arbitrary and irrational” — finally compelled the Prime Minister to do the somersault and return to the vaccination policy India has followed for decades. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said: “The Congress and other Opposition parties from the very beginning forcefully opposed the idea of allowing profiteering off people’s miseries. The Modi government abdicated its responsibility for citizens below 45 years and asked the states to procure vaccines. When the Supreme Court and various high courts mounted pressure, a faltering and frightened government changed the policy.” He added: “There have been three policy alterations in six months. The Prime Minister is directly responsible for endangering the lives of millions of people by his criminal negligence.” Pointing out flaws in the modified policy, Surjewala said: “Modi said the Centre will procure 75 per cent of vaccines, leaving 25 per cent for the private hospitals. This means the middle class will have to pay Rs 2,500 to Rs 2,800 for two doses. Are they not the citizens of this country? Private hospitals are taking service charge of Rs 200 to 300 per dose. Why is such profiteering allowed?” Rahul tweeted: “One simple question — if vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them?” Asked about Modi’s insinuation that demands from states for flexibility and criticism from political parties had led to the change in policy in April, Surjewala said: “Which state asked the Prime Minister to allow it to vaccinate citizens below 45?” He continued: “Don’t blame states. Think of your responsibility instead of demonstrating your sophisticated art of lying. The Prime Minister should apologise for misleading the nation. He has also insulted the scientists and vaccine makers who worked so hard before 2014. It is sad he doesn’t know India’s vaccination history.” Ripping into Modi’s claim that his government intensified the immunisation campaign after 2014, Surjewala said: “India developed vaccine for TB in 1951, for small pox in 1965, for polio in 1970. Universal immunisation programme was started in 1985. India became free of small pox, polio, leprosy, cholera, TB much before 2014. Vaccines for hepatitis B came in 1997, H1N1 virus in 2009 and cholera in 2010.” It is a known fact that the Rajiv Gandhi government gave a major push to India’s vaccination programme and set up the infrastructure to make India the vaccine capital of the world. Had the Modi government accepted the Congress proposal of invoking compulsory licensing, India had the manufacturing capacity to ramp up production by leaps and bounds. On the government’s claim that the vaccination for Covid will be completed by the year-end, Surjewala said: “Modi said 23 crore people have been vaccinated so far in six months. How can 175 crore doses be administered in the next five-six months as claimed by the government? At this speed, India will need 1,091 days more to cover the entire population. Should India wait till May 2024 to get vaccinated?” Questioning the Prime Minister’s claim of being ahead of other countries, Surjewala said: “The US has vaccinated 41 per cent of its population and the UK 36 per cent. Even Brazil has covered 9.5 per cent. We have given both the doses to merely 4.61 crore which means 3.28 per cent.” He also questioned the Prime Minister’s praise for Co-WIN app, saying it was anti-poor and walk-in registration should be allowed for everybody. He reiterated the Congress demand for Rs 6,000 into the accounts of every poor till November in addition to free ration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
08-06-2021||India||Covid: PM Modi to provide free vaccines for all above 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced a centralised vaccine policy, taking the corrective measure after a countrywide outcry and a Supreme Court observation that the government’s policy was “arbitrary and irrational”. Modi made the announcement in an address to the nation but not before he played politics to the hilt, seeking to blame the states, the Opposition and critics for the mess that has widely been termed as a result of the central government’s lack of foresight. “We have decided that the 25 per cent (vaccination) work that the states were to do will be done by the Centre now,” Modi said at the end of the address that lasted a little over half an hour, effectively returning to a policy the country had followed since independence. “From June 21, the Government of India will provide free vaccines to all states for the 18-plus-year-old people,” he added. Modi said the central government would now directly buy 75 per cent of the vaccines from the manufacturers and give it to the states. The remaining 25 per cent, he said, will be left for private hospitals to buy directly from the manufacturers. The Prime Minister said the private hospitals could add a “service charge” up to a maximum of Rs 150 over the cost price per dose. The announcement meant the Modi government had made a partial U-turn from its April 19 decision that stipulated the states and private players would have to buy directly from the manufacturers for those aged between 18 and 45. The old policy had invited scathing criticism from the states, Opposition parties and several medical experts. Most recently, the Supreme Court had called the policy “arbitrary and irrational”. On Monday evening, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Back in February 2021 and multiple times thereafter, I’d written to the PM stating our longstanding demand to provide vaccines to ALL for FREE. Took him 4 months but after much pressure, he has FINALLY listened to us and implemented what we’ve been asking all this while.” Mamata added: “The well-being of the people of India should’ve been prioritised since the very start of this pandemic. Unfortunately, this delayed decision by PM has already cost many lives. Hoping for a better managed vaccination drive this time that focuses on people and not propaganda!” Modi, however, sought to pin the blame on the states and Opposition parties for the faulty policy, claiming it was the states that had wanted a decentralised vaccine policy. In independent India, all vaccine procurements before Covid have been undertaken by the Centre although health is a state subject. But, cast in the unfamiliar role of having to eat crow, the Prime Minister appeared to be seeking to give the impression that his government was now stepping up and taking over a job the states had been unable to cope with. Modi said his government had taken charge of all matters related to Covid until the demands for decentralisation, which were raised as the cases dipped after the first wave. “As cases dipped, different kinds of suggestions were made. Questions were asked as to ‘why everything was being handled by the Centre, why state governments were not given freedom’…,” Modi said. He claimed that questions had been raised over the age criteria fixed by the Centre for the vaccination campaign, including why senior citizens were being given preference. He said a section of the media ran a campaign and added that various kinds of pressure was built on his government to give freedom to the states. Modi sought to underscore that his government had succumbed to pressure and asked the states to handle the vaccination for the 18-45 age group. But then the states began to urge the Centre to take responsibility, he suggested. “Soon, the states began saying that the previous system was better. The ones who were asking for the states to take up vaccination changed their stand,” Modi said, without taking any names. The real reason for the change in stand, apart from the widespread criticism, appeared to be feedback the BJP had received from the ground after the election defeat in Bengal and the challenge posed by next year’s polls in five states, sources in the BJP said. Party insiders said the perceived mismanagement during the second Covid wave had scarred the Modi government’s image and there were jitters over the Uttar Pradesh polls, due early next year. The Modi government’s announcement on Monday about buying and giving free vaccines to the states came after a series of meetings by the RSS and the BJP to take stock of the situation. On Sunday evening, Modi had held a five-hour meeting with BJP chief J.P. Nadda and general secretaries of the party after a two-day stock-taking of the poll preparations for the five states. The RSS and the BJP fear that a third Covid wave could sully their image further and cost them at the hustings. After Modi announced the altered vaccination policy, ministers, chief ministers and party leaders went all out to thank and hail the leader, betraying a sense of relief and hope that the new measures would help them change perceptions and calm people’s anger. In his address, Modi announced the continuation of the scheme to provide free food grains to the poor till Diwali this year. “The government has decided that the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana will be extended till Diwali. In this pandemic, the government stands by the poor,” he said. Sticking to his penchant for taking all the credit, Modi claimed that his government had worked in “mission mode” to scale up vaccination coverage in the country. “In 2014, when we took charge, vaccination coverage in India was just 60 per cent. We found it a matter of big concern,” he said. “At this rate, it would have taken 40 years for universal coverage,” he added, without specifying which vaccines he was referring to. He indirectly slammed the Opposition for raising “misleading” doubts over the Indian-made vaccines. “Imagine what the situation would be if we didn’t build the capacity for manufacturing vaccines in the country,” he said. Modi sought to suggest that had India lacked vaccine-manufacturing capacity, it would have taken decades to achieve Covid vaccination, adding that in the past, it had taken decades for polio, smallpox and hepatitis B vaccines to arrive in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Covishield dose gap cut for people planning international travel||People wishing to travel abroad for studies and those headed for Tokyo as part of India’s Olympics contingent may take their second dose of Covishield four weeks after the first, the Union health ministry has said. The ministry has asked all states to enable people planning international travel to receive the second dose after 28 days if their travel dates occur prior to the currently mandated minimum dose gap of 84 days. This provision will be available for students who have to travel abroad for education, people who have to take up jobs in foreign countries, and sportspersons and staff who are part of the Indian contingent for the July 23-August 8 Tokyo Olympics. Those wishing to use this provision would need to show documents such as admission offers or formal communications from educational institutions, interview calls for jobs or letters of job offers, and nomination for the Tokyo Games. These vaccine recipients would need to use their passports to register on CoWin, the digital platform, the ministry said. This facility will be available up to August 31 for those who need to travel abroad for these purposes, it said. The health ministry had in mid-May accepted a recommendation from vaccination expert panels to expand the gap between Covishield doses to 12-16 weeks from the earlier 6-8 weeks. Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, is one of several vaccines that has received “emergency use listing (EUL)” from the World Health Organisation, a criterion some countries and educational institutions are using to recognise vaccination certificates. Covaxin, India’s home-grown vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, is in the process of seeking the EUL from the WHO. A pre-submission meeting to discuss Covaxin’s application for the EUL is expected to take place this month. Covid-19 vaccines from AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Moderna and China’s Sinopharm are among those that have already received the EUL from the WHO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||CBSE extends deadline for schools to submit Class XII scores||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday extended till June 28 its deadline for schools to submit the internal assessment and practical scores of Class XII students. The extension suggests the results may be declared by mid-July. Earlier, the CBSE had asked the schools to submit the internal assessment and practical scores by June 11. The internal assessment covers projects, quizzes, group discussions, homework and class notes. In a circular, the board said some of the schools had been unable to complete the assessment because of the pandemic. The board had asked the affiliated schools to complete their internal assessment and online practicals and submit the score. “The extension is a good decision as many schools could not conduct the internal assessment and the practicals. Now that the CBSE has said June 28 is the final deadline, it seems the board can announce the results by July 15,” said Kiran Mehta, former principal of Salwan Public School. The board has decided to announce the results on the basis of school exams, internal assessment and practicals. It has set up a committee to suggest the criteria for the award of marks. Mehta said the schools had conducted pre-board exams in all papers that the board would have covered. In addition, the schools had held half-yearly exams on all subjects. If the results are announced by July 15, it will help the students appear in entrance exams and secure admission to institutions of higher learning, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||India's monthly unemployment rate reaches 11.9% in May||Over 1.5 crore jobs were lost in India in May this year and the monthly unemployment rate reached 11.9 per cent, the highest since last year’s national lockdown, a survey by a private research group has shown. Some 14.73 per cent people from the working age group were unemployed in urban areas and 10.63 per cent in rural areas, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). The CMIE surveys the unemployment rate and job losses and publishes findings for every week, month, quarter and year. The 11.9 per cent unemployment rate in May marks a huge jump from the 7.97 per cent recorded in April, and is the highest since June last year when unemployment was 10.18 per cent. Only during the national lockdown was the unemployment rate higher, reaching 23.52 per cent in April last year and 21.73 per cent in May 2020. The CMIE counted 37.545 crore employed people in May this year, including those involved in various kinds of informal work. In April, 39.079 crore people were employed, which means that over 1.53 crore jobs were lost in May. Some 38.877 crore Indians were employed at the end of last December, their number rising to 40.07 crore by the end of January this year. The number fell to 39.821 crore in February and to 39.814 crore in March before rising to 39.079 crore at the end of April, the CMIE found. Economist Sunil Ray, former director of the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, said that whenever there are job losses, the migrant labourers and unorganised-sector workers become the worst sufferers. “Nearly 90 per cent of the workforce is in the unorganised or informal sector. They are the most vulnerable. During this current decline in jobs, the vulnerable sections are the migrants, vendors, the self-employed, and casual and agricultural workers,” Ray said. He said those engaged in white-collar jobs too get affected: with jobs shrinking in the formal sector, professionals are asked to work from home with a salary cut. Besides, those shown as employed in surveys are not fully employed, he said. “Particularly in the agriculture sector, more people are engaged in work that can be done by fewer people. This disguised unemployment is a form of unemployment that does not get reported in surveys,” Ray said. He was referring to how, with hardly any other jobs available, all working-age members of farmers’ families tend to pitch in for work on their land that can be done by fewer people. Ray said that after the states lift their lockdowns, there may be a sudden rise in economic activity and employment but it would be temporary. “The present economic model of corporate-led development will fail to solve the unemployment problem. What is needed is localised entrepreneurship where small manufacturing units can be set up to utilise local resources for the production of goods and services,” he said. For example, Ray said, agriculture-based industries can be launched in the rural areas depending on the production of crops. These industries can engage in processing, storage and transport. Other possible local initiatives include the establishment of skill training centres, small healthcare facilities and manufacturing units, but the government needs to provide some assistance to start these, Ray said. If the situation is not addressed, there can be a big national movement centred on unemployment, Ray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks feedback from the public on live-stream||The Supreme Court’s e-committee has released “draft model rules” for the live-streaming and recording of court proceedings and invited feedback and suggestions from the public. Once live-streaming starts, people would be able to watch the proceedings of any court, including the apex court and the high courts, on their electronic gadgets from anywhere in the country. Certain sensitive cases like rape and matrimonial disputes will not be live-streamed, however, while live-streaming in certain cases may be restricted to the final arguments. The proceedings to be excluded from live-streaming are: ⚫ Matrimonial matters including petitions to transfer such cases from one court to another. ⚫ Cases of sexual offences. ⚫ Cases of gender-based violence against women. ⚫ Cases of sexual abuse of children and juvenile justice case. ⚫ In-camera proceedings and matters relating to the national interest. ⚫ Matters where the bench believes — with the reasons stated in writing — that publication would hinder the administration of justice. ⚫ Cases that the bench believes may provoke enmity among communities and affect law and order. ⚫ Recording of evidence, including cross-examinations. ⚫ Privileged communication between the parties and their advocates, cases where a claim of privilege has been accepted by the court, and non-public discussions between advocates. ⚫ Any other matter in which the bench or the chief justice has issued a specific direction against live-streaming. The live-streaming will enable people to watch court proceedings on matters of public interest and benefit journalists, civil society, academics and law students who are unable to physically attend court because of geographical, logistical or infrastructural reasons. The court master or reader will inform the parties right at the start that the proceedings would be live-streamed and that they must tell the bench about any objections they might have. Such objections can be raised as early as the time of the institution of the case or at a later stage. The bench will take the final decision, guided by the principle of an open and transparent judicial process. Its decision cannot be judicially challenged. The move for live-streaming is a joint exercise between the Supreme Court and the Union law ministry under the National Policy and Action Plan for implementation of Information and Communication Technology in the Indian Judiciary. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, senior Supreme Court judge and chairperson of the e-committee, had earlier written to the chief justices of all the high courts seeking suggestions on the draft model rules. His letter had said the right of access to justice, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, encompassed the right to access live court proceedings. A sub-committee of judges from the Bombay, Delhi, Madras and Karnataka High Courts, formed to draft the live-streaming rules, had held extensive discussions. It considered the principles the apex court had enunciated in Swapnil Tripathi v Supreme Court of India (2018), covering issues of the litigants’ and witnesses’ privacy and confidentiality, business confidentiality, prohibition or restriction of access to proceedings or trials stipulated by central or state legislation, sensitivity of cases and the need to preserve the public interest. The draft model rules are available on the e-committee website https://ecommitteesci.gov.in/document/draft-model-rules-for-live-streaming-and-recording-of-court-proceedings. Suggestions can be emailed to ecommittee@aij.gov.in by June 30, a law ministry release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Sit-in at Tohana continues, two get bail ||Protesting farmers called off their sit-in at a police station here on Monday evening shortly after the third farmer activist arrested in connection with the protest against ruling JJP legislator Devender Singh Babli was released on bail and other demands of the agitators were met. Earlier in the day, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been spearheading the movement against the new farm laws, called off a plan to hold protests at every police station in Haryana following the release of two arrested farmers on bail but decided to continue protesting at the Sadar police station in Tohana city of Fatehabad district of Haryana since a third activist was lodged there. Officials confirmed that the farmers had dispersed from the police station after calling off their protest. Senior SKM leaders including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Singh Chaduni had led the farmers’ protest outside the police station in Tohana. Farmers Ravi Azad and Vikas Sisar, who were arrested for allegedly trying to gherao Babli’s residence last week, were released on bail by the court while the third farmer Makhan Singh was let go in the evening. Earlier, farmer leaders had demanded that cases registered against several peasants in connection with the protest against Babli be taken back. Meanwhile, Tikait said the arrested farmers had been released and described it as a victory of the peasants. Yadav said all demands of farmers have been conceded and described the release of the trio as a major victory for the Morcha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||CRPF, BSF to drop jawans placed under the 'lowest medical category'||The Central Reserve Police Force and Border Security Force are considering weeding out a few hundred of their unfit personnel who are placed under the “lowest medical category”. Sources said the top brass of the two central paramilitary forces have asked all their formations across the country to identify jawans belonging to the shape-5 medical category (lowest health fitness). “All formations of the two forces have been asked to identify such jawans belonging to the lowest medical category. According to the proposed plan, they will be boarded out from the forces,” a Union home ministry official said. Paramilitary forces are under the control of the home ministry. A CRPF official said boarding out of personnel falling in the shape-5 category was under consideration for a long time. “The total number of personnel belonging to the lowest medical category in the two forces will be a few hundred,” a CRPF official said. Sources said many such jawans were posted in sensitive zones, including Maoist-hit areas and Jammu and Kashmir. “It is fraught with risk to keep such unfit jawans posted in the combat ranks in these sensitive areas,” an official said. Unfit jawans to be sacked on medical fitness grounds would get post-retirement benefits in accordance with their service rules. Most of the jawans belonging to the lower medical category in the two forces are in the age group of 40-45 years. Usually jawans categorised under low medical category are removed from combat and operation duties and are assigned administrative responsibilities. Those placed under the lowest medical category are boarded out from the force. “Personnel who are rendered unfit after years of deployment in inhospitable terrains are also assigned administrative duties,” said an official. Disabilities in paramilitary forces, according to rules, are classified under three categories — disability due to injuries sustained in combat action against insurgents/terrorists/Maoists, those disabled by sickness/accident, and others who are found to be unfit because of psychiatric diseases and drug/alcohol addiction. Jawans belonging to the first two categories are rehabilitated in the force after assessing their capability and health condition, but those declared mentally unfit are sacked. “In the past, we have witnessed that jawans suffering from mental illness have been involved in fratricidal incidents,” a BSF official said. The highest number of personnel in the lower medical category are in the CRPF followed by the BSF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Fresh deployment of troops trigger worries of partition in the Valley||A flurry of developments, including fresh deployment of paramilitary forces, in Jammu and Kashmir has triggered worries of another partition of the erstwhile state, although officials claim these are routine developments. The Valley has been rife with rumours of fresh division of the region for the past couple of days, amid reports of troop build-up in parts of North Kashmir and Jammu and a series of meetings between top government officials from the Union Territory administration and central government in Delhi. Many locals are publicly expressing fears that Jammu and Kashmir might be partitioned afresh into Jammu and Valley. In 2019, the Narendra Modi government had carved out Ladakh as a separate Union Territory by bifurcating Jammu and Kashmir along with the scrapping of Article 370. “So many rumours again Statehood for Jammu, UT for Kashmir & you know how true rumours prove specially when it comes to J&K,” tweeted activist Guftar Ahmad, who is from Jammu’s Pir Panchal region. “Do whatever you want we are already on destruction path after abrogation of Article 370. 5th August, 2019, was black day for us.” Officials said dozens of companies of paramilitary forces are being deployed across the Union Territory, in a throwback to the run-up of abrogation of Article 370 in 2019. Unlike 2019, the government has not officially reacted to the rumours this time. Back then, the then governor Satya Pal Malik had rebuffed reports of scrapping of Article 35A, which gave exclusive rights to locals over land and jobs, and asked people not to panic. However, what followed was not just the scrapping of Articles 370 and 35A but bifurcation of the state into two Union Territories. “We want to believe even in rumours rumoured to be rumours. We love rumours don’t we. Last few days has been all about rumours and conspiracies. They say don’t believe a rumour to be true until government actually denies it,” People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone tweeted, betraying the contempt that people harbour for any government clarifications. Some politicians feared they might land in jail again. “While rumours are flying thick and fast — should we be ready for second semester? MLA’s hostel 2.0?” tweeted Tanvir Sadiq, an aide of former chief minister Omar Abdullah. Tanvir was among dozens of politicians who were lodged in the MLA hostel after they were arrested in 2019 to prevent protests against the developments. A police officer said more than 50 companies of paramilitary forces have been deployed in Jammu and Kashmir in the last few weeks and more are coming but he claimed it was a routine development. “Around 200 companies were shifted out of J&K for elections in other states and prevent protests against the CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act). They are being re-inducted. There is no fresh deployment,” an officer said. In the run-up to the 2019 developments, the Centre had rushed hundreds of companies of paramilitary forces to J&K from other parts of the country, in addition to tens of thousands of troops already deployed here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Covid: People’s misery forces its way to headlines||Much of the Indian media, particularly the vernacular press, has been blinkered at best in its reporting on the Narendra Modi government, putting a positive spin on all its mistakes for the last seven years. However, there seems a slight change in the regional language press recently which is doing more aggressive reporting on the horrors of the second Covid wave and putting the blame squarely on mismanagement by the government. In a shocking vindication of the foreign media that India’s real Covid figures —both cases and deaths — were suppressed by the government, Divya Bhaskar, a Gujarati newspaper in the home state of Prime Minister Modi and home minister Amit Shah, reported that between March 1 and May 10 this year, Gujarat issued 123,000 death certificates. This is a whopping 65,000 more deaths than the 58,000 deaths reported during the same period in 2020 and points to the dreadful toll the pandemic has taken on the state. Gujarat’s BJP government has only admitted to 4,218 Covid-related deaths during the same period. Similarly, when reports surfaced last month that there was a severe shortage of the drug remdesivir, Gujarat BJP president C.R. Patil announced he had 5,000 doses of it that would be made available free of cost by the party in Surat, a Covid hotspot. Divya Bhaskar headlined Patil’s mobile number on the front page and told those in need to call him. It also asked the government how Patil had got so many doses of a medicine when only six doses can be sold to one person and that, too, against a doctor’s prescription. A few months ago such critical coverage of the Gujarat government would have been unthinkable from Divya Bhaskar, a Gujarati newspaper from the Bhopal-based Bhaskar group with editions from nine cities and towns in the state. The newspaper has since its inception in 2003 staunchly backed the Modi-Shah duo, both when they were ruling the state and after they conquered Delhi. So why the sudden change? “Gujarat has suffered really badly this time, far worse than the first wave, so much so that apart from BJP supporters, even their leaders, MPs, MLAs, mahants — none has been spared by Covid. It’s their very own who are leaking stories to the press against the Rupani government, which has done nothing to alleviate their problems,” a senior editor with a Gujarati newspaper who did not wish to be named told The Telegraph. “The readers have experienced such horrors with thousands dying every day; how can the media not reflect at least some of this if they wish to retain their credibility? These stories are coming out because of pressure from the readers.” Divya Bhaskar, however, has not laid the blame at Modi’s door but accused chief minister Rupani of “mismanaging” the Covid response, toeing the BJP line of calling it a “systems failure”. Gujarat Samachar, the big dad of Gujarati newspapers, has on the other hand been critical of both Modi and Shah’s positions in the run-up to the second wave, taking them to task for allowing the India-England Test matches in Ahmedabad and the super-spreader Kumbh Mela, and for holding election rallies. Gujarat Samachar, with its daily readership of 4.6 million (according to 2014 data) from eight distribution centres, is perceived to be the real opinion maker in the state, and it has been viewed as anti-establishment and pro-establishment at different times. Founded in 1932 by Vallabhbhai Patel and Morarji Desai as part of the freedom struggle, it has been a family-run newspaper since 1952, with current owner-editor Shreyans Shah taking over in 1984 when his father Shantilal Shah passed away. A veteran journalist said he saw the newspaper as “inherently pro-BJP”. Efforts by this newspaper to elicit comment from the Gujarat Samachar did not yield results. The English-language press is not emulating its vernacular counterparts for a variety of reasons. “I agree we are not reporting as aggressively as Gujarat Samachar or Divya Bhaskar, but we give a more balanced view taking into account what the government has to say as well,” said Ajay Umat, group editor of Ahmedabad Mirror and NavGujarat Samay, which are linked to the Times of India group. Umat had worked with Gujarat Samachar in a senior position and later been launch-editor of Divya Bhaskar. According to Umat, the English-language press tends to be more Ahmedabad and urban-centric as that is where its readership is. “Whereas Divya Bhaskar and Gujarat Samachar are both pan-Gujarat papers and have a reach even in small towns and villages in rural areas,” Umat said. Unlike the first wave when Ahmedabad was the worst affected by Covid, this time the infection has spread to the rural areas with Surat and Baroda as the main hotspots. “There is not a single family in the state that has not been touched by the dreaded disease. Some unfortunate families have lost two-three people in the space of days,” said Dr Jayashree Shah, 52, a gynaecologist in Baroda. The vernacular newspapers have a larger network of reporters and stringers in rural areas than their English counterparts or the TV channels and can therefore bring out the real picture of the lack of facilities in even the remotest parts of the state. It is believed that Hindi newspaper Danik Bhaskar sent out 30 reporters to 27 districts along the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh to unearth all the bodies buried on the riverbanks. The Modi government has been accused of trying to silence sections of the Indian media by throttling the key source of revenue — advertisements — if they defy the party line. “The more money you need to run your media house, the easier it is for the government to manipulate you,” said a television journalist. “The smaller TV channels try half-heartedly to ventilate the sentiments of the public but rely completely on Gujarat government ads, so they ‘balance’ it with government propaganda.” The larger media houses like Gujarat Samachar and Divya Bhaskar have more clout and so have a little more wiggle room. Shortages of hospital beds, oxygen, medicines, vaccines and ambulances, coupled with the black marketeering of essential drugs and facilities, have turned the pandemic into a living hell for the people. “The public is broken -- no earning for the last one year, and yet there is sickness and death everywhere. There is a black market rate for everything and people don’t have the money to pay. The government is doing nothing. The media also know that if they don’t start showing the real picture, they will get beaten up,” said Naveen Bhatt, 38, a teacher. Gujarat was a Covid hotspot even during the first wave but the media had initially channelled the public’s anger towards the Tablighi Jamaat, blaming it for the pandemic. However, the second wave has been far worse and there is no obvious communal angle to exploit. “If the Gujarati press is questioning the state government at the moment, it is out of majboori (compulsion) and only temporarily. Soon the government will give them what they want and they will again start singing their praises and stop telling the truth,” the veteran journalist said. Sajeda Momin, a senior journalist, was The Telegraph’s Gujarat correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||Central school rankings flag administrative, financial and infrastructural gaps||School education rankings released by the Centre have flagged shortage of teachers, principals and administrative staff, inadequate training of teachers, financial bottlenecks and infrastructure constraints. The litany of problems plaguing the school education system has cast a fresh glare on the Centre’s decision to cut funding. “It is the central government which has reduced its allocation to the Samagra Siksha Abhiyan (SSA) scheme in this year’s budget by Rs 8,000 crore. The SSA is the key scheme to implement the Right to Education Act and improve critical areas of school functioning,” said Mitra Ranjan from the Right To Education Forum. He blamed the central government for the poor performance of states in teacher availability and infrastructure. From Rs 38,750 crore last year, the allocation dipped to Rs 31,050 crore for the SSA. The scheme covers infrastructure development of government schools and provides uniforms and textbooks to children. Kerala, Punjab and Tamil Nadu improved their performance on key aspects of school education in 2019-20, replacing Gujarat from the club of best performing states, according to the rankings released on Sunday. But no state has yet reached Level 1 of the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2019-20, for which the score has to cross 950 out of 1,000. Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state, was among the best performers for the first two years of the PGI rankings, scoring between 851 and 900. This year too, Gujarat scored in the same range and found a place in Level III. The PGI exercise is undertaken by the Union education ministry to help the states and Union Territories to pinpoint the gaps and accordingly, prioritise areas for intervention. The index, covering the states and Union Territories, is based on 70 parameters. The broad criteria considered for this exercise include learning outcome, access and retention, infrastructure and factors like pupil-teacher ratio and teacher training. In the 2018-19 PGI report released last year, Punjab and Tamil Nadu had scored between 751 and 800 and were placed in Level V while Kerala and Chandigarh had scored between 851 and 900 with Gujarat and were placed in Level III. Bengal, which had scored between 701 and 750 in the 2018-19 PGI report, has improved its performance to score between 801 and 850 in 2019-20. Ladakh, with a score of less than 550, was placed in Level X. India has nearly 15 lakh schools with almost 97 lakh teachers and more than 25 crore students. The elementary schools need to maintain a ratio of 30 students to one teacher at the primary level and 35 students to one teacher at the upper primary level. Ranjan, from the Right To Education Forum, said the PGI index was a tool used by the Centre to put the onus on the states for the poor quality of education. “The states are starved of funds. If the Centre is bringing out the rankings, it must provide additional funds to the states to improve their performance. But the funds from the Centre are dipping,” he said. About Gujarat’s performance remaining stagnant, Ranjan said the state never ensured access to education for all sections like Dalits, tribals and minorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
08-06-2021||India||UP: Two arrested with regard to payment for tweets'in favour of Yogiji'||Two men have been arrested in Lucknow over an audio recording of a purported conversation that discusses payment for tweets “in favour of Yogiji”. “We have arrested Himanshu Saini and Ashish Pandey for tampering with two audios and handing it over to a third person to make it viral on social media. They had merged two audio conversations. They wanted to make it appear as if Rs 2 would be paid to those who tweet/retweet certain kind of posts,” Salman Taj Patil, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch, Kanpur Nagar, told The Telegraph over phone on Sunday evening. On Monday, the wife of Ashish Pandey posted a tweet appealing to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to hear her out. “My husband Ashish Pandey has lived the name ‘Yogi Adityanath’ for four years…. Perhaps this is the test of respect, worship and faith. I request Yogi Adityanathji to allow me the chance to meet you and give my husband’s side of the story,” Preeti Verma tweeted in Hindi. Verma is a a member of the UP State Commission for Child Rights. When a Twitter user responded that Pandey had not “lived” but “sold” the name of Yogi Adityanath and made crores of rupees and got government accommodation, Verma shot back: “If you knew so much, you would not be living for Rs 2 per tweet.” The arrests were made on the complaint of Kanpur resident Atul Kushwaha, who said his image had been tarnished by the audio clip. The purported conversation in Hindi on the audio clip that emerged on Twitter on May 30 goes like this: First person: Tell me how the rate of Rs 2 is fixed for a tweet. Second person: It is for those who have more than 100 followers. First: Fine, tell me what would be the hashtag. Second: I have posted it in the group (possibly a messaging platform). See in the group. First: Yogiji’s hashtag? Second: Yes, Yogiji’s hashtag. Any problem? First: No, I want to ensure that more and more people tweet. Second: The payment will be less. Only 25 tweets are being asked for. The hashtag should be in Yogiji’s favour. First: In Yogiji’s favour? Second: Yes, in Yogiji’s favour. Meaning, write good things about Yogiji. First: Whose trend is it? Second: Why do you bother? It is Atulji’s trend. It is Gajendra Chauhan’s trend. You know Gajendra Chauhan, right? He will retweet. Ensure 25 tweets from each ID. You have to send the links in the group. Make it quick along with pictures. The complaint at Kalyanpur police station in Kanpur suggested Atul Kushwaha is the “Atulji” referred to in the audio clip. Around the time the purported conversation went viral, Gajendra Chauhan, the actor who had played Yudhisthir in B.R. Chopra’s television saga Mahabharat and is closely associated with the BJP, had participated in a Twitter campaign with the hashtag “Yogiji_ka_shashakt_UttarPradesh(Yogi’s strong UttarPradesh)” and had encouraged supporters to make it trend. That tweet could no longer be seen on Chauhan’s profile after the controversy erupted. The audio clip had been shared on Twitter by a retired IAS officer in Uttar Pradesh, who is one of the three people named in the FIR filed on May 31. The others are Himanshu Saini, arrested from Khalabazar in Lucknow on Sunday, and Puneet Saini. Dinesh Kumar Shukla, assistant commissioner of police of the Kalyanpur area of Kanpur, told this correspondent: “The retired IAS officer and two others have been booked under Section 505 of the IPC.” Surya Pratap Singh had retired as principal secretary in the Uttar Pradesh education department. The FIR alleges that the audio clip was a recording of two individuals talking to each other, “talking about payment for tweets in favour of Yogiji”, and identifies them as Puneet Saini and Himanshu Saini. It says Kushwaha was also named in the conversation and adds that this was an attempt to defame him as he had been writing “selflessly” on social media about the “good work” of the Adityanath government for several years. IAS officer Singh was named as accused for sharing the recording on Twitter. Singh told The Telegraph on Wednesday: “They say the chief minister is very popular. Then why do they need to pay Rs 2 to someone to tweet or retweet in his praise? I am saying that it is related to corruption and a racket in the information and publicity department of Uttar Pradesh.” Sharing the audio, Singh had tweeted on May 30: “The information department must say how much the government is spending on thousands of such trends. People’s money is being squandered while the poor are struggling for every morsel of food.” This newspaper also sent a WhatsApp message to Shishir Singh, director of the information and publicity department, asking about IAS officer Singh’s claims, but received no response. Calls to his cellphone also went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Kerala Assembly polls 2021: Bribe FIR on state BJP chief||A case was registered on Monday against Kerala BJP president K. Surendran for allegedly bribing a rival candidate in Manjeshwar constituency during the recent Assembly polls, hours after a magistrate’s court in Kasaragod sanctioned filing of the FIR. V.V. Rameshan of the CPM, who had finished third from Manjeshwar, had filed an application seeking the court’s sanction since the charge was non-cognisable. Rameshan’s lawyer C. Shukkur told The Telegraph that the Badiyadka police station in Kasaragod had registered an FIR under IPC section 171b (bribery related to election) late on Monday evening. “We received the sanction this afternoon, based on our application filed earlier in the day,” Shukkur said. Bahujan Samaj Party nominee K. Sundara has alleged the BJP got him to withdraw from the race by giving him Rs 2.5 lakh and a smart phone and promising him a wine shop. He said Surendran had spoken to him over the phone. Surendran eventually lost narrowly to Congress ally IUML. The maximum punishment for election bribery is a year’s jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Vijayan corroborates allegations of sum stolen during April 3 car robbery||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday corroborated the allegation that the sum stolen during the April 3 car robbery that has triggered money-laundering charges against the BJP was Rs 3.5 crore. He told the Assembly that following investigations, the police had added several IPC sections such as 412 (receiving stolen property), 212 (harbouring offender) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) to the original case of dacoity (Section 395). This should widen the scope of the case, in connection with which the police have questioned several BJP leaders apart from arresting 20 suspects. Vijayan said the police had recovered Rs 1.12 crore in cash from the suspects while seizing 347 grams of gold jewellery, mobile phones and wrist-watches bought with the booty. Shamjeer, the owner of the car who was travelling with RSS worker Dharmarajan when the robbers struck in Thrissur district, had said in the FIR that the sum stolen was Rs 25 lakh. However, police sources had cited alleged confessions by those arrested to claim the amount was Rs 3.5 crore, buttressing charges that the BJP was using hawala money to influence the April 6 elections. The chief minister has now provided the first official corroboration of the figure. Vijayan emphasised the hawala angle, saying the BJP-led central government’s note withdrawal of 2016 had failed to stop the circulation of unaccounted money. “When the demonetisation was announced on November 8, 2016, the central government had told the people it was a surgery to eradicate black money,” he said, while replying to Congress MLA Shafi Parambil’s notice for an adjournment motion on the matter, which the Speaker denied. “But it’s going to be five years since the demonetisation — we need to examine what it achieved apart from wreaking havoc on the unorganised sector and the common people.” Vijayan said the special investigation team (SIT) had so far recorded the statements of 96 witnesses. He denied allegations by the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the BJP, which has no representation in the Assembly, that the state government was deliberately keeping the Enforcement Directorate (ED) away from the case. He said the SIT had provided all the details of the case to the ED on June 1 following a May 27 letter from the central agency, which is mandated to probe money-laundering. A CPM ally has petitioned Kerala High Court to direct the ED to probe the case saying the agency had ignored his letters asking it to step in. On Monday, leader of the Opposition and Congress member V.D. Satheesan demanded in the Assembly that the ED and the income-tax department be brought in. Satheesan alleged the state government and the police were going slow on the case and aired the suspicion of a deal. “Since you both (LDF and the BJP) have cases against each other, there is a suspicion that the two of you would settle this case.” Satheesan alleged the ED had stopped probing the gold smuggling case — in which several CPM members and an official close to Vijayan are implicated —just before the state polls. “Apart from arresting those involved in the highway robbery, this government is not ready to arrest anyone else,” Satheesan said, apparently alluding to the BJP leaders questioned in the case. Parambil too mentioned the demonetisation, saying it had only enhanced the flow of unaccounted money, especially to the BJP. “Almost Rs 10 crore was brought from Karnataka with just a few days left for the state (Kerala) polls. The cash stolen (from the car) was what remained after much of the money had been distributed in several districts,” he said. The BJP will launch a state-wide agitation on June 10 accusing the state government of framing its leaders in false cases, state BJP vice-president A.N. Radhakrishnan told a news conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Locals observe 12-hour hunger strike ||Residents of Lakshadweep observed a 12-hour hunger strike at their homes on Monday seeking the immediate withdrawal of a set of contentious legislations and the recall of controversial administrator Praful Khoda Patel. Since Covid protocol did not allow them to step outside their properties, 68,000 residents in 10 of the 36 islands off the Kerala coast observed a dawn-to-dusk hunger strike wielding placards and banners raising their demands. Only medical shops remained open while the isles remained shut during the protest. While no untoward incidents were reported in the peaceful demonstration, police removed panchayat members who opted for a sit-in at the panchayat office in Kavaratti, the headquarters of the isles. “We started our sit-in at the panchayat office at 9am. It was very peaceful as we just held placards raising our demands. But police came around 11am and bundled us into their vans and dropped us at our homes unmindful of our requests to allow our basic rights to protest,” Kavaratti village panchayat member Thaha Malika of the Congress told The Telegraph. “When we repeatedly asked the police officers for the reason to remove us, they said they had ‘orders from the top.’ This is a blatant violation of our constitutional rights,” Malika who, like other ward members, then joined their respective families in the hunger strike at their homes. He said some youths protested underwater holding placards against the reforms and the administrator. Kasim Meharouf, village panchayat member of Chetlat, one of the smallest islands in the archipelago, told this newspaper that the strike was a total success. “Everyone of the 2,500 residents of Chetlat participated in the hunger strike. Even children joined us in this peaceful protest against the draconian laws that the administrator is trying to bring,” Maharouf, who belongs to the Nationalist Congress Party, said. “Fishermen participated in the hunger strike, too. Not a single boat ventured out in the seas for fishing today (Monday). We are all united in this as this is a matter of life and death for us,” he added. After taking charge in December, Patel had quickly brought in draft laws such as the Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR), the Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (or Goonda Act), and the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation (LAPR) besides a controversial amendment to the Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulations. The administration has already pulled out beef from school mid-day meal menu in the islands where a huge majority of the residents are Muslims categorised as Scheduled Tribes. It had shut down dairy farms to usher in Gujarat-based Amul and taken steps to sever the islands’ umbilical cord with Kerala that the residents call ‘mainland’ by linking it with Mangalore in BJP-ruled Karnataka. While the LDAR empowers the administration to take over anyone’s land at a short notice, the Goonda Act empowers the police to detain anyone for a year without trial. The animal preservation act will end cattle slaughter. The amendment to the panchayat act has a two-child norm for all those contesting in the local body polls. P.P. Rahim, local committee member of the CPM in Kavaratti, told this newspaper that protests would continue until the administration heeded people’s concerns. “We don’t want these anti-people legislations. There is no going back on that,” he said. Rahim drew attention to how the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown had left scores of families with no income. “People are unable to go out and earn their livelihood. But unlike mainland Kerala, we are not even getting food ration kits.” The CPM, he said, has been providing dry ration kits to the poor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
08-06-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Delhi team in Odisha’s affected areas||The inter-ministerial team led by Sunil Kumar Barnwal, the joint secretary in the ministry of home affairs, on Monday began on-the spot assessment of the losses caused by the Cyclone Yaas that hit the Odisha coast on May 26. The cyclone that made a landfall between the north of Dhamra in the Bhadrak district and south of Balasore, had wreaked havoc in  four districts of the state — Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Mayurbhanj. The team that visited Balasore on Monday, would tour the cyclone hit areas for two days. Before leaving for Delhi, they will meet the Odisha government officials and hold a discussion regarding the losses suffered by the state. According to the Odisha government’s preliminary report, the state incurred a loss to the tune of Rs 610 crore due to the cyclone. Of this, Rs 520 crore was on account of damage to the government infrastructure and Rs 90 crore due to damage to private property. Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Odisha to assess the loss caused by the Cyclone Yaas on May 28, had announced Rs 500 crore assistance to the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
