09-06-2021||India||Twitter in final stages of appointing grievance officer||Social media platform Twitter is learnt to have written to the government that it is in advanced stages of finalising chief compliance officer as per the new IT rules and additional details will be submitted to the government within a week, according to an official source. Twitter in its reply to the final notice of the government dated June 5, said that it is making all efforts to comply with the new guidelines but has been unable to do so because of the global impact of Covid-19 pandemic. "...We are in advanced stages of finalising the appointment of the role of chief compliance office and we plan to provide additional details to you in the next several days, and at the latest within a week," Twitter said. According to the source, the letter was sent on June 7 to the Ministry of Electronics and IT. When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said, "Twitter has been and remains deeply committed to India, and serving the vital public conversation taking place on the service. We have assured the Government of India that Twitter is making every effort to comply with the new Guidelines, and an overview on our progress has been duly shared. We will continue our constructive dialogue with the Indian government." The new IT rules for social media companies that came into effect last month mandate large platforms like Facebook and Twitter to undertake greater due diligence and make these digital platforms more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them. Under the rules, significant social media intermediaries -- those with over 50 lakh users -- are required to appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents in India. Further, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for issues such as nudity and pornography. The new social media guidelines came into effect from May 26, 2021 but Twitter did not comply with the rules. In its final notice, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) had said that Twitter's refusal to comply with the rules demonstrated the micro-blogging site's "lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform". The ministry notice warned the social media firm of consequences for not following the new rules but gave one last chance to Twitter to "immediately comply with the rules, failing which the exemption from liability available shall stand withdrawn and Twitter shall be liable for consequences as per the IT Act and other penal laws of India". Twitter in its latest reply said that it understands the importance of new regulations and "have endeavored in good faith to comply with the guidelines, including with respect to hiring personnel in India". The micro-blogging site said that the guidelines were notified on February 25, 2021, and the global impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has made it more difficult for it to make certain arrangements that are necessary to comply with the rules within the stipulated time-frame. "For example, similar to other significant social media intermediaries operating in India, in order to comply with the underlying intention behind the guidelines, we have appointed a nodal contact person and resident grievance officer on a contractual basis while we recruit to fill the positions on a permanent basis," Twitter said in the letter. The social media firm that remains committed to serving the people of India by providing a platform to serve the public conversation in India, especially during critical moments and emergency situations. The social media firm has had several faceoffs with the government since the start of farmers' protest in Delhi and later when it tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP as "manipulated media". Several ministers from the government and officials joined Indian rival of Twitter, Koo which is backed by former Infosys CFO Mohandas Pai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
09-06-2021||India||Licence of Agra hospital, which conducted mock oxygen drill, suspended||All patients were shifted out from a private hospital in Agra and its licence suspended on Wednesday after it allegedly conducted a "mock drill" by cutting off oxygen supply for five minutes to "segregate" the critical patients, officials said. A case was registered under the Epidemic Act against Dr Arinjay Jain, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital which has now been sealed, they said. The Agra administration also formed a magisterial team including additional district magistrate, city and two health officials from the chief minister's office. By Tuesday midnight, all the 55 patients at the hospital were either shifted to other hospitals or discharged, officials said. Chief Medical Officer, Agra Dr RC Pandey told PTI that the licence of the hospital has been suspended till the investigation is going on. Further action will be taken as per the report of the investigation, he added. Pandey said a team from the health department has sealed the hospital premises in the presence of the police. In the video which went viral on social media on Monday, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital is purportedly heard saying that bodies of some patients started turning blue after the oxygen supply was cut off. Talking to PTI, Jain shared that the motive behind the 'mock drill' was to calculate the minimum need of oxygen for the patients but it was not to 'cut off' the oxygen. He added, "Targeting our mock drill, a baseless allegation of killing 22 people is being imposed on us." "There were 55 patients in the hospital. Two were Covid patients and the remaining were non-Covid patients," Jain said. The Covid patients were shifted to Sarojini Naidu Medical College while 25 patients were discharged from the hospital as they were able to move on their own, he said. "The remaining patients were shifted to other hospitals with the help of the health department," he added. Jain said they had informed the family members to shift their patients as the hospital was being sealed, however, some of them started panicking. Some began calling their relatives and asked for help in shifting the patients. Till late on Tuesday night, family members were busy arranging ambulances and autos to move their patients, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
09-06-2021||India||Congress slams Centre over its statement on farm talks||Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala on Wednesday condemned Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar's statement over talks with agitating farmers, saying it showed the face of a dispensation that is arrogant and power-drunk . Tomar had on Tuesday told reporters in Gwalior that the government is ready to talk with the agitating farmers on options other than the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. This statement reflects the face of an arrogant and a power-drunk government, which rejects the demands of farmers agitating for months for the rollback of the farm laws, Surjewala told reporters after appearing as a counsel in connection with the bail plea of a farmer leader, Dr Dalbir Singh. Farmers have been agitating on Delhi borders against the Centre's three new farm laws since November last year. This government cannot see 62 crore farmers of this country because it is playing in the lap of a few capitalists, Surjewala alleged. Hitting out at Tomar, Surjewala said, "He says if farmers want they can talk but black farm laws will not be withdrawn. Then on what issue will the talks take place?" "It is like inviting someone over for lunch and at the same time telling him no food will be served there," he said, adding that farmers are not begging but are seeking their rights. The government has forgotten that it came to power by making tall promises to farmers. And what are farmers asking for, they are only seeking justice and demanding what is their right. The government must withdraw the black farm laws, he said. Surjewala said that the Narendra Modi government wants to hand over the entire agriculture business to a few corporates. Referring to the case in which he argued before the sessions court here, Surjewala said a sedition case was registered against Dalbir Singh in February 2017 and last month, another case was slapped against him. The applicant is being punished for being a farmer activist protesting against the three anti-agrarian laws by the ruling government, he said, adding the arrest in a FIR after four years and three months itself proves the malice and malafide of the state. In the earlier case, Surjewala said that the applicant neither received any notice nor any intimation but it is only after registration of the second FIR on May 24 that the government and the police revived the earlier FIR as a ploy to arrest the applicant . Arresting the farmer leader more than four years after registration of a case, slapping them with sedition and other charges is grave injustice. I argued that both cases are illegitimate and Dalbir should be released on bail. The court has reserved the judgment, Surjewala said. In the fresh FIR, Dalbir Singh is accused of making some objectionable comments against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Referring to the recent incidents involving farmers' protests in Hisar and Tohana, the Congress leader said the ruling dispensation was deliberately provoking farmers so that it gets a chance to lathicharge, lob tear gas shells, use force against them and put them behind the bars. He said when polls come, people will teach a lesson to the government, which is insensitive and apathetic towards the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Govt ready to talk to farmers but they have to use logic, says Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said the government is ready to resume talks with protesting farmers but asked the unions to point out their objections to the provisions of the three farm laws with sound logic. The government and unions have held 11 rounds of talks, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for more than six months in protest against the three laws that they say will end state procurement of crops at MSP. The Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and set up a committee to find solutions. "All political parties of the country wanted to bring the farm laws, but they could not gather courage to bring them. The Modi government took this big step in the interest of farmers and brought reforms. Farmers got the benefit of that in several parts of the country. But in the meantime farmers agitation started," Tomar said at a Cabinet briefing. He said the government held 11 rounds of talks with farmers and Unions were asked about their objections in the laws and which provisions they think were against farmers. "But neither leader of any political party gave its answer in the House (Parliament) nor any farmers' leader, and the talks did not move forward". The minister said that the government is committed towards farmers and it also respects farmers. "So, whenever farmers want discussions, the Government of India will be ready for discussion. But we have repeatedly asked them to tell the objections in the provisions with logic. We will listen and find a solution," Tomar said. Three union ministers, including Tomar and Food Minister Piyush Goyal, held 11 rounds of talks with the protesting farmer unions. In the last meeting on January 22, the government's negotiations with 41 farmer groups hit a roadblock as the unions squarely rejected the Centre's proposal of putting the laws on suspension. During the 10th round of talks held on January 20, the Centre had offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions, in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi's borders. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union President Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) President Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other members on the panel. They have completed the consultation process with stakeholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Government hikes paddy MSP by Rs 72 per quintal||The government on Wednesday raised the minimum support price (MSP) of paddy marginally by Rs 72 per quintal to Rs 1,940 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year, while the rates of other kharif crops were also hiked. Paddy is the main kharif crop, the sowing of which has begun with the onset of the Southwest monsoon. The Met Department has projected a normal monsoon for the June-September period. The decision taken by the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will help farmers take a call on which kharif (summer) crop to grow as sowing picks with the spread of the Southwest monsoon. Briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar again dispelled apprehensions about MSP saying, "MSP (on farm crops) is there, is being hiked and will continue in future as well". The Cabinet has approved an increase in the MSP of paddy (common variety) to Rs 1,940 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year (July-June) from Rs 1,868 per quintal in the year-ago period. Similarly, the MSP of Bajra has been increased to Rs 2,250 per quintal for the current year from Rs 2,150 per quintal last year, he said. MSP has been increased regularly and its benefit is reaching farmers, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Over 1.3cr vaccine doses still available with states: Centre||More than 1.33 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories and over 3 lakh doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. Over 25 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through the government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 23,74,21,808 doses (according to data available at 8 am on Wednesday), the ministry said. "A total of 1,33,68,727 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, 3,81,750 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by states and UTs within the next three days," the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. In addition, the government of India has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by states and UTs. Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government of India for containment and management of the pandemic, along with 'test, track, treat' and Covid appropriate behaviour. Implementation of the liberalised and accelerated phase-3 strategy of Covid vaccination had started from May 1 this year. Under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the government of India. It would continue to make these doses available to the state governments totally free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Congress leader Jitin Prasada joins BJP||Congress leader Jitin Prasada joined the BJP on Wednesday, in a shot in the arm for the saffron party as it prepares for assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh scheduled for early next year. He joined the BJP in presence of Union minister Piyush Goyal and its chief spokesperson Anil Baluni. Prasada told reporters after joining the BJP that it was truly the only national party which worked in an institutional way, while others were all about a few people or confined to specific regions. He also hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his leadership of the country and also lauded other senior party leaders. Noting that politics is for public service, Prasada said he realised he cannot do it in the Congress and could not protect people's interests. Goyal heaped praised on him, lauding him as a leader of stature whose induction will boost the BJP. It will also help him in serving the society, the minister added. The 47-year-old Prasada, a former Union minister, comes from a well known Brahmin family of Uttar Pradesh and was serving as the Congress leader in-charge of West Bengal before joining the BJP. His father Jitendra Prasada was a noted Congress leader. With the Congress in dire straits in Uttar Pradesh and he himself losing the Lok Sabha polls twice in a row, Prasada's decision to join the BJP may help him politically at a time when the saffron party is working overtime to boost its ranks in preparation for the assembly polls. It will also help the BJP keep Brahmins, a section of whom are said to be unhappy with the party in Uttar Pradesh, in good humour in the politically important state of India, party sources said. Speculation was rife even during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections of Prasada joining the BJP, but it is believed that the Congress leadership had then managed to persuade him against quitting the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||HC asks Centre to carry out 'surgical strike' on Covid ||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said the Centre's approach against coronavirus, which is the society's biggest enemy at present, should be "like a surgical strike" instead of standing at the borders waiting for the virus to come out. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said the Union government's new "near to home" vaccination programme was like waiting for the virus carrier to come to the Centre. "Coronavirus is our biggest enemy. We need to strike it down. The enemy is residing in certain areas and in some people who are unable to come out. Your (government) approach should be like a surgical strike. You are standing at the borders waiting for the virus carrier to come to you. You are not entering the enemy territory, Chief Justice Datta said. The bench said the government was taking decisions for the welfare of the public at large, but they were delayed which has resulted in the loss of several lives. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by two advocates - Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari - seeking a direction to the government to start a door-to-door vaccination programme for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially- abled persons and those who are wheelchair-bound or bed-ridden. The Union government on Tuesday told the court that currently door-to-door vaccination was not possible, but it has decided to start "near to home" vaccination centres. On Wednesday, the HC pointed out examples of the door-to-door vaccination programmes started by Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Bihar and Odisha and also a few municipal corporations like Vasai-Virar in Maharashtra. "Why should the same not be encouraged in other states across the country? The central government cannot clip the wings of those state governments and civic bodies who wish to do it (door-to-door vaccination) but are waiting for the Centre's nod," the court said. It further asked why only Maharashtra and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) were waiting for the Centre's nod to start door-to-door vaccination when other states in the north, south and east have started it already without any nod. "Why is only the west waiting?" Chief Justice Datta asked. The bench noted that even the BMC had failed to live up to the court's expectations by saying it was willing to start door-to-door vaccination only if the Union government permits. "We always praise the BMC and have been saying it is a model for other states," the court said. The HC also questioned the BMC as to how at the beginning of the vaccination drive a senior politician got his dose at his residence in Mumbai. "My question to you (BMC) is at the very inception of the drive, we found that a very senior politician got the jab at his home in Mumbai. Who did it? The BMC or the state government? Somebody has to take the responsibility," the court said.
The bench directed BMC's counsel Anil Sakhare and additional government pleader Geeta Shashtri, appearing for the state, to find out which authority administered the vaccine to the politician at his residence. The court also directed Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Centre, to consider the issue once again. "We trust the government will come up with a sound policy taking into consideration what is happening in the country. The Centre should recognise the sentiments of not only the senior citizens and those who are unable to go to the vaccination centres, but also their family members," the court said. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on June 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Mumbai areas flooded as monsoon arrives ||The south-west monsoon arrived in Mumbai on Wednesday, the IMD announced as heavy rains lashed the country's financial capital and suburbs since early morning. Water-logging was reported in some low-lying areas, but the local train services remained unaffected, while routes of some BEST buses run the city civic body's transport wing were diverted. A high tide of over four metres is expected around noon in the Arabian Sea, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. "It's monsoon arrival in Mumbai today," said Dr Jayanta Sarkar, head of the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Mumbai office. Several parts of the city and suburbs witnessed heavy rainfall along with thunder in the morning. According to the IMD, the Colaba observatory (representative of south Mumbai) received 77.4 mm rainfall, while the Santacruz observatory (representative of the suburbs) recorded 59.6 mm downpour in the last 24 hours. As per the BMC, the island city, eastern suburbs and western suburbs recorded 48.49 mm, 66.99 mm and 48.99 mm rain, respectively, in the 24-hour period ending at 8 am on Wednesday. A high tide of 4.16 metres is expected at 11.43 am, a BMC official said. The IMD has predicted cloudy sky with moderate rain/ thundershowers in the city and suburbs. There is also a possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places. "It's raining in Mumbai, but trains are running," the Central Railway's chief spokesperson, Shivaji Sutar, said. The IMD on Saturday confirmed the arrival of the southwest monsoon in Maharashtra as it reached Harnai in coastal Ratnagiri district. But, despite favourable conditions, the monsoon's further progress seemed to be slow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload stays below one lakh for second consecutive day||India reported 92,596 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 2,90,89,069, while the number of active cases dropped to 12,31,415, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Wednesday. The daily infections remained below one lakh for the second straight day. The death toll due to COVID-19 reached 3,53,528 with 2,219 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases has reduced to 12,31,415, comprising 4.23 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.55 per cent. A net decline of 72,287 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 19,85,967 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 37,01,93,563, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.66 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 16 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 5.66 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 27 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,75,04,126, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.22 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 23,90,58,360 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. The 2,219 new fatalities include 702 from Maharashtra, 409 from Tamil Nadu, 179 from Karnataka and 124 from Kerala. A total of 3,53,528 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,01,172 from Maharashtra, 32,099 from Karnataka, 27,765 from Tamil Nadu, 24,668 from Delhi, 21,425 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,460 from West Bengal, 15,219 from Punjab and 13,257 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Mehul Choksi's bail hearing adjourned till June 11||The Dominica High Court has adjourned the bail hearing of fugitive diamond merchant Mehul Choksi till June 11, local media reports stated. Choksi had approached the high court after the magistrate rejected his bail petition. The bail hearing took place before high court judge Wynante Adrien-Roberts through video-conferencing on the plea of Choksi's local legal team comprising Julien Prevost, Wayne Norde, Wayne Marsh and Cara Shillingford-Marsh. The government side represented by Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Sherma Dalrymple "strongly objected" to Choksi's plea calling him a flight risk, Dominica News Online reported. The judge adjourned the matter till June 11, it said. The high court is also hearing a separate matter of habeas corpus filed by Choksi's team in which the hearing has also been adjourned. Choksi had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen. He was detained in neighbouring island country Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. The businessman was also brought before a Roseau magistrate on the orders of high court judge Bernie Stephenson, hearing the habeas corpus matter, to answer charges of illegal entry where he pleaded not guilty but was denied bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Class V girl from Kerala writes to CJI, thanks judiciary||A Class V pupil penned a poignant letter to the Chief Justice of India in late May, thanking the judiciary for its orders aimed at combating Covid-19 and oxygen shortage to save lives. The letter has become public at a time many in the country believe the Supreme Court’s observations were instrumental in the Narendra Modi government’s decision to centralise Covid vaccination and make a large part of it free. So far, the Centre has not publicly acknowledged the perceived role played by the highest court of the land. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana was so moved by the “beautiful” letter of Lidwina Joseph from Kerala that he sent her a letter and a copy of the Constitution. “From the newspaper I understood that your honourable court have intervened effectively at the sufferings and death of ordinary people in fight against Covid-19,” Lidwina, a Kendriya Vidyalaya student at Thrissur in the southern state, wrote to the Chief Justice. “I am happy and feel proud your honourable court have moved orders for supply of oxygen and saved many lives.” “I thank you your Honour…. Now I feel very proud and happy,” she added. Lidwina also enclosed a drawing (in graphic) that captured the idea of India that the founding fathers had in mind while the Constitution was being drafted. In his reply, Justice Ramana described the illustration as “heart-warming” and appreciated that Lidwina kept track of contemporary events. “I am really impressed with the way you kept track of happenings in the country and the concern that you have displayed for the well being of people in the wake of pandemic. “I am sure you will grow-up into an alert, informed and responsible citizen who will contribute immensely towards the nation building,” Justice Ramana wrote, wishing the girl all-round success.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Modi quiet on Supreme Court while announcing vaccine decentralisation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi uttered over 2,600 words before the nation on Monday. Not one was about the Supreme Court. The highest court of the land has been consistently suggesting course corrections and offering constructive proposals when the second wave of Covid-19 appeared to have caught the Centre unprepared. Instead, unnamed spin-doctors worked overtime on Monday night, dropping hints that the announcements made by Modi on vaccine centralisation and making the doses largely free preceded the court’s observations. The propagandists spread the claim that the decisions were on the Prime Minister’s table on June 1 itself, 24 hours before the Supreme Court observed on June 2 that the Centre’s policy was prima facie arbitrary and irrational. But the Supreme Court had made other observations on the need to centralise vaccination on May 31 itself. On Tuesday, the country’s top vaccination adviser was deployed to underscore that the process to reformulate the Covid inoculation policy had begun in May itself when difficulties with the current policy became apparent. “We respect the concerns expressed by the honourable Supreme Court, but the government of India was evaluating the implementation of the decentralised model ever since it was implemented on May 1,” said Vinod Paul, member of the Niti Aayog and chair of the national expert panel on Covid-19 vaccination. “We asked whether it is going the way it should or are there difficulties,” Paul said. “Such decisions are taken over a period of time — based on analysis, based on feedback, based on experience, based on consultations with manufacturers and state governments, internal systems, science, a totality of picture. And of course, public narrative, very important.” The combined Opposition had demanded on May 2 free, centralised vaccination — more or less what Modi announced on Monday (June 7). It is not clear why what was apparent to the Opposition on May 2 was not conclusive enough for the policymakers who took more than a month to change the policy. Paul said patterns had emerged by May 15. Modi chaired high-level meetings on May 15 and May 21, took feedback and gave directions “that we needed to work on an alternative model”, Paul said. “It became clear we needed to modify the system prevailing at the time.” He said a detailed presentation was made to Modi “10 to 15 days ago”. “I can say with full confidence and full responsibility that this is our internal feedback systems and monitoring programme that has been going on from the very beginning,” Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Vaccine priority leeway for states under revised policy||People may register for Covid-19 vaccines on-site at government and private hospitals and states may set their own priorities when vaccinating adults 18 years or older under the country’s revised vaccination policy that starts June 21. The Union health ministry on Tuesday released revised guidelines that also call on states to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines across large and small private hospitals and underserved geographic regions to curb large private hospitals from gobbling up disproportionate shares of doses. Under the revised policy, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, the Centre will procure 75 per cent of Covid-19 vaccines produced in India and distribute them free to states for all adults 18 years or older. The balance 25 per cent doses will be reserved for private hospitals. The Centre’s 75 per cent doses will be free to anyone above 18 years of age, but those wishing to get vaccinated in private hospitals would need to pay Rs 780 for Covishield, Rs 1,410 for Covaxin and Rs 1,145 for Sputnik. These price tags include a cap of Rs 150 the hospitals can charge for the service. The changes will end the current policy introduced on May 1 under which the Centre procures 50 per cent doses and expects states and private hospitals to buy the other half, leading to a scramble for doses between states and private hospitals. A senior health official said the revised policy would introduce flexibility for people and states, allowing people to register via the Co-WIN digital platform or register on-site in either government or private hospitals. At present, those under 45 years have to pre-register only on Co-WIN. Sections of health experts had pointed out that making pre-registration via Co-WIN had introduced elements of inequity into the campaign by denying opportunities for those between 18 and 45 years who had no access to the digital platform. Many have also complained in recent days that they are unable to find slots on the Co-WIN digital platform. The revised guidelines allow states to decide their own prioritisation within the 18-to-45-years age group depending on vaccine supplies available. A state could, for instance, decide that people in the 18 to 45 age group in certain occupations at high risk of infection exposure such as hotel or restaurant staff or vegetable vendors would have priority over others in that age group,” a public health expert said. The guidelines also require states to “aggregate the demand of private hospitals with a view to achieve equitable distribution”. The states have been asked to ensure that vaccines are distributed evenly across large and small hospitals apart from government facilities across geographies, a health official said. The Centre, based on this aggregated demand, will facilitate supply of vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority’s electronic platform, the ministry said. “This would enable smaller and remote private hospitals to obtain timely supply of vaccines,” the health ministry said, amid concerns that over the past four weeks a few large hospital chains have procured disproportionate shares of vaccines available for the private sector. Health experts have welcomed the change, saying centralised vaccine procurement will help the government negotiate better prices. “This will stop competition between states and allow them to focus on vaccine distribution,” said Poonam Muttreja, executive director of the Population Foundation of India, a health non-government organisation. But others caution that vaccine supplies in the immediate future appear limited and will pose challenges to accelerate the pace of the vaccination campaign. “We expect this policy will expand the basket of vaccines for India,” said Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore. But Babu cautioned that more vaccines and on-site registration would not be enough to address inequities in access. “This assumption is not correct,” he said. “Many people across the country do not show health-seeking behaviour that will get them to seek out vaccinations. They need to be motivated.” 440 million doses ordered The Centre has ordered 250 million doses of Covishield and 190 million doses of Covaxin, Vinod Paul, member of the Niti Aayog and chair of the national expert panel on Covid-19 vaccination, said on Tuesday, announcing procurements planned starting in August. Paul said the Centre expected to have distributed 536 million doses up to July 2021 and the additional 440 million Covishield and Covaxin doses were intended to arrive between August and December. In addition, the government also expects 300 million doses of a new vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Biological E. Officials have said India hopes to vaccinate all eligible adults — an estimated 950 million people — by December this year by accelerating the vaccination campaign with these domestic doses as well as imported vaccines from companies such as Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson when they become available. The Centre has said it is distributing doses among states based on population, Covid-19 disease burden, vaccine coverage and wastage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Agra hospital owner's video surfaces, asserts conducting 'mock drill' by stopping oxygen support ||A police case has been registered against a hospital owner and doctor in Agra after he was purportedly heard in a video saying 22 patients were segregated (chhant gaye) when he conducted a “mock drill” by stopping oxygen support to test the chances of survival during the height of the Covid wave in April. The voice, suspected to be that of Dr Arinjay Jain, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital, is heard telling another man that 22 patients began gasping for breath and their bodies turned blue. According to the male voice, the “mock drill” lasted for five minutes from 7am on April 26. The video, purportedly shot stealthily in May, has been shared widely on social media since Monday. Jain was on Tuesday booked under the Pandemic Act on the basis of a complaint from the home ministry. Jain told reporters on Monday evening that the voice in the video was his but asserted that he had conducted the “mock drill” only to identify those patients who needed oxygen the most because there was a severe shortage and never had he said during the conversation, which appeared to have been recorded stealthily, that anybody had “died”. He said oxygen supply was stopped for two minutes, not five as claimed in the video. P.N. Singh, the district magistrate of Agra, told reporters on Tuesday that no patient died due to oxygen shortage at the hospital. He said four patients died on April 26 at the hospital while three succumbed to the infection on April 27. “Shri Paras Hospital (a dedicated Covid-care facility) had enough oxygen and it is not true that 22 patients died there due to oxygen shortage. However, the video that is being circulated will be examined and required action will be taken,” the DM said. The male voice in the video is heard saying in Hindi: “I asked them to make people understand that there is no oxygen anywhere and start discharging patients. Even the chief minister was not being able to arrange for oxygen…. But some patients were not ready to leave. They hung on like a pendulum, saying they won’t go. “Then I said, okay, let’s not wrack our brains too much. Let’s conduct a mock drill. Aab woh chhanto jinki oxygen bandh ho sakti hai (segregate those whose oxygen supply can be stopped). We will then figure out who all will survive and who won’t. “We conducted the mock drill at 7am on April 26. Nobody knows this. The patients started gasping for breath and their bodies turned blue. Twenty-two patients were segregated.” When the man seen in the video asked how long the drill lasted, the voice said “five minutes”. The voice then said: “Bais mock drill mein chhant gaye (Twenty-two were segregated in the mock drill). I said, okay, 74 now remain (bach gaye). I said we would now get time. Then we told the 74 others to arrange for their own cylinders.” Confronted by reporters on Monday night, Jain said: “We did the mock drill for two minutes to see who needed oxygen because there was a shortage. I have not said anywhere in the video that 22 people died. I have said they needed oxygen more than the others.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Covaxin proves less effective against B.1.617.2 variant||A study by India’s health research agency has found that antibodies generated by Covaxin, the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, are less effective against the coronavirus variant called B.1.617.2 that scientists say has also similarly challenged other vaccines. Lab tests by scientists at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), point to a 2.7-fold reduction in the antibody neutralisation of B.1.617.2, a variant circulating widely in India and detected in 44 countries. The tests involved taking blood samples from recipients of Covaxin and mixing them with the B.1.617.2 coronavirus to observe how antibodies in the samples interact with the virus. The results suggest a 2.7-fold lower neutralising antibody against B.1.617.2 compared with that against an earlier coronavirus variant called B1, the scientists said in a study not yet peer-reviewed but posted on medRxiv, an online preprint server. Although there is a reduction in the neutralisation, the inactivated (killed) virus vaccine demonstrates a “protective response” against B.1.617.2, the scientists said. The whole virus present in Covaxin generates a broad immune response that “decreases the magnitude” of reduced neutralisation. The ICMR and Bharat Biotech, Covaxin’s manufacturer, had on April 21 announced that the vaccine has an efficacy of 78 per cent against Covid-19 and 100 per cent efficacy against severe disease, based on a nationwide clinical trial involving over 25,000 participants. The safety and efficacy results are expected this month. A medical scientist who was not associated with the new NIV study said there was emerging anecdotal evidence from observations that both vaccines used in India — Covishield and Covaxin — protect people from severe disease and death from Covid-19. Sections of researchers, however, said that a 2.7-fold reduction in neutralisation antibody levels would still be protective only if the absolute antibody levels generated by the vaccine are high enough. “It is critical to know what is the actual fraction of Covaxin recipients who develop high enough antibody levels — high enough so that even a three-fold reduction in antibody levels does not impact protection,” a senior medical researcher who requested anonymity told The Telegraph. Queries sent by this newspaper to the ICMR and Bharat Biotech seeking their perspectives on the implications of these findings have not evoked a response. Covaxin is the result of joint research and development by ICMR and Bharat Biotech. The NIV study also observed a similar reduced neutralisation against B.1.351, the coronavirus variant first detected in South Africa. Both B.1.351 and B.1.617.2 are viewed as “variants of concern” because they contain mutations that allow them to spread faster and potentially evade immune responses. “These results are similar to what others have shown from sera (blood samples) from people vaccinated with the mRNA vaccines (such as Pfizer) and viral vector vaccines (such as AstraZeneca/Covishield),” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist at the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University. But Jameel and others have expressed concern that the preprint claims misleadingly that the scientists who conducted the study have “no conflict of interest”. The study has authors from the ICMR and NIV, which contributed to the development of the vaccine, and Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer. “The authors on this study have reputational or financial conflict of interest, but they formally deny this in the preprint, and this is unethical and troubling,” Jameel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Govt denies gratuity, pension to central school teachers and staff who joined after 2004||Central universities and the government-run Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya Vidyalayas have not been paying gratuity and family pension to teachers and staff who joined after 2004, exacerbating the miseries of the kin of employees claimed by the pandemic. Under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, all government employees are entitled to gratuity after retirement, as also are their families in case of death. Although family pension, given after an employee’s death, is not compulsory, the central government has been paying it to its direct employees, but not the staff who joined autonomous institutions under it after 2004. Central varsities, Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya Vidyalayas are such institutions. In the absence of these benefits, the families of employees of autonomous institutions who have died of Covid are having to make do with the paltry one-time payoff under the National Pension Scheme (NPS). The Centre implemented the NPS for employees joining government jobs after 2004. Although there was no provision for gratuity and family pension initially, the benefits were extended under the scheme through an executive order in 2009. Although the Centre implemented this for its staff immediately, all autonomous institutions did not. A one-time payment is made under the NPS, which is a contributory scheme for which the employee and the employer each set aside 14 per cent of the basic pay plus dearness allowance, and it lacks the security provided by pension. The employees of autonomous institutions, however, have to be satisfied with 10 per cent. The Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) had started paying gratuity and family pension for all after the 2009 order but stopped in 2019 after the government asked it to without citing any reason. According to the Payment of Gratuity Act, an employer must pay gratuity to an employee for every completed year of service at the rate of 15 days’ salary, provided the employee has served five years continuously. “Denial of gratuity is a violation of the law. The central universities are not giving this benefit while most other central government employees are getting it. This practice is discriminatory too,” said Parveen, a faculty member of law at Delhi University. Nearly 60 teachers have died of Covid at DU, many of whom had joined after 2004. The families of the deceased who joined after 2004 are only receiving the one-time payment under the NPS. Rajesh Jha, a former Executive Council member of DU, said the varsity received a letter from the University Grants Commission in May 2017 stating that gratuity benefits would not be paid to NPS members in case of death or retirement till a final decision is taken by the department of expenditure under the finance ministry. “We have been waiting for over a decade. The families of the deceased staff who were covered under the NPS are in misery. We have written to the government, UGC and the DU authorities (for gratuity and family pension) but to no avail,” Jha said. The KVS Pragatisheel Shikshak Sangh, an association of teachers, has also demanded gratuity and family pension for all staff. “The families of the teachers who lost their lives during the coronavirus epidemic are only being paid a nominal relief amount. They are also being deprived of the benefits of family pension and gratuity. Such a move by the central government and the KVS is a gross violation of human rights and morals,” said a member of the association. He said the gratuity and family pension of KVS employees who joined after 2004 were stopped through a government notification in May 2019. “It should be noted that the Manmohan Singh government had in 2009 implemented retirement-cum-death gratuity and family pension. But they have been withdrawn now,” the member added. The Telegraph sent an email to the education ministry on Monday asking about the denial of gratuity and family pension, but received no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: At sword's point, nurses prepare for WAR-D||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Cry for food in locked-down Lakshadweep||Elected representatives of local bodies in capital Kavaratti on Tuesday met the Lakshadweep collector to seek relief materials such as food kits and also relaxation of the Covid-induced lockdown that has affected the livelihood of the poor who eke out a living by doing manual work. There is a perception that the move not to ease the lockdown, which has been in place for over two months, despite a significant reduction in coronavirus cases was another attempt to harass residents at a time the islands’ administrator has been introducing one controversial law after another. The 10 elected representatives met Kavaratti collector S. Asker Ali to air their concerns over the recent developments that have brought life to a standstill, especially after the lockdown was enforced. “As an immediate step we urged the administration to provide financial assistance and free dry ration kits as people are literally starving with all their earning resources shut off,” district panchayat member Asif Ali told The Telegraph on Tuesday. He said everyone on the islands had been hit badly by the lockdown that was extended by another week on Monday. “Yesterday Kavaratti reported just 17 new Covid cases while the entire Lakshadweep had 38. The administration is continuing with the lockdown only to harass us for speaking out against them,” Asif Ali said. With more than 40 per cent of the 68,000 people of Lakshadweep dependent on manual labour such as plucking coconuts and doing construction work, Asif Ali said they had been left with no income. “They are surviving on handouts that some political parties and social organisations are providing. The administration has not given any food to these poor people,” he added. The islanders had observed a 12-hour hunger strike on Monday to demand the recall of administrator Praful Khoda Patel and the withdrawal of his contentious reforms. Kavaratti village panchayat member Thaha Malika of the Congress, who was part of the delegation that met the collector, said the officer had promised to “look into” their demands. “He said he would look into our demands. But what we want is an immediate solution so that people can return to normal life,” Malika said, adding that the administration was citing Covid cases only as an excuse to keep people indoors. “Since the collector gave us time, which was a surprise, we hope he will do something to address our concerns,” the Congress leader said. The Telegraph could not contact collector Asker Ali despite repeated attempts. The islanders have been informed about a set of new norms under the Swachh Lakshadweep Abhiyan. The fresh rules prohibit residents from keeping even fallen coconuts and coconut fronds on their land. The notification dated June 4 states that it will be the duty of the residents to maintain cleanliness of their premises. “Tender coconut shell, tree trunks, coconut husk, coconut shell, trunks etc in and around dwelling places/public places must be disposed of scientifically,” it says. Asif Ali, the district panchayat member, said: “We can understand the part where it is said that people are not allowed to dispose of waste materials in public places. But why our own land? Where else do we keep our coconut fronds and coconuts?” he asked. Apart from tuna that’s fished, dried and sold by fishermen, coconut is the main produce of Lakshadweep, which is dotted with trees. “Most people don’t have separate sheds to store coconuts and their fronds. Even those who have sheds leave the coconuts and fronds in the courtyard until they dry sufficiently to be stored. I see this as yet another order to harass the people,” Asif Ali said. The arrival of administrator Patel in December changed life on the islands as he brought in one law after the other that went against the people and their traditions. While beef has been pulled out of the midday meal menu in schools of Lakshadweep where a huge majority of people are Muslims categorised as Scheduled Tribes, the administration drafted a Goonda Act in a place with one of the lowest crime rates in the country, shuttered dairy farms, destroyed fishing infrastructure, brought in a two-child norm to contest elections, and decided to use Mangalore port in BJP-ruled Karnataka to ferry all essential cargo in place of Kozhikode and Kochi in Kerala that share much, including the language and culture, with the islanders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Congress appoints K. Sudhakaran as president of the Kerala unit ||The Congress high command on Tuesday appointed party heavyweight and Lok Sabha member K. Sudhakaran as the president of the Kerala state unit at a time when confusion was prevailing after the debacle in the state elections when the Left Democratic Front won a rare second consecutive term. Sudhakaran replaced Mullapally Ramachandran who led the party to the election. Lok Sabha member from Kannur, Sudhakaran, is better known as an arch-rival of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who belongs to the same district that has given birth to stalwarts such as Communist leader A.K. Gopalan and Congress leader K. Karunakaran. The state unit has for long been ridden by factionalism with two main groups dictating terms for decades until Sudhakaran made a pitch insisting there should be just the party and no groups. The proposal found immediate acceptance among many in the second rung of the leadership who have been waiting for a chance to prove their mettle. The appointment of Sudhakaran could only be seen as a continuation of the changes the party has been affecting after the election when V.D. Satheesan was picked as the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly in place of Ramesh Chennithala. Sudhakaran told reporters that Rahul Gandhi informed him of the decision over phone. “Rahul Gandhi informed me over the phone.” “It’s a huge responsibility but I want to say that I will make all efforts to take the party forward by maintaining total unity,” he told reporters emphasising on his oft-repeated mantra that the factions should not exist in the party. When asked how would he bring the two factions on the same page, Sudhakaran shot back in his characterising style: “I know how to make everyone cooperate as I am a well experienced politician. I am not a newcomer. It’s fifty years since I started this work.” Party veteran and former chief minister Oomen Chandy welcomed the new president. “I wish him all success as the new KPCC (Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee) president. He will have everyone’s support in strengthening the party”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Kerala Assembly polls 2021: BJP bribe case to go to crime branch||More BJP leaders are under the police lens as the crime branch is set to take over the investigation into the case related to the Kerala unit president allegedly bribing a rival candidate to pull out of the recent Assembly elections. Police in Kasaragod had on Monday registered an FIR against state BJP chief K. Surendran under IPC Sections 171b (bribery related to election) and 171e (punishment for bribery) following a complaint by CPM candidate V.V. Rameshan who finished third from Manjeshwar constituency. The complaint was based on the disclosures of Bahujan Samaj Party candidate K. Sundara who had on Saturday said that the BJP gave him Rs 2.5 lakh and a mobile phone and promised a wine shop for withdrawing from the race. Surendran eventually lost narrowly to Congress ally IUML’s candidate from Manjeshwar. Sundara had said he was threatened by local leaders Suresh Naik, Ashok Shetty and former Yuva Morcha leader Sunil Naik for contesting against Surendran before they handed over the money. The complainant’s lawyer, C. Shukkur, said that the actual investigation has only begun with the court sanction. “The police will now record the statements of Sundara and Surendran and usually add more penal sections as the investigation progresses,” he told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Leaders of rival BJP groups in Kerala have closed ranks to portray a united party and rally behind Surendran without giving the impression they are a divided house. While Surendran has been accused of paying Rs 10 lakh to tribal leader C.K. Janu on March 5 to return to the NDA with her party, Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party, against Rs 10 crore she had demanded, a heist in Thrissur district on April 3 from a car in which RSS worker Dharmarajan and his friend Shamjeer carried the money had come under cloud for alleged money laundering. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had told the Assembly on Monday that Rs 3.5 crore was in the car, although Shamjeer and Dharmarajan claimed the amount was Rs 25 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Covid: SC directs Govt to ensure education for orphans||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre, states and Union Territories to take “stringent action” against those resorting to illegal adoption of children orphaned or abandoned due to Covid-19 and also asked the government to provide these children uninterrupted education either in government or private schools. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose passed the directions after being informed by advocate Shobha Gupta appearing for an NGO that a large number of children are being illegally adopted by various other organisations and individuals. The court was also informed by additional solicitor-general K.M. Nataraj appearing for the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights  that till date there are 3,621 orphans, 26,176 children who have lost one parent and 274 children who have been abandoned by their parent due to the pandemic. In fact the figure was inconclusive as some states had failed to furnish complete details on the issue. The court said for the present, it is concerned with the implementation of the schemes that are in place to meet the essential needs of the affected children. Accordingly it passed the following directions: ⚫ Special juvenile police unit in each district and city shall be constituted as provided in Section 107 of the JJ Act, 2015. That apart, DCPO (district child protection officer) should take the assistance of the district legal services authorities for coordinating the implementation of the schemes in favour of the affected children. In case of any difficulties, the DCPO should involve the government servants at the grassroots level in the task of attending to the desolate kids. ⚫ The state governments/Union Territories are directed to continue identifying the children who have become orphans or lost a parent after March, 2020, either due to Covid-19 or otherwise and provide the data on the website of the NCPCR without any delay. The identification of the affected children can be done through Childline (1098), health officials, panchayati raj institutions, police authorities, NGOs, etc. ⚫ The DCPU (district child protection unit) is directed to contact the affected child and his guardian immediately on receipt of information about the death of the parent/parents. Assessment shall be made about the suitability and willingness of the guardian to take care of the child. ⚫ The DCPU should ensure that adequate provisions are made for ration, food, medicine, clothing, etc, for the affected child. Financial assistance to which the disconsolate child is entitled to under the prevailing schemes by the Centre and the state governments/Union Territories should be provided without any delay. ⚫ If the DCPO is of the prima facie opinion that the guardian is not suitable to take care of the child, he should produce the child before the CWC (child welfare committee) immediately. ⚫  The CWC should provide for the essential needs of the child during the pendency of the inquiry without fail. The inquiry should be completed expeditiously. The CWC shall ensure that all financial benefits to which the child is entitled are provided without any delay. ⚫ The state governments/Union Territories are directed to make provisions for continuance of education of the children both in government as well as in private schools. ⚫ The state governments/Union Territories are directed to take action against those NGOs/individuals who are indulging in illegal adoptions. ⚫ Wide publicity should be given to the provisions of the JJ Act, 2015, and the prevailing schemes of the Union of India and the state governments/Union Territories which would benefit the affected children. The bench posted the matter for next hearing on July 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
09-06-2021||India||Ex-prof writes to Modi, Adityanath asking to not change shape and nature of Ganga||A retired professor in Varanasi has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath requesting them not to change the shape and nature of the Ganga and hinder its flow by constructing structures for a tourism project. A local advocate has moved the National Green Tribunal seeking protection of the Ganga from “mindless constructions”. The government plans to start a steamer service for tourists from Varanasi to the neighbouring district of Muzaffarpur for which it is building a jetty that juts 100ft into the river from Lalita Ghat and a canal-like channel that will have constant and consistent water flow for the river corridor. A temporary dam-like structure has also been built to create a water-free area along the length and breath of the under-construction jetty so that the platform can be built. U.K. Chaudhary, a retired professor of civil engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology of Banaras Hindu University who has done extensive research on the Ganga, has stated in his letter to the Prime Minister and the chief minister that the semi-circular shape of the river at Lalita Ghat was not only its beauty but also aided the smooth flow of the water. “Some construction work has been started in the middle of the Ganga at Lalita Ghat that will not only harm the river but also the city. The negative impact of such constructions will be visible in five-six years. As the natural flow of the water is being hindered, the river will deposit mounds of sand and earth at the ghats in the vicinity. There will also be heavy erosion on the bank on the city side,” Chaudhary told reporters. He said the 100ft-long and 150ft-wide jetty was being built with the help of heavy machines. “The Ganga has a semi-circular shape at Lalita Ghat. Besides the platform (jetty), the government has also built a dam-like structure there, which is obstructing the flow of the water and hampering the speed of the Ganga. Because of these constructions, water is receding from the Lalita Ghat and also the ghats nearby,” Chaudhary said. “Since the natural flow of the river is getting affected, there will soon be deposits of an unmanageable quantity of sand and silt between Assi Ghat and Dashswamedh Ghat. Lalita Ghat is in the middle of the stretch of the 80 ghats of Varanasi,” he added. Saurabh Tiwari, the Varanasi-based advocate, has filed a petition before the National Green Tribunal seeking immediate halt to the construction work on the Ganga. He accused the government of trying to change the original character of the Ganga by dredging it and creating a “canal-like channel” for the river-ride corridor. “Varanasi is identified with the Ganga. We all know that there is an algal bloom on the Ganga in Vanarasi these days (because of lack of cleaning). Instead of cleaning the Ganga, the government is busy in making a huge platform on Lalita Ghat, a dam and a channel, all of which is obstructing the flow of the river,” Tiwari told The Telegraph. Ashok Dwivedi, former president of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust who is a member of a group of residents who have come together on Modi’s request to advise the government on local issues, tried to dispel fears that the river was being tinkered with. “We recently spoke to the Prime Minister (who is also the Varanasi MP) about the apprehensions of the locals. He promised us that the actual character of the Ganga wouldn’t change. The Prime Minister said scientists had been told to ensure that the sanctity of Varanasi city is not violated,” Dwivedi said. Deepak Agrawal, the divisional commissioner of Varanasi, told reporters: “Some beautification work is going on there. The actual character of the Ganga will be maintained. The idea is to boost tourism without changing the nature of the river in the city.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||PM Modi focuses attention on party, plays guide ||The BJP leadership beset by a bruising defeat in the Bengal polls and the pandemic’s second wave has found a new address “to report party developments and seek guidance” — 7 Lok Kalyan Marg. The occupant of the sprawling address ensconced in greenery is Prime Minister Narendra Modi. There is emerging evidence that Modi is taking an unusual interest in party affairs at a time the BJP has been pounded by crises and condemnation from all quarters. Over the past two days, BJP president J.P. Nadda and other key party leaders have been driving down to the Prime Minister’s residence, after holding extensive meetings among themselves, to “report party developments and seek guidance” from Modi. Nadda chaired a two-day meeting of party general secretaries and other important leaders on Saturday and Sunday to take stock of the preparations for the elections in five states next year, including the politically crucial Uttar Pradesh. On the agenda was also the BJP drive to reach out to the Covid-affected masses under the Seva Hi Sangathan programme. Leaders have been asked to visit villages and help the needy in what appears to be a belated attempt to make up for the leadership void during the tempestuous second wave of the pandemic. Sources said Nadda and other frontline leaders had over the past two days briefed Modi about these sessions. On Sunday, the Prime Minister spent five hours with Nadda, BJP general secretaries and the heads of various frontal organisations. He heard the leaders and advised them on different issues, focused mainly on winning the support and trust of the voters, the sources said. Despite Modi being a “24x7 politician” in command of everything from governance to party affairs, this keenness in the day-to-day affairs of the organisation has sparked off murmurs in the BJP and Delhi’s political circles. What has intensified the speculation is the timing — coming against the backdrop of the BJP’s defeat in the Bengal elections, which the party had turned into a high-octane battle that the whole nation had been glued to, and the widespread miseries perpetrated by Covid’s second wave for which the Centre was blamed. It’s widely believed that the unspeakable human tragedy caused by the lack of hospital beds, oxygen and medicines, and thousands of corpses floating in rivers and buried on the banks had dented Modi’s image and that of the party. The BJP sources said efforts had been launched on a war footing to contain the damage. A measure of how badly the Bengal drubbing had hurt the BJP was evident in the lessons apparently dished out by Modi during the five-hour meeting. “The party should take lessons from the Bengal polls. It should note how the Trinamul Congress secured a big victory after the poor performance in the (2019) Lok Sabha polls,” Modi was quoted as telling the BJP leaders. He also told them that in both victory and defeat, the party should hold detailed analyses so that it can prepare for future elections. BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, which accounts for 80 Lok Sabha seats, goes to polls early next year. This election is believed to be at the centre of Modi’s and the BJP’s concerns. BJP leaders, however, denied that Modi had started showing excessive interest in party affairs, saying he had always played the role of a guide. “Modiji has always addressed party leaders and offered guidance and suggestions. There is nothing out of place,” a BJP general secretary who was part of the meeting with the Prime Minister said. Two other general secretaries who attended the meeting said they had got the impression that Modi wanted to know everything about the activities being carried out by the party and repeatedly stressed on not allowing inertia to creep in during the government’s second stint. In BJP corridors, however, there is a feeling that with the image of his government and the party taking a beating, Modi was not willing to take any chances and wanted to directly monitor the affairs of the BJP. “It’s a fact that our leaders were missing in action during the second Covid wave and this harmed our image. Modiji also seems to be concerned,” an MP said. The other reason behind Modi’s perceived extraordinary intervention, BJP leaders felt, was the shifting of former party chief Amit Shah to governance. With his most trusted lieutenant manning the party, Modi used to feel more assured, the leaders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Congress seeks roadmap from Centre for vaccinating 100 crore citizens by December||The Congress on Tuesday asked the central government to announce a complete roadmap for vaccinating 100 crore citizens by December this year, arguing that over 80 lakh doses will be required to be administered everyday in place of the May average of 16 lakh per day to achieve the target. Responding to the government’s claim that the vaccination drive will be completed by December 31 this year, the Congress said Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not explain how that target would be achieved while announcing the revised policy on Monday. The party had said on Monday that the exercise to cover 100 crore people will be completed only in May 2024 at the current speed of vaccination. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh said on Tuesday: “In April, the daily average doses given was 30 lakh. In May, it has come down to 16 lakh. If we have to vaccinate 100 crore people by December 31, we have to give 80 lakh doses every day over the next six months. “Manmohan Singh had asked for spelling out the roadmap on April 18. The Prime Minister and the health minister should convince the people that target is achievable.” Ramesh said: “The priority today is vaccine, nothing else. The country has suffered because the government failed to procure enough vaccines. No country in the world was procuring vaccines the way we did. Now we have no option but to complete vaccination this year. “Despite knowing that the Centre alone is in a position to procure vaccine, the Prime Minister is blaming the states, Opposition and others. He handled the issues with lack of honesty and humility, with hubris and irresponsibility.” Confronting the Prime Minister for shifting the blame to states, Ramesh added: “No state would have objected if the Centre said we will procure all the vaccines and distribute it among the states. That was the way. Even in the economic sense, the Centre was better placed to bargain for the best price. The states were only following the policy decided by the Centre. Let the government present the minutes of the meeting showing chief ministers asking for procurement to the Supreme Court.” Ramesh asserted that the country could have been saved from unprecedented miseries if Modi conceded the suggestions made by the Congress and the joint Opposition. “Modi should have discussed the issue with states, with Opposition parties, he could have called the former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. It has to be a national effort, we have to do it collectively,” he added. While Singh suggested ways for ramping up production as early as April 18, the joint Opposition unambiguously demanded free universal vaccination on May 2 and May 12. The Prime Minister didn’t respond. Rahul Gandhi demanded free vaccine for all at least eight times in the last two months. Several chief ministers wrote to Modi, explaining resource crunch and stressing that the Centre alone had the wherewithal to fund such a massive vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Assembly polls 2021: Report says most defectors were from Congress||Most candidates who changed parties in the recent polls to five Legislative Assemblies were from the Congress and the destination of most party hoppers was the BJP, according to a report by the NGO Association for Democratic Reforms. In its “Analysis of Re-Contesting Candidates and MLAs who Changed Parties in the Recent Assembly Elections 2021”, the ADR recommended tighter norms and constitutional changes to discourage defection. The report said: “Maximum number of candidates, 8 (13.33 per cent) left INC (Congress) to join another party during the recent Assembly elections 2021, while 5 (8.33 per cent) candidates left each from AIADMK, AIUDF and BJP to join a different party to contest elections during this period. In recent Assembly elections 2021, 15 (25 per cent) out of the total of 60 re-contesting candidates who switched political parties joined the BJP followed by 8 (13.33 per cent) candidates who joined AITC (Trinamul Congress) and 5 (8.33 per cent) candidates who joined INC.” It added: “Highest number of MLAs, 20 (39.22 per cent), left INC to join another party during the recent Assembly elections 2021, while 15 (29.41 per cent) MLAs left AITC to join a different party to contest elections during this period. In recent Assembly elections 2021, 20 (39.22 per cent) out of 60 re-contesting MLAs who switched political parties joined the BJP followed by 17 (33.33 per cent) MLAs who joined AITC and 7 (13.73 per cent) MLAs who joined Amma Makkal Munnettra Kazagam (sic).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Bihar to unlock gradually from today||Lockdown in Bihar will be lifted in a staggered manner from Wednesday. The state, clamped over a  month ago in view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases, will enforce night curfew from 7pm to 5am and provide relaxations to shops and offices during the daytime. Chief minister Nitish Kumar made the announcement on his social media handles on Tuesday after a meeting of the crisis management group, which reviewed the pandemic situation in the state. “Lockdown has led to a decline in corona infection hence we are ending the lockdown. Night curfew will continue from 7pm to 5am. Government and private offices will open with 50 per cent attendance till 4pm. Shops can open till 5pm,” Nitish tweeted after the meeting. “Online teaching will continue. Private vehicles will be allowed to ply. This arrangement will continue for a week. There is still a need to stay away from crowds,” he added. Complete lockdown was imposed in Bihar on May 5 after the state was rattled by an explosive rise in Covid-19 cases that heaped additional burden on the health infrastructure, which is already in an extremely poor shape. The lockdown was extended thrice till June 8. Shops had been allowed to remain open from 6am to 10am during the first three phases of the lockdown. The timing was increased till 2pm during the last extension of the lockdown. Only 50 per cent passengers will be allowed in public transport. Schools, colleges, educational institutions and all religious places will stay closed. All kinds of social, educational, cultural, religious, sports, political and entertainment activities will remain banned during over the first phase of unlock from June 9 to 15. Only 20 people can participate in wedding and funeral processions. The state has witnessed 7.14 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 5,424 people succumbed to the infection. At present, there are 8,230 active cases and the recovery rate has increased to 98.09 per cent. Only 762 new infections were detected on Monday. State home department additional chief secretary Chaitanya Prasad clarified that the restrictions with regard to timings will not apply on necessary services like water supply, health facilities, police, electricity, fire brigade, telecom, animal husbandry, food grain supply, banks, ATMs, petrol pumps, cooking gas services, e-commerce, postal department and courier services, medicine shops among others. “Unlock-1 is being initiated. Private vehicles, except during night curfew, will be allowed to ply only if the passengers in it are wearing masks,” Prasad told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
09-06-2021||India||Covid: Odisha Vigilance Directorate airlifted to Calcutta for treatment||The director of the Odisha Vigilance Directorate, Dr. Debasis Panigrahi, who is in a critical condition after being infected with Covid-19, was on Tuesday airlifted to Calcutta for treatment. Panigrahi had been admitted to a private hospital in Cuttack on May 29 after being diagnosed with the virus. He was on ventilator support but as his condition deteriorated it was decided to airlift him to Calcutta. “His condition is critical. He has a number of health issues,” said doctors. A green corridor was created between Cuttack and Bhubaneswar, covering a distance of 30km, to ensure smooth passage of the ambulance carrying the ailing IPS officer to the Biju Patnaik airport. After his condition deteriorated and he developed complications, including inflammation of lungs, doctors advised ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) treatment which is not available in any government hospital in Odisha. The Odisha government has decided to start a full-fledged ECMO unit at the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack because of its rising demand for the treatment of Covid-19 patients with lung and other complications. The government also claimed that the ongoing lockdown has brought down the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. “Besides the lockdown, the double dose of vaccination has reduced the severity of infections among people contracting the virus after inoculation,” said C.B.K. Mohanty, director of Medical Education and Training, Odisha. The state on Tuesday registered 5,896 infections in the last 24 hours, the lowest after April 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
