10-06-2021||India||Doctors are God’s envoy on earth, says Ramdev||Yoga guru Ramdev, who had said he does not need the Covid vaccine as he has protection of yoga and ayurveda, on Thursday did a somersault, saying he will soon get the jab and described doctors as "God's envoys on earth". Ramdev had earlier stirred a controversy with his comments on the efficacy of allopathic drugs against Covid-19, drawing the ire of the medical fraternity. Now, welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement about free vaccines to all from June 21, Ramdev described it as a "historic" step and appealed to all to get themselves vaccinated. "Get both doses of the vaccine and the double protection of yoga and ayurveda. They will combine to give you such a robust shield of protection that not a single person will die from Covid," he told reporters in Haridwar. Asked when he will get the vaccine shot, the yoga guru said, "Very soon." Ramdev also heaped praise on good allopathic doctors, describing them as "God's envoys on earth". On the ongoing confrontation with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ramdev said he cannot have any animosity with any organisation. He was against the exploitation of people in the name of medicines, he said. Ramdev said Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Kendras had to be opened because of the tendency among many doctors to prescribe expensive medicines in place of generic drugs, which are much cheaper. "I am not against any organisation. Good doctors are a real boon. They are God's envoys on earth. But individual doctors can do wrong things," he said. He also said for emergency treatment and surgery, allopathy is the best. "When it comes to emergency treatment and surgery, allopathy is the best. There cannot be two opinions about it," said the yoga guru who had caused so much anger among doctors by his recent remarks against allopathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
10-06-2021||India||Girls will run away if they are given cell phones: UP women’s panel member||In controversial remarks, a member of the Uttar Pradesh women's commission has suggested that girls should be kept off mobile phones by families who don't want them "running away" with boys. She also asked mothers to keep tabs on their daughters. "Girls should not be given mobile phones and if given, families should keep tabs on them. Girls talk with boys over the phone and later run away with them," Meena Kumari told reporters in Aligarh when asked about the rise in crime against women. "Society and family members, especially mothers have a major responsibility to ensure that young girls do not go astray," added the member of the UP State Women's Commission. She further said mothers should take care of their daughters as such incidents occur due to their "negligence". Citing an example, Meena Kumari said she had received a similar complaint that a boy and a girl from different castes ran away recently. She stressed that the misuse of cellphones was frequently leading to such ‘social ills’. Delhi Commission of Women chairperson Swati Maliwal retweeted a video where Meena Kumari was seen making the remarks. Countering her, Maliwal said, “No ma'am, phone in girl's hand is not a reason for rape. The reason for rape is such mentality, which increases the morale of the criminals. The Prime Minister is requested to sensitise all the women's commissions, one day send them to see the working style of the Delhi Women's Commission, we teach them!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
10-06-2021||India||Modi is the top leader of India, BJP says Raut||Days after the one-on-one meeting between Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said Modi is the top leader of the country and the BJP. He made the statement in response to a question on whether he felt that Modi's popularity is on a downslide as media reports suggested that RSS is contemplating to project state leaders as the face in the state elections. "I don't want to comment on this...I don't go by the media reports. There is no official statement about this... The BJP owes its success to Narendra Modi in the last seven years and currently he is the top leader of the country and his party," Raut said. The Sena's Rajya Sabha member, who is currently on a tour of north Maharashtra, was speaking to reporters in Jalgaon. The Shiv Sena's stand has always been that a prime minister belongs to the entire country and not a particular party, he said, adding, "Hence the PM shouldn't get involved in election campaigning as it puts pressure on the official machinery.” To a question on Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil's remarks that his party would make friendship with tiger (Shiv Sena's symbol) if Modi wished, Raut said, “No one can make friendship with a tiger. It is the tiger that decides whom he wants to be friends with." When asked about his tour of north Maharashtra, he said it was part of the Shiv Sena's efforts to strengthen the organisation. "All Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies have a right to expand their base and strengthen the parties. It is also the need of the hour. We are also holding meetings on strengthening our coordination among each other," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
10-06-2021||India||Group of students break into JNU central library||The Jawaharlal Nehru University administration on Thursday alleged that a group of students broke into the central library and clashed with the staff there following which an FIR has been registered with the police. The varsity alleged that the students have been occupying the library for the last two days. The police said based on the complaint by the varsity, a case has been registered. According to the police, the incident took place on June 8 and based on a complaint from the varsity's chief security officer, a case was registered on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said "Based on the complaint, a case was registered under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, Delhi Disaster Management Act and prevention of damage to public property." No arrests have been made in the case so far, police said, adding that a meeting between the students and chief librarian of the varsity was also held in this regard. In a statement, the varsity said, "This (incident) has caused health risk for the library staff and even other students residing in the hostels, since these unruly students return to hostel for lunch/dinner or other purposes." The varsity said "a group of students scuffled with the security staff, broke open the side glass door of the B R Ambedkar Library, entered the main reading room of the building on June 8 and have occupied the space since then". It added that the students did not vacate the library building even during the night. "When no amount of persuasion by the librarian and the security personnel convinced these students against violating the law and COVID-19 guidelines, the JNU Security Office lodged a police complaint in view of the seriousness of the issue. It has been found that these students do not even use mask or follow other COVID-19 related guidelines," the varsity statement said. The curfew imposed by the Delhi Government is still in place and no new guidelines have yet been announced regarding resuming normal academic activities, it said. "The chief proctor office in the mean time has been tasked with taking necessary disciplinary action against these students as per the university rules," it said. The students occupying the space are not permitting the library staff to sanitise the library for making it safer for students who will use the library after restoration of normalcy, it said. "All these students are hereby instructed to vacate the library immediately," it said. A varsity student, requesting anonymity, said, "The library has not opened for a long time which has left PhD students frustrated. Students have their submissions due and have not been able to access the library. The students entered the library but there was no violence."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
10-06-2021||India||HC extends Stan Swamy's stay in private hospital till June 18||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, shall remain admitted in a Mumba-based private hospital till June 18 as he is suffering from COVID-19. Swamy, 84, was on May 28 shifted from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to the Holy Family Hospital here after he filed a petition, seeking interim bail on medical grounds. After being shifted to the private hospital, he tested positive for the coronavirus infection. He was lodged at the Taloja prison since his arrest in October 2020. On Thursday, his counsel Mihir Desai told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Swamy had tested positive for COVID-19 and hence, his stay at the private hospital should be extended. The bench said Swamy shall remain admitted at the private hospital till June 18, and posted the petition for hearing on June 17. The court also directed the hospital to submit in a sealed envelope medical reports of Swamy by the next date of hearing. Last month, when Swamy was produced before the HC from the prison via video-conferencing, he told the court that his mental and physical health had declined steadily in the jail. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at a conclave held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial on the Maharashtra city's outskirts. The Pune Police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) later took over the probe into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
10-06-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath meets Amit Shah, likely to meet Modi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Thursday met senior BJP leader and Union minister Amit Shah here, and is also likely to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party chief JP Nadda during his two-day visit, sources said. While Adityanath will meet PM Modi on Friday, his meeting with Nadda may take place Thursday itself or on Friday, the sources added. He is expected to be in the national capital for two days. Adityanath is coming to Delhi a day after Jitin Prasada, a former Congress leader who comes from a well-known Brahmin family of Uttar Pradesh, left the party and joined the BJP. The BJP hopes that Jitin’s defection will send a positive signal to the Brahmin voters. Brahmins make up roughly half of the 20 per cent upper caste population of Uttar Pradesh and have supported different parties at different times. Jitin could get a key position in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, BJP sources said. The chief minister’s visit to the national capital assumes significance as the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh is going to polls early next year. Earlier this month, BJP's general secretary BL Santhosh had visited the state to review the party's preparations for Assembly elections due next year. Adityanath’s visit comes at a time when there have been reports of despair and helplessness and widespread criticism of his government over its tackling of the pandemic that had apparently prompted the central leadership to rush Santhosh and Singh to Uttar Pradesh for the stock-taking exercise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
10-06-2021||India||Jharkhand tops list in Covid vaccine wastage in May||Kerala and West Bengal recorded negative wastage of Covid-19 vaccines in May, saving 1.10 lakh and 1.61 lakh doses respectively, while Jharkhand reported maximum wastage of 33.95 per cent, according to government data. While Kerala reported -6.37 per cent vaccine wastage, West Bengal recorded -5.48 per cent. Chhattisgarh reported 15.79 per cent vaccine wastage while Madhya Pradesh reported 7.35 per cent. States like Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra reported 7.08 per cent, 3.95 per cent, 3.91 per cent, 3.78 and 3.63 per cent and 3.59 per cent respectively. The data showed that a total of 790.6 lakh vaccines were supplied to states and UTs in May out of which total vaccinations were 610.6 lakh while 658.6 lakh shots were utilised and the closing balance was 212.7 lakh. The vaccination in May was less as compared to April in which a total of 898.7 lakh vaccinations were done, 902.2 lakh vaccines were utilised and the closing balance was 80.8 lakh. India's first dose coverage of the 45-plus population till June 7 was pegged at 38 per cent with Tripura's coverage being 92 per cent, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh 65 per cent each, Gujarat 53 per cent, Kerala 51 per cent and Delhi 49 per cent. Tamil Nadu's first dose coverage of the 45-plus population is at a low of 19 per cent, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh at 24 per cent each and Bihar at 25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
10-06-2021||India||Nadda lauds Modi’s Covid efforts amid Opposition criticism||The way the government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi prepared itself to fight Covid is "admirable" and reflects India's strength, BJP president J P Nadda said on Thursday, citing the ramping up of medical infrastructure in the country to laud the Centre. While noting that the country faced a shortage of medical oxygen as the pandemic surged, he said Modi left no stone unturned to meet the shortfall in a week by rallying resources through "earth, air and water", a reference to its transportation through all available means. In an address after inaugurating the BJP's office building in Arunachal Pradesh through a virtual event, Nadda said medical oxygen's production rose to 9,446 MT from 900 MT. He also expressed condolences to those who lost their loved ones to the pandemic and said Covid is the biggest pandemic of the century. "We feel happy at the way the Indian government under Modi prepared itself to fight COVID-19. This is truly admirable and is reflective of India's strength," he said, noting that the number of Covid-testing labs has grown to 2,500 from one and their capacity to 25 lakh per day from 1,500 since last year when the highly infectious disease was first reported in India. The number of isolation beds has risen to over 14 lakh and ICU beds to 81,000 from 2,000, he said. Nadda's comments came amid criticism by Opposition parties of the Modi government's handling of the pandemic. They have accused it of being "ill-prepared" to deal with the recent second surge. The BJP president accused the opposition parties, including the Congress, of trying to "derail" India's vaccination programme by questioning the safety of jabs being manufactured in India. They tried to break the morale of vaccine manufacturers, he alleged while praising the Modi government for the production of two made-in-India vaccines within a year of the disease's outbreak. "Within nine months, India had two vaccines, unprecedented in our nation's history. People were questioning and spreading rumours. Congress leaders were spreading lies and questioning the ability of India's experts and scientists," he said. Only two companies were making vaccines earlier but now 13 firms are making jabs in India, he said. "By December, 19 companies in India will be making vaccines and India will have 200 crore vaccine doses," he claimed. India had earlier waited for decades and years earlier for starting vaccine programmes to tackle diseases like measles and polio, he said. In his address, he also highlighted the government's welfare measures like providing free ration to the poor and financial, educational and health benefits for children who lost both their parents to the disease. Touching on the government's work for the Northeast region, Nadda said it was neglected until Modi came to power in 2014. "Due to the prime minister's Act East Policy, the government has focused on the Northeast and a lot of developmental work is being done," he said, and lauded the BJP's rise in Arunachal Pradesh where it is in power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
10-06-2021||India||A date with monsoon gone wrong||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Vaccine data advisory issued to states to prevent misuse of information: Govt||The government on Thursday said its advice to states and union territories to obtain permission before sharing eVIN data on vaccine stocks and temperature of storage is to prevent any misuse of this information by various agencies for commercial purposes. The Health Ministry clarification comes in the wake of media reports about the Centre writing to the states and UTs, advising them not to share the data of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system on vaccine stocks and the temperature of vaccine storage at public forums without prior consent, and stating that it is a "sensitive information and to be used only for programme improvement". "The crucial information related to specific vaccine usage trends for multiple vaccines used in Universal Immunization Programme (UIP), and temperature related data in respect to each such vaccine, can be used to manipulate the market as well as associated research with respect to various vaccines and cold chain equipment. "It is important to note that the Union Health Ministry has been using the eVIN electronic platform for all vaccines used under UIP for more than six years now. Sharing of sensitive E-VIN data on stocks and storage, temperature requires the Health Ministry's prior consent," the ministry said in its statement. The data on Covid-19 vaccine stocks, their consumption and balance is reflected on the CoWIN platform, and it is also regularly shared by the Union Health Ministry through weekly press conferences and daily press releases. "The Health Ministry's letter to the states and UTs in focus was intended to prevent use of such sensitive data for unauthorised commercial purposes," the ministry said. The government of India is committed to transparency in the Covid-19 vaccination programme, and that is the reason it came up with a real-time IT-based tracking of vaccine logistics through CoWIN, it said. The aim is to share the information with the general public on a regular basis, the statement said. The government of India has been supporting the efforts of states and UTs for an effective vaccination drive under the Whole of Government approach since January 16 this year. Several measures are being taken for timely availability of Covid-19 vaccines across the country. Streamlining its supply chain, including storage, is also given equal priority, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Nationwide campaign being launched to counter rumours on vaccination drive, says Naqvi||A nationwide campaign will be launched by social and educational institutions to curb and crush rumours and apprehensions spread by nefarious and vested interests" about the world's largest anti-coronavirus vaccination drive being conducted in India, Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said here on Thursday. State Haj committees, Waqf boards, their associate organisations, Central Waqf Council, Maulana Azad Education Foundation and other social and educational institutions will be part of the campaign Jaan Hai To Jahaan Hai , to be launched especially in villages and remote areas of the country, he said. The senior BJP minister said Women Self Help Groups will also be included in the campaign. These groups will inform the people about some narrow-minded self-interests creating fear and confusion on the vaccines. Such elements are enemy of health and well-being of the people, he told reporters. The above-named organisations and groups will encourage people to get vaccinated to tackle the pandemic, the minister said. Unfortunately some narrow-minded elements are creating confusion and fear on the vaccination front. They are not only enemies of the health and well-being of the people but also of the country. We have to remain cautious of such people, Naqvi said. The Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is running the world's largest Covid vaccination drive in India, Naqvi said. As many as 24.30 crore people in India have been vaccinated so far, he said. Naqvi who chaired the Haj 2021 review meeting at Haj House in south Mumbai earlier in the day, said preparations regarding this year's Haj are complete, but keeping in view the pandemic, India will stand with the Saudi Arabian government's decision on the annual pilgrimage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||HC refuses to stay release on movie based on Sushant Singh Rajput’s life||The Delhi High Court on Thursday refused to stay the release of the movie, 'Nyay: The Justice', which is purportedly based on the life of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The movie is scheduled to be released on Friday. Justice Sanjeev Narula dismissed an application by Rajput's father Krishna Kishore Singh, seeking to restrain anyone from using his son's name or likeness in movies. The court, however, directed the producers to maintain accounts of the film and listed the suit for completion of pleading before the joint registrar. The detailed order is awaited. According to Singh's plea, some of the upcoming or proposed movie projects based on his son's life are -- 'Nyay: The Justice', 'Suicide or Murder: A star was lost', 'Shashank' and an unnamed crowd-funded film. Rajput's father, represented through senior advocate Vikas Singh and lawyer Varun Singh, has contended that the filmmakers are taking advantage of the situation for commercial gains and therefore, the right to freedom of speech and expression would not apply to them. "Plaintiff (Singh) has apprehension that various plays, movies, web-series, books, interviews or other material may be published which would harm the reputation of the son of the plaintiff and his family," claimed the suit, seeking damages of over Rs 2 crore from the filmmakers for "loss of reputation, mental trauma and harassment" to Rajput's family. Opposing the plea, senior advocate Chander Lall, appearing for the director of Nyay, has said the movie's release has been widely publicised and therefore, he would not be able to give any assurance with regard to holding it back. He said Rajput's caricature, name or likeness has not been used in the film. Lall as well as the counsel for the producers have told the court that restraining anyone from making any movie on what happened to Rajput would be an infringement of the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under the Constitution. They stated that Rajput being a celebrity, people need to know what happened to him and cited examples of movies, both Indian and foreign, made on various individuals and companies without their express permission and said that such activity was permissible. They also said that since Rajput has passed away the rights of fair trial and privacy cannot be inherited by his father. Counsel for Rajput's father has opposed the contentions of the film's producers and director saying since the father filed the complaint, which was the basis of the FIR and trial, and also the present suit, he had a right to fair trial and privacy. The director of the film 'Shashank' was represented through advocate A P Singh. The suit has also claimed that in case a "movie, web-series, book or any other content of similar nature is allowed to be published or broadcasted, it would affect the right of the victim and deceased for a free and fair trial as it may cause prejudice to them". It has also contended that Rajput being a well-known celebrity, "any misuse of his name/ image/ caricature/ style of delivering dialogues also amounts to infringement of the personality right vested with the plaintiff besides amounting to acts of passing off". The contentions of Rajput's father have been opposed by the filmmakers of the upcoming and proposed movies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Rishi Dubey as an experienced Poll Advisor with a holistic approach can be a game changer in present political scenario||Before any Elections it is necessary for the political parties to carefully analyze the factors that have led to the party’s/individual’s performance in the last Elections & their prospects in the forthcoming Assembly/General Elections. It is also important to ascertain the expectations of different sections of the electorate so that an implementation plan could be drawn up and acted upon. Political PR, Political Campaigning, Political Research, Political Marketing, Political Management, Environment Mapping etc. relating to all contexts and processes. Politicians nowadays piercing party lines in India are hiring Public Relations agencies to conduct surveys, mobilise essential data of the electorate that they are willing to compete from, chalk out public announcements & to hike the image before the elections. Understanding the immense impact of Public Relations and digital/social media campaigns in connecting, engaging and advocating with their target audience nowadays politicians are reaching out to professionals to help layout the strategies. All PR firms are observing the increasing number of political leaders sanctioning this approach majorly after Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi's PR strategies proved to be dynamic in 2014 & 2019 General Elections. As per PR companies the essence of originating campaign strategy is "data", as they say data is the new oil. Data acquired through surveys specific to the constituencies help in assisting political candidates and parties to have an insight that is very essential in chalking out powerful manifestos & devise the augmented approach based on it. In the conventional political campaigns, the political parties/candidates used to abide by the media campaigns only. In today’s scenario Public Relations play an important role by managing political campaigns for any political party/candidates by seeking professional expertise. It helps the clients to develop communication in order to sustain relationships and engage the electorate to promote their political developments, transparency, accountability and activities such as: Research & Analytics, Print Media Management, Social Media Management, Public Opinion Poll, Politico-Social campaigns, Communication consulting, Press Conferences, Slogan Development, Perception Mapping, Content Development, Media Management, Candidate Profiling, Competition Mapping, Sample Survey etc. Today "Strategy" has attained major importance in each and every field. “We have been seeing an increasing number of candidates and leaders approaching us from all parties for precise surveys and formulating strategies for their election campaigns. During 2017 & 2020 Punjab and Delhi Assembly elections respectively, we successfully formulated and implemented the PR campaigns and strategies for several Candidates and Political Parties. This time too we have numerous campaigns in hand. However, according to our PR policy we cannot disclose the details, until unless the candidates/parties are willing to reveal the same” said Mr. Rishi Dubey Co-founder and CEO, PR BABA Private Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Eight 8 kids among 12 killed in Mumbai building collapse ||At least 12 people, including eight children, were killed and seven injured when two floors of an illegally constructed three-storey residential building collapsed on an adjoining single-storey house in suburban Mumbai, officials said on Thursday. The incident took place around 11.15pm on Wednesday, when Mumbai experienced heavy rain through the day, at the New Collector Compound on Abdul Hamid Road in the Malwani area of suburban Malad, the officials said. The three-storey building had been constructed illegally and had suffered damage in Cyclone Tauktae, which passed close to the Mumbai coast last month, police said, adding that its contractor had been arrested on the charge of culpable homicide. The Maharashtra government announced an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh each for the kin of those who lost their lives in the house collapse, while the Centre will give an additional Rs 2 lakh. The second and third floors of the three-storey building collapsed on the adjoining single-storey house, said Santosh Dhonde, acting ward officer of the city’s P-North ward. Fire brigade and other agencies immediately rushed to the spot and started a search-and-rescue operation, the official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Eight children and four adults died, he said, adding that most of the deceased were from two families. Seven others were injured and the condition of one of them was critical, he said. People rescued from under the debris were taken to nearby hospitals, he added. The deceased have been identified as Sahil Sarfaraz Sayyed, 9, Arifa Sheikh, 9, Shafiq Md Saleem Siddiqui, 45, Tausif Shafiq Siddiqui, 15, Aalisha Shafiq Siddiqui, 10, Alfisa Shafiq Siddiqui, 1, Afina Shafik Siddiqui, 6, Ishrat Bano Shafiq Siddiqui, 40, Rahisa Bano Rafik Siddiqui, 40, Tahes Safik Siddiqui, 12, and John Irranna, 13, and a 60-year-old man named only as Sardar. According to civic and fire brigade officials, some people might still be trapped under the rubble and the search-and-rescue operations were on. According to the BMC, the collapsed building was located on collector’s land and its owner got permission from the collector’s office while constructing a permanent structure. However, joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil told reporters that the building had been constructed illegally and had serious structural faults. During Cyclone Tauktae last month, the building suffered damage, he said, adding Wednesday’s incident could have been averted if proper precautions had been taken. An FIR under IPC Sections 304 (2) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) has been registered against the building contractor, Ramzan Nabi Shaikh, its owner Rafique Siddiqui (who lost nine members of his family) and others, the police said. Contractor Ramzan, 34, a resident of Malwani, was picked up by police after the incident for questioning and later placed under arrest, said Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner of police (north region). Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief at the loss of lives in the building collapse and announced Rs 2 lakh ex gratia each for the next of kin of the deceased from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. In a condolence message from the Prime Minister, his office tweeted: “Pained by the loss of lives due to the collapse of a structure in Malad West, Mumbai. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I pray that the injured recover at the earliest.” A sum of Rs 50,000 will be provided to each of the injured, Modi said. The Maharashtra government separately announced an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of those who lost their lives in the tragedy. It also said that the medical expenses of the injured would be borne by the government. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray condoled the loss of lives and visited Shatabdi Hospital in the city on Thursday to enquire about the well-being of the survivors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||India reports highest single-day spike of 6,148 casualties as Bihar revises death toll||With Bihar revising its figures and putting the total number of fatalities caused by COVID-19 at 9,429, India reported its highest single-day spike of 6,148 deaths, pushing the toll to 3,59,676, while 94,052 new cases took the tally to 2,91,83,121, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Thursday. The Nitish Kumar government on Wednesday reported that the number of deaths across the state in the pandemic was 9,429 compared to the figure of 5,500 earlier. New figures imply that while 1,600 people died of Covid in Bihar between March 2020 and 2021, the number of deaths from April to June 7 this year was a staggering 7,775, about six times more. The active cases have reduced to 11,67,952 comprising 4 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.77 per cent, it said. A net decline of 63,463 cases has been recorded in the total number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 20,04,690 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 37,21,98,253, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.69 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 17 consecutive days, the ministry said. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 5.43 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 28th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,76,55,493, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.23 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 24,27,26,693 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive in the country. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. The 6,148 new fatalities include 3,971 from Bihar, 661 from Maharashtra, 405 from Tamil Nadu, 192 from Karnataka and 156 from Kerala. COVID-19 death toll in Bihar was on Wednesday revised drastically upwards by the state health department, which put the total number of fatalities caused by the pandemic at 9,429. A total of 3,59,676 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,01,833 from Maharashtra, 32,291 from Karnataka, 28,170 from Tamil Nadu, 24,704 from Delhi, 21,516 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,555 from West Bengal, 15,293 from Punjab and 13,271 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||In ex-bureaucrats’ crossfire, govt allies have few answers||The first week of June saw retired bureaucrats and diplomats pitted against each other in public like never before, with the pro-government among them launching broadsides against not just those criticising the Narendra Modi government but those seeking to hold the mirror to it. This came in the midst of the Union government’s face-off with Bengal over what many considered the “arbitrary” transfer of outgoing chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to the Centre, and a new pension rule requiring officials who have retired from intelligence and security-related organisations to seek clearance before commenting or writing on subjects related to intelligence or security. Although these developments may appear unrelated, the purpose behind each was to browbeat critics and naysayers into silence, or at least circumspection, at a time when India’s Covid response is drawing world attention. However, it did not stop the Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG) from coming out with yet another open letter to the Prime Minister calling for withdrawal of the three new regulations proposed for Lakshadweep. Ironically, this — the CCG’s 45th open letter since it sent out the first four years ago to this day — received traction like none other. The reason was partly the personal attack on the group by Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri on May 31 that drew more media attention to the CCG. Puri, a career diplomat, was briefing journalists to counter criticism of the government’s continuation with the Central Vista project amid the raging pandemic when he chose to pick on the CCG using a letter sent 10 months ago. Puri’s exact words for his erstwhile colleagues among diplomats and bureaucrats, including batch-mates, were: “Yeh padhe likhe murkh hi nahin hain (they are not just educated fools), they are a disgrace.” Puri was referring to a passing mention in the letter to reports of superstition being one of the reasons for building a new Parliament. Although taken aback by the “vitriolic” attack by one of their own, CCG members decided not to respond. They reasoned they would be playing into the government’s hands by getting into a spat with the minister and providing a diversion from the real issues at hand. A couple of the signatories have responded in their individual capacity, though. Former culture secretary Jawhar Sircar on Wednesday tweeted: “Please don’t shout down questions and criticisms @HardeepSPuri Branding all colleagues as Moorkhs is not nice or diplomatic. Modi Sarkar must clarify TOTALITY of Central Vista project — extent, timeline, expenditure.” Another signatory and former diplomat, Deb Mukharji, told The Telegraph: “My response to Hardeep Puri would be, ‘Yes, I apologise to the reference in the beginning to the superstition, but you know we are dealing with a government where the Prime Minister has referred to superstitions in the past and right now, in the middle of Covid, you have the health minister endorsing Baba Ramdev. We did not make up the rumour. So we can’t be blamed for believing this of the government when the Prime Minister believes in these kind of things.’ “Hardeep Puri seems to have forgotten his training in the foreign service and is speaking the language of the company he keeps. Lastly, he did not address a single concern that we raised.” Another member of the CCG who did not want to be quoted said this was a sign of the government being rattled. About the change in the pension rules, he said some in the CCG might not be able to write as individuals but the new restrictions were unlikely to stop them from signing up on these open letters. “Till date, we have steered clear of security-related issues and have not written on issues that impact relations with other countries,” the CCG member said. A third retired bureaucrat underlined that the government was harming itself with the new pension order. “It is denying itself some experienced counsel. What the government has done now with the vaccination policy is what former health secretary Sujatha Rao has been writing (about) for over two months now,” the ex-bureaucrat said. As for the article written by the Forum of Former Ambassadors of India about the criticism of the Modi government’s foreign policies, retired and serving diplomats see it as a targeted attack on former national security adviser Shivshankar Menon and former foreign secretary Shyam Saran, two voices taken very seriously not just in India but across the world. In the process of going after the critics, through an article in The Indian Express newspaper last week, the Forum has also established that much in the realm of foreign policy over the past seven years has been a continuation of work in progress, something the Modi government and the Right-wing ecosystem has refused to acknowledge in their zeal to project everything as unprecedented and historic. “Those faulting the Modi government’s foreign policy as if there are serious departures from the past miss the clear continuities in key areas under the UPA and the NDA governments,” the Forum wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh elections 2022: Anup Chandra Pandey appointed election commissioner ||The man who aggressively implemented Yogi Adityanath’s cow welfare scheme will now help conduct an election crucial to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s political future and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to rebound from the Bengal drubbing. Anup Chandra Pandey, a retired 1984-batch IAS officer from the Uttar Pradesh cadre, has been appointed election commissioner about nine months before Assembly elections are due in the heartland state. The former Uttar Pradesh chief secretary, under whose supervision Adityanath had implemented a Rs 613-crore cow welfare project in 2018, was adept at reading his political masters’ mind, sources in Lucknow said. In December 2018, Pandey was working on a vision document for Agra’s development when he suddenly shelved the plan, realising Adityanath didn’t want such a programme for the city of the Taj Mahal, a Mughal monument, the sources said. While overseeing the cow welfare project, Pandey would hold frequent meetings with district officials to ensure abandoned cows were not left to roam or attacked for destroying crops. Over 100 people were arrested for cow-related crimes in 2018-2019. However, the 600 cowsheds the state government built under the project became defunct within months because funds were not released after Pandey’s retirement on August 31, 2019. Pandey, who became chief secretary on June 30, 2018, had served for 37 years in Uttar Pradesh and been posted in one capacity or the other in almost every part of the state. Political observers suggested Pandey’s choice as election commissioner implied that Modi had begun preparing for next year’s Uttar Pradesh polls, being seen as a political barometer ahead of the 2024 general election. The state election, due by March, could face the BJP with a tough challenge if the repercussions of the farmers’ agitation and the popular fury over the Covid mismanagement persist. Pandey, a mechanical engineer and MBA who also has a PhD in ancient history, will fill the slot left vacant by Sushil Chandra, who took over as chief election commissioner on April 12 after the retirement of Sunil Arora. The other election commissioner is Rajiv Kumar, a retired IAS officer from the Jharkhand cadre. Chandra will retire in May 2022, after the Uttar Pradesh elections. Pandey, whose term expires on February 15, 2024, is unlikely to become chief election commissioner. Kumar is next in seniority after Chandra and is likely to succeed him. He will turn 65 in February 2025 and retire after the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Pandey is a year older than Rajiv Kumar. Only four election commissioners have retired without becoming chief election commissioner, the last being Ashok Lavasa who quit last year to join the Asian Development Bank. Lavasa had expressed dissent over the clean chits the poll panel had given to Modi and Amit Shah when they were accused of violating the model code of conduct during the 2019 general election campaign. The last chief secretary of a state to be appointed election commissioner was Gujarat’s Achal Kumar Joti in 2015. The 2017 Gujarat polls were conducted on his watch as chief election commissioner, and he faced allegations of ignoring complaints against BJP leaders. Joti retired in 2018. A source in the central government said: “Pandey had met the Prime Minister several times in the past one year to discuss the Ganga development project in Varanasi and also as member of the National Green Tribunal’s monitoring committee for the Uttar Pradesh chapter.” Additional reporting by Pheroze L. Vincent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Jitin Prasada, former Union minister and Congress leader, joins BJP||Jitin Prasada, former Union minister and a third-generation Congress leader once considered a member of Rahul Gandhi’s inner circle, joined the BJP on Wednesday, with the ruling party shedding its self-proclaimed distaste for dynastic politics as it had done in the case of Jyotiraditya Scindia. While Jitin’s switch was seen as a loss for the Congress, it also bared the desperation of the BJP in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls due early next year. The BJP spreading the red carpet for Jitin, 47, who lost the 2014 and 2019 elections, was widely seen as an effort to reach out to the Brahmin voters in the heartland state who are said to be increasingly feeling marginalised under chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Union home minister Amit Shah welcomed Jitin into the party, saying: “I have full faith that his joining the BJP will give strength to the Uttar Pradesh BJP’s resolution to serve the people.” Adityanath was similarly effusive. “Jitin Prasada joining the BJP will certainly strengthen the BJP in Uttar Pradesh,” the chief minister tweeted. Jitin had since last year been leading an effort to woo Brahmins away from the BJP by floating a “Brahmin Chetna Parishad”. This  seems to have caught the BJP leadership’s attention as the traditional Thakur-Brahmin rivalry in Uttar Pradesh has become more palpable under Adityanath, who has been accused of patronising the Thakurs. At the BJP headquarters in New Delhi, Jitin joined the party in the presence of railway minister Piyush Goyal, who said the former MP had spent his life working for the people of Uttar Pradesh. Jitin said three generations of his family had been associated with the Congress and that he took the decision to embrace the BJP after “lot of deliberation”. “I felt the party I was in was not able to help the people. What is the relevance of remaining in a party if you can’t protect the interests of your people?” he said, calling the Congress a “person-oriented party”. Jitin claimed he had not been able to work for his people while in the Congress. Jitin hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and claimed that the BJP was currently the “only national party”. He also had words of praise for home minister Shah, calling him a “karmyogi (worshipper of work)”. Jitin’s father Jitendra Prasada had been a four-time Congress MP from Uttar Pradesh. Jitin is the second prominent Congress dynast to have joined the BJP after Jyotiraditya last year. The BJP, which misses no opportunity to attack the Congress for promoting dynastic politics, has welcomed Jitin and Jyotiraditya with open arms and appears to be eyeing more such leaders, including former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Both Jitin and Jyotiraditya, along with some others like Milind Deora and Sachin, had been inducted as ministers in the UPA II government and were referred to as “young Turks” who were preparing to take over under the leadership of Rahul. They also seemed to share Rahul’s sartorial tastes, sporting puffed half jackets. Like Jyotiraditya, Jitin had found himself powerless after losing the Lok Sabha polls in 2014 and 2019. He had won earlier in 2004 and 2009 and joined the Manmohan Singh government. He had been minister of state for steel, petroleum and natural gas, road transport and human resource development at various times between 2008 and 2014. Jitin had recently been holding the post of the Congress general secretary in charge of Bengal. Jitin had been among the “group of 23” leaders who had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on the drift in the party and called for sweeping organisational reforms. There had been rumours of Jitin joining the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were believed to have intervened to hold him back. A Doon School alumnus like Rahul, Jitin had in October last year termed the Adityanath government “autocratic” for manhandling Rahul and Priyanka and not allowing them to meet the Hathras gang rape and murder victim’s family. Only last month Jitin had re-tweeted Rahul’s statement slamming the Centre’s vaccine policy. Of late, however, Jitin had turned silent and refrained from joining Rahul’s attacks on the government. On June 1, Jitin had tweeted to greet his caste men on “Vishwa Brahmin Diwas”. A couple of days ago, he had greeted Adityanath on his birthday. The BJP hopes that Jitin’s defection will send a positive signal to the Brahmin voters. Brahmins make up roughly half of the 20 per cent upper caste population of Uttar Pradesh and have supported different parties at different times. Jitin could get a key position in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, BJP sources said. Additional reporting by Piyush Srivastava||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
10-06-2021||India||Jitin Prasada's switch to BJP a symbolic loss for Congress||The Congress does not see the exit of Jitin Prasada as a substantial political loss but concedes that his switch to the BJP on Wednesday may have symbolic significance ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh elections. Unlike the other young leaders — such as Jyotiraditya Scindia, whose exit had pulled down the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh, and Sachin Pilot, whose rebellion imperilled the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan — Jitin doesn’t have any effective bargaining counter except being considered close to Rahul Gandhi. Jitin had lost two successive Lok Sabha elections and one Assembly election, leaving his reputation as a mass leader in tatters. His decision to defect to the BJP failed to trigger any political concern in the Congress except for the fleeting impression of young leaders’ disenchantment with Rahul. “It definitely was bad in terms of optics,” said a senior Congress functionary, as Jitin, much like Jyotiraditya and Sachin, was perceived to be close to Rahul at one point. “But the event is more of a schematic plot by a desperate BJP to alter the narrative before the election in Uttar Pradesh, a model that they unsuccessfully deployed in Bengal,” he added. Another Congress leader told The Telegraph over phone from Lucknow: “Brahmins are livid with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the BJP is trying to use Jitin to fool them. He is a symbol of appeasement. But to presume that the Brahmins will follow Jitin’s footsteps is childish. “Jitin’s father Jitendra Prasada did have some clout among the Brahmins but the son joining the BJP is not expected to have much of an impact on electoral dynamics. Suvendu Adhikari was a big fish in Bengal but Jitin is a small player in Uttar Pradesh. The ripples his exit created will be ephemeral.” Jitin, who was said to have made up his mind to defect to the BJP before the 2019 parliamentary elections but was stopped, had been feeling uncomfortable in the Congress as his hopes of becoming the president of the Uttar Pradesh party unit were dashed when Ajay Kumar Lallu was appointed to the post. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Doesn’t Jitin feel any unease in standing with the party that inflicted such miseries on the people of the country, attacked democratic institutions and the very idea of India? He is standing with the people who threatened to invoke the National Security Act against citizens who spoke about the oxygen crisis, with a Prime Minister whose mismanagement is responsible for the death of lakhs of people.” Shrinate added: “It is unfortunate that these leaders are not able to understand the nature of the fight. It is not about power, it is about ideology, commitment and morality. ” Asked about Jitin’s charge that the Congress had become a person-oriented party, Shrinate said: “People who are joining the BJP, which is today nothing except Modi, have the cheek to talk about person-oriented.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||The story behind Lidwina Joseph’s letter to CJI Ramana||When 10-year-old Lidwina Joseph decided to write a letter of thanks to the Supreme Court for its Covid initiative, her father was discouraging despite being a postmaster himself. “I initially discouraged her since I thought a letter from a child won’t make any difference,” Joseph K. Francis, a former air force employee, told The Telegraph from his home in Thrissur, Kerala, on Wednesday. He admitted being “really surprised” at the splash his daughter’s letter and the accompanying hand-drawn picture of a judge had created, with Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana writing back appreciatively to her and several newspapers covering the story. Drawing is a hobby with Lidwina, who said: “I want to be a painter when I grow up.” However, very much a child of the 21st century, the postmaster’s daughter had written just a single pen-and-paper letter before in her life – as a class assignment. Still, Lidwina didn’t want her letter to the Chief Justice of India sent as an email. “Lots of people must be sending letters via email to the Chief Justice. So I told my papa we shall send it by post,” the youngest daughter of Francis and Bincy, a schoolteacher, said. Francis sent it by speed post in May-end. Asked why she had thought of writing to the Chief Justice, Lidwina said: “Every day I used to read newspaper headlines and see scary pictures (of mass cremations and burials of Covid patients). I got very scared at the thought that no one was helping the people.” The Class V student of the Kendriya Vidyalaya, Thrissur, kept asking her father why no one was pitching in to save lives. Then she read in The Hindu that the Supreme Court had intervened to ramp up oxygen supplies. “I felt very happy. I wanted to thank the Supreme Court for saving lives,” Lidwina said. Francis’s initial scepticism eventually yielded to Lidwina’s persistence. “I told her to draw an image of a judge in a courtroom and write a letter, which she did in two days,” he said. Did she feel afraid to write to the Chief Justice of India? “No, where’s the need to feel scared when I was only thanking the Chief Justice?” The idea to place the text in a scroll came from her father. “Papa told me to draw a scroll. Then I remembered the stories in which kings and big people got their letters on scrolls. Since Justice Ramana Sir is a highly respectable person, I thought I should draw a scroll,” she said. Lidwina added: “Drawing and craft are my principal hobbies. So I checked Google to get an idea of a courtroom before I did the sketch. My papa then corrected some mistakes I had made in the letter.” In her seven-sentence letter to Justice Ramana, Lidwina wrote: “I am happy and feel proud your honourable court have moved orders for supply of oxygen and saved many lives.” The Chief Justice’s office called Francis a few days later asking for Lidwina’s home address since she had mentioned only her school address. They called again on Tuesday to confirm whether Lidwina had received the Chief Justice’s letter and gift — a signed copy of the Indian Constitution. “The letter and the copy of the Indian Constitution are my treasures. I shall always keep them with me,” Lidwina said. Justice Ramana had in his reply lauded the “beautiful letter” and “heart-warming illustration”. “I am really impressed with the way you kept track of happenings in the country and the concern that you have displayed for the well being of people in the wake of pandemic. I am sure you will grow up into an alert, informed and responsible citizen who will contribute immensely towards the nation building,” he wrote. Lidwina confessed to having written only one complete letter before. “I had a Class III lesson on letter-writing, postage stamps and Inland letters. I had to write to a friend as part of my class activity on Christmas,” she said. She added that she “used to write a few lines when my sisters wrote to my father” during the time Francis worked in the Gulf before taking up his current post office job. Why did the sisters — Isaballe is a first-year BSc mathematics student while Catherine is enrolled in Class XII at the Sacred Hearts College in Thrissur —  write letters to their father rather than email or WhatsApp messages? Francis said he had insisted on it, having developed a fondness for letter-writing himself while corresponding with his family from his various air force postings in the 1990s and 2000s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||NGO seeks moratorium on housing and loans to borrowers||An NGO has urged the Supreme Court to direct the Reserve Bank of India and the Centre to grant moratorium on housing and other loans to borrowers, particularly the middle class, which according to the organisation is the worst affected in terms of financial distress and job losses on account of the second Covid-19 wave. In a petition filed in the top court, the NGO Distress Management Collective has also pleaded that the RBI and the banks should be directed not to declare any assets of borrowers as NPAs (non-performing assets) for non-payment of EMIs at least for the period from April to August this year and consider rolling out a financial package primarily focusing on “the severely affected sections of the society and also keeping in mind an imminent third wave”. The petition filed through advocate Jose Abraham has stated that scores of middle class people who have availed loan from banks are facing extreme distress and are unable to pay their EMIs since the onset of the second Covid wave, particularly due to the lockdowns announced by different states. Citing various news and research reports, the petition stated that the second wave of Covid-19 is pushing India’s middle class towards poverty with an estimated 32 million people losing their jobs and sources of livelihood. The petition said: “The weekly extension of lockdowns since the last one and half month has resulted in more people from the middle class losing their jobs and those who have their jobs safe at the moment are facing prospects of substantial salary cuts. “That the petitioner organisation has also come to know from legal professionals, that many of their colleagues are severely affected by the pangs of Covid-19. It is a harsh reality that since 25th March, 2020, a big section of lawyers have shifted from cities to their hometowns.” The NGO stated that the small and medium enterprises (SME) have also been badly jolted by the second wave of the pandemic, which had emerged at a time when the sector had hardly recovered from the blow received during the first wave. Pointing out that the RBI had initiated a stimulus in the form of granting a moratorium on loans for six months from March to August last year, the organisation wanted a similar package for the middle class and SME sector this year as well. The petition said that given the massive loss of jobs and sources of livelihood, merely a resolution plan or restructuring of loans would not be sufficient as there was an urgent need to grant a moratorium on loan for another six months. The NGO urged the apex court to direct the RBI and the government to ensure that the banks do not resort to the extreme measure of declaring the assets of defaulting borrowers as NPAs. The petition also cited news reports that stated that even chiefs of private sector banks have met the RBI authorities to pitch for a limited moratorium on payments and a wider window to restructure dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh cop shoots trader dead over 'personal enmity'||A constable in uniform was accused of shooting dead a man outside a hospital here on Wednesday over “personal enmity”. Real estate trader Pravin Singh, 35, was coming out of Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences at Gomti Nagar after meeting his ailing father when constable Ashish Mishra allegedly shot him with a revolver. As the constable threw the revolver in a drain and tried to run away, some people caught him and handed him over to the police. The police said the cause of the enmity was being probed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||SC Bar Association constitutes 'search committee' on HC judges||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) has constituted a “search committee” to identify Supreme Court lawyers who could be considered for the post of high court judges. Under the present system, advocates practising in the high courts and having a minimum experience of 10 years are considered for elevation as high court judges. However, the SCBA feels that Supreme Court lawyers with “vast experience” in different fields of law should also be considered for elevation as judges of high courts. No criteria have been planned yet. The SCBA has constituted a “search committee” comprising its president Vikas Singh, vice-president Mahalakshmi Pavani and four eminent members of the Bar — senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi, Shekhar Naphade, Vijay Hansaria and V. Giri — to facilitate the process of elevation “by identifying deserving and meritorious Supreme Court practitioners”. In a letter to the SCBA members on Tuesday evening, Singh, himself a senior lawyer, said he had also raised the issue of elevation of Supreme Court lawyers as judges of high courts with Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana. “Elevation of the lawyers practicing in the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India has always been a concern of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA). “In spite of having vast experience and exposure in dealing with all kinds of issues relating to civil, criminal, constitutional, commercial law, etc, the lawyers practising in the Supreme Court are rarely considered for elevation by the high court collegium as they do not regularly practice in the high courts. While these Supreme Court lawyers are professionally more meritorious than their colleagues at the high court, they miss out on the opportunity of being considered as high court judges,” Singh said. Since 2014, Supreme Court lawyers are considered for elevation as judges of the top court. Singh said that on behalf of the executive committee of the SCBA he had made a representation to Justice Ramana on May 31, putting across the concerns of the members of the association with regard to their elevation to the high courts. Singh had also suggested a transparent mechanism to institutionalise the appointments, which will also help in filling up the large number of vacancies in the high courts. “It was also emphasised that there are a large number of lady advocates practising in the Supreme Court who are to be considered for elevation, but the high courts do not recommend them on the plea that there are not enough lady lawyers fit for elevation,” the SCBA president said, while referring to his meeting with Justice Ramana. Singh said that Justice Ramana had agreed to the request made by the SCBA and requested the chief justices of the high courts to consider lawyers practising in the Supreme Court for elevation to the high courts. Singh said: “…I sincerely believe that every lawyer practising in India is a citizen of India and therefore should be fairly considered for elevation on the basis of merit alone, no matter where he or she practises. We are hopeful that immediate action in view of the large vacancies in the high courts is taken.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||Covid: Centre asks states and UTs not to share vaccine data||The Centre has written to the states and Union Territories advising them not to share on public forums without consent data from the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) on vaccine stocks and the temperature of storage. The government said such data were “owned” by the health ministry and were “sensitive information and to be used only for programme improvement”. In a recent letter to the states, the Union health ministry said the Centre, with support from the United Nations Development Programme, had rolled out the eVIN system that is used to track vaccine stock status and the temperature at all levels of vaccine storage, from national to sub-district. The health ministry said it was overwhelming to see that all states were using the system to update the stocks and transactions of Covid vaccines on a daily basis. “In this regard, please be advised that data and analytics generated by eVIN for inventory and temperature are owned by the ministry of health and not to be shared with any other organisation, partner agency, media agency, online and offline public forums without the consent of the ministry,” the letter said. “This is very sensitive information and to be used only for programme improvement,” said the letter written by Pradeep Haldar, adviser, reproductive and child health (RCH), to all mission directors of the National Health Mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||Kerala: K.N. Balagopal rules out sacrificing state’s share in auto fuel taxes||Kerala finance minister K.N. Balagopal on Wednesday ruled out sacrificing any more of the state’s share in auto fuel taxes amid rising demand from the Opposition to reduce tax and help the people burdened by spiralling fuel prices. The finance minister said the Pinarayi Vijayan government had in its first term reduced sales tax on petrol and diesel in 2018 to 30.08 per cent and 22.76 per cent from 31.8 per cent and 24.54 per cent, respectively. “The government is not in a position to provide any more reductions,” the minister told the Assembly in response to a demand by the Congress-led United Democratic Front that the state consider slashing its share of sales tax on fuel prices as the overall revenue had risen with a steady increase in prices. A. Shamsudeen of the Indian Union Muslim League, a UDF ally, said the state government had earned additional tax revenue of Rs 12,000 crore on fuel prices over the last five years and urged the finance minister to provide some relief. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan urged the finance minister to provide a fuel subsidy from the additional tax revenue. “At least provide some fuel subsidy if you are not ready to forgo your sales tax,” he said. Satheesan noted that fuel prices were hiked 21 times in the last 37 days and sought Rs 10 fuel subsidy for each litre purchased by fishermen and a similar concession for the first 20 litres bought by drivers of cabs and auto-rickshaws each day. However, Balagopal blamed the Centre for squeezing the states dry. “The Centre is taking away our income sources while we have heavy liabilities like pay rise obligations to meet,” the minister said. The Opposition wanted the state government to fight for the inclusion of auto fuel in the goods and services tax, pointing out that the GST would then be limited to 28 per cent and could bring down the petrol price to Rs 70 a litre. But Balagopal refused to agree to the suggestion, saying auto fuel and liquor were the only commodities that the state had any control on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
10-06-2021||India||Covid: Bihar district sets up lottery bait for vaccination||The district administration in Bihar’s Sheohar has started a lottery scheme to encourage people aged above 45 to take the Covid-19 vaccine. Under the scheme, six people from among those who take the vaccine — one each from the five blocks in the district and one from the town area — will get prizes, including valuables and consumer durables every week. The move, initiated by Sheohar district magistrate Sajjan Raja Sekar, has started showing results. “This is not a new idea,” Sajjan told The Telegraph. “I read about incentives being given to people in a fishing village close to the Kovalam beach in Chennai to encourage them to take Covid-19 vaccines. It was successful. So I thought why not implement it on a district level here. We have noticed much hesitancy among people here in taking the shots,” he added. One of the beneficiaries of the scheme, which rolled out last Saturday (June 5), got a 1gm gold coin while two others got a gas connection set along with a stove. Water filter, pedestal fan and a suitcase were also awarded to others whose name came up in the lottery draw. “We have engaged the district chamber of commerce, banks, gas agencies, medical stores, jewellers and civil society organisations as sponsors to provide the gifts. Many of them wanted to give us cash, but we refused and asked them to give us consumer durables if they wanted to help. We will conduct weekly draws,” the Sheohar district magistrate said. The district administration did not publicise the scheme as it did not want to send forth a message that people should get themselves vaccinated only to avail an opportunity to win the lottery. However, information about the scheme spread through word of mouth and various communication mediums. There was a lot of hesitancy among people above 45 years of age here in the district in taking the vaccine. Though Sheohar is on top among the districts as far as vaccination is concerned, only around 60,000 people have taken the shots so far from among the projected 1.6 lakh people above 45 years who need to be vaccinated. “The lottery incentive is showing results. The Rashidpur slum area in Sheohar town was resisting the vaccination drive and nobody there had taken the vaccine. However, a lady from there got a gas connection, cylinder and stove in the lottery and now many people from the area have expressed willingness to take the vaccine. “We are now planning to send the ‘vaccine express’ (a mobile vaccination SUV) there,” Sajjan said. An official involved in the vaccination programme said the lottery scheme was going to be successful and would prompt people to come and take the shots. “Such out-of-the-box measures are needed to encourage people to take the Covid-19 vaccines. Various rumours are keeping them away despite the fact that the shots are for their safety. “We are witnessing an increase in the number of people turning up at the vaccination centres this week,” the official said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
