11-06-2021||India||ICMR to conduct fourth round of sero survey in June, says Centre||The ICMR's fourth round of national-level sero survey to assess the intensity of the spread of Covid-19 in India will begin this month, but all states/UTs should also be encouraged to conduct them so that information from all geographies can be collected, the Centre said on Friday. At a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said the Covid situation in the country appears to be stabilising with decline in daily and active cases and the positivity rate coming down to almost 5 per cent. He, however, urged people to continue following the Covid appropriate behaviour and social distancing norms. "The ICMR will begin work for the next sero survey this month which will help assess the intensity of spread of Covid-19. But if we want to protect our geographies, we cannot depend on one national sero survey alone and will have to encourage states/UTs to do sero surveys at their levels also," Paul said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the sero survey will be held across 70 districts in 21 states and will include children aged 6 years and above. Speaking about the improving Covid scenario in the country, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, health ministry said almost 78 per cent decline in daily new Covid-19 cases has been noted in India since the highest reported peak in daily cases on May 7. He also said that there has been a 74 per cent decrease in weekly Covid-19 positivity rate since the highest such rate was reported between April 30-May 6 at 21.6 per cent. The official noted that there has been a 70 per cent decrease in active cases, by more than 26.2 lakh, since the peak was reported on May 10. The Centre underlined that breaking the chain of transmission ensures lesser strain on the health infrastructure and better quality of care. “There should be no laxity. Gatherings have to be avoided and partying time has not yet come,” Paul said. On the US's Food and Drug Administration (FDA) denying Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) to Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, the health ministry said, “We respect each country's regulatory system, but it will have no impact on India's vaccine programme. In a setback that could potentially delay the launch of Covaxin in the US, the FDA there has "recommended" Ocugen Inc, the US partner of the Indian vaccine maker, to go for Biologics Licence Application (BLA) route with additional data.” Commenting on the development, Paul said each country has its own regulatory system which India respects and hoped that the manufacturer will be able to comply with it by doing whatever requires to be done. "Each country has its own regulatory system. Some parameters might be common while some might be different which we respect. Our country's regulatory system also takes decisions in a similar manner. The scientific framework is the same but nuancing is in context... These are scientific considerations, especially in those countries where science is strong and for us manufacturing is strong. "We expect that our manufacturer will be able to comply with it by doing whatever it requires to be done. It will have no impact whatsoever on our programme clearly. We are satisfied our regulator has approved it. We have so much data on safety and so much data on phase-3 trials that have been screened by them," he added. He further said that the phase 3 trial publication of Covaxin will also come in the next 7-8 days. "We are doing very well. We respect their decision, but it will have no bearing on our track at this moment," he added. Paul said in the next six months, Biological E's vaccine can come and Zydus Cadilla's DNA vaccine is likely to come too, and Genova RNA vaccine and J&J production can take place here. "The vaccine development uses cutting edge technology which has helped in increasing Indian scientific community's grasp over the subject and two specific example is mRNA technology and this is a very significant development and BioE has adapted technology with a Canadian firm, and these mRNA vaccines will be made and they can also tackle the variants. This technology is not of a company, but of the country, and as and when need arises it will be cloned," he said. "Then there is DNA technology which is being brought forward by Zydus. The whole trial has been done and it is path breaking and if it succeeds then a new platform will emerge. So this effort made in the country is extraordinary, exceptional and unprecedented," he added. On vaccine passports', Agarwal said technical discussions are going on in WHO over it. "Vaccine passport is having a common understanding under which vaccines you have been administered gets approved, now the issue is the World Health Organisation (WHO) which is supposed to take this initiative...technical discussions are going on there and its evidence is being studied," he said. Regarding travelling abroad, he said, the focus around the world is to undertake testing before one goes out and that model will continue. On increase in gap between the first and second dose of Covishield, the official said Covishield's length of period based on existing evidence was increased, but for those who have to go abroad it was changed so if one month has elapsed then they can go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
11-06-2021||India||Modi meets Amit Shah, Nadda amid buzz of Cabinet expansion||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been holding in-person meetings with Union ministers in different groups apparently to take stock of the work done by them in the past two years and amid a buzz of a possible Cabinet expansion, sources said on Friday. Three such meetings have been held so far at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, the official residence of the prime minister, which was also attended by BJP president J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Almost all meetings lasted for more than five hours, the sources said. These meetings were called after the second wave of Covid-19. A presentation was also given by several ministers, the sources said. So far, ministers -- both cabinet and their deputies -- holding the charge of agriculture, rural development, animal husbandry and fishing, tribal affairs, urban development, culture, statistics and programme implementation, civil aviation, railways, food and consumer affairs, jal shakti, petroleum, steel and environment were among those who were called for the meetings, they said. These meetings are expected to continue for several days, the sources added. The Cabinet meeting, which is chaired by the prime minister, is usually held once a week and that of the council of ministers once a month. The cabinet meeting is being held virtually every Wednesday. These meetings with the Union ministers were preceded by similar meetings that Modi held with the presidents of various wings of the BJP and with the party general secretaries. Both meetings lasted for more than four hours. Nadda and BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh were also present at the prime minister's meetings with the party office-bearers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
11-06-2021||India||Vaccine wastage should be below 1 per cent to inoculate more people: Govt||Covid-19 vaccine is an essential public health commodity with global scarcity and therefore, its wastage must be reduced and kept to a minimum level which will further help inoculate many people, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Referring to some media reports stating that the ministry's insistence on keeping vaccine wastage below 1 per cent is unrealistic and undesirable, it said several states have organised vaccination in such a way, that not only there is no wastage but they are able to extract more doses from the vial and thus show a negative wastage. "Hence, the expectation that vaccine wastage should be 1 per cent or less is not at all unreasonable. It is reasonable, desirable and achievable," the ministry said. It also said that vaccination against Covid-19 is important in protecting people from coronavirus infection and associated mortality and morbidity. Equitable access to safe and effective vaccines is critical in ending the Covid-19 pandemic. "Vaccine development takes a lot of time and demand for these vaccines exceeds the supply many times. Thus, it is important to monitor and ensure that this precious tool to address the pandemic should be used optimally and judiciously. Covid-19 vaccine is an essential public health commodity with global scarcity. Therefore, vaccine wastage must be reduced and kept to a minimum level which will further help vaccinate many people," the ministry said in its statement. It said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also time and again emphasised on ensuring minimum vaccine wastage, to ensure that the vaccine reaches the maximum number of people. "Any reduction in wastage means inoculating more people and leads to strengthening the fight against Covid-19. Each dose saved means vaccinating one more person," the statement said. India is using the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) with the inbuilt eVIN (Electronic Vaccine intelligence network) system, a digital platform, which not only registers the beneficiaries but also tracks the vaccines and facilitates real-time monitoring of storage temperatures across 29,000 cold chain points at the national, state, and district level. The current Covid-19 vaccines being used do not have an 'open vial policy' i.e., it has to be used within a stipulated time once the vial has been opened. The vaccinator is advised to mark the date and time of opening each vial and all open vaccine vials need to be used/discarded within 4 hours of opening, the statement said. Further, all states and union territories have also been advised that each vaccination session is expected to cater to a at least of 100 beneficiaries, however, in the case of remote and sparsely populated areas, the state could organise a session for a lesser number of beneficiaries while ensuring that there is no vaccine wastage, the statement said. A session may be planned only when adequate beneficiaries are available. The government of India has been supporting the efforts of states and UTs for an effective vaccination drive under the 'Whole of Government' approach since January 16 this year, it said. There have been certain media reports alleging 'vaccine hesitancy' in rural areas among health workers, the ministry stated. "It is informed that vaccine hesitancy is a globally accepted phenomenon and should be addressed by scientifically studying and addressing the issue at the community level," it said in a statement. Keeping this in mind, a 'Covid-19 Vaccine Communication Strategy' covering details on vaccine hesitancy was shared with all states and UTs at the beginning of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. This strategy was also shared with mission directors of the National Health Missions of all states on January 25 as part of the orientation of state immunisation and IEC officers on Covid-19 Vaccination Communication Strategy. All states and UTs are following the same and adopting the strategy as per the local requirement, the statement said. Several IEC materials and prototypes for all media print, social and electronic have been prepared and shared with the states for suitable adaptation at their level. The Union Ministry of Health is working closely with all states and UTs in addressing the issue of vaccine hesitancy on a regular basis. Further, it has communicated to all states and UTs to create awareness in tribal communities through IEC materials on Covid-19 vaccines and Covid appropriate behaviour, the statement added. The ministry is also working in close coordination with the Ministry of Tribal Affairs in this regard, it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||SC to order closure of proceedings against Italian marines accused of murder||The Supreme Court Friday said it would pass orders on June 15 on the closure of proceedings in India against two Italian marines, accused of killing two fishermen off the Kerala coast in February 2012, and the disbursal of Rs 10 crore compensation to the heirs of the victims. Referring to the international arbitral award and the terms of the agreement among India, Italy and the Kerala government, a vacation bench comprising justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah said the case against marines Massimilano Latorre and Salvatore Girone for the offences would be now pursued by Italy there. As per the scheme on disbursal of compensation, the top court was informed by the Kerala government that Rs 4 crore each would be given to the heirs of two deceased fishermen and the rest Rs 2 crore would be paid to the owner of the fishing vessel St. Antony on which the two were shot dead. Keeping the plea of the Centre seeking closure of the case here pending for orders on Tuesday, the bench said it was of the view that the compensation money be transferred to the Kerala high court for disbursal and ensuring that the amount does not fritter away. In February 2012, India had accused the two marines on board the MV Enrica Lexie -- an Italian flagged oil tanker -- of killing two Indian fishermen who were on a fishing vessel in India's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). At the outset, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the bench that Republic of Italy has deposited Rs 10 crore with it over and above the ex-gratia paid earlier and the same has been deposited by the Union Ministry of External Affairs with the apex court's registry as directed. There was an award by the International Tribunal, which we as a Nation have accepted. The agreement is among the Republic of Italy, India and the Kerala government, the law officer said, adding, Now, the question of apportionment of the compensation amount remains and it can be left to the Kerala Government. The dispute before the international tribunal was as to which country, Italy or India, has the jurisdiction to prosecute the marines and it was decided that both the nations have the concurrent jurisdiction , Mehta said. But based on facts it was decided that India would not pursue the criminal case and proceedings would be started in Italy, he added. Senior Advocate Sohail Dutta, appearing for Italy, urged the bench to pass an order to quash the criminal proceedings pending against the marines as per the award of the International Tribunal. Earlier, the Centre had told the court that Italy had initiated the transfer of Rs 10 crore and as soon as the money is received, the government will deposit it with the apex court as per the April 9 direction. The Centre had earlier told the top court that Italy has assured the Indian government that it would prosecute the marines there as per law and that maximum compensation will be ensured to the victims' family members. The Centre had referred to the last year's ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at The Hague which held that India was entitled to get compensation in the case but can't prosecute the marines due to official immunity enjoyed by them. It had said the arbitration under United Nation Convention on the Law of Sea (UNCLOS), which was instituted on a request from Italy, has delivered its Award on May 21, 2020. Latorre, who had suffered a brain stroke on August 31, 2014, was first granted bail and allowed by the apex court on September 12, 2014 to go to Italy for four months and after that, extensions have been granted to him. In Italy, Latorre underwent a heart surgery after which the top court granted him extension of his stay in his native country. On September 28, 2016, the apex court had allowed Latorre to remain in his country till the international arbitral tribunal decided the jurisdictional issue. On May 26, 2016, Girone was also granted bail with certain conditions and allowed by the top court to go to his country till the jurisdictional issue was decided. The complaint against the marines was lodged by Freddy, the owner of fishing boat 'St Antony' in which two Kerala fishermen were killed when marines opened fire on them allegedly under the misconception that they were pirates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Prashant Kishor meets Sharad Pawar, sparks off political speculations||Political strategist Prashant Kishor on Friday called on NCP president Sharad Pawar at the latter's residence here and held talks with him for around three hours, setting tongues wagging in political circles. NCP sources said apart from discussing the prevailing political situation, Pawar hosted lunch for Kishor. The meeting got over by around 2 pm, but neither Kishor nor Pawar spoke to the mediapersons gathered outside 'Silver Oak' (NCP chief's residence). This is Kishor's first meeting with Pawar after the victory of the DMK and the TMC in the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and Bengal respectively. He had helped craft the election strategy for these parties in the Assembly elections. After the Assembly poll results, the election strategist had said that he was "quitting this space". Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar downplayed the meeting, saying that Kishor has already said he will not be a political strategist any more. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said many leaders are in touch with Kishor, while NCP's Chhagan Bhujbal said he was not aware of the agenda of the meeting. Stating that Kishor was a successful political strategist, Bhujbal said he was sure that Pawar would take into account Kishor's suggestions. Kishor had met Uddhav Thackeray in 2019 before the latter became chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Delhi court extends judicial custody of Sushil Kumar till June 25||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar till June 25 in connection with the alleged brawl at Chhatrasal Stadium in which a young wrestler died. Sushil Kumar was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Reetika Jain at the end of the nine-days judicial custody. The international wrestler is facing charges of murder, cupable homicide and kidnapping. He, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to the injuries later. Police has alleged Sushil Kumar the main culprit and mastermind of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar. Sushil Kumar was nabbed on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat. He has already undergone custodial interrogation of 10 days. A total of 10 people, including Sushil Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Nobel winner Abhijit Banerjee calls for bigger government cash payments to Covid-hit poor ||Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee has stepped up to the firing line by arguing the government should make bigger direct cash payments under the MGNREGA scheme to help people who have slid into poverty due to the pandemic. The government has already indicated it’s not keen on larger direct cash transfers, saying people would only park the money in bank accounts and not spend it. “I contest the view of those who say at this time that we require at this time a direct cash transfer. All that income transfer would result only in higher bank deposits and not in higher consumption spending, and that is what we don’t need,” Niti Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar stated earlier this week. Banerjee, a pioneer in research in reducing poverty, pitched strongly for hiking workdays under MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme) to 150 days from 100 days. The MIT professor says: “The people who have gone below the poverty line were actually the people who were just above the poverty line before (the pandemic).” He added firmly in an interview to NDTV late Thursday: “It won’t take much for them to go back to normal.” He added: “If the sectors – hotels, manufacturing, construction – where unskilled labourers are employed are revived quickly, then the situation may improve.” Kumar, who represents the government’s line of thinking, contradicts this. “Where is the guarantee that ‘helicopter money,’ if dropped, would result in higher consumption and will lead to a virtuous cycle of higher consumption, higher investment, higher growth? I don’t belong to that school of thought,” he told Moneycontrol. Instead, Kumar argues the government needs to focus its efforts and cash on the vaccination programme and until that’s done it will be futile to hand out cash directly to individuals. As long as “consumers have a fear of moving out and interacting, whatever you do, will not result in higher consumption, higher aggregate demand and higher economic activity,” he says. The Indian government has faced mounting criticism for focusing on loans to hard-hit businesses rather than direct cash handouts to vulnerable households. There are worries that the devastating second wave which engulfed poor rural areas could lead to fresh disaster for the population. Banerjee, though, notes that the US government, the UK, and EU governments have been borrowing massively to alleviate the effects of the pandemic through unemployment benefits and other payments, unlike poorer countries. Some 100 million more people are now living in extreme poverty than before the pandemic, he estimates. Developing countries “contemplating lockdown are caught in a double bind between economic disaster (in India, for example, the first lockdown cost the country almost a quarter of its GDP) and overflowing morgues and mortuaries,” Banerjee and his wife Esther Duflo, who jointly won the Nobel Prize in 2019 for their work in development economics, wrote in a separate article for The Guardian. Speaking to NDTV Banerjee added: “The European Central Bank is known to be very conservative, yet they went with doing whatever it takes. They actually printed money to distribute it.” Banerjee is the latest to call for the government to step up its assistance to the poor. Last month, billionaire banker Uday Kotak said the time had come for the government to expand its balance sheet and print money to help “those at the bottom of the resources pyramid” and to protect jobs. There are differing estimates about the impact of the lockdowns and the economic disruptions resulting from the pandemic. A study by Bangalore-based Azim Premji University reckons that the lockdown from last March “put around 100 million people out of work, with around 15 per cent unable to find jobs even by the end of the year.” Similarly, a study in March by Washington-based Pew Research calculates that 32 million people fell out of India’s middle class last year because of the pandemic-induced economic downturn. Pew also estimated the number of poor people in India earning $2 or less daily, has gone up by 75 million because of the Covid-19 recession. Pew pointed out that the number of people who have signed up for MNREGA had risen to a 14-year high. There are worries that the devastating second wave which engulfed rural areas could lead to fresh disaster for the poor. Rajiv Kumar paints a rosy picture of economic growth when the country emerges from the pandemic. He says: “The strength of the economic recovery will surprise all of us. Therefore, I will still hold on to a double-digit growth estimate for FY22.” He adds confidently: “By the time the third quarter comes, people who have reduced their estimates today will be revising them upwards again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath visits Modi, submits report on migrant crisis||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Friday. Adityanath met Modi at his residence, a day after meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The chief minister, who is on a two-day visit to the national capital from Thursday to meet the BJP top brass, is also scheduled to meet party president JP Nadda in the afternoon. His visit comes close on the heels of the party holding a series of review meetings in Lucknow, which had fuelled speculation of a ministerial reshuffle in the state. There have been reports of simmering discontent in the state unit over his style of leadership in the run-up to Assembly elections. During his meeting with Shah, Adityanath presented a copy of the report 'Solution of Migrant Crisis'. Party insiders confirmed that the unscheduled meetings were tied to the Uttar Pradesh polls, due next March, which have become crucial for the BJP after the Covid mismanagement battered the government’s image and the crushing defeat in Bengal dimmed Modi’s “aura”. His visit to the national capital started a day after Jitin Prasada quit the Congress and joined the BJP. After Adityanath met Shah, Prasada called on the Uttar Pradesh chief minister in New Delhi. BJP MLC A K Sharma, a former IAS officer who is seen as a trusted hand of Modi, is also in Delhi to meet party leaders and allies. Though there is no official word on whether there will be a Cabinet expansion in Uttar Pradesh, sources said Prasada, who comes from a noted Brahmin family of the state with political heft, and Sharma may be accommodated in such an eventuality. BJP's general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh had earlier this month visited the state to review the party's preparations for the assembly elections and held meetings with key ministers and organisation leaders. Senior BJP leader Radha Mohan Singh, who is in-charge of the party's affairs in Uttar Pradesh, had also visited the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Respite for Mumbai after two days of incessant rains||After two days of continuous showers, the residents of Mumbai got some respite on Friday morning as rains took a break in the city and its suburbs, civic officials said. The transport services in the city, including the suburban trains and buses, are running as per their normal schedule, they said. The south-west monsoon had arrived in the city with a bang on Wednesday as heavy rains caused flooding on roads and rail tracks, disrupting suburban train services. The first rains of this year's monsoon season in Mumbai had also caused water-logging in various parts of the city on that day. In the last 24-hours, the eastern suburbs of Mumbai received 51.76 mm rainfall, followed by 43.42 mm in the island city and 34.33 mm in its western suburbs, an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Another official said that after two days of continuous rain, showers have stopped in the city and suburbs since around 9 am and the citizens also got to see sunlight. On Wednesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an "orange alert" for Mumbai, predicting "heavy to very heavy rain" at isolated places till Sunday. The civic administration was on its toes as a high tide of 4.34 metres was expected at around 12.54 pm on Friday. But as the rain has stopped, they have heaved a sigh of relief. At least 12 people, including eight children, were killed and seven others injured after two floors of a three-storey residential building collapsed on an adjoining single-storey house in Malwani in suburban Mumbai around 11.15 pm on Wednesday, when Mumbai experienced heavy rains throughout the day. Besides, one person died in a separate incident of house crash on Thursday evening at Dahisar, a western suburb of Mumbai, civic officials said. Meanwhile, chief spokesperson of Western Railway, Sumit Thakur, said, "Trains are running normally on Western Railway's suburban section on Friday." Central Railway's chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said that suburban services on the main line were affected briefly between Thane-Mulund around 9.30 pm due to track fracture, but it had nothing to do with rain. According to BMC officials, the IMD has predicted "moderate rainfall in the city and suburbs with possibility of heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places" for the next 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Biophore seeks DGCI nod for emergency use of Covid drug||Biophore India Pharmaceuticals on Friday said it has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for obtaining emergency-use approval for Aviptadil, used in the treatment of moderate to severe cases of COVID-19. The Hyderabad-based firm said it has developed the product which is backward integrated with its in-house API (Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient). The company plans to commence commercial production of the product immediately after the approval is received, it added. Aviptadil is a synthetic form of Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide (VIP) that, when administered, results in rapid clinical recovery in patients with severe SARS-COV-2 infection. These observations are based on results of multiple trials of Aviptadil against COVID-19 globally in patients with respiratory failure and the same have been submitted to DCGI for their review. "The company has developed this highly complex peptide in a very short period of time, primarily due to the extensive focus of the company in prioritising COVID related products over the last one year," Biophore CEO Jagadeesh Babu Rangisetty said in a statement. Aviptadil is a very promising treatment option for COVID, especially in severe hospitalised cases where trials have shown a high recovery percentage, he added. "We hope to be able to quickly make it available through this approval," Rangisetty noted. Biophore was one of the first few manufacturers to have received approval for an antiviral agent, Favipiravir, in the country during the first wave of COVID-19 and is also the only Indian manufacturer to be producing multi tonnage volumes of Sulfobutyl Ether beta Cyclodextrin (SBECD), which is a key excipient in the manufacturing of Remdesivir Injections. Apart from these, the company said it has invested significantly into the research and development of other anti-COVID products over the last one year. "While we are optimistic that the pandemic will end soon, we have to be prepared for the exigencies. We need to keep evaluating and adding newer products against this virus to ensure better preparedness by having more options for the treating physicians and thus avoiding shortages. Our aim is also to make the cost of treatment affordable, especially for hospitalised patients," Rangisetty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload stays below one lakh four days on the trot||The daily COVID-19 count in India remained below the one-lakh mark for the fourth consecutive day with the country reporting 91,702 fresh cases, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 4.49 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of cases has climbed to 2,92,74,823. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,63,079 with 3,403 fresh deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further declined to 11,21,671 comprising 3.83 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.93 per cent. A net decline of 46,281 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 20,44,131 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 37,42,42,384. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.49 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for the 18th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has also declined to 5.14 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 29th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,77,90,073, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.24 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 24,60,85,649 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,403 new fatalities include 1,915 from Maharashtra, 358 from Tamil Nadu, 194 each from Karnataka and Kerala. A total of 3,63,079 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,03,748 from Maharashtra, 32,485 from Karnataka, 28,528 from Tamil Nadu, 24,748 from Delhi, 21,597 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,642 from West Bengal, 15,367 from Punjab and 13,285 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Ganga samples collected for virus test in Bihar||A team of scientists from various central institutions has started collecting samples from the Ganga in Bihar to test the presence of coronavirus in the water. The move comes after the Centre initiated a study to assess the presence of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, in the Ganga after bodies of suspected coronavirus victims were found floating in the river. The corpses were found floating in the Ganga at various places in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in May, though it is not clear whether the kin of the deceased dumped them after being unable to carry out cremation or whether they were thrown by officials to allegedly escape the responsibility of cremating them or to hide the death count during the second wave of the pandemic. Around 40 bodies were found floating in the Ganga near Buxar in Bihar in May. “Samples were collected from different places in the state by a team comprising experts from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) and the Jal Shakti ministry. They will conduct tests on the presence of coronavirus in water. Our officials assisted them in the collection of samples,” Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) member secretary S. Chandrasekar told The Telegraph. BSPCB officials said that the team collected samples from Buxar, Patna, Saran and Bhojpur. “The samples from the Ganga were collected between June 1 and 5. We are now waiting for the test reports,” BSPCB scientist Navin Kumar told mediapersons. The central government had asked the Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments last month to prevent dumping of bodies in the Ganga and its tributaries. It had termed the reports on dumping of bodies in the rivers as “alarming”. BSPCB officials said the IITR, Lucknow, will conduct various tests to determine the presence of coronavirus in the Ganga since there is a worry that a large number of people living in villages and towns along the river may get infected as they bathe in it everyday and many also use its water for prayers and cooking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
11-06-2021||India||Weather report, forecast: Monsoon hits Odisha, imminent flood threat||The southwest monsoon has finally hit Odisha with several districts such as Malkangiri, Koraput, Nabarangpur. Kalahandi, Naygarh, Khurda and Puri witnessing moderate to heavy rainfall on Thursday. Heavy rainfall has triggered fears of flash floods with the administration gearing up to tackle the threat. A low-pressure area developing in the Bay of Bengal is likely to create favourable conditions for advancement of the monsoon to the interior parts of the state. All the coastal districts have been put on alert because of the flood threat. “Conditions are favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into the remaining part of Odisha during the next 48 hours,” said the India Meteorological Department (IMD). With a low pressure likely to form over the northwest Bay of Bengal, the monsoon aided by this is likely to cause heavy rain in many parts of the state till June 14, officials said. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena has asked all the district administrations and municipal corporations to gear up for a possible flood because of heavy rainfall. “There are also chances of landslides in the hilly regions and some other parts of the state. We have asked the administration to be extremely cautious and take all possible steps for the safety and security of the people,” officials said. The water resource department has asked all its officials not to leave the headquarters and open a round clock control room. The department has asked its officials to carry out patrolling and inspection of all the river embankments. In a related development, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday announced financial assistance to the Cyclone Yaas-hit farmers. According to the announcement all the small and marginal farmers who have sustained losses of over 33 per cent to their crops in the cyclone will get input subsidy and their Kharif loans will be converted into medium term loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Rath Yatra in Puri to be held without devotees||The Odisha government on Thursday announced that like last year this time, too, the “rath yatra” (chariot festival) of Lord Jagannath and his siblings in Puri will be held sans devotees in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Only a limited number of sevayats (servitors) armed with RT-PCR negative reports, will be allowed to pull the chariots during the yatra, the state’s showcase religio-cultural event that is scheduled to take place on July 12. Special relief commissioner (SRC) P.K. Jena announced the government’s decision recalling that the festival had been held in a similar manner last year when the Supreme Court , after a long spell of uncertainty, had allowed the state to go ahead with it without the participation of devotees. The SRC also made it clear that rath yatra of the deities will not be allowed to take place in any other part of the state due to the prevailing Covid situation. In Puri, where the local administration will be advised to impose a curfew on the day of the pulling of chariots to ensure complete adherence to Covid protocol, only 500 sevayats will be allowed to pull each of the three chariots. “Only the sevayats who are able to show negative RT-PCR reports or having final vaccination certificate will get the opportunity to pull the chariots,” said Jena adding that strict adherence to Covid-19 norms would be observed. The SRC also maintained that all the rituals connected with the festival would be performed without the participation of devotees. The three chariots of lord Jagannath (Nandighosh), his brother Balabhadra (Taladhwaj) and his sister Subhadra (Darpadalan) are pulled by the devotees during the Rath Yatra, which is the biggest festival in Odisha’s cultural almanac. The Grand Road in Puri, on which the chariots roll, turns into a virtual sea of humanity during the yatra with people from across the country thronging the place. Odisha recorded 6,097 new Covid-19 cases during the past 24 hours. While the positive case tally has risen to 8,37,226, the real worry is the high death toll which has remained above 40 for the past few days. During the past 24 hours, 44 Covid-19 patients died taking the total death toll to 3,167.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: Two women describe how they coped in Tihar||Two imprisoned young women’s accounts of how they defeated the authorities’ efforts to “strip away” their “autonomy and humanity” form part of an online booklet released on Thursday to mark a year of their incarceration in Delhi riots cases. Women students’ group Pinjra Tod released the booklet, which contains artwork and excerpts from letters to family and friends that JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal penned from Tihar jail. Devangana, 31, and Natasha, 32, were arrested on May 23 last year for participating in a dharna in northeast Delhi against the new citizenship matrix on February 22, a day before communal violence broke out. They were later booked in other cases for the protests, including one that invoked the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, under which bail is rare. They are accused of inciting riots through their protests. Natasha’s father and retired scientist Mahavir Narwal died of Covid last month before her three-week bail came through. The booklet, One Year of Injustice — Sab Yaad Rakha Jayega, whose title is drawn from the iconic poem by Aamir Aziz on the citizenship protests, calls for the release of all “political prisoners”. One of Natasha’s letters published in the booklet says: “You know basically prison is an extension of, the logical end of all the unfreedoms in the society one has been fighting against, everything meant to crush one’s autonomy.” The letter says: “But I have seen, even in a place like this which is meant to strip away one’s autonomy and humanity, reduce people to bare life, people still manage to retain some, hiding them in nooks and corners, hiding them from always prying eyes. They still manage to laugh, cry, sing together, form intimacies and friendships, dream about another future.” Devangana has depicted Vaikom Muhammad Basheer’s Malayalam novel Mathilukal (Walls), and Begum Rokeya’s Bengali story Sultana’s Dream in Gond-style artwork in her letters. One of her letters says: “Every day I draw strength from the women who have been here for many years, women who have no one ‘outside’, who are endlessly waiting through long trials, women who are from faraway countries and don’t even speak English or Hindi, women who have delivered their babies here and bring them up here, women who do not have money to hire lawyers and patiently negotiate the arduous process of the government legal aid system, women who have not spoken to anyone in their families for months because they just cannot remember or find a contact number and no one responds to their letters ‘home’, women who are as much ‘criminals’ as prisoners of structural oppressions.” The booklet also contains artwork from, and photographs of, protests held demanding the release of the two women and several other students and activists jailed in these cases. It also lists the multiple pleas for prison reforms the two women have made, with mixed success so far, including those for Covid vaccination that has benefited all prisoners, meetings between prisoners and families, and access to education and multi-speciality medical care. Natasha and Devangana — doing a PhD in history and an MPhil in women’s studies, respectively, at JNU — have been able to continue their studies in prison through a successful court plea. Natasha served as a librarian in jail and now helps at the legal aid cell. Both women also help in the creche, one of their friends said. A Pinjra Tod activist from JNU told The Telegraph the organisation planned to print the booklet after translating it into Hindi. “It celebrates their resolve and resilience and calls for justice for all those wrongfully imprisoned,” the activist said. At a webinar on Tuesday, Devangana’s mother Kalpana had said: “Today we are really missing Mr Narwalji who was our real strength. When we used to get into distress, we used to call him and his voice would assure us.” Natasha’s brother Aakash said: “I was very surprised and proud of her when she raised her fist and (chanted) slogans while going back to Tihar jail after our father’s demise. Natasha’s strength and composure helps me, it gives me strength.” Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani was part of the webinar. “(The) UAPA is a mechanism to lock away voices that trouble the government. Successive governments have deployed it: its use is not restricted to the BJP,” he said. “We need to demand an end to draconian laws, as such.... There is no action against police and government officials who slap false charges on people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Adityanath reaches Delhi, gets into 90-minute meeting with Amit Shah||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday dashed to Delhi to meet the BJP leadership amid simmering discontent in the state unit over his style of leadership in the run-up to Assembly elections. After arriving here in the afternoon, Adityanath was huddled with Amit Shah for 90 minutes, apparently laying the groundwork for his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. The chief minister is also expected to meet BJP president J.P. Nadda. Party insiders confirmed that the unscheduled meetings were tied to the Uttar Pradesh polls, due next March, which have become crucial for the BJP after the Covid mismanagement battered the government’s image and the crushing defeat in Bengal dimmed Modi’s “aura”. Friday’s meeting will be Adityanath’s first face-to-face interaction with Modi since many party functionaries and lawmakers in Uttar Pradesh complained to the central leadership about his “autocratic” functioning, pro-Kshatriya bias and Covid mishandling. Several of them have spoken to the media about the state government’s alleged insensitivity towards people’s sufferings at a time corpses floating in rivers were making international headlines. Party insiders, however, ruled out any change of leadership in Uttar Pradesh, saying Modi and Shah had summoned the chief minister to discuss “course correction” and election strategy. After his “courtesy meeting” with Shah, the normally bellicose Adityanath appeared extremely polite. “Met the honourable home minister, Amit Shah, and received his guidance. I am obliged that the honourable home minister gave me his valuable time,” he tweeted. As Adityanath was closeted with Shah, Nadda was at the Prime Minister’s residence, strengthening the idea that the party leadership’s focus was on Uttar Pradesh, the most politically significant state with 80 Lok Sabha seats that the BJP is desperate to retain. Several other meetings took place on the sidelines. Jitin Prasada, a Congress politician and a Brahmin from Uttar Pradesh who had joined the BJP on Wednesday, paid Adityanath a “courtesy call”. The party hopes to foreground Jitin to assuage the influential Brahmin community’s frustration with the Kshatriya Adityanath. After Adityanath, BJP ally and Apna Dal chief Anupriya Patel, an MP from Uttar Pradesh who is believed to be annoyed with the chief minister, met Shah. Last week, the BJP national general secretary in charge of the organisation, B.L. Santosh, and the party’s Uttar Pradesh minder Radha Mohan Singh were in Lucknow for a round of stocktaking. Santosh held a series of meetings with ministers and state BJP leaders from June 1 to 3, asking them whether they had access to Adityanath and whether party workers had his ear, buttressing the impression that the chief minister’s performance was under review. Singh met governor Anandiben Patel and Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit. Earlier, RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale had visited the state to seek feedback about the BJP’s poll prospects. Many other confidential meetings between the BJP and the RSS have taken place, all focused on the Uttar Pradesh polls. “We don’t have an alternative face to match Adityanath’s,” a party source said. “The focus now is on taking corrective measures, addressing concerns and ensuring the party organisation works like one cohesive unit.” Sources said that during his two-day stay in Delhi, Adityanath would discuss with the leadership a possible expansion of his cabinet, with a few new faces brought in. A BJP leader in Uttar Pradesh, asking not to be named, said Modi, Shah and Nadda were expected to try and persuade Adityanath to appoint former bureaucrat Arvind Kumar Sharma as his home minister. Sharma, who had worked for two decades under Modi in Gujarat and Delhi, joined the BJP early this year following his retirement. Additional reporting by Piyush Srivastava from Lucknow||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Delhi requests Beijing to allow Indians to travel to China||India on Thursday requested Beijing to allow Indians to travel to China, saying two-way traffic should be facilitated considering Chinese nationals are able to come here even during the pandemic. China had “temporarily suspended” travel from India in November after a dozen passengers on board a Vande Bharat flight tested positive on arrival at Wuhan. New Delhi has made the request in view of the fact that several Indian nationals are awaiting visas even after complying with China’s insistence that they get Chinese-made vaccines. In March this year, the Chinese embassy had issued a notification stating that it would facilitate visas for those taking vaccines made in that country. Although several Indians, according to the external affairs ministry, have applied for Chinese visas after getting vaccinated with made-in-China vaccines, they have not yet been issued visas. A PTI report on June 7 said that over 300 Indians had travelled to Nepal, the Maldives or Dubai and stayed on for more than a month to receive two doses of Chinese vaccines, incurring huge expenditures. Chinese vaccines have not yet been cleared by India. Responding to questions on the continuing bar on travel from India to China, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “We have been in touch with the Chinese side in order to seek an early resumption of travel by Indian citizens to China, especially for those who work or study there. While we recognise the need to ensure safety and strictly follow Covid-related protocols, essential two-way travel should be facilitated, especially keeping in view the fact that Chinese nationals are able to travel to India.” Just ahead of the second wave of the pandemic in India, CEOs of Indian businesses and industries in China had communicated their concerns over the continuing travel restrictions to India’s ambassador in Beijing, Vikram Misri, stating that their operations were being hampered by the ban. Several students studying in Chinese universities are also affected by the travel ban, as are Indians who work in China and had returned when the temporary suspension was announced in November. They have recently petitioned the Chinese embassy, seeking permission to travel back to their workplaces in China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Carnatic vocalist TM Krishna contests IT rules||Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna has moved Madras High Court challenging the new information technology rules of the central government. He urged the court to declare the new rules ultra vires of the Constitution and the parent Information Technology Act. Krishna said the rules offended his rights as an artiste and cultural commentator by both “imposing a chilling effect on free speech and by impinging on my right to privacy”. Krishna’s petition, which also pleaded for an interim stay on the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, notified on February 25, came up before the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Thursday. According to Krishna, the new rules breach equality of law, freedom of speech and expression, the liberty to practise any profession and protection of life and personal liberty. The case will be heard after four weeks, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Leap in Bihar death numbers shows audit need||Bihar’s Covid death figures jumped from 5,478 on Tuesday to 9,429 on Wednesday evening, the increase of 3,951 or 72 per cent resulting from a data revision directed by Patna High Court. Senior health department officials said the state government had carried out a three-week audit that the high court had ordered amid allegations that the authorities were hiding the number of coronavirus infections and deaths. The sharp rise in the death toll following the revision will not just vindicate those who had questioned the transparency and reliability of the Bihar government’s Covid data, it will also mount pressure on other states like Uttar Pradesh that too have been accused of fudging figures. The foreign media and sections of the domestic media — such as the Divya Bhaskar in Gujarat — have been accusing the central and state governments of underreporting Covid deaths. The New York Times last month suggested the actual Covid infections in India could be 20 to 26 times the government figure, and the death count could be 5 to 13 times the official toll. A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S. Kumar had rapped the Bihar government in May after noticing inconsistencies in the death tolls for Buxar district provided in separate affidavits by the chief secretary and the Patna divisional commissioner. Additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit admitted on Wednesday that the previous figures were incorrect. “We found that the death toll figures were not being sent from the districts. Committees were formed at the various medical colleges and hospitals, and also in the districts, to verify the exact number (of deaths). They have submitted their reports and included the post-Covid deaths of patients,” Amrit told reporters. He promised an inquiry and punishment for officials guilty of dereliction. Amrit tried to explain the high revised toll by saying it reflected the deaths at private hospitals, deaths during transit to hospitals, deaths in home isolation and deaths from post-Covid complications. He did not explain why all the deaths had not been counted before. Media reports suggest that even the revised toll may not be correct. The logbooks at Patna city’s three crematoriums alone show at least 3,000 Covid deaths since March last year — which is far higher than the revised official figure of 2,303 for the entire Patna district — journalists who have collated these figures say. The revised figures suggest the death toll has been much higher in Bihar during the second wave. They show 1,600 Covid deaths between March 2020 and March 2021, and over 7,800 between April and June 9 this year. Patna remains the worst-hit district, followed by Muzaffarpur with 609 Covid deaths and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s home district of Nalanda with 463. The audit has found unreported Covid deaths in 35 of the state’s 38 districts: 1,070 in Patna, 316 in Begusarai, 314 in Muzaffarpur, 292 in East Champaran and 222 in Nalanda. Arwal, Siwan and Munger were the only districts where no unreported deaths were detected. According to state government figures, Bihar has witnessed 7.15 lakh Covid cases so far, with the number of active cases totalling 7,353 on June 9. The revised death toll brought the recovery rate down from 98.13 per cent on June 8 to 97.65 per cent on June 9. Opposition politicians attacked the state government, with Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav blaming the chief minister. “Nitishji, don’t lie and make others lie so much that you will never be able to stand up again. You increased the death toll by 4,000 suddenly in a day after getting trapped. The Nitish government is fake, hence its data will also be fake,” Tejashwi said. Congress politician Prem Chandra Mishra said: “Why was the government lying on the issue so far?” Jan Adhikar Party leader and former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav alleged a “death scam” by the state government and demanded identification of “the person in the health department involved in fudging the death toll”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||‘Pakistan call to eastern India’ helps bust phone exchange in Bangalore||A call from a Pakistani spy agency to an army installation in eastern India has led to the unravelling of an illegal telephone exchange in Bangalore, officials said on Thursday. The racket was busted by the Military Intelligence wing of the army’s Southern Command which had intercepted the call received at the army installation in eastern India a few weeks back. During the call, a spy from Pakistan was asking about general details while posing as a senior officer. On further investigation, the intelligence sleuths found that some other offices located in various formations such as the Movement Control Office as well as the Principal Comptroller of Defence Accounts were also receiving such calls seeking details from them. A deeper probe led to uncovering of the scam in which Pakistan-based intelligence operatives exploited such illegal exchanges to route their calls to connect with Indian citizens and obtain information of military installations. The officials said Pakistani intelligence operatives have adopted the modus operandi of investing in illegal call exchanges that switch Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls to normal Indian mobile calls. To execute this illegal operation, SIM boxes are used which run a parallel illegal telephone exchange. Operation of these illegal exchanges not only incurs losses to the cellular networks but also to the government as it is an unregistered operation, and the money generated is unaccounted and non-taxable. The racket came to light after the arrest of two men who ran an illegal phone exchange in Bangalore, converting international calls to local ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||AIIMS begins issuing admit cards for postgraduate entrance exam||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has begun issuing admit cards to over 80,000 students for its entrance exam for postgraduate courses, joining several other institutions in going ahead with exams amid the pandemic despite objections from students. AIIMS will hold the Institute of National Importance Common Entrance Test on June 16. The admit cards mention that the institute will not be responsible for any kind of travel restrictions in any state. Lockdowns and similar restrictions are in force in many states. The AIIMS exam will be a computer-based, three-hour test to be held in centres across India. Delhi University (DU) is conducting exams for the award of degrees. Despite protests by students’ and teachers’ groups, the university started the online open-book exam on Monday for final-year students. The Bar Council of India (BCI) has accepted the recommendations of an expert committee that had said LLB exams be allowed to be conducted by the institutions keeping in mind the availability of resources and the pandemic situation in respective areas. Students questioned the decision to push ahead with exams when nearly a lakh Covid cases are being reported every day. Students have said they are not prepared for online exams as well because many students and their family members are down with Covid, others have lost nears and dear ones to the disease, and not to mention the toll the pandemic has taken on mental health. Last week, a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi cancelled the CBSE Class XII board exams because, according to a media release, “students, parents and teachers are naturally worried about the health of the students in such a situation”. The CISCE, the other national school board, also scrapped this year’s ISC exam the same day. The Class X exams of both boards had been called off earlier. “The number of daily Covid cases is still very high. The situation has not changed much over last week. Students have launched a campaign against the AIIMS entrance exam. A case has been filed in the Supreme Court too. But AIIMS is determined to hold the entrance exam,” a student said. “School board exams have been cancelled. Why this double standard for us? Moreover, many states have lockdowns till at least June 15. The Odisha lockdown will continue till at least June 16. AIIMS has conveniently said it has no responsibility if students face any difficulty in reaching the exam centres,” the student added. Academics said universities and other higher educational institutions were no longer considering cancellation or deferment of exams as an option. Former DU Executive Council member Abha Dev Habib blamed the central government and the University Grants Commission (UGC) for varsities going ahead with exams. She said Covid had affected most families in Delhi and other cities in one way or the other. “Students are not in a position to appear for exams. But DU is conducting exams for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students. “The UGC had last year asked the universities to hold exams amid the pandemic. That decision has not been revisited. Most universities are headed by in-charge vice-chancellors. Even otherwise, no university would dare to deviate from the norms set by the UGC,” Habib said. She also highlighted the lack of transparency in online exams. “The students are sitting at home. There is hardly any proctoring. The quality of the exams is under question,” she said. A DU official said many students wanted the final-year exams to be held since they would prepare for entrance tests for master’s and other courses. “Students are largely comfortable with exams now. They want degrees. Delay in award of degrees or conduct of exams will affect their career objectives,” the official said. The BCI panel headed by Justice Govind Mathur, former Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court, has recommended that each university and centres of legal education should conduct exams for intermediate and final-year law students as per their own discretion, depending on the availability of resources and the impact of Covid-19 in that region, a BCI press statement said on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Covid: UP panchayat chief held for hindering vaccine drive||A panchayat chief in Lakhimpur Kheri district, Uttar Pradesh, has been arrested for allegedly asking villagers not to get vaccinated against Covid-19 and misbehaving with the medical team. Santosh Maurya, who has been accused of hindering the vaccination drive in Rautapur and Kachiyani villages, has, however, complained of gross negligence by the health department officials. “Something grossly wrong is going on here. The entire world knows that people may develop fever and body pain after taking the vaccine. There were at least three people from our village who were hospitalised a few days after taking the first dose of vaccine in a local health centre. They would have died had their relatives not taken them to costly private hospitals in Bareilly. But these health department members didn’t come here to ask why and how they fell ill,” Maurya told reporters on Wednesday before the case was registered against him in the evening. “There is also a provision to give paracetamol to those who have been inoculated. However, they neither gave the medicine nor alerted people about the side-effects.” Dr A.N. Chauhan, superintendent of the local community health centre, claimed they had been giving free medicine to those who take the jab. “A medical team had visited Kachiyani village (adjacent to Rautapur) on Wednesday. Maurya was there and he misbehaved with the team members when they sought his help to motivate the villagers for vaccination. He snatched the mobile phone of one of the team members and deleted some pictures of the drive,” Dr Chauhan said. Maurya has been booked and arrested under Pandemic Act. “He was sent jail on Wednesday,” Anil Kumar Saini, station house officer of Mitauli, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-69
11-06-2021||India||Pfizer vaccine ‘works’ against variants, say US researchers||Antibodies generated by the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine can neutralise the coronavirus variant B.1.617.2 and several others first identified in India and implicated in the country’s second wave’s rapid surge, US researchers said on Thursday. Their lab tests have found that immune sera — the clear portion of blood containing antibodies — taken from people who had received two doses of the vaccine “efficiently neutralised” all the variants they studied, although neutralisation was modestly reduced. The study by Pei-Yong Shi, professor of molecular biology at the University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, and his colleagues indicate the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is likely to confer adequate protection against these variants that have spread to over 40 countries. The researchers tested immune sera against B.1.617.2, B.1.617.1, and B.1.618 — all detected first in India — and the B.1.525 variant first detected in Nigeria. These variants have genetic mutations that allow the virus to spread faster than other variants and evade some immune responses. Among the four variants of Indian origin tested, B.1.617.1 was the least neutralised, the researchers said, probably due to the presence of two mutations L452R and E484Q, that appear to help the virus gain resistance to neutralisation by the antibodies. “Nevertheless all variants were still neutralised by all the tested sera at titres of 40 or higher,” the researchers said, specifying the levels of antibodies in the sera at which the neutralisation occurred. Their study appeared on Thursday in the journal Nature. The Indian government is currently in talks with Pfizer on the terms for importing the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine into the country. India has already waived the need for any clinical trials, but the company has sought indemnity from legal proceedings linked to adverse effects from the vaccine. Indian health officials have said they are examining the request that has already been granted by countries across the world. The two-dose vaccine costs $19.50 (Rs 1,424) per dose in the US, but Pfizer has not announced a price for India yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Civil services interviews from August 2||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has decided to commence from August 2 the interviews for the civil services examination, 2020, which were deferred due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, according to an official statement. The civil services examination is conducted annually by the UPSC in three stages — preliminary, main and personality test (interview) — to select officers of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and the Indian Police Service (IPS), among others. The UPSC had in April this year deferred interviews for the examination due to the increase in coronavirus cases. “After reviewing the situation, the commission has decided to commence the personality test of the civil services examination, 2020, from 02.08.2021,” according to the statement issued by the UPSC. The e-summon letters of personality tests (interviews) of the candidates will be made available shortly, which may be downloaded from the commission’s website www.upsc.gov.in and www.upsconline.in, it said. “No request for change in the date and time of the personality test (interview) intimated to the candidates will ordinarily be entertained,” the commission said. On the basis of the results of the civil services (main) examination, 2020, declared by the UPSC on March 23 this year, the commission decided to commence the personality tests (interviews) of the civil services (main) examination, 2020, from April 26. “However, due to unprecedented growth in the number of people infected with novel coronavirus (Covid-19) countrywide, as a precautionary measure, the Union Public Service Commission deferred the personality test of the civil services examination, 2020, which were scheduled to commence with effect from 26.04.2020,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Minimal rise in foreign student count, says All India Survey on Higher Education for 2019-20 ||India has made minimal progress in the first two years of launching an effort to increase the number of foreign students to two lakh by 2023. The All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) for 2019-20 released on Thursday found that there were 49,348 foreign students enrolled in institutions in India against 47,427 in the 2018-19 academic year. The ministry of human resource development (now known as the ministry of education) had in 2018 launched the Study in India programme, showcasing its top higher educational institutions to the world to achieve the enrolment of two lakh foreign students by 2023. The government selected top-ranked 160 higher educational institutions under the programme to create additional seats for foreigners. The government has identified 30 countries, which follow a similar education system like Indian institutions, and has approached them for mutual recognition of each other’s academic degrees. These countries include China, Nepal, Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Oman, Yemen, Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco, Algeria, Nigeria, Sudan, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan. The survey report, based on the feedback from educational institutions, stated that foreign students came to India from 168 different countries. However, 64 per cent of the students were from 10 countries that included Nepal (28.1 per cent), followed by Afghanistan (9.1 per cent), Bangladesh (4.6 per cent) and Bhutan (3.8 per cent). While 74.3 per cent of the total foreign students were enrolled in undergraduate courses, 16.6 per cent were pursuing post-graduate courses. Professor Furqan Qamar, former secretary-general of the Association of Indian Universities that inter alia issues equivalent certificates to academic degrees obtained from foreign institutions, interprets the nominal increase in the number of international students as normal incremental growth. He said popularising and promoting Indian higher education abroad was necessary. Without that, prospective students and their parents would remain unaware of the benefits of studying in India. To this extent, schemes such as the Promoting Indian Higher Education Abroad (PiHEAD) launched during the late 90s, or the Study in India programme launched recently, can play a critical role in generating awareness and in facilitating the identification and admission of foreign students. “However, to attract international students in a large number, we shall have to invest heavily in improving quality and promoting excellence in our higher education. It is the promise, prospect and assurance of quality education that serves as the magnet,” he said. “Even though tuition and living costs in India are much cheaper than the developed countries, the students are expected to meet the total cost out of their pockets as we are unable to offer them opportunities to earn while learning to support their expenses. We have also not been able to offer income and employment opportunities to international students that they are able to access liberally in many other countries,” he said. N. Sai Balaji, a research student in Jawaharlal Nehru University, said many public universities, including the JNU, have increased their tuition fees for foreign students in the last two years. “The quality of public institutions has deteriorated due to vacant posts of teachers and poor funding by the government. The fees have increased in the public institutions for foreign students,” Balaji said. A JNU faculty member said there had been instances of attacks on foreign students, particularly those from the African countries. “Moreover, most of the institutions in India do not have international hostels. Accommodation is a huge problem for foreign students. They have security concerns. Some efforts should be made to expose them to Indian cultural heritage. Also, there should be proper projection about Indian institutions before foreign students,” the faculty member said. The survey report found that the enrolment in higher educational institutions had increased from 3.74 crore in 2018-19 to 3.85 crore in 2019-20. Similarly, the gross enrolment ratio, which means the percentage of youths in the age group of 18-23 years enrolled in higher education, has increased from 26.3 per cent to 27.1 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Jitin Prasada’s defection may have done more good than harm to Cong||A young and impatient Jitin Prasada’s defection to the BJP may have done more good than harm to the Congress, triggering a churning within the party over the essence of politics and the significance of ideology. When Jyotiraditya Scindia, who too enjoyed a personal rapport with the Nehru-Gandhi family, delivered a similar shock, it was seen more as a betrayal in the power game. Besides, these feelings got overshadowed by the subsequent political battle to salvage the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. Jitin wasn’t entangled in any such political machinations and his exit is being analysed purely in ideological terms. Party veteran Salman Khurshid summed up the mood. “There is more to politics than one’s personal career. There should be. Participation in politics is not merely about personal aspirations,” Khurshid told The Telegraph. “And aspirations in politics are not merely personal — aspirations could be to support an idea, to contribute to creating a particular kind of society, to fight forces that can imperil your idea of the nation and society.” Khurshid conceded that Jitin’s exit had saddened him since Jitin’s father, like Jyotiraditya’s, had been a close friend and a comrade in opposing the ideology their sons have now embraced. “It’s a matter of attitude. Some people think of ideology while taking critical decisions, some people think of their career. But these are extraordinary times. The Congress is going through a crisis,” he said. “But a bigger crisis has hit all of us — about the future of India. We are here in the Congress to fight for the idea of India we believe in. We are willing to sleep outside, under the sky, in this battle. Some people need to (sleep) inside a tent. It’s their choice.” Because Jitin was a signatory to the letter the famous G23 (group of 23 leaders) had sent to Sonia Gandhi on the miserable plight of the Congress, the spotlight has once again fallen on them. Asked if others among the disgruntled G23 would join the BJP, a senior leader considered one of the architects of that initiative appeared offended. “Does that outrageous, scandalous question deserve an answer? Did we raise questions about the Congress ideology?” he asked. “Our concerns are related to the structural reforms in the party, about how to strengthen the organisation. We are committed not only to the Congress ideology but also to fighting the RSS ideology till our last breath.” Kapil Sibal, another key member of the G23, came out to speak to the media on the subject. “I’m not commenting on Jitin’s decision to walk out of the Congress but I will comment on his decision to join the BJP. You are entitled to leave a party if you are not comfortable but you are not entitled to embrace an ideology you shunned all your life,” he said. “I won’t leave the Congress ideology even if I’m asked to leave the party. And joining the BJP! No, never....” Sibal added: “People join the BJP for prasada (rewards); you have seen it in Bengal. Those who defected from Trinamul want to come back. We have seen how MLAs joined the BJP for prasada in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka…. This is dangerous. People will lose faith in the elected representatives. I am for ideology-based politics. People joining another political ideology for posts, position, money poses a threat to democracy.” The leader of the G23, Ghulam Nabi Azad, had declared he could join the BJP if the snow on the Himalayas turned black, implying it was an impossibility. Jitin’s departure has caused consternation among the younger leaders too. “The naked political opportunism makes us extremely sad. Politics cannot be devoid of your philosophy, your ideological convictions,” party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told this newspaper. “How do people sleep at night after such betrayal? How do you find peace with yourself after such a brazen compromise with your core value system? Politics is not a petty game of vested interests.” Shrinate had left a flourishing career in journalism to join politics. Asked what’s wrong with ambitious people looking at politics as a career and wanting to grow fast, she said: “I too have chosen a career in politics. But politics is a means to an end. I want to serve the people, to serve my nation, to protect my idea of a nation. I don’t have to jump ship to do that. I don’t have to junk my ideology to serve the people.” Many among the younger leaders insisted that they were in politics only from ideological conviction, which had taken firmer shape after 2014 when the RSS-BJP established control over the nation. Expressing outrage at what Jyotiraditya and Jitin have done, they argued that the “ugly betrayal” had only strengthened their conviction, prompting many young party workers to rededicate themselves to the cause they had joined politics to espouse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||UP Women’s Commission member asks mothers to check daughters' mobile phones   ||A member of the Uttar Pradesh Women’s Commission has asked mothers to keep tabs on daughters and check their mobile phones regularly to know with whom they talk. “I keep saying this to everybody. There are many cases before me where the girl used to talk to a boy and then eloped with them. Their parents come to me for solution,” Meena Kumari told reporters in Aligarh on Wednesday. “While we are trying to take strict action in such cases, the society should also keep a watch on it. The mothers must keep a close watch on their daughters —where do they go, which boy they hang out with, who do they talk with on mobile phones,” she said. As the video of her statement went viral on social media on Thursday, the women panel’s member said she did not make any controversial statement. “Whatever I said was based on facts. I have got some tapes (video clips) that girls made friendship with someone through mobile phones and got married. They posted their pictures on social media. So I said that the mothers of teenaged boys and girls should know with whom their children talk on mobile phones. They should check the mobile phones every evening. Parents come to me after they suffer because of all this,” she said. Meena said her statements were mostly meant for innocent rural girls who were being trapped with the help of mobile phones. “I am talking about both boys and girls. I am not against their using mobile phones. But the parents must see what they do with it,” she added. Approached by reporters, Anju Chaudhary, vice-chairperson of the commission, tried to steer clear of the controversy. “Whatever Meena Kumari said is her personal view. The commission shouldn’t be dragged into it,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Covid: Bar Council of India rejects pleas of thousands of students to deter law exams  ||The Bar Council of India (BCI) on Thursday announced that it is mandatory for all universities and law schools to conduct exams either offline or online, rejecting the pleas of thousands of students against tests amid the pandemic. The students had urged the BCI, the regulator of legal education and lawyers, to mark them on the basis of internal assessments. The decision in favour of exams despite the Covid crisis was taken following a report submitted by a BCI-constituted 14-member committee headed by former Allahabad High Court Chief Justice Govind Mathur that recommended that tests be held either in the offline or the online mode. However, the timing of the exams has been left to the respective varsities and law schools, depending upon the pandemic situation in the area. The BCI had in a resolution dated May 29 said it did not wish to involve itself in the matter of exams and it was for the universities to take their own decisions depending on the local conditions. However, the BCI received thousands of letters from students of universities and law colleges, seeking its intervention in the cancellation of exams. Some heads of institutions had also sought the guidance of the BCI on exams and promotion of LLB students. The majority of the students had pleaded that they be promoted on the basis of past performance or through some other method of assessment. Many final-year LLB students had also sought grading on the basis of internal assessments. However, the BCI-appointed committee, which submitted its report on June 8, declined to grant any such concession to the students. The report said: “The members deliberated at length regarding the mode of evaluation/examination for the promotion from intermediate semester to the next semester and for the award of the law degree. “After detailed discussion and deliberations, the committee unanimously agreed that each university/centres of legal education shall conduct examination for intermediate and final-year students, as per their own dispensation, depending upon the availability of resources and the impact of Covid-19 in that region. “It was unanimously agreed that an end-term examination is mandatory to be conducted by all law schools/universities. It was further decided that universities/centres of legal education are free to determine the mode of examination (online/ offline/blended/ online open-book exam (OBE)/ assignment-based evaluation (ABE)/ research papers).” The committee also recommended that the universities and other centres of legal education should ensure that sufficient time gap exists between regular and backlog exams to avoid inconveniencing the students. The committee took note of the earlier resolutions adopted by the BCI on May 27, September 6, October 5 and November 1, 2020, laying down guidelines for the conduct of exams and mentioning that institutions were free to determine the mode. Accepting the committee’s report, BCI secretary Srimanto Sen said in a statement: “The council has considered and deliberated over the report submitted on 08.06.2021 and this council resolves to accept the report of the committee in toto.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Covid: JNU files FIR against students for library entry||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) authorities have alleged that a group of students forcefully entered the library and continued to sit inside in violation of Covid guidelines. In a circular, the JNU registrar said an FIR has been lodged against the students who are occupying the library space since Tuesday. “This has caused health risk for the library staff and even other students residing in the hostels, since these unruly students return to hostel for lunch/dinner or other purposes. When no amount of persuasion by the librarian and the security personnel convinced these students against violating the law and Covid-19 guidelines, the JNU security office lodged a police complaint in view of the seriousness of the issue,” said the circular. Students blamed the university for disallowing their entry into the library which has been kept open for the staff. Saket Moon, a student, said that the varsity has been denying entry to students to use the reading room since April. But the library is open for officials who come for duty. “The students are demanding permission to use the reading room space by following Covid protocols. The Covid situation has improved now,” he said. N. Sai Balaji, a research student in JNU, said the students are handicapped if they are not allowed to use the varsity library. Many students are at the fag end of their research work and they need to use the library for finalisation of their theses, he said. In the circular, the varsity said no new guidelines have been announced regarding the resumption of normal academic activities on the campus. The chief proctor’s office has been tasked with taking necessary disciplinary action against these students according to the university rules. “The students occupying the library space are not permitting the library staff to sanitise the library for making it safer for students who will use the library after restoration of normalcy. All these students are hereby instructed to vacate the library immediately,” the circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Telangana High Court boost after CJI interaction with PM||Telangana High Court is set to witness a 75 per cent hike in its sanctioned bench strength from 24 to 42, a two-year-old demand coming to fruition after new Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had a one-to-one interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Justice Ramana has for over a month been vigorously pursuing with Modi also the subject of filling up the 40 per cent vacancies in the country’s high courts, now working with 650 judges against a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080. The backlog of cases with the country’s 25 high courts runs into millions, with the Modi government frustrating several past Chief Justices of India’s (CJI) efforts to have them filled. The demand to increase the sanctioned bench strength in Telangana High Court, and not just fill the vacancies there, owes to its disproportionately high backlog of 2.37 lakh cases (2.03 lakh civil and 34,000 criminal cases). However, the Centre sat on the proposal for the past two years despite requests from then Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, the chief justice of Telangana High Court and the chief minister. After assuming charge as CJI in late April, Justice Ramana took up with Prime Minister Modi and law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad a host of issues concerning the judiciary, including Telangana High Court’s request. Both Modi and Prasad agreed to get the matters examined promptly. Justice Ramana then took up the subject of Telangana High Court specifically with Prasad in writing on May 27. He underlined in his letter that the proposal for a hike in the sanctioned bench strength had been hanging fire since February 2019, and stressed that filling the current vacancies would not be enough to clear the case backlog. Quoting from earlier communications, Justice Ramana affirmed that the necessary infrastructure was in place to accommodate 42 high court judges in Telangana. The law ministry conveyed to the CJI on June 6 that it had accepted the proposal. Justice Ramana gave his requisite final approval to the proposed hike on June 8, clearing the decks for the law ministry to issue the necessary notification. Sources said the proposal had been sent to Prasad as far back as February 13, 2019, by the then chief justice of Telangana High Court. The chief minister and the then Telangana governor had endorsed the suggestion. But the Union law ministry, after examining the matter in detail, kept the proposal in abeyance. It revisited the matter on a reference from the Prime Minister’s Office after the chief minister wrote to the Prime Minister. After the re-examination, the ministry wrote to the then Telangana High Court chief justice on November 15, 2019, that preference would be given to filling up the vacancies first. Thereafter the matter remained dormant till Justice Ramana’s intervention. Thirty-two of the 42 judges in Telangana High Court will be permanent judges and 10 will be additional judges, with 28 judges elevated from the Bar and 14 from the judicial services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Owner of collapsed building in Mumbai loses 9 family members||Rafique Siddiqui is too dazed to comprehend whether to thank his luck for surviving after the Mumbai building where he lived collapsed or to mourn the loss of his wife and eight other family members in the tragedy. Siddiqui, 45, who owned the three-storey building and lived there with his family, had stepped out to buy milk minutes before it collapsed. When he came back, he found his world turned upside down as nine members of his family, including his wife, brother, sister-in-law and six children from the two families, had died in the incident. Another family member suffered injuries after getting trapped under the debris and was hospitalised, Siddiqui told reporters. He is now left with his 16-year-old son, who had gone out to buy medicines when the tragedy struck. “I had gone out to buy milk for morning tea when the incident took place. I did not know the building was in a bad condition. My family members did not get any time to move out of the house when the building collapsed,” he said. Siddiqui said that when he returned, he saw a number of locals removing debris from the spot before the rescue teams arrived. A local claimed that most of the shanties in the area were set up illegally and later converted into three and four-storey structures without permission from the civic body. Most of the shanty owners live elsewhere and have rented out their premises here to poor people, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep islands to provide food kits to tide over Covid||The council for the Lakshadweep collector has given an undertaking before Kerala High Court that the administration would take all necessary steps to ensure people are provided food kits to tide over the Covid-19 lockdown. The relief in the form of the assurance by the district collector came as the high court division bench of Justices K. Narendran and Ziyad Rahman heard a PIL filed by K.K. Nasih, a native of Amini island and a former member of the Lakshadweep Waqf board. In its order, the court noted that the counsel for collector S. Asker Ali, who is also the chairman of the disaster management authority, has undertaken “that the administration would take necessary steps to ensure that there is no shortfall in the supply of food kits and other necessary provisions to the residents of all the islands, during the period of lockdown”. In his PIL, Nasih had pleaded for relief such as adequate supply of food kits until the lockdown is lifted. Once a green zone with no Covid cases, Lakshadweep has been under lockdown since April 28. Senior lawyer Mohammed Shah, who represented the petitioner, told The Telegraph that the court also observed that anyone with any grievances could approach the collector. “The panchayat has already filed an application before the collector. Now the people may also file similar applications,” the lawyer said alluding to the order. Nasih termed the order as a “huge relief” since the residents of the islands were suffering because of lack of income and food. “The collector has been claiming that the people are being provided ration. But that’s a blatant lie since providing some rice is not enough for the people to survive,” he told this newspaper. “At least now the administration would have to ensure they provide food kits to the people,” he said. The petitioner had pointed out how states like Kerala have been distributing free food kits comprising cooking essentials and Union Territories were making direct cash transfers to the people to purchase essential commodities. A series of contentious executive orders and draft legislations have led to massive protests in the isles. Banning beef from school midday meals, shutting down dairy farms to facilitate the entry of Gujarat-based Amul, a Goonda Act that allows the police to detain anyone for a year without trial in a place with one of the lowest crime rates, a law that empowers the administration to take over anyone’s land are some of the controversial reforms made by Praful Khoda Patel, the administrator who assumed charge in December. The administrator on Wednesday withdrew an equally controversial order to place government officials on each fishing boat to gather intelligence and monitor the activities of fishermen. But the administration did not explain why the order was being withdrawn, although popular perception was that it is practical to spare thousands of officials to board the boats that leave around 3am and return at 5pm after fishing in the sea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-70
11-06-2021||India||Narendra Modi to attend outreach sessions of G7 summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate virtually in the outreach sessions of the G7 summit on June 12 and 13, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. This is the second time Modi will participate in a G7 meeting. India was invited by France in its G7 presidency to the Biarritz summit in 2019 as a 'Goodwill Partner' and he participated in the sessions on 'Climate, Biodiversity and Oceans' and 'Digital Transformation'. Last month, the MEA said Modi will not travel to the UK to attend the summit of the G7 grouping in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country. The Group of Seven (G7) comprises the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the US. As chair of G7, the UK has invited India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa to the summit as guest countries. "At the invitation of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in the outreach sessions of the G7 summit on June 12 and 13 in virtual format," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. He said the theme for the summit is 'Build Back Better' and the UK has outlined four priority areas for its presidency of the powerful grouping. "These are leading the global recovery from coronavirus while strengthening resilience against future pandemics; promoting future prosperity by championing free and fair trade; tackling climate change and preserving the planet's biodiversity; and championing shared values and open societies," Bagchi said. He said the leaders are expected to exchange views on the way forward on global recovery from the pandemic with a focus on health and climate change. Last month, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar travelled to London to participate in the G7 foreign ministers' meeting. However, he could not attend the meeting in person after two members of his delegation tested positive for Covid-19. The external affairs minister attended the meeting in virtual format.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
11-06-2021||India||Karnataka limits financial grant to Hindu priests||The Karnataka government has withdrawn its earlier plan to provide a one-time financial grant to priests of all religions in view of the pandemic and limited it to Hindu priests following objections raised by the Vishva Hindu Parishad. Minister for Muzrai (religious affairs) Kota Srinivasa Poojary has issued a revised instruction to the Hindu religious institutions and charitable endowments department to release the one-time grant of Rs 3,000 each only to Hindu priests by ending the decades-old tradition of helping priests, irrespective of religion, in times of trouble. Poojary had recently issued an order following the precedent set in the 1970s to allow the grant for priests of all places of worship taking into account the pandemic that has hit them hard. But the VHP, in a memorandum submitted to the minister who is from the Dakshina Kannada district, had urged him not to use funds from the Hindu endowment to help priests of other religions. “Out of 34,500 Hindu temples in Karnataka, 27,000 temples receive Rs 48,000 each every year, totalling Rs 133 crore as Tasdik grants,” he said in a video message. Tasdik grant is a compensation under Karnataka Inam Abolition Act, 1955, paid to religious institutions for their land vested in the state government. Congress lawmaker Rizwan Arshad slammed the BJP for being “a puppet in the hands of the Sangh parivar that doesn’t have the courage to stand by its own decisions”. He said there was no information on whether the government planned to disburse the grant to non-Hindu priests through any other department. “They are not giving this one-time grant out of their pockets. Neither is the state fund their ancestral property. It is taxpayers’ money that is being used to provide some relief to the needy and it’s high time this government realised that,” Arshad said. “The decision to limit the grant only to one section once again shows how hollow and shallow their ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ slogan is. I can only say it’s very sad and unfortunate that we are having to debate such issues in the 21st century,” he added. Imam of Juma Masjid of Bangalore, Maulana Mohammed Maqsood Imran, said he couldn’t believe his ears when he heard about the revised order. “It is very unfortunate since we are all Indians in our nation. Elected representatives should not think they are there to help only those who voted for them. Once they are elected, they represent everyone,” he told The Telegraph on Thursday. He said the state Waqf board paid salaries of around 14,000 imams and muezzins. “Like temple priests, imams and muezzins are also paid Rs 4,000 per month. What the minister announced was a one-time payment,” he said, adding even street vendors, autorickshaw drivers and all daily wage earners should be paid some money to tide over the situation. The imam expressed hope that chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa would help the suffering priests of all religions. “I have faith in the chief minister who always gives us time to meet him to address our problems and concerns. I had met him thrice already since the onset of the pandemic,” he said. Shivananda Mendon, VHP secretary of Mangalore, contented that they had only objected to the use of Hindu endowment department’s funds to pay priests of other religions. “Why use the Hindu endowment department’s money to make these payments? We have no issues if the government wants to pay them through the Waqf board or any other relevant department,” he told this newspaper. “The minister told us that the practice of using the Hindu endowment’s money for such payments is in force since the 1970s. All we wanted was to stop using the Hindu endowment money to pay non-Hindu priests,” said Mendon, one of the VHP leaders who met Poojary in Mangalore on Wednesday to submit the memorandum. Asked what was wrong in using the Hindu endowment department’s money to pay non-Hindu priests as it was government money, Mendon said: “That’s not right.” Congress lawmaker and former minister U.T. Khader termed the entire episode as the “BJP’s attempt to further polarise the people by sowing seeds of doubt in the majority community who might get the wrong impression that money from temples are being spent on mosques”. “I want the minister (Poojary) to clarify that it is the taxpayers’ money that is used to provide such relief to various communities and sections of the society,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-71
