12-06-2021||India||Covid: Kerala logs 13,832 new cases, 171 deaths||Kerala recorded 13,832 new Covid-19 cases and 171 deaths on Saturday, taking the caseload to 26,86,630 and the toll to 10,975. A total of 18,172 people recuperated from the disease, pushing the tally of those cured to 25,75,769. Currently, there are 1,29,488 people under treatment. Health Minister Veena George said 1,08,734 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 12.72 per cent. Till now 2,11,26,248 samples have been tested. Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest number of fresh cases--2,234, followed by neighbouring Kollam with 1,592 and Ernakulam (1,539). "Of those found infected today, 82 reached the state from outside while 12,986 contracted the disease from their contacts.The source of infection of 700 is yet to be traced and 64 health workers are also among the infected," the minister said in a release. There are 5,45,000 people under observation in the state of which 31,103 are in isolation wards of various hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
12-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh's health services in bad shape, alleges Akhilesh||Health services in Uttar Pradesh are in a very bad shape due to the neglect of the BJP government which has given private hospitals an opportunity to loot people during the Covid crisis, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Saturday. In an apparent reference to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's New Delhi visit on Friday, Yadav said BJP leaders are only concerned about staying in power. "There is no control of the government on private hospitals. The black marketing of medicines and injections continues unabated. Corona curfew and lack of oxygen has added to the woes of the people, the SP chief was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the party. Yadav said the condition of the health system is such that a serious patient was carried on a cot for eight kilometres to the hospital in Tilovgaon village in Mirzapur. Under the BJP rule, serious patients are not even getting ambulances, he claimed. The SP government had started the 108 ambulance service but it was ruined by the BJP. There have also been shameful incidents like the one involving a patient being taken to a hospital in Kanpur on a handcart and a garbage truck used to carry a dead body, the former chief minister said. "Private hospitals have left no stone unturned to forcibly rob patients during the Corona crisis. Patients were allowed to die by shutting off oxygen at Paras Hospital in Agra," he claimed, stressing the rates fixed by the government for treatment and sale of essential medicines were not followed anywhere. Attacking the chief minister, Yadav said: "The chief minister was busy in talks with his top leadership in Delhi and people were suffering in the state. Instead of connecting with the pain and suffering of the people, BJP is busy only in staying in power. This is the democracy of BJP. Adityanath had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence on Friday. Later, he also met Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda. On Thursday, the chief minister had a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
12-06-2021||India||Centre's 'incompetence' responsible for India's woes during 2nd wave, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday alleged that the country paid the price for the Modi government's "incompetence" during the second wave of COVID-19. "When the Modi government should have finalised public health policy to take on the coronavirus on a war footing, it was busy saving the illusory image of the prime minister," it alleged on its Twitter handle. "We lost our brothers and sisters due to this government's incompetence, we will never forget," the Congress tweeted as the opposition party and its leaders targeted the Centre over the handling of the pandemic with the hashtag "ZimmedarKaun" (who is responsible) and raised the issue of shortage of beds, oxygen and medicines when India was at the crest of the second wave. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the public knows who is sitting silently even after the pandemic, inflation and unemployment. "Every person in the country knows the one who is sitting silently even after seeing all - the pandemic, inflation and unemployment," he tweeted. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra claimed that the world witnessed the prime minister's "incompetence at governance" during the pandemic. "He (the prime minister) simply retreated and waited for the worst to pass. The Prime Minister of India has behaved like a coward. He has let our country down," she said in her statement posted on her Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. The prime minister's "vast capacity for vanity" has been exposed, she alleged. "Indians do not come first for him. Politics does. Truth does not concern him, propaganda does," Priyanka Gandhi alleged and asserted that the time has come for the people to ask the prime minister "Zimmedaar Kaun". In another tweet, Rahul Gandhi called for further strengthening the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) saying the weaker sections of society have benefited the most from it due to the financial crisis after the lockdowns in the country. "The weaker sections of the country are getting relief from MGNREGA this time too. It is necessary to further strengthen this scheme to deal with the financial crisis caused by the lockdown," he said. "Whichever government is there, the people belong to India and public interest is our responsibility," he also said. The Congress has been touting MGNREGA as the previous UPA government's flagship scheme aimed at benefiting the rural poor by providing them social security and a guarantee of work. Rahul Gandhi also tweeted on World Day Against Child Labour and said the children are the future and deserve education and smiles. "Children are the future. They deserve education, health and smiles. Let's make every day #WorldDayAgainstChildLabour," he said on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
12-06-2021||India||Digvijay Singh says Congress will take ‘relook’ at Article 370, BJP reacts||Congress leader Digvijay Singh's comments in a clubhouse conversation that the revocation of Article 370 and stripping Jammu and Kashmir of statehood was an "extremely sad" decision and his party will have a "relook" at the issue have triggered a row, with the BJP accusing him of speaking against India and in agreement with Pakistan. Singh's remarks to a person, who the BJP said was a journalist of Pakistani origin, was seized by the saffron party leaders to hit out at the opposition party with its spokesperson Sambit Patra demanding statements from Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi on the issue. "The decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of J&K is extremely, I would say, a sad decision, and the Congress party would certainly have a relook on the issue," Singh said, according to bits of conversation available on social media. He was responding to a question about the "way forward" on the issue once the Modi government is gone. As the BJP attacked him, Singh posted a tweet in Hindi in an apparent jibe at the ruling party. "This bunch of illiterate people cannot probably differentiate between 'shall' and 'consider'," the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said. Attacking him, Patra told reporters, "We have all seen how Digvijay Singh is spitting venom on India and speaking in agreement with Pakistan. This is the same person who had dubbed the Pulwama attack as an accident and described the 26/11 Mumbai attack as an RSS conspiracy." The BJP leader cited old comments of other Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Mani Shankar Aiyar, to allege that Singh's remarks were part of a larger pattern of the party being "hand in glove" with Pakistan. "This is all part of the toolkit which the BJP had exposed," Patra said in a reference to a controversial document rejected as fake by the Congress. The Congress would go to the extent of collaborating with China and Pakistan to spread "hate" against Modi and India, he alleged. "The Congress should change its name from INC (Indian National Congress) to ANC, Anti-national Clubhouse. This is such a clubhouse whose members have begun hating India while hating Modi," he alleged. Patra asked Sonia Gandhi and Rahul to make their party's stand clear on the issue. He claimed that Rahul Gandhi is the leader of these Congress politicians, adding that Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan had used his criticism of Article 370 as part of his country's dossier against India on the issue in the UN. Union ministers Giriraj Singh and Kiren Rijiju were among other BJP leaders who targeted the Congress in their tweets over the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-65
12-06-2021||India||Govt dismisses claims of Co-WIN hack as ‘fake, baseless’||The government on Saturday dismissed the claims of hacking of the Co-WIN system and data leak as "baseless". In a statement, the Health Ministry said the matter of the alleged hacking of the Co-WIN system has been investigated by the Computer Emergency Response Team of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. “There have been some unfounded media reports of the CoWIN platform being hacked. Prima facie, these reports appear to be fake,” the health ministry said in a press release. Dr R S Sharma, Chairman of the Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration, has clarified, “Our attention has been drawn towards the news circulating on social media about the alleged hacking of the Co-WIN system. In this connection, we wish to state that Co-WIN stores all the vaccination data in a safe and secure digital environment.” “No Co-WIN data is shared with any entity outside the Co-WIN environment. The data being claimed as having been leaked, such as geo-location of beneficiaries, is not even collected at Co-WIN,” he added in the statement. Co-WIN portal facilitates the national Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Crowd-funding helps child with rare disorder get world's 'costliest' medicine||The generosity of nearly 65,000 people has helped get the life-saving gene therapy treatment for a three-year-old boy from the city, who has been diagnosed with a rare and life threatening genetic disease. Zolgensma, labelled as the "world's most expensive drug," was imported from the US with the donations and administered to little Ayaansh Gupta on Wednesday, at a private hospital in the city. The treatment has given a new lease of life to the child, who was diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) when he was one year old. "This is an extremely rare condition which causes muscle weakness.. the child will be unable to move his hands or legs, sit, stand or even walk. In fact, eating food is also difficult," said the boy's father Yogesh Gupta, working in a private firm here. "The condition is also life threatening and the doctors said that my child's life expectancy was three to four years," he told news agency PTI. It was therefore important to treat the child right on time. At first, it seemed impossible for the boy's parents to raise Rs 16 crore for one dose. But then the couple decided to do it through appeals on social media. In February this year, they started a crowdfunding campaign to save their son's life and family friends also extended their support. In three months, they managed to raise enough money to pay for the treatment. Many celebrities, including Virat Kohli, Anushka Sharma, Anil Kapoor, Ajay Devgan and several from the TV industry came forward to help the couple. "Around 65,000 people made donations. It was made possible on May 22," Gupta said. A family friend reached out to an MP, who raised the issue of cost of the medicine in Parliament following which the central government gave tax exemption to the tune of Rs six crore. With the medicine being administered, Gupta expressed hope that his kid's condition would improve in the coming months. The child was discharged from hospital and follow-up treatment would continue, he said. The boy's father thanked all the 65,000 donors who helped them mobilise funds for the expensive treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Thunderstorm, rain batters Mumbai again ||Heavy rains, coupled with thunderstorm and strong winds, lashed Mumbai and its suburbs on Saturday, leading to disruption of train and bus services as tracks and roads got waterlogged at several locations, officials said. A Central Railway spokesperson said the suburban train services between Dadar and Kurla stations on the main line were suspended after the water rose above the track level, while a Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) official said that several of its buses had to be diverted due to water-logging at some points. At 10 am on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a thunderstorm warning for a few districts in Konkan region, including Mumbai, for the next three hours from that time. "Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and moderate to intense spells of rain with gusty winds 30-40 kmph are likely to occur at isolated places," the IMD said in its warning for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad and Ratnagiri districts of Konkan. It had earlier issued an orange alert' for Mumbai for Saturday. An orange alert implies that authorities should be prepared to handle any situation arising out of severe weather condition. The Central Railway official said, "Due to more than 61.21 mm rainfall in the last one hour, coupled with a high tide of 4.34 metres at 1.32 pm and closing of Mithi river floodgates, water level has been rising on track between Kurla and Sion. The suburban services on the Harbour line also slowed down due to water-logging on tracks near Chunabhatti station as a result of "extremely heavy rain", he said. Trains have been running at a restricted speed for safety reasons, the official said. The operations of local trains on other sections of the main line and other routes, including the Thane-Vashi line, are normal, he added. A Western Railway spokesperson said that the suburban services on their corridors are running without any disruption, but they are closely monitoring the situation. Water-logging was witnessed at several locations in Bandra east, Hindmata, King's Circle, Kurla Kamani and Wadala. The BEST spokesperson said the undertaking diverted its buses on at least 17 locations due to water logging on roads. Mumbai has been witnessing heavy rains since Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Two civilians, two cops killed in militant attack at J&K’s Sopore||Two policemen and as many civilians were killed and at least three others injured on Saturday when militants opened fire targeting security forces in Sopore town of Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. Militants fired upon a joint party of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and police near Main Chowk Sopore in north Kashmir district around noon, they said. The officials said in the firing, two police personnel and two civilians were killed. At least three others, including a policeman, were injured in the attack, they said. The injured were rushed to a nearby hospital from where the injured policeman was taken to the Army's 92 Base Hospital in Srinagar, the officials added. The security forces have cordoned off the area and further details are awaited, they said. Sajad Lone, chairman of J&K People's Conference, called for an end to terrorism. “Five succumb in Sopore attack. 3 civilians and 2 police men. Mr gunmen— Approximately—5 Kashmiri funerals. 5 widows. 10 grieving old parents. A dozen or more orphans. All Kashmiris. So mr gunmen. Really want to know. Whose bloody side r u on (sic),” he said. “When will this madness end? Guns came to Kashmir in 1989. 32 years down the line. I can unambiguously state. That gun enslaves the very people that it purports to fight for. The gunmen really need to ponder whose war they r fighting,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Sisodia alleges 'secret' friendship between Modi and Punjab CM||AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday alleged a "secret" friendship between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, after Punjab was ranked number one in the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2019-20 by the Centre. "Captain (Amarinder Singh) has got the blessings of Modiji. Delhi's schools have been ranked much below. Nearly 800 government schools in Punjab have been shut down in the last five years and many schools have been handed over to private entities but Punjab has been ranked on the top," he said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is in opposition in the Congress-governed Punjab where Assembly polls is slated for early next year. Modi's BJP is another opposition party in Punjab. Sisodia alleged that Punjab's government schools have poor educational facilities for students and parents prefer to send their children to private schools. The index is an effort to hide the incompetence of the Punjab government in the field of school education, he alleged. "Maybe later, the government might release a report saying Punjab's hospitals are best. There is a secret friendship between Modiji and Captain," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Shiromani Akali Dal, Bahujan Samaj Party announce alliance for Punjab polls||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) formed an alliance on Saturday for the 2022 Punjab Assembly election. Announcing the tie-up at a press conference, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal described it as a new day in politics of Punjab . "Today is a historic day...a big turn in Punjab's politics,” he said in the presence of BSP General Secretary Satish Chandra Mishra. He said the SAD and the BSP will jointly fight the 2022 polls and other elections together. The Mayawati-led BSP will fight 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD, he said. Among the seats which the BSP will contest are Kartarpur Sahib in Jalandhar, Jalandhar-West, Jalandhar-North, Phagwara, Hoshiarpur Urban, Dasuya, Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district, Bassi Pathana, Sujanpur in Pathankot, Mohali, Amritsar North and Amritsar Central. According to a report by ndtv.com Sukhbir Singh Badal is said to be behind the new alliance who announced last week that his party is open to tie-ups barring the Congress, BJP and the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). "We cannot align with these parties. We will form alliances and we are open to others. No chance to go with BJP at all," he had said earlier. The SAD earlier had a tie-up with the BJP and the Badal-led party walked out of the NDA over the farm laws issue last year. The BJP used to contest 23 seats under its alliance with the SAD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Delhi govt preparing on war-footing for 3rd Covid wave, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. Indications are coming from the UK on the fear of the third wave. Cases are rising there, despite 45 per cent of vaccination. So, we cannot afford to sit idle, he said. Kejriwal was speaking at an online event during which he jointly inaugurated 22 new PSA oxygen plants at nine hospitals across Delhi. "These new oxygen plants at nine hospitals across Delhi being added today to strengthen our preparations to fight Covid," he said. The chief minster in his address cautioned that the chances of the "third wave of the coronavirus pandemic were quite real" "We cannot afford to sit idle and our government is preparing on a war-footing to combat it," he said. The Delhi government also procuring oxygen tankers to equip system to fight Covid in case of third wave, Kejriwal added. "People of Delhi have come shoulder-to-shoulder in combating the second wave of Covid, and our gratitude to industry sector too for joining the fight," he said. Kejriwal congratulated people of Delhi, saying they have together faced the Covid second wave with struggle and discipline and "succeeded in controlling it". "We pray that the third wave of Covid doesn't hit us, but if it happens, Delhi has to again fight together," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||India logs over 84,000 fresh Covid cases, 4,002 casualties in a day||The daily COVID-19 count in India remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. With the fresh cases, the infection tally has climbed to 2,93,59,155. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,67,081 with 4,002 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases further declined to 10,80,690, accounting for 3.68 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.07 per cent. India's active caseload declined to less than 11 lakh after 63 days while 84,332 new cases reported in 24 hours are the lowest in 70 days, the ministry said. Also, 20,44,131 coronavirus tests were conducted on Friday taking the total number to 37,42,42,384. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.39 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for the 19th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has also declined to 4.94 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 30th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,79,11,384, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.25 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 24,96,00,304 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4. The 4,002 new fatalities include 2,619 from Maharashtra, 378 from Tamil Nadu, 173 from Kerala and 159 from Karnataka. A total of 3,67,081 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,06,367 from Maharashtra, 32,644 from Karnataka, 28,906 from Tamil Nadu, 24,772 from Delhi, 21,667 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,731 from West Bengal, 15,435 from Punjab and 13,300 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Dominica HC denies bail to Mehul Choksi||The Dominica High Court has denied bail to fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi in the case of illegal entry into the island country after his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda where he is staying as a citizen since 2018, local Caribbean media reported. The high court on Friday (local time) gave the ruling by concluding that Choksi was a "flight risk", did not have any ties with Dominica and the court could not impose any conditions which will stop him from leaving the country, news outlet AntiguaNewsroom said. Choksi had approached the high court after the magistrate had rejected his bail petition. The promoter of Geetanjali Gems and other famous diamond brands in India had fled the country weeks before Rs 13,500 crore fraud in Punjab National Bank (PNB) allegedly involving him and his nephew Nirav Modi surfaced. Choksi, 62, who has an Interpol Red Notice against him, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen after fleeing from India. He was detained in the neighbouring island country of Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. Choksi's lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. He was also brought before a Roseau magistrate, on the orders of High Court Judge Bernie Stephenson, hearing Habeas Corpus matter, to answer charges of illegal entry where he pleaded not guilty but was denied bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Congress holds nationwide protests against fuel price rise||Congress leaders ride a horse cart in New Delhi on Friday as part of a nationwide protest against rising petroleum prices. The Congress on Friday protested against the rising prices of petroleum products at petrol pumps across the country, barring a few districts that are still under complete lockdown. Expressing outrage at petrol breaching the Rs 100 mark despite the low prices of crude in the international market, Congress leaders accused the Narendra Modi government of looting the common man. They said the government had amassed lakhs of crores of rupees in taxes on petroleum products over the past seven years. Most senior leaders and elected representatives of the Congress participated in the protest. The party demanded rollback of the excise duty hike and the passing on of the benefits of reduced international crude oil prices to consumers. They also demanded that petrol and diesel be brought under the GST. Except Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat where police cracked down on protesters, Congress leaders claimed it was an effective show throughout the country. The party also ran a social media campaign under the hashtag ‘BJPLootingIndia’. Leaders posted video messages highlighting the sufferings caused to the people and farmers on account of rising prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-66
12-06-2021||India||Mahant named Ram fails to get  Aadhaar in Uttar Pradesh||Name: Ram (also known as Maryada Purushottam) Son of: Dasharath Address: Ayodhya (just settled by law) Date of birth: Ninth day of Chaitra (celebrated across India as Ram Navami) Phone number: Not known but omnipresent, considering our leaders will have us believe we live in “Ram Rajya”. Mahant Ram Kumar Das had all the details required for an Aadhaar card but faltered on the biometric details of the Lord. That he shares the name of the Lord also did not help. Das, the priest of Ram-Janki Virajman Mandir in Khurhand village of Banda district in Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region, has claimed a government official had asked him to get an Aadhaar card in the name of Lord Ram when he applied to sell wheat grown on the temple land. “The 40-bighas land on which we grow wheat and rice is in the name of the temple. Ownership details of agricultural land are required to sell produce to the government. The land technically belongs to Ram and Janki (Sita),” Das told reporters on Friday. Das, who used to sell the produce from the land to local traders, had this year decided to take the wheat crop to the government’s Mandi Parishad, from where the state buys directly from farmers. “We use the earnings from the land for the upkeep of the temple,” he said. “Recently, I had registered online to sell the produce at the government-run booth (Mandi Parishad). However, the registration was cancelled by officials after a few days. When I met the sub-divisional magistrate, he said we needed to submit the Aadhaar number of the God (Ram),” Das said. “We tried to get an Aadhaar card done in the name of Lord Ram but couldn’t because biometric verification of the God is not possible,” the priest added. Valmiki’s Ramayana depicts Ram as having long arms whose middle fingers reach beyond the knees (ajanubahu) and Hanuman had described the Lord to Sita as one with “coppery eyes”, but such details are not enough in a technologically driven world that swears by the pinpoint precision of fingerprint and iris scans. Sameer Shukla, an officer at the local Mandi Parishad, said: “Those who are shareholders of the produce can register to sell the crops. But we cannot accept the wheat of a temple as there is no provision for it. However, I don’t have any idea about this particular case.” Asked if he had told Mahant Das to get the Aadhaar details of Lord Ram, Atarra sub-divisional magistrate Saurabh Shukla denied the claim. “The purchase centres of the government are meant for buying grains from farmers. We don’t have any provision to buy the produce of a temple or a trust. And, I never asked him for Lord Ram’s Aadhaar card,” Shukla said. The land of the 200-year-old Ram-Janki Virajman Mandir had been donated to the shrine by some locals. “There was a practice in the past of people buying properties in the name of gods. After the rules changed and it became mandatory to own land in the name of real people, villagers donated land bought in the name of gods to temples instead of applying for change of ownership,” Mahant Das explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Network 18 shelves cartoonist Manjul's contract||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday posted a tweet without naming anyone: “He is scared of everything — truth, questions, cartoons....” Contemporary events in India are so stark that no clues are needed to decipher who “he” is. The tweet came against the backdrop of a filmmaker in Lakshadweep, Aisha Sultana, being charged with sedition for levelling accusations at the Centre and the contract of a popular cartoonist, Manjul, with a media house being shelved days after suggestions emerged that he had got the government’s goat. This in a country where even an erstwhile British ruler comes out as tolerant of the cartoonist’s lash in an anecdote about Shankar, considered the father of political cartooning in India. When Shankar was particularly harsh on the Viceroy, Linlithgow, in a cartoon and the editor was awaiting reprisal, a messenger from the palace turned up with a request: Would the newspaper let the Viceroy have the autographed original? Nowadays palace runners have been replaced with digital messengers. Cartoonist Manjul lost his contract with Network 18, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries that is controlled by Mukesh Ambani, days after Twitter sent him a notice. The notice informed him that Twitter had received a legal request from Indian authorities to take action against his social media profile. Manjul had shared the email he received from Twitter, with the comment: “Jai ho Modi ji ki sarkaar ki (Hail the Modi government). It would have been good had the government mentioned which tweet it had a problem with….” Manjul did not take calls from this newspaper on Friday. Network 18 officials were not available for comment, either. Manjul and Satish Acharya, another cartoonist, have vividly portrayed the grim reality of the Covid second wave and the misery of the people. Lawyer Prashant Bhushan said on Thursday that he had received a notice from Twitter for sharing a cartoon by Acharya as the tweet apparently “violates the law(s) of India”. Bhushan asked: “Which laws, Sir? Sedition? Or the law against looting banks?” The cartoon features a man looting banks and saying: “I won’t empty it, I am not the government.” Rahul had put out another tweet on the “fear” theme on Thursday night. “Alethophobia — the fear of truth,” he had tweeted, along with a report that explained how the central government had amended rules to hinder retired security and intelligence officials from writing books and articles or commenting on issues relating to current policy that fell in the domain of their work during service. This order, criticised by former bureaucrats, came around the same time as the legal framework to put curbs on social media was being enforced. WhatsApp has moved Delhi High Court challenging the clause in the new rules providing for “identification of the first originator of the information”. The traceability provision has been described as unconstitutional and counter to people’s fundamental right to privacy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Sedition FIR against Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana||Lakshadweep’s first woman filmmaker, Aisha Sultana, has been booked for sedition over her reference to a “bio-weapon” during a TV debate. Hairs are being split on whether she meant the Centre had deployed a Covid “bio-weapon” in Lakshadweep, which initially had no cases, or whether she was describing the archipelago’s administrator as a “bio-weapon” for his controversial decisions that are believed to have caused a Covid surge on the islands. Police in Kavaratti, the Union Territory’s capital, on Friday asked her to appear on June 20. Amid the crossfire, senior lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj made a pertinent point. There was nothing seditious about the word “bio-weapon”, and that 124A applied “only when the phrase or word is accompanied with an incitement to violence”, Raj said. He said that in Kedar Nath Singh vs State of Bihar (1962), “the Supreme Court had stated that unless the speech contained an incitement to violence there cannot be sedition”. The Supreme Court had last week cited the 1962 judgment by a constitution bench to dismiss sedition charges against veteran journalist Vinod Dua, underlining the accused had not incited people to violence against the State or created public disorder through his statements. Dua had criticised the Centre’s Covid management and aspects of its 2019 poll campaign. Raj said the registration of a sedition case was, however, in itself a sort of “punishment” for the accused. “The process itself is a punishment for the innocent, since he or she has to go through this for years. The trauma one undergoes is enormous,” he said. The FIR against Aisha has triggered protests in Lakshadweep, where administrator and former BJP politician Praful Khoda Patel faces allegations of imposing a “Sangh parivar agenda” on the Muslim-majority islands with a series of controversial decisions, including a crackdown on dissent. Aisha, 37, had used the word “bio-weapon” during a panel discussion on a Malayalam channel on Monday. The FIR was registered on Thursday on a written complaint from Lakshadweep BJP president C. Abdul Khader Haji, who accused the filmmaker of having insulted the nation and its government. Aisha has been booked under IPC sections 124A (sedition) and 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration). An audio tape has also emerged, purportedly featuring the voice of a BJP leader in Kerala telling a party colleague in Lakshadweep that the controversy is a godsend. Aisha clarified in a video message on Friday that she had not used the word “bio-weapon” to refer to the Centre or any government but only to Patel. “I didn’t use the word ‘bio-weapon’ against the Centre. I compared Praful Patel to a weapon. The reason for (saying) that is the issues that cropped up after Praful Patel landed in Lakshadweep,” Aisha said in the video. She told The Telegraph over the phone that Lakshadweep had not witnessed a single Covid case till Patel assumed charge last December and relaxed the quarantine norms for people arriving from outside. Now the islands face a Covid surge, with a court petition saying the archipelago of 68,000 people had registered 8,667 cases and 38 deaths since January 4 and now had more than 1,500 active patients. “I never used any word damaging the national interest or the integrity of the motherland,” Aisha told this newspaper. “I don’t harbour an iota of fear about the repercussions for engaging in free speech. On the contrary, I would not mind the sedition charges and they will not silence me.” Section 124A prescribes three years’ jail to a life term for “whoever, by words... brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards, the government established by law”. At the debate on MediaOne TV, Aisha had said “what they used is a bio-weapon” in an apparent allusion to the Covid spike in Lakshadweep. Her co-panellist from the BJP asks her to withdraw the word, saying it was a “baseless” allegation, but Aisha refuses. “I don’t believe I’ve said anything wrong; you take whatever action you can,” she says. Support has poured in for Aisha from people in Lakshadweep and elsewhere in the country. Activist Saket Gokhale on Friday sent a legal notice to Sharat Kumar Sinha, Lakshadweep senior superintendent of police, seeking withdrawal of the sedition case against Aisha by June 18. If not, Gokale said, he would approach Kerala High Court. “In solidarity with Aisha Sultana. Voices of dissent can’t be suppressed by using sedition,” SFI leader and JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh posted on Facebook. One of Ghosh’s predecessors, Kanhaiya Kumar, and two other then JNU students were in 2016 arrested in a sedition case after “anti-national” slogans were allegedly chanted on the campus. Lakshadweep MP Mohammed Faizal of the Nationalist Congress Party promised “all legal and political support” for Aisha. Aisha, who has worked as a model and actress and made her directorial debut with the Malayalam film Flush in 2020, hit out at Haji. “The BJP leader who lodged the complaint is a native of Lakshadweep. While he betrays his place of birth I’ll continue to fight for my place of birth,” she wrote in a Facebook post on Friday. “Now my voice will get even louder. What I don’t have and what they have is ‘fear’.” To this newspaper, Aisha emphasised her commitment to Lakshadweep. She said she had received a certificate of appreciation from the Union Territory administration in 2020 for camping in Kochi and helping evacuate islanders trapped there following the lockdown. Among Patel’s controversial decisions are a move to ban cow slaughter, the lifting of a liquor ban, introduction of a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants, use of a draconian law to curb dissent, and opening up the ecologically sensitive islands to large-scale tourism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Covid: US declines to evaluate Covaxin under emergency use authorisation||The US regulatory authority has declined to evaluate Covaxin, India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, under the emergency use authorisation (EUA) pathway and recommended an alternative route that would require an additional clinical trial. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recommended that Ocugen — the US partner of vaccine maker Bharat Biotech — pursue a biologics licence application (BLA) instead of EUA and requested additional information and data, the companies said. Data from an additional clinical trial would be required to support submissions for the approval under the BLA route, the companies said, adding that the process would take longer than it would have under the fast-tracked EUA pathway. “While this will extend our timelines, we are committed to bringing Covaxin to the US,” Shankar Munsunuri, chief executive officer of Ocugen, said in a statement. “This differentiated vaccine is a critical tool to include in our national arsenal given its potential to address SARS-CoV-2 variants.” Bharat Biotech has already conducted a clinical trial of Covaxin in India involving 25,800 volunteers that, the company has said, has shown an efficacy of 78 per cent in protecting people from Covid-19 and 100 per cent efficacy against severe disease. The FDA’s decision to recommend the BLA route for Covaxin would make no difference to its use in India, said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert panel on Covid-19 vaccination policy and member of the Niti Aayog. “We respect that decision, and we expect our manufacturer will be able to comply by doing whatever is required. But it has no impact whatsoever on our own programme,” Paul said. “We are satisfied, our regulator has approved (the vaccine.) We have so much data on safety and its efficacy.” India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign has administered nearly 30 million doses of Covaxin. The country’s regulatory authority had approved the vaccine in January on the basis of earlier clinical trials assessing Covaxin’s safety and immune responses. Sections of vaccine researchers say they do not understand what differential advantage Covaxin will provide in the US market that, they say, has sufficient stocks of the Covid-19 vaccines from Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson&Johnson. A query sent by The Telegraph to Bharat Biotech asking what advantages might Covaxin provide over the vaccines already being used in the US market has not evoked a response. Covaxin is made from inactivated (killed) virus, among the oldest of vaccination strategies, while the vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna are both designer mRNA vaccines, and the Johnson&Johnson vaccine is based on an adenovirus. Santanu Tripathi, a former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Health, said variants might impact efficacy of the current vaccines in the future. “One expectation is that the whole virion vaccine might be more effective against variants,” he said. But a senior virologist said mRNA vaccines were easier to tweak for variants. “I don’t see an advantage over mRNA vaccines,” the virologist told this newspaper. “This appears like a gamble on Bharat’s part.” Bharat Biotech itself has underlined that no vaccine developed in India has ever received EUA or full approval from the US FDA. “Thus it will be a great leap forward for vaccine innovation from India when approved,” the company said in a media release. The US FDA had on May 25 issued revised guidelines for EUA for Covid-19 vaccines that said it “may decline to review and process further EUA requests other than those for vaccines whose developers have engaged in an ongoing manner with the agency during the development of their manufacturing process and clinical trials programme”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Ladakh: China continues to resist India’s demand for disengagement  ||China’s army has yet not confirmed dates for fresh military talks, continues to resist India’s demand for disengagement and troop de-escalation from the remaining friction points in Ladakh, and wants India to accept the “new” frontier created by its transgressions, sources in the security establishment said. “The Chinese appear unwilling to confirm new dates for military talks; they have not yet responded to India’s request for talks. They are keeping us waiting, and want India to accept the ‘new’ Line of Control in Ladakh,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry told The Telegraph. Retired generals said an emboldened China was refusing to budge from the Depsang Plains or Gogra and Hot Springs because India had conceded too much in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake, retreating within its own territory while leaving the Chinese still entrenched within India-claimed lines. A military veteran said the situation was detrimental to India’s sovereignty. “It’s shocking that the political leadership has been maintaining a stony silence, with the pro-government mainstream media successfully deflecting attention from this serious issue,” he said. A defence ministry official said: “Under a pact in February, the Chinese had agreed to work towards a disengagement process for the Depsang Plains and Gogra and Hot Springs. But now they don’t seem interested at all — they appear to have gone back on their word.” It has been more than two months since the two armies had “inconclusive” talks on April 8. Sources said that at that meeting, China had repeated its claim about the occupied zones in the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra being Chinese territory and asked Indian troops to retreat further within India-claimed lines, as at the Pangong Lake and the Galwan Valley. At the strategically crucial Depsang Plains, the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines and continue to cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points. In Hot Springs and Gogra, the Chinese are said to have built infrastructure including army camps. Even the disengagement and de-escalation at the Pangong Lake remains “hazy” after India and China moved back 5km each from their positions on the north and south banks under a process that began on February 10, veterans said. According to the agreement, neither side can patrol areas within the 10km-wide buffer zone until the two countries have worked out all the modalities in diplomatic and military talks. Military veterans say this means the government has handed over more Indian territory to the Chinese on a platter. “India played into China’s hands by agreeing to vacate the dominating Chushul heights on the Kailash Range first as part of the disengagement process at the Pangong Lake. That was a blunder,” a former lieutenant general said. He said the emboldened Chinese were now prolonging the disengagement dialogue while setting conditions. “So far they have refused to disengage if their demands are not met. Even at the Pangong Lake they can always come back to their earlier positions considering the heavy presence of the Chinese army on the edge of the buffer zone,” he said. What appeared an early suggestion about China’s ownership of whatever territory it is ensconced in had come almost a year ago, and from an unexpected quarter. Four days after a clash at the Galwan Valley killed 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese on June 15, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asserted that no one had occupied or was occupying Indian territory, allowing Beijing to dismiss allegations of border transgressions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: BJP leaders resign to protest sedition case against Aisha||Around 15 BJP leaders in Lakshadweep have resigned to protest the sedition case against filmmaker Aisha Sultana, sources said on Friday. It is the second major exodus from the party that is only a minor player in the Muslim-majority Union Territory. Eight BJP leaders had resigned from the party in May in protest against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel’s arbitrary actions that hit normal life in the isles. Former president of the BJP’s Bitra island unit, Abdul Hameed, told reporters that there was no point in continuing in a party “that did no good to the people and never lost an opportunity to harm them”. “Now the BJP president has filed a complaint against a girl who had said something. Instead of just ignoring what she said, they have gone and registered an FIR,” said Hameed. “Why do we need this party when it can’t work for the people? That’s why I am resigning,” he said. Ishaq Hameed, another BJP leader from Bitra island, said he too was on his way out of the party. “We were not informed when the leadership decided to lodge a complaint against Aisha,” he told a channel. Hameed also pointed to the “anti-people” reforms of the new administrator Patel. Another local leader named Hameed from Bitra island released an audio message to the media claiming that many more leaders would quit shortly. “We had asked the party about its response to the misdeeds of the administrator. But there was no response,” he said. “This is the mood in several islands. It’s only a matter of time before more people resign,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Covid: SC rejects medical PG final exam waiver plea||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain a plea for waiver of examinations for final-year post-graduate medical students as it wondered how patients could be left at the mercy of doctors who haven’t completed their exams. The court, however, sought response of the Union ministry for health and family welfare and the National Medical Council (NMC) on the plea of the PG medical students for postponement of final-year exams at least by a month for preparation. “They will be treating patients. How can they (patients) be in the hands of people who haven’t cleared the exams?” Justice M.R. Shah asked senior advocate Sanjay Hegde during the hearing. The bench headed by Justice Indira Banerjee was dealing with a petition filed by a group of PG medical students seeking a blanket waiver on their final-year exams for this year as they are busy treating Covid-19 patients and hence could not prepare. Hegde pleaded that the NMC was also unable to take any decision on the waiver as they are seeking suitable instructions from the National Disaster Management Authority. He said most of the petitioner doctors treating Covid patients have also lost their own family members to the pandemic. He said the doctors were constrained to invoke the Supreme Court’s jurisdiction for enforcement of their fundamental rights under Article 32. “Prima facie we are not satisfied to give such a direction under Article 32 to waive off the examination... It is a completely policy decision,” the bench observed. The court adjourned the matter for further hearing to next Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Covid: Haze over admission to undergraduate courses||Confusion hangs heavy on admission to undergraduate courses this year as the country’s innumerable school boards have not come up with common criteria to assess students with the pandemic clouding board exams. Academics and school principals feel the higher educational institutions should devise a new mechanism instead of the usual practice of considering board marks as the sole determining factor for selection. While national boards such as the CBSE and the CISCE, and several state boards including the one in Bengal have cancelled this year’s Class XII exams, several are yet to take a decision. Internal assessments of schools and marks in previous exams could be considered. The CBSE has set up a committee to suggest rational criteria to assess students. The Chhattisgarh Board of Secondary Education had allowed students to collect the Class XII question papers and answer sheets from exam centres between June 1 and 5, write the answers at home and submit them within five days. The Bihar board had earlier conducted the school-leaving exam in the traditional pen-and-paper mode. Prof. C.B. Sharma, educationist and former chairman of the National Institute of Open Schooling, said there were 1.5 crore Class XII students across the country, including 14 lakh affiliated to the CBSE. The state boards are guided by the state governments. “Arguably, ministers in the states will issue directions keeping in mind the political interests of their respective parties. Hence, each board may have different criteria of assessment and announcement of results. This may create a situation that could vitiate the correlation between students’ merit and their board performance,” Sharma said. “Most universities consider the Class XII score to admit students to colleges. This year these institutions may have to rethink if they should consider board performance as the sole determining factor for selection,” he added. Sharma advocated the creation of a national regulatory body for school education to set national standards. “At the moment, issues concerning board exams are handled at the political level. But education should be kept away from political interference. Therefore, a school education commission should be set up to advise state boards on exams and other academic matters,” Sharma said.Priyadarshi Nayak, principal of Doon Public School in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, warned that depending on school board marks might not be the ideal option this year. “Each university should develop its own strategy to select students independent of board performance. This will ensure students of a particular board do not get undue advantage over others,” Nayak said. Shri Prakash Singh, faculty member of political science at Delhi University, said DU traditionally conducted marks-based selection for most courses. “But this year they should not follow this mode,” he said. Singh said the universities should either not consider the board marks at all or the boards should come together to follow some uniform criteria. The education ministry is considering a proposal to hold two sets of common entrance exams to select students for undergraduate and postgraduate courses at central universities. An experts’ committee has suggested equal weightage to the entrance score and board marks. Government sources said the common entrance exams could be conducted in August. “The central government or the CBSE cannot force the state boards to follow their criteria. So there is bound to be difference in weightage points to school-based exams, internal assessments and so on…. There is a possibility of schools under some boards awarding marks liberally to ensure its students do not lag behind. All this might create the possibility of bright students losing out,” Singh said. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, and Usha Ram, former principal of Laxman Public School, said the universities should devise their own criteria instead of depending on board marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Adityanath expresses heartfelt thanks to Modi for meet||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi from his “hridaytal” (bottom of his heart) for taking out time to meet him, amid indications of a determined effort by the top leadership to rein in the bellicose saffron-robed monk. The one-hour meeting with Modi came after a much longer one-on-one with home minister Amit Shah, considered the second most powerful leader of the current regime, on Thursday. Summoned by the party high command, Adityanath had dashed to Delhi on Thursday amid reports of a simmering discontent in the state unit over his style of leadership in the run-up to the Assembly elections early next year. “Today (Friday), I had the privilege of meeting respected PM Modi and get his guidance. I thank him from the bottom of my heart for taking out time from his busy schedule for the meeting and the counsel,” Adityanath tweeted in Hindi after the meeting. He had posted a similar tweet after meeting Shah. After meeting the top two leaders, Adityanath called on BJP chief J.P. Nadda. Later, Shah and Nadda reached the Prime Minister’s residence and were huddled, apparently to give final shape to the “course-correction” measures to be adopted by Adityanath to strengthen the party’s prospect in the Assembly polls. While the meetings have largely been seen as a desperate preparatory exercise to retain politically crucial Uttar Pradesh, party insiders have hinted at a below-the-radar effort to rein in Adityanath, who has been apparently positioning himself as Modi’s successor. Adityanath is widely seen as the new darling of the BJP’s core aggressive Hindutva brigade, reflecting similarities with the “Hindu Hriday Samrat” image of Modi after the Gujarat communal riots. This rise of Adityanath, according to insiders, has spread unease at the top in Delhi and also within a strong section of the Uttar Pradesh leadership. The disquiet over his “assertive” and “autocratic” ways has now taken the shape of charges against him.  The chief minister was summoned to Delhi after an extensive review by the BJP central leadership and the RSS based on feedback from ministers, lawmakers, MPs and party leaders. The review reports have highlighted Adityanath’s “one-man-show” style of functioning, sources said. State ministers and party leaders have accused the chief minister of not taking everybody along, remaining “inaccessible” and ignoring the scope of genuine suggestions. Allegations of bias towards his caste men, the Kshatriyas or Thakurs, have also been levelled against Adityanath. The suppressed misgivings erupted during the recent Covid crisis when the state government was accused of missing in action on the ground, leading many elected representatives of the BJP to publicly vent their ire against Adityanath. These complaints prompted the central leadership to send review teams to Lucknow to assess Adityanath’s performance on various fronts and the party’s prospect in the upcoming polls. The below-expectation performance in the recent panchayat polls, with party-backed candidates losing in Hindutva pockets such as Ayodhya and Mathura, also led the top brass to put Adityanath under the scanner. Sources said the review reports have now enabled the top leadership to push “course-correction” measures in the form of some key changes in the government and the party’s state organisation and use them to rein in the emerging Hindutva face. Sources said Adityanath, during his meetings with Shah and Modi, presented report cards to defend his performance on key fronts and the way he managed to control Covid in the state after the initial surge. Despite apparent misgivings, the top brass has ruled out the option of replacing Adityanath but is determined to put brakes on the leader, who seems to be aiming too high, if he returns to power again. How to achieve this difficult task is a question wrangling the top two leaders, according to indications emerging from party corridors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Covid: Supreme Court defers AIIMS postgraduate entrance exam||The Supreme Court on Friday directed postponement by at least a month of this year’s AIIMS-conducted INI CET postgraduate medical entrance exam, which was to be held on June 16, calling the decision to go ahead with the test amid the pandemic “arbitrary and discriminatory”. The court also noted that doctors were already grappling with the enormous workload of Covid duty, made mandatory by the government, and that holding the exams at such a short notice would be “arbitrary” and “unfair”, as alleged by the petitioners. The court pointed to the fact that the government had already postponed the NEET postgraduate medical exam, conducted on a much larger scale than the Institute of National Importance Common Entrance Test (INI CET), at least till August 31 and many other exams had been cancelled in view of the pandemic. The NEET PG was pushed back after Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided that doctors would have to be on Covid duty for at least 100 days, a period that would end earliest by mid-August. In admit cards that AIIMS had begun issuing on Wednesday, it was mentioned that the institute would not be responsible for any kind of travel restrictions in any state. Lockdowns and similar restrictions are in force in many states. The three-hour, computer-based exams are to be conducted at designated centres across the country, including in Calcutta. Around 80,000 students had applied for INI CET, being conducted this year by AIIMS, for admission to postgraduate courses at government institutions such as AIIMS, PGIMER, Chandigarh; JIPMER, Puducherry; and NIMHANS, Bangalore. The bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M.R. Shah passed the following order: “These writ petitions have been filed by doctors with an MBBS degree…. It is submitted that the hasty decision taken by AIIMS to conduct INI CET 2021 on 16th June, 2021, has seriously prejudiced innumerable aspirants… who are serving in Covid hospitals in various parts of the country. “Many of them have been rendering services at Covid centres located far away from the examination centres for which they have opted. The petitioners contend that conducting the INI CET at such short notice is arbitrary, unfair on the aspirants… and will cause gross injustice, as the aspirants have got very short time to prepare. “According to the petitioners, the concerned doctors had been assured that they would be given sufficient time, at least a month, to prepare for the admission test. Mr (Arvind) Datar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners, pointed out that the INI CET is being conducted to fill up 850 MD and MS seats…. “About 80,000 doctors with the MBBS degree are expected to take the INI CET. Postgraduate courses of medical colleges other than those mentioned above (the institutes that take in candidates through INI CET) are through the NEET PG, which according to the petitioners has been postponed beyond 31st August, 2021. “Mr Datar argued that different examinations have been postponed on account of the pandemic, including the civil services examination. It is not clear whether some examinations, including board examinations for this year, will at all be held. “The attention of the court has also been drawn to news reports of extensions of lockdown in many states. It is reported that in Odisha, lockdown has been extended till 16th June, 2021. In Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh and also in Calcutta, the lockdown has been extended till 15th June, 2021. It would be extremely difficult, if not virtually impossible, for many candidates for the INI CET to reach their examination centres from their places of duty. “Many of the doctors are exposed to and are running the risk of contracting Covid-19 and they may have to isolate and/or quarantine themselves. Even otherwise holding the INI CET on 16th June, 2021, will result in spread of the virus and increase in Covid-19 cases. “Having regard to the circumstances pleaded, fixing of the INI CET on 16.06.2021 is arbitrary and discriminatory, more so since other important examinations including Joint Entrance Examinations, board examinations, etc, have been postponed. The impugned notice is, therefore, set aside. The INI CET is directed to be postponed by at least a month from 16th June, 2021. The AIIMS shall fix a convenient date for the INI CET at least one month after 16th June, 2021.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-67
12-06-2021||India||Covid: Agra businessman blames ‘mock drill’ over spouse's death||An Agra businessman has alleged in a police complaint that his Covid-positive wife died on April 27 when oxygen supply was disconnected at the hospital whose owner has admitted to conducting a “mock drill” on patients by cutting off the flow of the life-saving gas. Saurabh Agrawal, an iron chain trader, has submitted along with his complaint at New Agra police station a copy of the WhatsApp conversation his wife Radhika, 36, had from her bed at Shri Paras Hospital with her sister hours before dying. According to the chat records, Radhika had alleged that she had been “tortured” for oxygen through the April 26-27 night. Radhika had written to her sister Monica early on April 27 morning: “1m (I am) dead….” At one point, Radhika wrote: “Raat bhar oxygen ke liye torture kiya. Jaan nikal gai maare (They tortured me through the night for oxygen. I almost died).” Radhika died a few hours later. Agrawal has sent a copy of the police complaint to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. A video had this week emerged on social media in which a male voice — purportedly that of Dr Arinjay Jain, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital — had claimed that he had conducted a “mock drill” for five minutes from 7am on April 26 by stopping oxygen supply to Covid patients. The voice had said 22 patients had begun to gasp for breath and their bodies had turned blue, adding that they were thus “chhant gaye (segregated)”. Dr Jain has not contested the authenticity of the video but said he had conducted the drill to identify those patients who most needed oxygen amid a shortage. He had said nowhere had he said any patient had died because of the experiment. The police have said four patients died at the hospital on April 26 and three on April 27, the day Radhika passed away, but in no case was lack of oxygen the cause. Dr Jain has been booked under the Pandemic Act and his hospital sealed. Radhika’s WhatsApp message to sister Monica suggests the exercise to cut off oxygen supply may have been conducted again after the morning of April 26. Agrawal said he and Radhika had both tested positive for Covid-19. “I was admitted to Sarvoday Hospital and Radhika to Shri Paras Hospital on April 13. A hospital employee called me up on April 27 morning and said Radhika had died,” Agrawal said. “When I confronted Dr Arinjay Jain over Radhika’s WhatsApp conversation before her death, he threatened me with consequences if I raised the issue,” Agrawal said. P.N. Singh, the district magistrate of Agra, said: “We have received specific complaints and are probing every possible angle, including the video that has gone viral on social media sites. The doctor has already been booked and further action will be taken soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
12-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Mamata Banerjee to wed Socialism||At a wedding on Sunday in a Tamil Nadu village, expect jokes about how the Left has met its match in Mamata Banerjee. To the innocent, it may sound like a straightforward reference to the past few Bengal elections, where the Trinamul Congress chief has first defeated and then decimated the communists. But what will help turn it into a double entendre is a custom among many parents in Tamil Nadu to name their children after famous politicians and communist leaders. At the wedding at Amani Kondalampatti Kattur bordering the steel town of Salem, 335km from Chennai, the bride will be Mamata Banerjee, 19 — an English literature graduate from a local family that has been a huge admirer of Bengal’s Didi. Tying the knot with her will be A.M. Socialism, 25, son of a CPI politician from the same village who had in true communist style put ideology before individuals while giving his children’s names a Red tinge. Naming children after Karl Marx, Lenin or Stalin — the last of them being the given name of Tamil Nadu’s chief minister — is common in the southern state. A similar practice endures in neighbouring Kerala, which once abounded with Jyoti Basus and Subhas Chandra Boses who spoke not a word of Bengali. However, naming one’s son Socialism is unusual, Salem CPI district secretary A. Mohan conceded. But he had an explanation. “In 1992, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, many including the popular media declared that communism was dead,” he told The Telegraph over the phone on Friday. “This prompted me to reflect, and I was convinced that communism and socialism would remain relevant as long as humankind exists.” So Mohan and his wife Lakshmi decided that if their first child was a boy, they would name him Communism and if it was a girl, she would be named Cubaism after Fidel Castro’s island nation. “Our first child was a boy, and so we named him A.M. Communism; the second child, also a male, was christened A.M. Leninism. We named our third son, a BCom graduate who is to be married now, A.M. Socialism,” Mohan said. Mamata, the bride, belongs to a family that has for generations supported the Congress. Her father K. Palanisamy said the family had admired the “courageous leadership” of Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee since her Congress days and the adoration did not dim when she left to form the Trinamul Congress in 1998. So when their daughter was born a few years later, they couldn’t think of a better name. However, Mohan’s Moniker Revolution faced resistance. “Initially, there was resentment in the community over my family naming its children after ‘isms’. Elders would advise me, ‘Why don’t you give them the proper kind of names like Marx, Engels or Lenin? Drop the ‘isms’,’” Mohan said. Mohan met with “a lot of difficulties” while registering his eldest son with the local panchayat office, which was unsure whether it could issue a birth certificate in the name of “A.M. Communism”. During the boy’s admission to the local Kattur Panchayat Union Elementary School, Mohan again faced “light-hearted” jibes and had to do a lot of explaining. “When my first son fell ill at the age of three, a hospital in Salem refused to register him under his own name. It began the treatment after registering the baby in my name,” Mohan said. “When I heard about it, I told the doctor to register the name given to the boy by my family or discharge him.” Well-wishers advised Mohan to desist from such naming, saying his children would otherwise not find jobs when they grew up. Mohan said he had stood firm, telling everyone: “I’m a Communist Party worker and so I have named my children thus.” To critics who persisted, he said: “My children will not seek jobs, they will be self-employed.” Eventually, the resistance and the scorn died down. A.M. Communism is now a lawyer while his two younger brothers run a workshop that makes silver anklets, a traditional craft popular in and around Salem. The wedding, to be held at Mohan’s home, will have a gathering of just 50 in deference to Covid norms. Among the guests will be senior state CPI leaders R. Mutharasan, K. Subbaroyan and Perundurai Periyasamy. It will be a one-minute ceremony, with the groom tying the thali (sacred thread) around the bride’s neck, followed by lunch. There will be no rituals — it will be like any “self-respect marriage” popularised by the Dravidian Movement, Mohan said. How does it feel for a communist to acquire a daughter-in-law whose very name would remind him every day of the Left’s pulverisation in Bengal? Mohan was poker-faced: “It’s slightly disappointing for us that she (Trinamul’s Mamata) defeated the Left parties, but that has nothing to do with this wedding.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
12-06-2021||India||Kashmir: Army's  to decision to charge property tax faces stiff opposition||The army is facing stiff opposition to its decision to charge property tax from residents living in the vicinity of its 15 Corps headquarters in Srinagar and its objection to the construction of Kashmir’s maiden All India Institute of Medical Sciences in adjoining Pulwama district. The AIIMS campus is coming up close to the biggest army installation in south Kashmir. Politicians and locals see these developments as an extension of the 2019 decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and aimed at further dispossessing Kashmiris. The army has begun charging property tax from people living within the jurisdiction of the Badami Bagh Cantonment Board — home to its sprawling 15 Corps headquarters — spread over Sonwar, Indra Nagar, Batwara and Shivpora. The thousands of locals living in the area own their land. Locals said they were receiving bills ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 20,000, charged per annum. Property tax is not charged anywhere else in Jammu and Kashmir. The army has also renewed its objection to the construction of the AIIMS at Awantipora, where it borders the headquarters of the south Kashmir-based Victor Force. The chief spokesman the People’s Democratic Party, Suhail Bukhari, said two years of clampdown in the Valley had already broken the back of the people. “Instead of helping people, the effort is to increase their hardships. The arbitrary decision of imposing property tax should be withdrawn immediately,” Bukhari said. The local BJP leadership has also asked the defence ministry to reconsider the decision amid the pandemic. A Sonwar resident said he had spent his life’ savings to build a small house. “I am a labourer and have been finding it difficult to sustain my family for the past two years. Now I am supposed to pay tax year after year. How can I?” he said. The defence spokesman in Srinagar, Lt Col Emron Musavi, said he had received several queries about the tax since Thursday. “I have raised the queries with the Cantonment Board…. The moment I get details from them, I will share them,” he said. On the AIIMS at Awantipora, the army has said the construction had violated provisions of the Works of Defence Act (Woda). Musavi said the army had been advising the AIIMS authorities “right from the inception stage of the project in 2016” that the Woda guidelines had to be honoured for all projects in the vicinity of army establishments. “The final clearance for all such projects is granted by the ministry of defence. It’s only in January 2021 that the campus construction plans were shared with the army by the CPWD (central public works department) when the construction was already well underway in violation of Woda,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
12-06-2021||India||Bihar allies slam BJP  for attack on madrasa||The partners of BJP in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar have condemned the remarks made by its leaders over an explosion in a madrasa in the state alleging that the party was finding opportunities to engineer communal divide in the society. An explosion destroyed a single-storeyed madrasa at Navtolia in Banka district, around 270km southeast of Patna, on Tuesday killing a maulvi. Banka superintendent of police had said that the explosion was caused by country-made bombs instead of any sophisticated explosive device. A couple of days later, BJP’s Bisfi MLA Haribhushan Thakur Bachaul alleged: “These madrasas teach religion and terrorism. The explosion proves that the children are taught terrorism. Nobody educated in such institutions becomes engineers or doctors. The pupils are indoctrinated against other religions.” Road construction minister and BJP leader Nitin Navin also questioned the role of madrasas and demanded a probe to find out if illegal explosives were being housed there. Party spokesperson Arvind Kumar Singh and other leaders asked why “secular parties were quiet on the issue”. Subsequently NDA member, former chief minister and Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) founder Jitan Ram Manjhi reacted sharply and reminded the BJP of national unity and integration. “If poor Dalits march forward, they are termed Naxals, if poor Muslims study in madrasas they are called terrorists. Brother, come out of such a mentality. It is not good for national unity and integration,” Manjhi said. He also demanded a high-level inquiry into the incident. Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United’s leader and minority welfare minister Jama Khan expressed anger over Bachaul’s remarks. “I am really upset. Bachaul is like my brother. I fail to understand why he said such negative things. He should understand that mosques and madrasas foster brotherhood among people,” Khan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
12-06-2021||India||Lalu celebrates birthday with family after four years||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad celebrated his 74th birthday on Friday by cutting a cake with wife Rabri Devi at his side at the Delhi residence of their daughter Misa Bharti, the first time in four years that the former Bihar chief minister has marked the occasion with his family. Lalu has been serving time in connection with fodder scam cases and recently obtained bail. RJD leaders celebrated the patriarch’s birthday as “Social Justice and Harmony Day” and fed the poor across Bihar. After he got bail, Lalu was discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, where he had been undergoing treatment under incarceration for multiple ailments. He has been staying at Misa’s Delhi residence since then as his family is unwilling to bring him back to Patna due to the pandemic. Misa tweeted several pictures of the celebrations where Lalu is seen surrounded by his near and dear ones in front of a birthday cake. “Papa se hi hai jahan, papa jahan hain wahin jahan hai (My world revolves around my father. My world is where my father is),” Misa tweeted. In Patna, Lalu’s eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav inaugurated a blood donation camp at the RJD state headquarters. The target was to donate 200 units of blood, but the queue was a long one with several hundred party workers turning up. A cake was also cut there. Posters depicting the important moments of Lalu’s life have been put up in the state capital. The posters call him a “warrior for social justice”. Some RJD supporters were seen riding horses in Patna city. RJD leaders and supporters organised feasts for the poor across Bihar and also gifted clothes and other household items to them. “Laluji has been a bold voice of the poor and downtrodden, hence they were fed by party leaders and supporters across panchayats and towns in the state. Many people also organised prayers for his well-being,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said. Leaders cutting across party lines extended birthday wishes to Lalu. Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular leader and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is part of the ruling JDU-BJP alliance in Bihar, was among them. Asked by journalists whether he had greeted Lalu on his birthday, chief minister Nitish Kumar said: “My congratulations. I congratulate everybody.” Lalu served as chief minister of undivided Bihar twice from 1990 to 1997. He was also the Union railway minister from 2004 to 2009 in the UPA I government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-68
