13-06-2021||India||Russia’s Sputnik V to be available in two private hospitals in Delhi by end of this week||Apollo Hospitals and Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital in Delhi will start administering Russian COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V to people by the end of this week, officials said on Sunday. The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at Rs 1,145 per dose. "Apollo Hospitals are going to roll out the vaccine for the general public in Delhi by the end of the week," an official told PTI. An official of Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital also said it will start administering Sputnik V jabs within this week. After Covishield and Covaxin, Sputnik V is the third vaccine to be approved by the government for use in India. The maximum price of Covishield for private COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at Rs 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin is Rs 1,410 per dose. Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country, has been importing the shots from Russia. Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
13-06-2021||India||Centre dismisses report of cyber breach into NIC email system||There has been no cyber breach into the email system of the government, maintained by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), an official release said on Sunday. The email system is “totally safe and secure”, the Ministry of Electronics and IT said while dismissing a report claiming that data breaches in organisations such as Air India, Big Basket and Domino's had exposed email accounts and passwords of NIC emails to hackers. “In view of this, it is important to clarify that...there has been no cyber breach into the email system of the Government of India maintained by the NIC. The email system is totally safe and secure,” the release said. It further noted that cyber security breach on external portals may not impact the users of Government email service, unless the Government users have registered on these portals using their official email address and used the same password as the one used in that email account. "NIC Email system has put in place several security measures such as two-factor authentication and change of password in 90 days. Further, any change of password in NIC Email requires mobile OTP and if the mobile OTP is incorrect then change of password will not be possible," it said, adding that any attempt of phishing using that particular email can be mitigated by NIC. NIC also undertakes user awareness drives from time to time and keeps updating the users about potential risks and safety protocols, the release added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
13-06-2021||India||BJP works to strengthen image ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||Joining hands with smaller parties with a political base in different castes was a part of the BJP strategy as it won big in Uttar Pradesh in the 2017 assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The saffron party is again working to stitch up a strong social alliance as it prepares for the state elections slated for early next year. With senior party leader and Union minister Amit Shah reaching out to the leaders of Apna Dal (S) and Nishad Party, both BJP allies but disaffected over the issue of their representation in the government, and Congress leader Jitin Prasada joining the saffron party, the ruling party seems to be taking measures to get its arithmetic right. Prasada hails from a noted Brahmin family of the state that had remained in the Congress for three generations, and the BJP believes that the young leader's defection to its ranks will help it contain any dissatisfaction a section of the politically influential community might have with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath-led government. While Anupriya Dal of Apna Dal has not spoken on her meeting with Shah, Sanjay Nishad of Nishad Party made it clear that his party wants representation in the state government to fulfil the aspirations of the marginalised communities it draws its support from. “Political power is stronger than God's power,” he told PTI to emphasise its importance to address myriad issues facing different deprived communities. He also reiterated his demand for giving the community of boatmen, who come under various castes and subcastes, benefits under the scheduled castes and not under the category of Other Backward Communities as being given currently in UP. In a message to the BJP, he said the community has in the past supported parties like the BSP, SP and the Congress but stopped voting for them after they did not address their concerns. “We understand the Modi government has been busy with important national issues, he said, referring to Article 370 revocation. Now we believe our concerns will be addressed,” he said. His son Praveen Kumar Nishad's victory as Samajwadi Party candidate from Adityanath's pocket borough of Gorakhpur had shocked the BJP, which then worked to woo him over to its camp during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Patel was a minister in the first Modi government but her party's reported talks with the Congress during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections even as it finally fought as a BJP ally resulted in the Kurmi leader being kept out of its second innings. There have been reports that the BJP may also bring its former ally Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party to its fold again but its leader Om Prakash Rajbhar has ruled out such a possibility. BJP sources said their party has always worked to give due representation to various communities and noted that it has never been averse to tying up with smaller parties. “We have done it in various states, be it Bihar, Assam or Uttar Pradesh,” a leader said. Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav has also been working to broaden his party's social appeal by bringing leaders from outside its core constituency. With the Yogi government's handling of the recent COVID-19 crisis drawing questions from even state BJP leaders, with several of them writing letters to highlight their concerns, the saffron party leadership has been taking measures to address organisational and governance challenges. There has been strong speculation that Adityanath may go for an expansion of his Cabinet, and Shah's meetings with allies are being seen as part of the exercise. The BJP has a lot at stake in the next round of Assembly elections in five states early next year as it is in power in four of them, including Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur besides the all-important Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu announces relaxation of Covid curbs from tomorrow||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday announced more relaxations in as many as 27 districts of the state which includes permission for tea shops to reopen from June 14. Barring 11 districts, seven in western and four in Cauvery delta regions respectively, the fresh relaxations would be applicable in the rest of 27 districts including Chennai and other nearby districts. Tea shops can function from 6 am to 5 pm and only takeaway services are permitted, Stalin said in a statement and appealed to people to use vessels and avoid using plastic bags to take home the hot beverage. Tea stalls are ubiquitous in Tamil Nadu which also sell snack foods and these were closed from May 10, when the lockdown kicked in across the state due to the second wave of Covid-19 and the curbs were extended from time to time. "Sweet and savoury shops are also permitted to be open from 8 am till 2 pm and only parcel services are allowed." Restaurants and bakeries have already been allowed to function. To help people avail a host of government services like getting certificates for various purposes, e-service centres would also operate from Monday, the chief minister said. Offices of building construction firms are also allowed to work with a 50 per cent workforce, he added. Construction work has also been allowed already. After a gap of 35 days, salons, parks and state-run liquor outlets in 27 districts in Tamil Nadu would reopen on June 14 and the state government announced such relaxations on Friday and also extended the lockdown till June 21 morning. Places of worship and tourist locations will continue to remain closed and there would be no public or private bus services during the extended spell of lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh passes away||Leader of Opposition in the Uttarakhand Assembly Indira Hridayesh passed away after suffering a cardiac arrest in New Delhi on Sunday. The 80-year-old senior Congress leader died at the Uttarakhand Sadan in New Delhi where she had gone to attend a party meeting, Pradesh Congress vice president Suryakant Dhasmana said quoting her son Sumit Hridayesh. Hridayesh was a Congress MLA from Haldwani and one of the senior most Congress leaders from the state. She had tested positive for Covid-19 in April this year and had undergone a heart surgery after her recovery. Hridayesh had attended a party meeting chaired by party in-charge for Uttarakhand Devendra Yadav in New Delhi on Saturday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condoled her demise and lauded her contributions. "Dr. Indira Hridayesh Ji was at the forefront of several community service efforts. She made a mark as an effective legislator and also had rich administrative experience. Saddened by her demise. Condolences to her family and supporters. Om Shanti," the prime minister said in a tweet. In a tweet in Hindi, Rahul Gandhi said, "Received the sad news about the demise of Dr Indira Hridayesh, a strong link of the Congress party in Uttarakhand. She worked till the end for public service and the Congress family. Her social and political contributions are an inspiration. Condolences to her loved ones". Congress general secretary and former state chief minister Harish Rawat said it is an irreparable loss for the country and the state. Rawat said she has been a part of the Congress family for over four decades, first in Uttar Pradesh and then in Uttarakhand and was the voice of teachers. Condoling her demise, AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the Congress has lost a brave leader and popular public representative. Expressing grief at her death, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat said she played a significant role in the politics of both Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand for four decades. Describing her death as a big loss for the state, Rawat remembered her for her profound knowledge of parliamentary procedures. Rawat said it was also a personal loss for him as he always got the love and affection of an elder sister from her. State government's spokesman and cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal said he and other politicians of his generation had learnt a lot from Hridayesh who could rise above the confines of party based politics. "Her knowledge of parliamentary procedures was amazing. We learnt a lot from her," Uniyal said . Pradesh Congress vice president Dhirendra Pratap described her as the "iron lady" of Uttarakhand. Hridayesh was the Finance Minister of Uttarakhand from 2012 to 2017 and also held the portfolios of parliamentary affairs and higher education and planning in the Congress government led by Harish Rawat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Cow terror, Love jihad won’t work in UP anymore, says RLD chief||Asserting that the BJP's alleged "apathy" towards protesting farmers will hurt it in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary on Sunday said artificial issues such as "love jihad" and "cow terror" will not work as issues of development will win in the elections. As the focus shifts from the West Bengal polls earlier this year to the high-stakes election battle in Uttar Pradesh in 2022, newly-appointed Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Chaudhary asserted that his party will not allow a communally polarised campaign to ruin the Hindi heartland state in the run up to the assembly polls. In an interview with PTI, Chaudhary, who took over as RLD chief after his father Chaudhary Ajit Singh's demise last month, said his party and the Samajwadi Party have a good rapport and a strong working relationship. He said details need to be worked out for a formal alliance for the polls. Asked if a 'Mahagathbandhan' or a grand alliance is needed in UP to take on the BJP and whether the BSP and the Congress would be part of such an alliance, Chaudhary said, for him, issues come first and an understanding of those needs to be built between all alliance partners. "Who can be accommodated depends on who is honestly open to working together on the common framework," the 42-year-old leader said. On whether the Congress would play a significant role in the assembly polls despite its poor showing in the panchayat elections, Chaudhary said he would not like to comment on the Congress' plans and chances. Asked about the speculation over UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's political future as CM and reports about Cabinet reshuffle in the state, Chaudhary said the BJP is just trying to divert attention and create an illusion of dialogue to manage the disgruntled elements in the party. "Social engineering doesn't come about by tinkering with one or two leaders at the top. The fact is that BJP's Uttar Pradesh government has been caught in a caste-based matrix and has not delivered jobs, economic growth, and efficient governance to people," he alleged. The state government's Covid response has been atrocious and no one can forget the scenes of dead bodies in the Ganga, he added. "Now, after four-and-a-half years to create rumours of change in leadership is a poor attempt to shift focus from failures," Chaudhary said. Talking about the farm laws protests and whether they would be a key issue in the polls, he said farmers will and should be the biggest poll issue in our country, and asserted that as a class they have been denied their rights for far too long. "The Centre's new laws are prescribing a takeover of the entire market and value chain by the private sector and the withdrawal of the government from procurement and subsequent monopolisation will hurt producer and consumer interests," the RLD chief said. The "apathy and insensitive" attitude towards the protesting farmers will continue to haunt and hurt the BJP in polls, he claimed. Chaudhary has participated in a number of 'kisaan panchayats' in western Uttar Pradesh, where his party has had a significant presence over the years, and campaigned aggressively against the Centre's farm laws. Farmers from various parts of the country are protesting at Delhi's borders against the three farm laws brought by the Centre last year, alleging that the legislations will hamper farming. Asked about the electoral chances of the Opposition against the BJP in UP, Chaudhary said "when the nation is grieving and hurting, the Hindi heartland also will respond appropriately". "Love jihad, cow terror, Kairana exodus and other useless artificial issues will be rejected; healthcare, education and balanced development will win (in the polls)," he asserted. The Opposition in UP has been alleging that cow vigilante violence is on the rise in the state, a charge denied by the BJP. The 'Kairana exodus' was a reference to a BJP MP's claim in 2016 that close to 350 Hindus had left Kairana over alleged threats and extortion by criminal elements belonging to a particular community. Asked how he plans to turnaround the fortunes of the party which drew a blank in the last assembly polls, Jayant Chaudhary said, "I am humbled by the opportunity and the faith reposed in me by the Party at this critical juncture." "Chaudhary Saheb's untimely passing has been a jolt for all of us. Just as any family copes with stress responds by coming together, the office bearers and workers of Rashtriya Lok Dal will need to work cohesively and look to the future," Chaudhary said. For reviving the party, Chaudhary said, as a first step he wants to engage with people who have worked at the grassroots and have political experience. He said the party is also in conversation with a lot of leaders from other parties who want to join the RLD and work with us, Chaudhary said. Asked if a fragmented opposition will be able to pose a challenge to the BJP in UP, the RLD chief said poll arithmetic has its own rhythms and rules and it's not as easy to combine different parties and fight elections and assume a "2+2=4 result". "It is not as if the multiplicity of players is helping the incumbent. Some of the parties could also be taking away votes which might otherwise shift to the BJP," he argued. Asserting that it is most important to pick the right issues, Chaudhary said social developmental deficits need to be addressed aggressively if we want the state to progress. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Delhi: Restaurants, malls to open from tomorrow as cases decline||Restaurants with 50 per cent capacity, weekly markets and religious places will reopen in Delhi from June 14, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Sunday, saying the Covid-19 situation has significantly come under control in the city. Salons, beauty parlours and barber shops closed since the imposition of lockdown on April 19, will also reopen from Monday, officials said. "All activities, except certain prohibited ones, will be allowed from 5 am on Monday. There are also certain restricted or partly allowed activities announced last week that will continue," Kejriwal said in an online briefing. He said markets, malls and market complexes allowed to reopen on an odd-even basis, will now open on all days, from 10 am to 8 pm. Only one weekly market per municipal zone per day will be allowed, he said. "We will watch the relaxation allowed to reopen markets and restaurants during the next week. If Covid cases do not increase, we will continue the relaxation, but if cases increase, we will have to bring back the restrictions. "I, therefore, appeal all market associations and others to prevent crowding and ensure social distancing and other precautions," the chief minister said. Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, multiplexes, theatres, gyms, spas, yoga institutes, swimming pools, auditoriums, banquet halls, amusement and water parks, and public parks and gardens, will continue to be closed till 5 am on June 21, according to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order issued on Sunday. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural/religious, festival-related and other gatherings and congregations, stadia, sports complexes barring those used for training or any national or international event, business to business exhibitions, are also prohibited. The religious places in the city will also be allowed to reopen from Monday, but visitors will not be allowed, Kejriwal said. He said with a declining number of coronavirus cases, the concern now is to bring back Delhi's economy on track and preparing on a war footing for an anticipated third wave of the infection. The restaurants are allowed up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity in the city and their owners will be responsible for strict adherence to the prescribed standard operating procedure and government guidelines, including those for COVID appropriate behaviour, the DDMA order stated. "All markets, market complexes, malls and restaurants (up to 50 percent seating capacity) will be allowed to function on trial basis for one week from 5 am on June 14 to 5 am on June 21," it said A "very close" watch and supervision will be maintained on the overall functioning of markets, market complexes, malls and restaurants by district magistrates, DCPs, and other authorities. It will be the responsibility of the market and restaurant associations and owners to strictly ensure that the Covid appropriate behaviour and the protocols are strictly followed, it said. If it is found that COVID appropriate behaviour is not being followed in markets, market complexes, malls and restaurants, or if the positivity rate and number of Covid-19 positive people increases in Delhi, these centres will be "closed forthwith without any loss of time" to prevent any upsurge and likelihood of the next wave in Delhi, warned the DDMA. Only one authorised weekly market (up to the limit of 50 per cent of the allowed vendors at normal time) per day per zone, in all three municipal corporations and New Delhi Municipal Council, Delhi Containment Board, will be allowed subject to the strict compliance of precautions, it said. No weekly market will be allowed on roadsides. It will have to be set up at suitable grounds where precautions against COVID-19 could be maintained. There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, and no separate permission or e-pass will be required for such movements, the order said. The partly allowed activities announced last week and earlier, including opening of government and private offices with 50 per cent staff, marriages at home or in the court, operation of Delhi Metro trains and public transport buses with 50 per cent seating capacity, permission for a gathering of 20 persons during funerals, running of autos, e-rickshaws and other last-mile vehicles, will continue up to June 21 morning, it added. "I hope our lives will be back on tracks if the Covid cases continue to decline. It is a massive calamity and we have to tackle it together and hope the cases do not increase now," Kejriwal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Over 50 shanties of Rohingya refugees gutted in Delhi fire||More than 50 shanties were gutted in a fire that broke out at a Rohingya refugee camp near Kalindi Kunj Metro station in southeast Delhi, officials said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday and the fire department received information about it around 11.55 pm, a senior fire official said. No one was injured in the fire, the official said. Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot near Kalindi Kunj Metro station, Madanpur Khadar. The fire was brought under control around 3 am, the official said. According to police, a PCR call regarding the fire at the Rohingya camp was received at Kalindi Kunj police station. Police reached the spot in Kanchan Kunj, Madanpur Khadar. Later, the fire was brought under control, a senior police officer said. "Fifty-six shanties, housing around 270 Rohingya refugees, were gutted in the fire. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained and appropriate legal action is being taken," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||India records 80,834 fresh Covid cases, lowest in 71 days||India reported 80,834 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest after 71 days, while the daily positivity rate further dropped to 4.25 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. With the fresh cases, the country's tally of cases has climbed to 2,94,39,989. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,70,384 with 3,303 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. This is the lowest number of cases since April 2. The active cases further declined to 10,26,159 comprising 3.49 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.26 per cent. A net decline of 54,531 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also 19,20,477 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 37,62,32,162 while the daily positivity rate has further dropped to 4.25 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for 20 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate fell below 5 per cent and was recorded 4.74 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 31st consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,80,43,446, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.26 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 25,31,95,048 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,303 fresh fatalities include 1,966 from Maharashtra, 374 from Tamil Nadu, 171 from Kerala and 144 from Karnataka. A total of 3,70,384 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,08,333 from Maharashtra, 32,788 from Karnataka, 29,280 from Tamil Nadu, 24,800 from Delhi, 21,735 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,812 from Bengal, 15,503 from Punjab and 13,311 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Modi calls for ‘one earth, one health’ to deal with Covid at G7 summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for following a "one earth, one health" approach to effectively deal with the coronavirus pandemic globally, and sought the support of the G7 grouping to lift patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines, during a virtual address at an outreach session of a summit of the bloc. Calling for global unity, leadership, and solidarity to prevent future pandemics, Modi also emphasised on the special responsibility of democratic and transparent societies to deal with the challenge, according to an official statement. Sources said Modi's call for adopting a "one earth, one health" approach received support from German Chancellor Angela Merkel. They said Australia and several other countries came out in strong support of Modi's call to waive patents on coronavirus vaccines to boost their production. India and South Africa have come out with the proposal at the World Trade Organisation. The prime minister, speaking at the G7 outreach session titled 'Building Back Stronger - Health', also highlighted India's 'whole of society' approach to fight the pandemic, while synergising the efforts of all levels of the government, industry and civil society. In his address, Modi sought the support of the G7 countries for a proposal moved at the WTO by India and South Africa, for patent waiver on Covid related technologies. "The prime minister committed India's support for collective endeavours to improve global health governance. He sought the G7's support for the proposal moved at the WTO by India and South Africa for a TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) waiver on Covid related technologies," the statement said. "Prime Minister Modi said that today's meeting should send out a message of 'one earth, one health' for the whole world," it said. The Group of Seven (G7) comprises the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States. As chair of G7, the UK invited India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa to the summit as guest countries. The leaders of the world's advanced economies are holding a summit in Cornwall in the UK from June 11-13. It is for the first time the leaders of the grouping are meeting since the coronavirus pandemic began. "Participated in the @G7 summit session on health. Thanked partners for the support during the recent Covid-19 wave. India supports global action to prevent future pandemics. 'one earth, one health' is our message to humanity," Modi tweeted During the session, Modi expressed appreciation for the support extended by the G7 and other guest countries during the recent wave of Covid infections in India. "He also explained India's successful use of open-source digital tools for contact tracing and vaccine management, and conveyed India's willingness to share its experience and expertise with other developing countries," the statement said. The prime minister will participate in the final day of the G7 Summit on Sunday and will speak in two sessions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Fraught relationship between Centre and Bengal ends up raising questions about Modi's Digital India||The fraught relationship between the Centre and the Bengal government has spilled over into the GST Council — and ended up raising disturbing questions about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pet project Digital India. On Saturday, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra slammed Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman after his voice was “muzzled” at a crucial meeting that discussed the contentious issue of slashing GST rates on Covid-related products. At the end of a stormy meeting, the council slashed the tax on the Covid-19 drug remdesivir, black fungus medicine amphotericin B and the anti-coagulant heparin to 5 per cent from the earlier 12 per cent. But it refused to accept Bengal’s suggestion to bring down the rate on the Covid vaccines to zero from the existing 5 per cent. In a letter to Sitharaman after the meeting, a seething Mitra said the Centre had delivered a “major blow to the spirit of cooperative federalism” by refusing to let him voice his views. “You gave the floor to the minister from Uttar Pradesh who sought deletion of some of my comments by name and shockingly you agreed,” Mitra said in his letter. “This and other instances in today’s GST Council meeting have dealt a major blow to the spirit of cooperative federalism undermining the very ethos of the GST Council.” Mitra told The Telegraph later in the evening: “What happened today is most shocking. I raised my hand; I screamed to register an official dissent to the decisions taken at the end of the deliberation. But I was not allowed to speak. Maybe they had muted me.” Late in the evening, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur claimed that Mitra’s video connection was not stable and he could not be heard. Thakur’s comment on the state of Mitra’s connectivity cast a shadow on the Modi government’s Digital India campaign and underscored its failure to create high-speed Internet and data networks that can seamlessly patch people who have become increasingly dependent on video-based communications. Trouble apparently erupted when Mitra tried to say that the Modi government had completely mismanaged the pandemic. “I pointed out that the majority of the deaths took place January 16 onwards and at least 40 per cent of those could have been averted if we had an effective vaccine policy and we would not have to see bodies floating in the river,” Mitra said. That comment proved a red rag for Uttar Pradesh which has been facing a lot of flak after bodies were buried on the banks of the Ganga and corpses were found floating down the river. Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Khanna leapt to his state’s defence and demanded that Mitra’s comments be struck off. Sitharaman agreed and closed the meeting in a hurry. Mitra was livid at the manner he had been cut short. “I should have been allowed to respond since the UP minister referred to my comments. But she (Sitharaman) did not do so and the meeting was closed. This has never happened before.… This is a blow to the principle of cooperative federalism,” Mitra told this newspaper. Later, Thakur, the junior minister in Sitharaman’s ministry, tweeted: “It seemed as if the Finance Minister from West Bengal did not have a stable VC connection. The revenue secretary repeatedly informed him his line was breaking — that he was not properly audible and that he should turn off his video for better connectivity.” “During the speech made by the Uttar Pradesh Finance Minister, nobody heard Dr Mitra speak. Nor did he ask to have his opinion heard. Other members can attest to this,” Thakur added, without explaining how Khanna, the Uttar Pradesh minister, could hear Mitra so clearly that Khanna felt compelled to respond. Thakur said: “At the end of the discussion, when FM Sitharaman asked the Council whether anyone would like to speak & add their comments, Dr Mitra again remained silent and did not speak up. The Finance Minister has never stifled dissent in the GST Council. It is unbecoming of a senior member of the Council to suggest that this has happened. The GST Council embodies the collective spirit of all states towards debate in a healthy manner; it has been & shall continue.” In response to a question from this newspaper on Thakur’s tweets, Mitra said on Saturday night: “They heard me all right when I spoke during my turn. But they now say they could not hear when I protested. If that’s the case, they should find out who muted me.” Mitra’s letter put a different interpretation on the nature of the deliberations at an extremely fractious meeting that Sitharaman tried to suggest had been able to achieve broad consensus. The Bengal finance minister described the decisions taken at the GST Council meeting as “anti-people” and ones that had “left him with no option but to record my dissent”. He accused Sitharaman of deciding “not to agree with the suggestions of so many ministers and your final remarks contained some cosmetic modifications of the recommendations of the Group of Ministers (GoM)”. Mitra rubbished the Centre’s claim that a consensus had been hammered out at the meeting. He said that at least seven states, including Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, had demanded a zero tax on vaccines and, alternatively, had proposed a nominal 0.1 per cent tax on Covid-related items. The finance ministers from Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Kerala backed Mitra’s insinuation that the decision of the GST Council was far from consensual. “The GST’s Group of Ministers should stop acting like a shahenshah of yesteryear and instead let compassion speak through its decisions,” Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said. Badal said he and several other finance ministers had vehemently opposed the imposition of GST on Covid-related items during a national crisis and claimed they had all recorded their dissent. “The alternative was to charge a token 0.1 per cent, which is well within the powers of the GST Council. This measure should have been adopted till the pandemic is over,” he said. Sitharaman had contended in the past that a zero tax presented a devilishly complicated problem since it would have to cover a barrel-load of items across the value chain to be really effective. The GST system works on the basis that firms are able to claim credit for the taxes they pay on the inputs they source. The government argues that a zero tax regime on some items will seriously wreck the tax credit claims. The Opposition had suggested that a token 0.1 per cent tax would solve the problem — a suggestion the Centre has ignored. Chhattisgarh finance minister T.S. Singh Deo said the Council had adopted a “majoritarian approach” which went against the principle on which the GST regime was founded: no decision can be taken unless everyone agrees. “The approach now seems to be that the fitment committee (a caucus of bureaucrats) decides on the rates and the Council is expected to act like a rubber stamp. This is disappointing,” Singh Deo added. Kerala finance minister K.N. Balagopal too had lobbied for a zero tax rate on vaccines and suggested that if this was not possible, the Council could set the tax rate at 0.1 per cent. “That way the government could have managed to circumvent the requirement of amending the law and yet provided a much-needed tax relief for these products,” said an official privy to the developments at the two meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Covid jab also helps protect those still unimmunized: Studies||Vaccination against Covid-19 helps protect not only people who have received the jabs but even those still unvaccinated, according to studies from Israel and Finland that scientists say underline the indirect benefits of inoculation. The studies, conducted in populations that had received the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, found that high vaccination rates in specific populations were associated with lower infection rates among the unvaccinated people within those communities. Researchers in Israel have found that for every 20 per cent increase in the number of vaccinated people in different geographical communities, the proportion of Covid-positive cases among unvaccinated people in those populations got halved. Vaccination, while protecting the vaccinated, also provides “cross-protection to unvaccinated individuals”, Roy Kishony, professor of life sciences at the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, and his colleagues said. Israel started its vaccination campaign on December 19 and had covered 50 per cent of its population with a first dose and 35 per cent with a second dose by February 24. The country had also experienced a third Covid-19 surge from mid-December that had peaked in mid-January. The surge occurring alongside the rapid vaccination campaign allowed the researchers to measure the vaccination rates and lab-confirmed infection rates among unvaccinated people in 177 geographically defined communities. They found that the higher the vaccination rates the greater the decline in infections in unvaccinated individuals below 16 years. This protective effect was strong when a high proportion of those vaccinated were aged between 16 and 50 and was insignificant when most of those vaccinated were above 66 years. In Finland, a team led by health economist Lauri Saaksvuori at the University of Turku observed a similar protective effect when it compared infection rates between vaccinated and unvaccinated healthcare workers and their unvaccinated spouses. Their study, not peer-reviewed yet but posted on medRxiv, an online preprint server, estimated an indirect protective effect of the vaccination among the unvaccinated -- of 9 per cent two weeks after the first dose and of 42 per cent 10 weeks after the first dose. The Israel study findings were described in the journal Nature Medicine on Thursday. “We call this the herd effect — a decline in the incidence of infection among unvaccinated people as a result of immunising a proportion of the population,” said T. Jacob John, former professor of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “A vaccinated person is likely to shed lower loads of the virus for shorter durations — this reduces the risk of infection for even the unvaccinated in the community,” John said. “The herd effect has been seen earlier with other injectible vaccines — we’d expected to see it with Covid-19 vaccines too.” The populations studied in Israel and Finland had received the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, which has an efficacy over 91 per cent. India’s vaccination campaign is currently using Covishield with an efficacy of 81 per cent and Covaxin whose efficacy is 78 per cent. “Although the vaccines used in India have lower efficacy, this indirect protection may be expected to be seen here as well,” said Partha Majumder, former director of the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani. “However, to witness the same levels of protection, it might take a larger proportion of the community to be vaccinated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
13-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: When Congress and CPM leaders were slapped with sedition FIR for a banner ||The sedition FIR against filmmaker Aisha Sultana is not the first such case registered in recent months in Lakshadweep, where three politicians were booked on the same charge last December over a hoarding put up against the new citizenship matrix. Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC was invoked against Lakshadweep Congress president M.I. Attakoya and CPM leaders P.P. Rahim and Askar Ali after they received bail following their arrest on lighter charges on December 15, 2020. The hoarding against the Citizenship Amendment Act that led to their arrest carried the line “India is not Narendra Modi’s father’s property”, written in English over a map of India. It featured three men — a Hindu, a Muslim and a Sikh — to portray communal amity. Attakoya’s son and lawyer Ajmal Ahmed said the hoarding had stood at an obscure spot near the Muhiyudheen mosque in Kavaratti for about a year — from the time the anti-CAA protests had erupted in December 2019. But a case was registered only after Praful Khoda Patel took charge as Lakshadweep administrator on December 5. It’s unclear whether Patel had directed the police to book the case. Attakoya, joint convener of the Constitution Protection Samiti, an initiative by all non-BJP parties in Lakshadweep that organised protests against the new citizenship matrix, said he suspected foul play in the case against the three politicians. “We were named in the FIR although none of us had any idea who installed that board,” Attakoya told The Telegraph on Saturday over the phone from Kavaratti. “I first saw that board at the police station when I was summoned to appear before the inspector. Strangely, I found ‘Constitution Protection Samiti’ written, possibly with a pen, at the bottom right corner of the board.” Attakoya, Rahim and Ali are among the topmost leaders of the Samiti. Attakoya stressed: “We had stopped protesting after the then administrator Dineshwar Sharma assured us that the citizenship matrix would not affect us.” The trio were charged under IPC Sections 505-2 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes), 290 (public nuisance) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) read with 34 (common intention). They were arrested and remanded in 14 days’ judicial custody. On December 17, the judicial first-class magistrate on Androth island granted them conditional bail. The prosecution appealed unsuccessfully against the bail before the sessions court in Kavaratti. Days later, “the prosecution added 124A without any reason”, Attakoya said. However, the trio were not rearrested. Attakoya said the case had not been heard since then because the judge got transferred. The Kozhikode district court was put in charge of the cases but “I assume it’s the lockdown that kept the case from being taken up”, he added. Rahim too said he had no idea who had painted and installed the board. “The protests against the CAA and the NRC were total as everyone participated. There were lots of banners, hoardings and posters... we don’t know who put that particular board there,” he said. “We shall fight it out in the court since we are innocent.” The sedition case against the trio has not received the sort of attention attracted by Thursday’s sedition case against Aisha, a non-politician and a filmmaker, actress and model. Aisha has been booked for her reference, during a TV debate, to a “bio-weapon” in connection with the Covid surge in Lakshadweep since Patel’s appointment. Lok Sabha member A.M. Ariff of the CPM has written to the new chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission, Justice Arun Kumar Mishra, seeking his intervention to protect Aisha’s rights. “As you may be aware, even last week, the Hon’ble Supreme Court while quashing the sedition case against senior journalist Vinod Dua had upheld the view in the Kedar Nath Singh judgment (1962) that application of the provision of 124A should be limited to ‘acts involving intention or tendency to create disorder, or disturbance of law and order; or incitement to violence’,” Ariff’s letter says. “Evidently, the remarks of Ms Sultana do not fall in any of the above categories and there is every reason to suspect that the move is at the behest of the present administration of the islands to suppress the voices against it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Rajnath Singh approves policy on archiving, declassification and publication of war history||Defence minister Rajnath Singh has approved a policy on the archiving, declassification and publication of war and operations history, the ministry announced on Saturday. Sources said that under the new policy India could declassify certain aspects of past military operations and wars sooner than the 25-year cutoff period. The policy envisages defence ministry organisations such as the army, navy, air force, coast guard, Integrated Defence Staff and the Assam Rifles to transfer their records, including war diaries, letters of proceedings and operational record books, to the ministry’s history division for proper upkeep, archiving and recording. “The responsibility for declassification of records rests with the respective organisations as specified in the Public Record Act, 1993, and the Public Record Rules, 1997, as amended from time to time. According to the policy, records should ordinarily be declassified in 25 years. Records older than 25 years should be appraised by archival experts and transferred to the National Archives of India once the war/operations histories have been compiled,” said a statement from the ministry. Having war histories written with clear-cut policy on declassification of war records was recommended by the Kargil Review Committee headed by K. Subrahmanyam as well as the N.N. Vohra Committee in order to analyse lessons learnt and prevent mistakes. After the Kargil War, a group of ministers’ recommendations on national security also mentioned the desirability of authoritative war history, the statement said. “Timely publication of war histories would give people accurate accounts of the events, provide authentic material for academic research and counter the unfounded rumours,” it said. The new policy will bring out a change in the workings of the history division and streamline other issues, an official said. Under the new policy, war history is to be formulated by the defence ministry’s history department in coordination with various departments. A joint secretary from the defence ministry will head a committee that will include military, foreign ministry and home ministry representatives and prominent military historians. “The… committee should be formed within two years of completion of war/operations. Thereafter, collection of records and compilation should be completed in three years and disseminated to all concerned,” said the defence ministry statement. Sources in the ministry said even after the new policy, certain operations would continue to remain classified. “The 25-year cutoff period (relaxation) will be taken up on a case-to-case basis under the new policy,” said an official. It is still not clear if the highly confidential histories of the 1947-48 Jammu and Kashmir war, 1962 Sino-India war, 1965 and 1971 India-Pakistan wars and the Henderson Books report on the 1962 war with China would be declassified under the new policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Modi holds meetings with Union ministers, BJP leaders to work out ways of boosting govt’s image ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been holding meetings with Union ministers and BJP leaders at a hectic pace, apparently to work out ways of refurbishing the image of his government and leadership now battered by charges of Covid mismanagement. A deep sense of wariness has beset the ruling dispensation given the way the epidemic’s second wave in India has attracted global spotlight on the Modi government’s failures. While government sources have been tight-lipped about what exactly is being planned to divert attention from the Covid situation, there’s speculation in the power corridors about a cabinet shuffle and the launch of a big-ticket social welfare scheme. “A lot of negativity about India in general and Narendra Modi in particular has been spread by our ideological rivals. We have to change all that,” a BJP politician said. He said that everyone in the BJP had been asked to step up public contact programmes. Government sources have played down the hectic series of meetings, saying they are part of an annual review of key ministries that the Prime Minister undertakes. Modi was closeted with a group of ministers and department officials for over five hours on Thursday, reviewing their performance. BJP president J.P. Nadda was at the meeting, a possible indication that some from the government could be moved to the party and vice versa. Apart from meeting Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Modi had on Friday held a long discussion with home minister Amit Shah and Nadda. In BJP circles, the heightened activity at the Prime Minister’s residence is being seen as preparation for something big to generate a positive buzz. There is expectation about big announcements before the monsoon session of Parliament, likely to begin in July. A cabinet expansion has been speculated about for a long time, given the number of vacancies and the additional responsibilities being borne by many ministers. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who defected from the Congress and helped the BJP capture power in his home state of Madhya Pradesh, has been waiting since last year to be rewarded, BJP insiders said. Scindia has been elected to the Rajya Sabha and expects a prominent berth in the Modi government. Besides, BJP sources said, a cabinet expansion could also help the party ahead of the Assembly elections next year in five states, including the key state of Uttar Pradesh. For instance, they said, Apna Dal chief Anupriya Patel, a disgruntled ally from Uttar Pradesh who was a minister in the first Modi government, could be re-indicted to get the support of her backward caste community of Kurmis. But the expectations and curiosity are centred more on the possible social schemes the government might be planning. Party sources said the various social welfare measures implemented during Modi’s first term had aided the party’s big victory in 2019. They suggested the launch of new welfare programmes now could dispel the Covid gloom and help regain voter support. They added that Modi’s recent announcement of the “corrective measure” of facilitating free vaccination for all adults too would go some way in improving the government’s image.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Congress: Narendra Modi a coward, lacks compassion||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mettle as a statesman and his ability to feel compassion while lamenting that he had acted like a “coward” when the country so badly needed true leadership during the devastating pandemic. She listed several failures and alleged misdeeds — ranging from the misreading of the pandemic to not paying heed to timely warnings, from not making preparations for treatment of patients to bungling of the procurement and distribution of vaccines. “If he had the mettle of a statesman, or the compassion and bravery of a true leader, he would have come forward and comforted his countrymen when they most needed reassurance and succour. He would have moved heaven and earth to stand by us all without making excuses,” Priyanka wrote on Facebook as part of her series titled “Who is responsible” in which she has pledged to “expose” the government’s failures. “He did none of this. He simply retreated and waited for the worst to pass. The Prime Minister has behaved like a coward. He has let our country down. The whole world has witnessed his incompetence at governance. His vast capacity for vanity has been exposed. Indians do not come first for him. Politics does. Truth does not concern him, propaganda does. The time has come for us to ask him: Zimmedar kaun (Who is responsible)?” the Congress leader added. Priyanka pointed out that good governance in a crisis was about confronting the truth, taking responsibility and executing actions. “Unfortunately, the government did none of these. Instead, from the beginning of the pandemic, it made every attempt to hide the truth and to shirk responsibility. Had the Prime Minister prioritised the people of India above his own PR and image building, we would not have the shortage of vaccines we have today. Had he woken up from his slumber and ordered vaccines in the summer of 2020 instead of waiting till January 2021, he could have saved countless lives,” Priyanka said. She drew attention to how Modi had ignored warnings from parliamentary committees and the government’s own empowered group on an impending oxygen crisis. “Instead of distributing free vaccines across the world to boost his own image, had he paused for a moment and protected his countrymen first, we would not be standing in line today grappling with a convoluted registration system designed to slow down the vaccine process,” Priyanka said. “Had the Prime Minister gathered the courage to fight the pandemic head-on, he could have taken even his opponents along in this battle for Indian lives. He could have engaged with experts, critics, allies and the Opposition fearlessly. He could have used the media as a disseminator of life-saving information about Covid rather than as a propaganda tool to promote his own image.” Priyanka also took strong objection to the Prime Minister’s appearance on television to try to shift the blame onto the states instead of supporting them in their battle against Covid by sanctioning resources and clearing their dues. “Had he been an informed and competent leader, he would have planned, strategised and prepared for the inevitable second wave. He would not have set aside the tools of science and modernity and transported us back through thaali-banging and lamp-lighting rituals into the darkness of bygone centuries described by the poet Nirala,” the Congress leader said. Priyanka quoted from poet-author Suryakant Tripathi Nirala’s novel Kulli Bhaat where he had thus described scenes from the Spanish flu a hundred years ago: “The waters of the river Ganga were filled with corpses. There was no wood left in crematoriums to cremate the dead. In the blink of an eye, my family had vanished from before me.” Referring to the similarities with the current situation, Priyanka wrote: “They are eerily prescient, even more so now because we live in modern times, when such scenes of collective turmoil caused by an abdication of governance ought to be a thing of the past.” The Congress expressed grave concern over alleged data manipulation by BJP state governments to hide the actual number of Covid deaths, demanding a judicial probe to find out the truth. Referring to media reports about the stark differences in government claims and death figures collected from crematoriums and burial grounds, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “This government considers data as enemy, considers truth which comes out through data as enemy number one. It fights with data on jobs, on the economy, on Covid deaths.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Exodus from BJP continues for second consecutive day in Lakshadweep ||The exodus from the BJP continued for the second consecutive day in Lakshadweep with party general secretary Syed Mohammed Koya resigning on Saturday. A senior leader of the party’s Lakhshadweep unit, Koya had contested on a BJP ticket in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The spate of resignations was triggered by the sedition case on the first woman filmmaker from the islands, Aisha Sultana, who was named in an FIR for calling new administrator Praful Khoda Patel a “bio-weapon” during a television debate for his controversial decisions that are believed to have led to massive Covid surge in the Union Territory that was free from the pandemic for a year. Twelve party leaders had resigned on Friday protesting the sedition complaint against Aisha thus triggering unrest within the BJP. Sources said many more BJP workers and local leaders are getting ready to quit, as their very existence in a party that has supported the contentious steps taken by the administration has put them under pressure. A leaked audio clip from a purported telephone conversation between BJP national vice-president A.P. Abdullakutty, who is in charge of the Lakshadweep unit, and local general secretary Mohammed Qasim has further established the discontent within the party. “Let me tell you something. If you have committed a blunder, (you) have to own it up. I have full faith in Lakshadweep,” an angry Qasim was heard saying. His outburst was apparently against Abdullakutty for getting the Lakshadweep party president to lodge a complaint against Aisha which led to the sedition case that has put the party in trouble. “What should I reconsider? The complaint against Aisha Sultana who made an anti-national comment? Are you saying that complaint should be withdrawn?” Abdullakutty is heard asking. Another audio tape emerged on Friday purportedly featuring the voice of Lakshadweep BJP vice-president K.P. Muthukoya describing the “bio-weapon” remark as “an opportunity given by Allah”. He then went on to exhort Abdullakutty to leverage on the issue. To this, Abdullakutty is purportedly heard saying: “This will get a lot of news space. We need to consider that as well. Send two or three videos.” But on the contrary, the party’s stand against Aisha and the leaked audio clip in which the two leaders spoke about utilising the opportunity only worsened matters within the BJP unit in the islands. Eight party leaders had resigned earlier protesting the controversial reforms carried out after Patel took charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Free speech curbs in India flagged in United States||India remains the world’s largest democracy with a strong rule of law but some of the Indian government’s actions, including restrictions on freedom of expression, have raised concerns that are “inconsistent with the country’s democratic values”, a top US official has told lawmakers. Dean Thompson, acting assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asia, also revealed that the Joe Biden administration had urged the Indian government to ensure a speedy return to normality in Kashmir. He cited the restoration of 4G access — in February, 18 months after it was snapped — as one of the steps that has been taken. Thompson’s remarks came during a Congressional hearing on Democracy in the Indo-Pacific on Wednesday at the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, Central Asia and Non-Proliferation. “India remains the world’s largest democracy with a strong rule of law and independent judiciary and enjoys a strong and growing strategic partnership with the US,” Thompson said. “However, some of the Indian government’s actions have raised concerns that are inconsistent with India’s democratic values,” he said. “This includes increasing restrictions on freedom of expression and the detention of human rights activists and journalists.” India has previously rejected criticism by foreign governments and human rights groups on allegations that civil liberties have eroded in the country. Responding to a question from a lawmaker, who had raised the issue of human rights in Kashmir, Thompson said that the Joe Biden administration routinely raises issues related to a vast array of rights and democratic issues with India. “Kashmir is one area where we have urged them to return to normalcy as quickly as possible, including we’ve seen some steps taken: The release of prisoners, the restoration of 4G access, things of that nature. There are other electoral steps we’d like to see them take and that we have encouraged them to do and will continue to do so,” he said. The Kashmir issue was raised by Congresswoman Chrissy Houlahan, who represents a Congressional district from Pennsylvania. “Although of course, they’re two great democracies, democracies including ours and India’s are not without their flaws and problems. I do have a pretty big (number of) Kashmiris in my community and there is, of course, concern about the treatment of the Kashmir people,” she said. “What is the dialogue that is ongoing between the administration and the Indian government on these human rights issues broadly, if you could share a little bit there?” she asked. Responding to another question from lawmakers, Thompson said the US has been concerned in Pakistan and Bangladesh about some of the restrictions on journalists there. “Similarly, at times, that has happened in India; though, I think, India, we can say, has a very vibrant press overall that reports very freely on its government,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||CBSE considers grades instead of marks for Class XII students||The Central Board of Secondary Education is considering a suggestion to award grades instead of marks to its Class XII students, whose board exams have been scrapped because of the pandemic, officials said. They said the central universities are likely to admit undergraduate students through a computer-based common entrance test — to be held at centres across the country possibly in July or August — without giving any weightage to board results. The CBSE is examining options such as deciding the results on the basis of the students’ performances in their Class X boards, Class XI annual exam and Class XII pre-board exam. Another option is to base the results on the Class X board exams and all the Class XI exams including the unit tests, half-yearly exam and pre-board exam, education ministry officials said. The second option owes to a fear that the schools’ assessment of their students in the pre-board or half-yearly Class XII exams might have left too much room for subjectivity. In contrast, the Class XI exams were held at a time when the schools were unaware the scores might play a role in determining the Class XII results. The board has received these suggestions from school principals over the past two weeks and set up a 12-member committee to examine them all and finalise the criteria for deciding the results. The criteria may be announced next week. “Since the board exams are not being held and the results are to be announced on the basis of the students’ past performance, it would not be fair to award exact marks,” an official said. “A large number of principals have suggested that the students be awarded grades on the basis of their marks from past exams.” For a brief period, the CBSE used to award grades — such as A1, A, B1, B, C1, C, D and E — to its Class X students on the basis of a “continuous and comprehensive evaluation” policy. This has been discontinued. The state boards too are finalising their criteria for the announcement of results. Entrance test An education ministry official said that a common entrance test is likely to be held from this year for admission to any undergraduate or postgraduate course in the central universities. This means that tens of thousands of students whose Class XII boards have been scrapped may still be travelling to exam centres across the country sometime in July or August. The undergraduate medical entrance test, NEET, too remains slated for August. The official said an expert committee had recommended 50 per cent weightage for the entrance test and 50 per cent for the board results while selecting students for undergraduate courses at the central universities. “But the 50 per cent weightage for the board results may be put on hold this year because we expect a lot of variations among the school boards’ criteria for determining the Class XII results,” the official said. “Admission may be based entirely on the entrance test scores.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha forms committees to address issues raised by women farmers at protest sites ||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday formed committees to address complaints and issues raised by women farmers at the protest sites along Delhi’s borders against the backdrop of an alleged sexual assault on a woman activist. The committees will “look into redress of any complaint”, the SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, said in a statement. An announcement was first made in May to form a Mahila Suraksha Samiti, days after the alleged sexual assault on the activist at the Tikri border protest site. The woman later died of Covid at a private hospital in Haryana. “Committees have been formed at all protest sites to look into redress of any related complaints and to prevent any occurrence of harassment or any other violation.… 9818119954 is the phone number where related issues can be raised,” the SKM said in the statement. It added that the SKM “respects the rights of women protesters, wants their safety protected in all ways and welcomes their active participation in the current movement”. Protesting farmer unions will be organising dharnas in front of governor houses across the country on June 26 to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation. “Save Agriculture, Save Democracy” will be the main message of the day, sit-ins will be organised in front of Raj Bhavans in all states and memoranda will be submitted. A detailed action plan for Mission UP and Uttarakhand will also be taken up soon within the SKM,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
13-06-2021||India||Four killed in militant attack on police team in north Kashmir||A militant attack on a police team followed by an exchange of fire left two cops and two civilians dead and three injured in north Kashmir’s Sopore town on Saturday. The Jammu and Kashmir administration and police blamed militants for the civilian deaths. Dozens of women mourners, however, raised slogans in favour of azaadi (freedom) and militants and against the police during the funerals of two of the dead, baring the anger in the Valley against the government and embarrassing the administration of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. Director-general of police Dilbag Singh said a joint police and CRPF team enforcing the Covid lockdown was fired upon by Lashkar-e-Toiba militants in the main Sopore town around 11.30am. “A police party led by sub-inspector Mukesh Kumar was fired upon. They retaliated with fire. During all this, some policemen got injured. Some civilian fruit vendors were also hit. Subsequently, two injured policemen — constables Wasim and Showkat — succumbed,” the DGP told reporters in Srinagar. Singh said sub-inspector Kumar and special police officer Danish had suffered injuries, apart from a civilian. The police have identified the slain policemen as constables Wasim Ahmed Bhat and Showkat Ahmed Parray, both from Budgam district of central Kashmir. The dead civilians are Bashir Ahmad Khan and Showkat Ahmad Shalla, both from Sopore. Police sources said the militants had opened indiscriminate fire on a police gypsy, during which the vehicle suffered extensive damage. While the security personnel retaliated, it is not clear how the civilians died. A video posted by a local photojournalist on his Facebook page showed women mourning the death of constable Wasim Ahmad, raising pro-azaadi and anti-India slogans at his Narbal home on Srinagar’s outskirts. A woman was seen trying to stop the others from chanting such slogans but they are unrelenting. During civilian Bashir Ahmad’s funeral in Sopore, eyewitnesses said women protesters, including some family members of the dead, converged outside the graveyard and raised pro-azaadi and anti-police slogans. Such protests are now rare in Kashmir because of the government’s zero tolerance of all forms of dissent. The police routinely book people for raising pro-azaadi slogans under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA. The Jammu and Kashmir administration and Valley-based pro-India parties condemned the militant attack and the deaths. “Strongly condemn the terror attack on civilians and security personnel at Sopore, Baramulla. My sincere condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones in this attack. Praying for the early recovery of the injured,” lieutenant governor Sinha tweeted. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said such attacks should be condemned. “Guns cannot solve the issue of Jammu and Kashmir. It can neither be solved by Delhi’s gun nor by the gun of our youth here. It will further deteriorate the issue and malign people in Jammu and Kashmir, and (in) the name of (tackling) terrorism more force (will be) used here,” the People’s Democratic Party leader said. National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “Terrible news coming in from Sopore. Such attacks must be condemned without reservations. Prayers for the injured & condolences to the families of the deceased.” Militant attacks in the Valley have shown no let up despite claims by the security forces to the contrary. Militants this month killed BJP leader Rakesh Pandita, a Kashmiri Pandit and chairman of the Tral municipal committee. DGP Singh on Saturday claimed militancy was on the decline. “We have good control over the situation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-64
