14-06-2021||India||May was by far the deadliest pandemic month by all counts||The latest shocker in the Covid-19 death toll comes from predominantly rural Madhya Pradesh which recorded five times the normal number of deaths last month when the second wave was at its peak. Pre-pandemic, the state logged around 31,000 deaths in May 2018 and May 2019, according to the Civil Registration System (CRS) which records all births and deaths. This May, though, 160,000 people died during the same time. That’s quintuple the usual number of deaths in that month or, to put it another way, around 129,000 more than in usual years. May was the month when Covid-19 raged out of control. But look at the figures between January 1, and May 31 of this year and the discrepancies are also glaring. Madhya Pradesh, with a population of 84.5 million people has officially reported 4,461 coronavirus deaths in that period. But the Civil Registration System says there were 330,000 deaths between January 1 and May 31, according to figures accessed by data journalist Rukmini S. This is 42 times the usual figure for this period though we must remember that all the deaths reported by the Civil Registration System were not due to Covid-19. Turn to Andhra Pradesh where a similar story has unfolded over the last few months. Here Rukmini S. reports over 130,000 deaths in May which is five times the usual number. From January to May, so-called “excess mortality” in the state was 34 times the officially recorded Covid-19 deaths. These are only two of the latest states where it’s been shown that India has been under-counting its pandemic fatalities on a massive scale. The Economist magazine remarked trenchantly that “evidence continues to accumulate that the government’s numbers represent a disturbingly small fraction of the real figure.” The magazine adds that the incorrect tallies have “made the crisis worse, for instance, by causing authorities to underestimate demand for oxygen and drugs.” India officially puts out a death toll of 370,000. Epidemiologists, public health bodies along with The Economist and other respected publications reckon this falls far short of the real total. For instance, the Washington-based Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) estimates the real death figure is closer to 1.1 million currently and could rise to 1.2 million by October. In late April, epidemiologist Bhramar Mukherjee projected that the total number of deaths could be between two and 15 times more than the official total. Two times the official total of 370,000 deaths would be 740,000 deaths. Fifteen times the official number would work out to 5.5 million fatalities. Many ways of undercounting Undercounting happens in many ways. There is the widespread practice of excluding from the coronavirus death toll Covid-19 patients with comorbidities (which violates Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines). There is also the fact that many people, especially those in rural areas, don’t have access to Covid-19 tests, so record-keeping is weak. In addition, many infections are missed because they are mild or asymptomatic. That’s why all-cause mortality figures are proving to be so useful in providing a much more complete picture of the true pandemic death toll, not only in India but around the world. As the rush of cases slows down slightly, several states are looking through their numbers once again. Bihar has just admitted that massive undercounting has taken place in the state. Till this week the state, with a population of 130 million, had 716,000 Covid-19 cases and 5,424 deaths. Under pressure from the Patna High Court, the state government revised its death figures to 9,375 –a leap of 72 per cent. Move over to Maharashtra where the number of Covid-19 cases is dropping sharply but the fatalities are still high. Here, a different scenario is being played out. The state government’s looking to put right its numbers and get a more accurate count of how many people fell ill and how many succumbed and revised its death figures upwards by 6,500 deaths last week – mostly deaths that took place in April and May. Honest numbers The government expects that the reassessments will add between 11,000 and 12,000 to the state’s death toll. Maharashtra government officials say the miscounting happened for two reasons: firstly, private hospital data were not properly recorded. Secondly, some overly zealous government officials tried to keep numbers down. Maharashtra has the highest death toll with 1.08 lakh fatalities. But experts believe it’s one of the few states that have attempted to present honest numbers to the world. The Economist report drew a sharp retort from the Union Government which issued a statement titled: “Myths Vs Facts on Covid-19 mortality figures.” The government adds: “It is a speculative article which is without any basis and seems to be misinformed.” Other state governments face similar charges of deflating official Covid-19 fatalities by many orders of magnitude. In Gujarat, for instance, Divya Bhaskar reported the state issued 123,000 death certificates between March 1 and May 31 compared to 58,000 during the same period last year. It reported only 4,218 Covid-19 deaths during this time. Govt view contested The Union government has portrayed India as a country with one of the lowest coronavirus death rates in the world at 230 per million. But new epidemiological and other studies contest this view. These studies suggest the country has had five-to-six times the number of “excess deaths” since the start of the pandemic which would push up Covid-19 fatality estimates to the 1.8 million-to-2.4 million range. Epidemiologists are going beyond government-issued Covid-19 death statistics that are frequently patchy to examine cremation and burial records, obituaries, death certificates company death tolls and insurance claims. Certain states stand out because of their low numbers. It now looks like Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh with their unusually low death figures have almost certainly been fudging their numbers. Then there’s India’s largest state, Uttar Pradesh, with a population of about 200 million. It’s had countless bodies floating down the Ganga River or buried by its banks. UP says it has had 1.7 million cases and 21,735 deaths – a death rate of under 1 per cent. By contrast, Karnataka. with a population of 61 million, has reported 2.7 million cases and Kerala, with a population of 35 million, has also recorded 2.7 million cases. Reports from crematoria in cities like Kanpur indicate that deaths during April and May far exceeded those in normal times. The Uttar Pradesh government has vigorously denied it has concealed figures and also insisted that by tradition some communities bury their dead by the Ganga or even float them in the river. It’s clear now that under-reporting has taken place in every state but the scale of under-reporting has been vastly different. Some, like Maharashtra, are thought to have been reporting their figures more honestly. Similarly, Kerala has been considered to have been reasonably upfront about its reporting. Neighbour states odd differences But there are odd differences between neighbouring states. For instance, it’s clear now that under-counting has taken place in Andhra Pradesh which has a population of 53 million. It officially lists 1.8 million cases and 11,882 deaths. But next-door Telangana, which has a population of 39 million, has reported far lower figures: 600,000 cases and 3,469 deaths. Move further south to Tamil Nadu, which has generally been considered to be more honest about its Covid-19 figures. Tamil Nadu’s civil registration data only shows annual data. But even this clearly reveals excess deaths. The number of deaths on average in 2018 and 2019 was about 400,000. This year in the 164 days between January and June there were 593,000 deaths. That’s 7.5 times the official Covid death toll of 29,547. AI- powered feedback Prashnam, which calls itself India’s first AI-powered opinion feedback company, in collaboration with The Print, asked 14,481 people in rural areas of six big Hindi heartland states -- Bihar, Haryana, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh _ whether they had lost a family member or neighbour to Covid in the last three months. Among the states, 21 per cent of those surveyed in Madhya Pradesh replied yes. In the other states, 15 per cent to 17 per cent of those surveyed gave affirmative answers. Prashnam then compared its findings to a similar University of Chicago survey in March that suggested 19 per cent of Americans lost a close friend or relative to Covid-19, figures which were broadly in line with the Indian numbers. The survey group said that assuming the US has recorded deaths more accurately than India, the real coronavirus fatality rate should be similar to the US rate of 1,800 per million people. “If one were to then use America’s death rate per million people for India, the Covid-19 deaths estimate in India will work out to roughly 2.5 million people,” Prashnam said. CVoter has been conducting surveys in the same vein as Prashnam, but daily, asking whether an immediate family member had died from Covid-19. It found the number replying “yes” zoomed to a peak of 7.4 per cent in the April-May period from 1 per cent in the months following the first wave. Based on these findings, CVoter estimates that Covid-19 had taken the lives of around 1.83 million people up to mid-May. The coronavirus now seems to be losing momentum. But with experts forecasting a third wave that could be even more devastating, it’s vital to keep an accurate tally of infection and fatality numbers to ensure that we don’t become complacent and are able to head off further catastrophe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
14-06-2021||India||Instagram removes objectionable content on Hindu gods and goddesses||Social networking site Instagram has informed the Delhi High Court that it removed certain objectionable content relating to Hindu gods and goddesses posted by a user on its platform. Justice Rekha Palli also issued notice and sought response of Facebook and Instagram on a plea seeking direction to implement Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules 2021 in its true letter and spirit. The court was informed by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Facebook which owns Instagram, that the content has already been removed and assured that keeping in view the grievance raised by the petitioner, the respondents will not disseminate the copies of the petition to any unrelated third party. He also submitted that a Grievance Officer has already been appointed by Facebook under the new IT Rules, and the person concerned will also function in the same capacity for Instagram. The court also issued notice and sought response of the Centre on a prayer that the government and the social media networks be directed to discharge their executive, statutory and all other obligations in relation to the IT Rules without any delay and listed the matter for further hearing on August 16 before the regular bench. Petitioner Aditya Singh Deshwal submitted that while using Instagram, he found highly obnoxious or objectionable posts put up by a user named as Islam Ki Sherni' and that the content uploaded showed abusive language written about Hindu gods and goddesses along with their vulgar representation in the form of cartoons and graphics. The petitioner, represented through senior advocate G.Tushar Rao and lawyer Ayush Saxena, sought that the content should be removed at the earliest from the platform. The plea has also sought direction to Instagram to preserve all the details associated with these user accounts and place them before the court to expose the identity of culprits behind these objectionable posts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
14-06-2021||India||Rajlakshmi Patil, a young author, and environmentalist is an inspiration to the youth of India||Today, the world is facing an unprecedented set of circumstances: the global climate crisis, as well as the coronavirus pandemic. This has shaken our economy and overall health. But rather than fearing the uncertainty and the challenges that lie ahead, we come across an impressive young Indian girl leading the fight for a better world. Meet 18-year-old Rajlakshmi V Patil - a Student, an Author, an Environmentalist, an Activist, and more. She has published a book on her poems 'Mystic' which has gained a lot of popularity with readers. During their adolescent years, most of the teens are busy with studies or other activities and hardly are concerned about our environment or contributing to society. However, in our country, there are many bright minds who think ahead of their time and achieve remarkable accomplishments. One such young achiever is Mumbai-based Rajlakshmi Patil. Her focus has always been on creating a better world. And she is duly supported and motivated by her parents Dr. Vijay D Patil and Shivani Vijay Patil to make a real difference in the community. If we talk about the environment, then climate change and environmental conservation have been a global topic of discussion worldwide. But the need of the hour is to rise up and take action on climate change rather than just mere talks. Rajlakshmi, with a passion for protecting the environment, is doing the best she can and confidently making her voice heard for a better future for the coming generations. Here are some of her notable achievements: She spearheaded the ‘Beat Air Pollution’ Campaign - June 2019 in collaboration with the United Nations Environment. She participated in various environmental campaigns with the School's Green Council and the D Y Patil Faculty from September 2019 to - Present. Rajlakshmi raised awareness about the role of trees in reducing air pollution. For this, she even participated with 90 students in an event to encourage tree plantations in the area. And there's more. She recently graduated from her international boarding school - Aiglon College in Switzerland with the environmental prize. This environmental prize is awarded to the student who has shown in their actions that they understand the tenet that to deal with a global environment issue one must first deal with the issue at a local level. At a young age, Rajlakshmi has been a part of several campaigns and cleanliness drives and strongly advocates for a clean and green environment. She feels that 'Mother Earth does not need a change. In fact, human being's attitude and behaviour towards the environment must change in order to conserve nature. We need to start improving our habits of living and automatically the environment will become better.' Recently corona pandemic has taken the entire world by storm, so the young Rajlakshmi with her friend had organized a fund-raising campaign to help the people in need. She had managed to raise more than 1lakh rupees. They utilized this money collected from funds to aid the frontline workers and others who are working to help those affected by the coronavirus. They used the funds to buy essentials such as groceries, masks, sanitary products, and other items for workers who are dedicatedly and tirelessly working for saving lives in our country. Apart from being a champion for environment conservation, and a social activist, Rajlakshmi is also a noted Author. She has been writing some heart-touching poems since the age of 13 and has continued doing so till the present. Her collection of poems has been published as a book named 'Mystic' which is an anthology of the poems she has written and expresses her thoughts and aspirations. She fondly remembers her grandfather, DR D Y Patil, who has been an inspiration in her life.  Her poems have been inspired by different circumstances in her life - during her stay at the boarding school in the beautiful Alps and in Mumbai, the city of dreams and other phases of her life. She beautifully pens down her emotions and feelings into words which soothes one's mind. With the motto in life, 'Service before self,' Rajlakshmi is marching ahead with a humble attitude to bring about a positive change in society and selflessly serve the people of her nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
14-06-2021||India||Covid curfew extended for another week in Uttarakhand||The Uttarakhand government on Monday extended the Covid curfew in the state till June 22 but announced some important relaxations such as opening the chardham yatra for locals on the condition of a negative RT-PCR test report. The period of the current curfew in the state was to come to an end at 6 am on Tuesday morning. "We have decided to extend the curfew for another week to June 22 in view of the COVID-19 situation. The old SOPs will largely remain in force except a few major changes such as opening the doors of the Himalayan temples for locals with negative RT-PCR reports," Cabinet Minister and state government's official spokesman Subodh Uniyal said. "People of Chamoli district now have the permission to visit Badrinath temple for 'darshan' if they have a negative RT-PCR test report. Similarly, people of Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts can also now visit Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri respectively with a negative RT-PCR test report," the minister said. The famous four Himalayan temples in Uttarakhand though open since May for daily prayers have been out of bounds for pilgrims. Revenue courts have also been reopened with certain restrictions, he said. Means of public transport like auto rickshaws and tempos have been allowed to ply on the roads and shops selling sweets can now open for five days in a week, Uniyal said. Fifty people can now attend marriage ceremonies and funerals instead of the present permission for 20. However, those attending weddings will have to bring a negative RT-PCR test reports. District Magistrates have been authorised to relax the restrictions for market places in rural areas based on their assessment of the Covid situation, he said. On the decision to extend the curfew, Uniyal said the cases of COVID-19 may have come down but it would be premature to say that the pandemic challenge has been overcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
14-06-2021||India||Chidambaram takes dig at PM over his G7 speech||The government should practise in India what it preaches to the world, Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Monday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed on democracy and freedom of thought at a G7 meet. Prime Minister Modi on Sunday said India is a natural ally for the G7 and its partners in defending democracy, freedom of thought and liberty from a host of threats stemming from authoritarianism, terrorism, violent extremism and economic coercion. "PM Modi's speech at the G7 Outreach meeting is inspiring as well as ironic. The Modi government should practise in India what it preaches to the world," Chidambaram tweeted in response. He added that it was "sad" the prime minister was the only guest not physically present at the outreach meeting. "Ask yourself why? Because India is an outlier as far as the fight against Covid 19 is concerned. We are the most infected and least vaccinated country (as a proportion of the population)," the former Union minister said. The prime minister made a virtual address at an outreach session of a summit of the Group of Seven (G7) richest democracies held in Cornwall in Britain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Delhi govt sets up vaccine centre for people travelling abroad||The Delhi government on Monday started a special vaccination centre in the city for students, athletes and people who have to travel abroad for work, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said here. Sisodia had on Sunday announced that those travelling abroad for these specific reasons can get their second dose of Covishield vaccine at this particular centre after a gap of just 28 days. The centre has been set up at the Navyug School on Mandir Marg. Those who wish to avail the facility will have to carry their passports and relevant travel documents. According to officials, this facility will be available to those who need to undertake international travel within August 31. The second dose of Covishield vaccine can be taken after a gap of 28 to 84 days at this centre by students who have to go abroad for studies, people taking up jobs in foreign countries and athletes, sportspersons and accompanying staff of the Indian contingent attending the International Olympics to be held in Tokyo, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload lowest in 74 days||India recorded a single-day rise of 70,421 new COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 74 days, taking the country's infection tally to 2,95,10,410 out of which 2,81,62,947 people have recuperated from the disease while the count of active cases fell below 10 lakhs after over two months, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases for the 32nd consecutive day in the country. The COVID-19 death toll in the country climbed to 3,74,305, with 3,921 fatalities recorded in a span of 24 hours and the case fatality rate has increased to 1.27 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The count of active cases has further declined to 9,73,158 which is 3.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.43 per cent. A net decline of 53,001 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. Also, 14,92,152 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total number of such examinations in the country so far to 37,96,24,626, it stated, adding that the daily positivity rate was recorded 4.72 per cent. It has stayed below 10 per cent for 21 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has also reduced and stands at 4.54 per cent. Cumulatively, 25,48,49,301 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4. The 3,921 new fatalities include 2,771 from Maharashtra, 267 from Tamil Nadu, 206 from Kerala and 125 from Karnataka. A total of 3,74,305 deaths have been reported so far in the country. This includes 1,11,104 from Maharashtra, 32,913 from Karnataka, 29,547 from Tamil Nadu, 24,823 from Delhi, 21,786 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,896 from West Bengal, 15,562 from Punjab and 13,317 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||LJP MPs join hands against Chirag Paswan, seek to oust him as their leader||Five of the six Lok Janshakti Party MPs in the Lok Sabha have joined hands against their leader Chirag Paswan and elected Pashupati Kumar Paras in his place, causing a big churn in Bihar politics. Paras on Monday lauded Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as a good leader and "vikas purush" (development-oriented man), highlighting the deep fault lines within the party as his nephew Chirag Paswan has been a strong critic of the JD(U) president. " I have not broken the party but saved it," Paras, MP from Hajipur, told reporters. He asserted that 99 per cent of LJP workers were unhappy with the turn of events in Bihar as Paswan led his party against the JD(U) and fared poorly in the 2020 assembly polls. Paras said his group will continue to be part of the BJP-led NDA, and said Paswan can remain part of the organisation. The group of five MPs has conveyed their decision of electing Paras as the LJP leader in Lok Sabha to the Speaker. There has been no comment from Paswan on the issue. Soon after Paras spoke to reporters, Paswan drove to his uncle's residence in the national capital to meet him. After waiting for some time in his car, he was allowed inside. Paras, however, was not there. Paswan's cousin and MP Prince Raj also stays at the same address. "There are six MPs in our party. It was the desire of five MPs to save our party. So I have not split the party, I have saved it. Chirag Paswan is my nephew as well as party's national president. I have no objections to him," Paras said, as quoted by ndtv.com. While the rebel group, which includes MPs Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser, has long been unhappy with his style of functioning, sources said, the LJP president has now been left virtually isolated at the top after taking on the mantle following his father Ram Vilas Paswan's death in 2020. Sources close to him have blamed the JD(U) for the split, saying the party had long been working to isolate the LJP president after his decision to go all out against Chief Minister Kumar in the 2020 assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Covid: Worrying shortfall, lag in genome sequencing ||India has furnished coronavirus genomes from 0.05 per cent of its Covid-19 patients, a tiny fraction of its own target, scientists have said amid concerns that the signals from even the limited sequencing efforts have not triggered timely interventions to save lives. A study on global sequencing efforts released on Thursday said India had until June 2 documented over 28.3 million lab-confirmed Covid-19 infections but deposited 15,614 sequences in an international online sequence repository available for scientific analysis. The Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog), launched in January 2021, has sequenced over 30,000 samples but scientists say this is below 4 per cent of the original target of sequencing 5 per cent of all the about 17 million positive cases detected since mid-January. The consortium of 10 government labs across the country with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, as the nodal lab is tasked with looking for coronavirus variants that might be associated with unusual outbreaks, higher transmission or altered disease patterns. Some medical researchers have said they are worried about both the low quantum of sequencing in the country and the significant lags between sample collection and sequence submission into the database for pattern detection and actionable alerts to governments. The sequencing study by scientists at the Institute of Bioinformatics and Biotechnology (IBAB), Bangalore, has found that India’s median, or midpoint, collection-to-submission time (CTS) lag was 57 days for the 15,614 sequences submitted. The UK has had the shortest lag of 16 days for over 417,000 genomes while the US lag was 26 days for over 498,000 genomes. “We know this virus is evolving rapidly — countries should aim to track variants as early as possible,” said Gaurav Sharma, the IBAB scientist who led the study, not yet peer-reviewed but posted on bioRxiv, an online preprint server. “A lag of 57 days would mean variants get eight weeks to circulate unnoticed,” he said. India’s 57-day lag is not the longest in the continent. Asia’s average lag is 72 days for over 95,000 genomes, with Singapore’s 26-day lag for 2,405 genomes being the shortest and Qatar’s 289 days for 2,298 genomes being the longest. Sharma and his colleagues Gayatri Saberwal and Kishan Kalia have called for urgent steps to address “bottlenecks” that contribute to long lags between collections and submissions. While logistical challenges may delay sequencing, they said, it is possible that even after rapid sequencing, genomes might not be promptly uploaded for various reasons, expressing concern that in some countries bureaucratic processes might delay submissions. In countries with long lags, the variants may get enough time to establish themselves over a region or even evolve into completely new variants if quick tracking, tracing and actions to stop transmission are not undertaken rapidly, the scientists have cautioned. The Insacog initiative, announced in late December as a centrally supported multi-agency drive, didn’t receive funds until March, delaying sequencing efforts, consortium scientists have said, explaining one factor that they say contributed to India’s relatively low genome-to-case ration. “But even when signals emerged about possibly worrisome variants, from Maharashtra in mid-February and from Punjab by mid-March, we didn’t see the rapid actions that could have curbed further spread and perhaps save lives,” a senior consortium scientist told The Telegraph. A Pune lab had by mid-February spotted what would later be designated the B.1.617 variant in samples from unusually large outbreaks in central Maharashtra. Two senior consortium scientists have told this newspaper that follow-up action on the variant was slower than it should have been. By March 23, sequencing efforts at the NCDC had indicated that 80 per cent of samples from Punjab were B.1.117, the fast-spreading variant first detected in the UK. “That was adequate evidence to justify strong and immediate interventions,” one of the two scientists said. A query sent by this newspaper to the NCDC asking whether the detection of the B.1.117 in the Punjab samples should have triggered interventions or public alerts calling for extra precautions did not evoke a response. But while the counts of daily new infections grew in Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab, along with other states, in March, the scientist said, there were no special public alerts about extra precautions that were needed to curb the spread of the B.1.117 or the B.1.617. “The consortium started with strong ambitions but they’ve been watered down,” another scientist said. “Instead of sequencing 5 per cent genomes from positive samples, the health ministry has asked states to send 300 samples per month. Is that enough to detect early signals? I’m not sure.” Amid such concerns, Kerala and Maharashtra have launched their own sequencing efforts. Health authorities in both states are collaborating with the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, to sequence 100 genomes from every district each month — 1,400 genomes from Kerala’s 14 districts and 3,600 genomes from Maharashtra’s 36. Kerala has already used genome information for policies, said a senior doctor involved in the state’s programme. “The emergence of the highly transmissible B.1.117 variant in the state was one of the reasons the state called on people to wear double masks,” the doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Indian-origin author claims to have turned down an MBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours List||Indian-origin author Nikesh Shukla has revealed he turned down an MBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours List because he does not wish to be associated with what it stands for — “Member of the Order of the British Empire”. He tweeted: “Last month I was offered an MBE for services to literature. I said no thanks. I do not wish to be a member of the order of the British Empire.” He added: “The main reason for not accepting the MBE was because I hate how it valorises the British Empire, a brutal, bloody thing that resulted in so much death and destruction. To accept the MBE would be to co-sign it.” Shukla, who is 40, was born and brought up in Britain but like many East African Indians, his father grew up in Kenya, his ancestors having gone there from Gujarat. Shukla, who writes about racism, identity and immigration in Britain, is best known for editing a collection of spiky essays in 2016, The Good Immigrant: 21 Writers Explore What It Means to be Black, Asian & Minority Ethnic in Britain Today, which he followed up three years later with The Good Immigrant: 26 Writers Reflect On America. He is also the author three novels — Coconut Unlimited (2010), Meatspace (2014) and The One Who Wrote Destiny (2018) — which he says were written partly to give his daughters a sense of who they were. A profile on the author noted: “Nikesh considers it his duty, as a British Asian, to try and normalise non-white narratives.” The honours system is a legacy from the days when Britain did have an empire. Along with the MBE, there are other honours — CBE stands for Commander of the Order of the British Empire; OBE for Officer of the Order of the British Empire; and BEM for British Empire Medal. Although they are given out in the name of the Queen, the list is actually drawn up and vetted by a government committee, which is bombarded by nominations from British Asians, Indians especially. The first generation of Indians was grateful to find a home in Britain, where non-white people were still called “coloured”. But some of their UK-born-and-bred grandchildren are altogether more assertive, and have started challenging the notion that the empire did more good than bad. As British nationals, they cannot be chucked out for being “trouble makers” but in the intensifying “culture wars”, the Right wing has launched a counter campaign against those demanding a re-examination of British history, especially the country’s involvement in the slave trade and imperial rule, especially in India. Shukla has drawn attention to a programme called “Operation Legacy”, which was an attempt to identify and destroy colonial-era files that could prove embarrassing to subsequent British governments. The author commented: “As the country fights over the history of the Empire and whether it was good or bad, I considered Operation Legacy. A project to destroy all colonial documents that might embarrass the British. If the Empire was so good, why need Operation Legacy?” Shukha received thousands of “likes” for turning down an MBE but one critic told him sarcastically that “you want to make damn sure we all know you were offered it. Congratulations.” Another, representing white society presumably, said: “Sometimes it’s another form of gaslighting — we offered to honour and recognise you and you turned down our honour and recognition so don’t complain next time we treat you in a way that does not honour or recognise you.” In a sense, the government is damned if it does and damned if it doesn’t. A government statement emphasised: “The honours system strives to be inclusive of all of the UK society. Of the 1,129 people who receive an award: 15 per cent of the successful candidates come from an ethnic minority background: 6.8 per cent of recipients are from an Asian ethnic group.” The youngest recipient is 21-year-old Amika George, founder of the “Free Periods Campaign”, who becomes an MBE for her work championing the distribution of sanitary wear in UK schools. George, who is from an Indian background, said she was humbled by her MBE but had to think twice before accepting it — given its association with Britain’s colonial past. In accepting, she said, she wanted to “draw attention to our lack of education around the Empire and Britain’s history, but also to show other young people, particularly from the Asian community, who maybe don’t feel very empowered politically or don’t feel seen”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Govt on G7: Tackling 'biggest global crises' is not possible without India’s 'involvement and support'||The Narendra Modi government on Sunday said India’s participation at the G7 sessions reflected an understanding within the bloc that a resolution to “the biggest global crises of our time” was not possible without the country’s “involvement, engagement and support”. P. Harish, additional secretary (economic relations) in the external affairs ministry, made the assertion while briefing reporters on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual address to the G7 summit in the UK. What the government said about India’s indispensability in addressing “the biggest crises”, if they include Covid-19 and the threat to democratic rights, cannot be disputed. Consider the facts: India’s Covid-19 epidemic is the second largest in the world with over 29 million cases after America’s count of over 34 million cases. India’s Covid-19 death count so far is 370,411, the third largest after the 610,000 deaths in the US and 480,000 in Brazil. The Modi government’s vaccination policy and its multiple metamorphoses have earned their right to demand a separate global study to ensure that no one would repeat it. India has administered over 250 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, the US 308 million doses and the UK over 70 million doses. The proportions of fully vaccinated (two doses) among their populations are 3.5 per cent in India, 43 per cent in the US and 44 per cent in the UK. The external affairs ministry said that in his virtual address to a session on “open societies and open economies” at the G7 summit, Modi had highlighted India’s civilisational commitment to democracy, freedom of thought and liberty. Modi’s claim came against the backdrop of sedition cases, information technology intermediary guidelines that have ignited concerns over free speech and the right to privacy, and at least one cartoonist losing his contract after the government made known its discomfort with him. “The Prime Minister’s views were appreciated by other leaders in the gathering,” Harish said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Covid: Children who lost parents during pandemic stare at uncertain future, scramble for aid||According to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), 3,621 children have been orphaned during the pandemic, and over 26,000 children have lost one parent. Shatakshi Sinha, 10, is one of them. The Delhi-based girl lost her father to Covid-19 a month ago. Her mother Kalpana Sinha said: “Nothing will ever be normal again.” Kalpana’s 57-year-old husband was an  editor at a Hindi publishing house and the sole breadwinner of the family. After scrambling for an ambulance and a bed for hours, by the time we reached the hospital, we had lost him. I remember my little daughter running after the ambulance, pleading with me to take her along,” Kalpana recalled. Gaurang (13) and Daksh Gupta (6), who live in Uttam Nagar in Delhi, lost their father, an e-rickshaw driver and the family’s sole earner. Even before the tragedy, life was so tough that the parents had decided to take the younger child out of school and shift the older one to a government school. Three siblings — aged 9, 11 and 13 — lost both their parents to Covid-19 in the first week of May. Their landlord refused to let their tenancy continue unless they paid rent. Their uncle, a welder, took the three children in. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Scam cry on land deal for Ram Temple in Ayodhya||A senior official of the trust set up to monitor the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya has been accused of buying a piece of land worth Rs 2 crore for Rs 18.5 crore, or over nine times the price, for the shrine. Two Opposition politicians — Aam Aadmi Party Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and former Samajwadi Party minister Pawan Pandey — have brought the money-laundering charges against Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai. The leaders have alleged that Rai had been aided by trust member Anil Kumar Mishra. The allegation has been refuted by Rai and Mishra. Quoting purported entries of the registered sale deed of the land, Singh told reporters in Lucknow on Sunday that the trust had entered into an agreement with Sultan Ansari on March 18 and he was paid an advance of Rs 17 crore, besides Rs 1.29 crore as stamp duty. Ansari had purchased the 1.208-hectare plot at Bag Bijaisi village in Ayodhya Sadar area only minutes ago from a woman named Kusum Pathak for Rs 2 crore, according to the purported documents. Mishra was a witness in both deals. Contacted over phone, Mishra told The Telegraph: “The deal was done in keeping with all the norms. We have followed the rules of the market and discussed every aspect before buying it.” Told about Singh’s allegation that the trust was misusing the money donated by the people of the country, Mishra, a homoeopath in Ayodhya, said: “I don’t know what he has said as I was busy in a meeting of the trust the whole day. But whatever we are doing is transparent.” Singh and Pandey have sought a probe by the CBI and the ED into the land purchase for the temple premises. “Champat Rai, the general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, with the help of trust member Anil Mishra, bought the land worth Rs 2 crore at Rs 18.5 crore. This is a case of money laundering and the government should get it probed by the ED and the CBI,” Singh said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government must initiate a thorough probe by the CBI and the ED, and the corrupt persons should be sent to jail as it is a question of the faith of crores of devotees of Lord Ram who have given their hard-earned money for the construction of the Ram temple,” Singh said. Former Ayodhya MLA Pandey reiterated the allegation in the temple town. AAP leader Singh pointed out that in any trust, the board makes a proposal for the purchase of land. “How come in five minutes this proposal was passed and the land was immediately purchased?” he asked. Rai issued a statement saying: “Allegations of even assassinating Mahatma Gandhi were levelled on us. We do not fear allegations. I will study the allegations levelled on us, and probe them.” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Lord Ram, what kind of days are these? Scams are happening by taking donations in your name….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand Congress leader  Indira Hridayesh no more||Indira Hridayesh, the senior-most Congress politician of Uttarakhand who was the leader of the Opposition in the hill state and had served as an elected representative for seven terms, passed away following cardiac arrest in New Delhi on Sunday. She was 80. “Indiraji had put up at the guest house of the Uttarakhand government in New Delhi where she had gone for a party meeting. She suffered cardiac arrest and was rushed to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, where she breathed her last,” said Suryakant Dhasmana, the vice-president of the Uttarakhand Congress Committee. Hridayesh had tested positive for Covid-19 in April this year and had undergone a heart surgery after recovery. Hridayesh’s officer on special duty Abhinav Mishra said her last rites would be conducted on Monday in her hometown Haldwani, which she represented as an MLA. Hridayesh had been a four-term member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council (Upper House) before Uttarakhand was carved out in 2000. In Uttarakhand, she was elected MLA from Haldwani three times — in 2002, 2012 and 2017. Amid speculation that the Congress could return to power in Uttarakhand in 2022 because of the BJP’s perceived failure on all fronts, Hridayesh had told reporters in Haldwani on May 8: “The Congress leadership knows very well who can bring the party back to power in the state. There are many important faces here. Pritam Singh, the state president of the party, is there. Harish Rawat, who had been chief minister, is also an important face. Obviously, I am there as a senior member. It will be decided after the elections.” Rawat said on Sunday: “She was the first finance minister of Uttarakhand and played a major role in shaping the state. She was a teacher before joining politics and was respected by all. Members of both the government and the Opposition used to remain alert in the House whenever she was present.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi said: “She was particularly popular amongst her colleagues for her knowledge of legislative processes and procedure as also her performance as an able administrator. Her contribution to the Congress party will be treasured and cherished by all.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Dr Indira Hridayesh Ji was at the forefront of several community service efforts. She made a mark as an effective legislator and also had rich administrative experience. Saddened by her demise. Condolences to her family and supporters. Om Shanti.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-62
14-06-2021||India||India guarded on G7 plan to counter China's Belt and Road Initiative||India on Sunday remained non-committal on joining the US-led G7 plan to launch a “Build Back Better World (B3W)” project to meet the infrastructure needs of low and middle income countries as a counter to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) through which Beijing is expanding its footprint across the world. While projecting India’s participation in the G7 meeting as a guest country to be a recognition of the vital role New Delhi “plays and must continue to play in global decision-making and responding to global challenges”, the external affairs ministry was guarded in its response to questions on whether India welcomed B3W, what the government’s position was on it, and whether the country would participate in the new initiative. Responding to these questions together in general, additional secretary (economic relations) in the external affairs ministry P. Harish said: “The Prime Minister emphasised that democracies should demonstrate that we can deliver on project implementation within the country and outside. He referred to India’s experience in neighbouring countries, in Africa and those countries that fall within the framework of our development partnership. “The Prime Minister also indicated that India stands ready to do more in this regard.… On the specifics of the B3W proposals put forth, relevant agencies of the government of India would study them and engage with them as appropriate at a later stage.” Asked if Prime Minister Narendra Modi — who participated in the summit on the G7 outreach segment via videoconference — raised the issue of Chinese aggression given that containing China was one of the major issues on the agenda, Harish said he did not, pointing out that the three sessions in which Modi took part dealt with other issues — health, environment and open societies. As per a White House fact sheet, the B3W is a “values-driven, high-standard and transparent infrastructure partnership led by major democracies to help narrow the $40+ trillion infrastructure need in the developing world, which has been exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic”. The fact sheet added: “Through B3W, the G7 and other like-minded partners will coordinate in mobilising private-sector capital in four areas of focus — climate, health and health security, digital technology, and gender equity and equality — with catalytic investments from our respective development finance institutions.” This apart, additional secretary Harish said there was “widespread support” at the meeting in Cornwall, UK, for text-based negotiations on the India-South Africa proposal for a Trips (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) waiver for Covid vaccines at the World Trade Organisation. The US and Brics countries have already backed this proposal. Harish said Australia — which was also a guest country at this year’s G7 — backed the proposal. Harish said India would remain engaged with the G7 and guest partners on all major global issues — health governance and access to vaccines, climate action and climate justice, diversification of supply chains and building economic resilience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
14-06-2021||India||Flurry of weekend activity around Ayodhya suggests BJP plans to use Ram temple to try and win UP polls||A flurry of weekend activity around Ayodhya after chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s return from Delhi suggests the BJP plans to use the Ram temple to try and win next year’s crucial Uttar Pradesh elections. Nripendra Misra, chairman of the temple-building committee of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, arrived in Ayodhya on Sunday, a day after Adityanath met his ministers and officials to discuss developing the temple town into a major pilgrimage centre. Misra, a former bureaucrat who was principal secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was scheduled to hold a series of meetings with construction companies and Teerth Kshetra Trust members on Sunday and Monday. “Work is on in two shifts round the clock. We hope to complete the work by October 11 this year,” Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, said. Adityanath’s meeting on Saturday came after he had returned from Delhi, having met Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda on Thursday and Friday and apparently discussed the strategy for the Uttar Pradesh polls, due in March. The BJP is desperate to win the state not just to rebound from the Bengal drubbing and the bad press over its Covid mismanagement but to create momentum ahead of the 2024 general election. That the BJP would milk Ayodhya to achieve this becomes clear from a statement released by the Uttar Pradesh information and publicity department about Adityanath’s videoconference meeting with finance minister Suresh Khanna, transport minister Ashok Katariya and senior officials from Ayodhya. It quotes Adityanath as saying that Ayodhya would be developed “while keeping the ancient culture, heritage and tradition intact” and that the town would be “recognised internationally as a centre of spirituality, tourism and sustainability”. Sources said the meeting discussed building a Ram museum in Ayodhya and roads connecting the proposed temple to every district mentioned in the Ramayan as places Ram visited. Adityanath had held similar meetings on Ayodhya’s development immediately after taking over as chief minister in March 2017, but there was little follow-up after that. Then, in February this year, his government earmarked Rs 100 crore for Ayodhya’s beautification and Rs 300 crore to connect all roads in the district directly to the site of the proposed Ram temple. It also approved Rs 140 crore for the integrated development of the town and the Surya Kund temple, more than 500 years old. But no progress has been made since then. Observers believe that at last week’s meetings in Delhi, the BJP central leadership had nudged Adityanath to get cracking on Ayodhya ahead of the Assembly polls. The Delhi meetings had also discussed a “course correction” to improve Adityanath’s image as an uncaring and inefficient autocrat who had put off many party leaders and allies, sources had said while ruling out a leadership change. On Sunday, state BJP vice-president Dayashankar Singh said in Mathura: “We will contest the 2022 Assembly elections under Yogi Adityanath.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
14-06-2021||India||Covid: Government researchers urge districts to establish data dashboards to control future surge||Government researchers have urged districts across India to establish data dashboards to control any future Covid-19 surges and curb deaths amid suspicions that gaps in statistics have handicapped responses and contributed to undercounts of infections and casualties. The National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), Chennai, has developed a Covid-19 control toolkit that asks districts to use data dashboards to monitor three key parameters — test positivity rates, changes in case counts, and hospital bed occupancy — to calibrate district-level responses. The NIE guidance comes at a time India’s second Covid-19 wave is receding with daily new cases in a near-steady fall since May 6. But health officials and experts have cautioned that localised surges or even a nationwide wave may reappear if large susceptible pools of people are exposed to the virus. “Data dashboards would allow district authorities to monitor the state of the epidemic and control a future surge before it gets too big,” said Manoj Murhekar, the director of the NIE, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The NIE has described data dashboards as among the “weakest components” of India’s Covid-19 response, echoing concerns among sections of researchers who say the handling of the epidemic could have been better and counts of deaths more reliable through better data management. The Union health ministry had up to Sunday recorded 370,411 Covid-19 deaths, but some health researchers, citing anecdotal evidence of overcrowded crematoriums and funeral sites and bodies dumped into rivers or relying on theoretical estimates, have suggested in recent weeks that India has vastly undercounted Covid-19 deaths. Over the past week, Bihar and Maharashtra have reclassified earlier deaths as Covid-19 deaths, amplifying suspicions that many deaths in the country have not been documented as caused by the coronavirus disease. The Union health ministry has asserted that it has consistently directed states to correctly record deaths with emphasis on a “robust reporting mechanism for monitoring district-wise cases and deaths on a daily basis”. States consistently reporting low deaths were asked to recheck data. But the ministry also said “there shall always be differences” in deaths recorded during a profound, prolonged public health crisis such as Covid-19 and well-conducted studies on excess mortality, done when mortality data is available from reliable sources”. The NIE has said all deaths should be counted, “irrespective of the cause” every week and the data analysed by age, gender, rural and urban, and dashboards updated. It has also recommended that every death be audited to identify gaps in surveillance, testing, transport, or treatment. “It is good to see recommendations highlighting efficient data management — how we’ve used data during the epidemic remains a blackbox,” said Oommen John, a senior physician and research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. John and others have expressed concern that while the ICMR and the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, have collected data on testing and clinical outcomes through the epidemic, it is unclear how the information has been used to guide public health responses. Sections of doctors and researchers have pointed out that there still isn’t clear data to help determine whether there were any differences in the disease characteristics between India’s first wave and the second surge, dominated by new variants. “We need comparisons of epidemiological and clinical data across the two waves,” said Gagandeep Kang, professor of clinical microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “We need information about how did the earlier versions of the virus behave versus the new ones. We need information on how many died and after how many days. Without access to epidemiological, clinical and molecular data, we cannot have a full picture about the differences between the two waves,” Kang added. John said: “While India aspires to be a data-driven economy, this was an opportunity to leverage robust data science approaches, use it to guide our responses and demonstrate our capability in public health informatics — but it looks like we squandered it away.” The NIE’s control strategy would require districts to intensify restrictions and enhance physical distancing measures as the test positivity rate (the number of positive cases among those tested), percentage change in seven-day average of daily new infections and bed-occupancy increase. Irrespective of the other parameters, a district would need to go into a “full lockdown” with only essential services functioning when the oxygen or intensive care unit bed occupancy there exceeds 75 per cent. However, it has recommended lower levels of restrictions when the test positivity rate exceeds 5 per cent, or if percentage change in the seven-day average increases from the previous week, or if bed occupancy rises beyond 50 per cent. The NIE, outlining infrastructure requirements, has said districts should prepare for 15 oxygen beds and two intensive care unit or ventilator beds for every 100 active cases, and three ambulances for every 100 new infections, assuming 25 per cent patients would require hospitalisation. It has also recommended two doctors and four nurses for every 30 oxygen beds and two doctors and two nurses for every 10 intensive care unit or ventilator beds, each team on eight-hour shifts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
14-06-2021||India||Odisha govt approves four industrial projects envisaging investment of around Rs 1,637 crore||The State Level Single Window Clearance Authority of the Odisha government has given its approval to four industrial projects, including manufacturing of an oxygen cylinder plant, envisaging an investment of around Rs 1,637.41 crore. Once these projects get going, it will generate direct employment opportunities for 1,116 people. Principal secretary industry Hemant Kumar Sharma said: “The proposals are mainly from the sectors like downstream manufacturing, metal, and power sector. The proposers are well known industrial houses and their coming in will provide further fillip to the sectors.” The project includes expansion of Tata Steel Limited’s iron ore beneficiation plant from 12MMTPA to 17.6MMTPA with an investment of Rs 946 crore. It will be set up in Joda in Keonjhar district and will create employment opportunities for over 803 persons. “We have also given approval for setting up an oxygen cylinder manufacturing plant with capacity of 10,80,000 cylinders per annum by M/s. ShyamMetalics and Energy Limited against an investment of Rs 55.10 crore to be set up in Rengali Industrial Estate in Sambalpur, with potential employment potential for over 162 persons,” officials said. The other proposals include a 50MW solar PV power generation plant by M/s Mahanadi Coalfields Limited against an investment of Rs 254.71 crore to be set up in Boudh, with employment potential for over 36 persons. “The authority chaired by chief secretary has also given its nod to the railway wagon manufacturing plant having capacity of 1,500 Wagon per annum along with 0.394 MMTPA Electric Arc Furnace (EAF)” officials said, adding that 0.5 MMTPA Railway Siding plant by M/s. Shyam Metalics and Energy Limited will come up against an investment of Rs 381.60 crore. The plant will be set up in Hirakud in Sambalpur district. It will create employment opportunities for over 115 persons. Managing director IPICOL (Industrial Promotion and Investment Corporation of Odisha Limited) Nitin Bhanudas Jawale said, “Because of the improved ‘ease of doing business’ and facilitating promotional policies of state government, major investors are now considering Odisha as a flourishing destination of investment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-63
