15-06-2021||India||High Court slams government for charging Narwal, 2 other students under UAPA, upholds right to protest||For Natasha Narwal, the judgement came too late to see her dying father. She wasn’t given bail until after her father passed away and even that was only for three weeks. Now the court has come down heavily on the government for charging Narwal and two other students, saying the state has “blurred the line’ between constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest’ and terrorist activity.” In three separate rulings for each appellant, the court went on to warn that “if such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.” Former Supreme Court judge Deepak Gupta hailed the ruling as “a beacon of hope for people who believe in liberties, especially civil liberties of the citizens.” Gupta told Bar & Bench: “This is very important in another context, because these are cases in which the UAPA is invoked where there is a presumption that bail cannot be granted unless the court comes to the conclusion that a prima facie case is made out that bail has to be granted.” “This judgement lays out the law which is crystal clear,” says senior advocate Dushyant Dave, a former president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. The three appellants, Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, were arrested at different times last year. Narwal and Kalita, both JNU students, were arrested in January, and charged with making inflammatory speeches and inciting people to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Tanha, a Jamia Millia Islamia was arrested in May, accused of being part of a “premeditated” conspiracy to provoke the riots. The judges set aside a decision by the trial court to refuse bail to the three accused. They were asked to post a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each as well as two sureties of similar amounts. All three accused were charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. However, the two-judge bench of Justice Sidharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani declared: “We are unable to discern in the subject charge-sheet the elemental factual ingredients that are a must to found the offences defined under Section 15, 17 or 18 UAPA.” The judges added: “Alleging extremely grave and serious penal offences under sections 15, 17 and 18 UAPA against people frivolously, would undermine the intent and purpose of the Parliament in enacting a law that is meant to address threats to the very existence of our Nation. Wanton use of serious penal provisions would only trivialise them.” Despite the High Court ruling, a Delhi sessions judge refused a petition for the immediate release of Narwal and Kalita and called for a police report about their home addresses by 1 pm Wednesday. The 133-page judgement in Tanha’s case looked in detail at the law regarding bail applications and also whether the appellant had committed the offences that had been alleged to justify charging him under UAPA. The High Court noted in Iqbal’s order that in the chargesheet, there were no specific allegations other than “those sought to be spun by mere grandiloquence”. The High Court went on to say that even if for argument the accused had crossed the line of peaceful protests allowed under the Constitution, that that would not “yet amount to commission of a ‘terrorist act’ or a ‘conpiracy’ or an ;’act preparatory’ to the commission of a terrorist act’ “ under the UAPA. The court also pointed out that 740 prosecution witnesses had been listed for the trial which was yet to commence. In addition, it pointed out that because of the pandemic, trial proceedings had “effectively been stalled’. The judges added: “Should this court then wait until the appellant has languished in prison for a long enough time to be able to see that it will be impossible to complete the deposition of 740 prosecution witnesses in any foreseeable future, especially in view of the prevailing pandemic when all proceedings in the trial are effectively stalled? Should this court wait till the appellant’s right to a speedy trial guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution is fully and completely negated before it steps in and wakes up to such violation?” Dave pointed out that the judges had merely enunciated the law as it stands and that almost everyone from the police to public prosecutors was ignoring the constitution. He says: “The rot has set in at every stage. The police and the public prosecutors should work under the constitution.” He adds: “These kids were in jail for what? You are radicalising youth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
15-06-2021||India||Court defers immediate release of JNU students||A court in New Delhi on Tuesday deferred immediate release of JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, who have been granted bail by the Delhi High Court in the riots 'conspiracy' case, from jail and sought a verification report from the police by Wednesday. Following the grant of bail by the high court, Kalita and Narwal moved the court through their seeking immediate release from judicial custody. Additional Sessions Judge Revinder Bedi disposed of the application and asked the police to submit the verification report on the particulars of the accused and sureties by 1 pm on June 16. Earlier in the day, the high court set aside the trial court orders denying bail to Narwal, Kalita and Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha. The women activists moved the court through advocate Adit S Pujari seeking immediate release from judicial custody. The high court granted them bail and directed them to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each along with two sureties of the like amount. The three student activists were arrested in May 2020 and are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and hundreds injured. Narwal, along with 17 others, are accused in the case. Communal violence broke out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after violence between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those opposing it spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
15-06-2021||India||Twitter appoints interim Chief Compliance Officer for India||Twitter on Tuesday said it has appointed an interim Chief Compliance Officer and the details of the official will be shared with the IT Ministry directly soon. The Government had issued a notice to Twitter giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules and warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Following this, Twitter had assured the Indian government last week that it is in advanced stages of finalising the appointment of chief compliance officer as required under the new IT rules, and that it will submit additional details within a week. A Twitter spokesperson on Tuesday said the company continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines, and is keeping the IT Ministry apprised of progress at every step of the process. An interim Chief Compliance Officer has been retained and details will be shared with the Ministry directly soon, the spokesperson added. The move by Twitter assumes significance as the microblogging platform has been facing heat over delay in complying with the IT rules that mandate large digital platforms to undertake greater due diligence, and make them more accountable and responsible for the content that is hosted. As per the rules, significant social media intermediaries -- those with over 50 lakh users -- are required to appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
15-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi condemns Ghaziabad attack, Yogi hits back||Uttar pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday hit back at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi after the latter condemned an attack on an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad. Accusing Rahul of spreading "poison" through "lies", the UP CM tweeted, “The first lesson of Lord Shri Ram is - "Speak the truth" which you have never done in life. You should be ashamed that even after the police told the truth, you are engaged in spreading poison in the society. In the greed of power, humanity is being humiliated. Stop humiliating, defaming the people of Uttar Pradesh.” Earlier in the day, Rahul reacted sharply to an incident in Ghaziabad in which an elderly Muslim man was allegedly beaten up and asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', saying such cruelty is shameful for both society and religion. In a video on social media, the elderly Muslim man has accused four men of beating him up, chopping his beard and asking him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' in the Loni area of Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad police said it has already registered an FIR and arrested a man, Parvesh Gurjar, for his involvement in this alleged incident which took place on June 5 but was reported to police two days later. Tagging a report on the incident, Rahul Gandhi said, "I am not willing to accept that true devotees of Lord Ram can do such a thing."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
15-06-2021||India||Anyone above 18 can walk in for Co-WIN registration: Govt||The Ministry of Health on Tuesday said anybody over the age of 18 can walk into their nearest vaccination centre to get themselves registered on the Co-WIN platform and get vaccinated against Covid-19. The Centre said it was no longer compulsory to pre-register online or book an appointment to get the vaccine in a bid to increase the pace of vaccination and tackle the 'vaccine hesitancy' reported from rural areas. “Pre-registration for vaccination through online registration and prior booking of appointment is not mandatory to avail the Covid-19 vaccine,” the health ministry said. It added,” Anyone aged 18 years and above can directly go to the nearest vaccination centre wherein the vaccinator performs the on-site registration and provides vaccination.” The Centre had said last week that vaccine hesitancy was "a globally accepted phenomenon and should be addressed by scientifically studying the issue at the community level". During a press briefing on Tuesday, the Centre said that there has been an almost 85 per cent decline in daily Covid-19 cases since the highest reported peak on May 7 and currently, there are 20 states and UTs where active cases are less than 5,000. On the Delta plus variant of Covid, the government said that it has been around since March and it is not yet a variant of concern'. "We have to learn more about it and track its progress," it said. During the second wave of the pandemic, the government said, about 11.62 per cent cases were seen in the below 20 years age group, while it was 11.31 per cent during the first wave. It also said that a sharp decline of 78 per cent has been noted since the highest reported weekly Covid case positivity rate of 21.4 per cent, which was recorded between May 4 and 10 during the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
15-06-2021||India||Press Council seeks report from UP authorities over scribe death||The Press Council of India (PCI) has sought a report from the Uttar Pradesh government and police on the death of a TV journalist who had recently reported on the liquor mafia. According to Uttar Pradesh police, journalist Sulabh Srivastava died in a road accident in Pratapgarh after his bike rammed into a pole on Sunday. However, the Opposition parties and the Editors Guild of India (EGI) have questioned the claim of the state police. The TV journalist had recently run a story about the liquor mafia in the region. Later, he reportedly wrote to the police seeking protection, apprehending a threat to his life. Taking serious note of the death of journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Press Council of India chairman Justice Chandramouli Kumar Prasad has taken suo motu cognisance in the matter, the Council said in a statement in Hindi on Tuesday. The Government of Uttar Pradesh, the state Director General of Police and the Superintendent of Police, Pratapgarh have been asked to send a report based on the facts in the matter, the council said. The death of the TV journalist in Uttar Pradesh has sparked a row with the opposition parties demanding a free and fair probe. While Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has sought a high-level inquiry into the case, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati has called for a swift, impartial and credible probe. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has demanded a CBI probe into the case. The Editors Guild of India on Monday said that it was shocked by the cavalier manner in which the Uttar Pradesh Police was treating the mysterious death of the TV journalist. The Press Council of India (PCI) has sought a report from the Uttar Pradesh government and police on the death of a TV journalist who had recently reported on the liquor mafia. According to Uttar Pradesh police, journalist Sulabh Srivastava died in a road accident in Pratapgarh after his bike rammed into a pole on Sunday. However, the Opposition parties and the Editors Guild of India (EGI) have questioned the claim of the state police. The TV journalist had recently run a story about the liquor mafia in the region. Later, he reportedly wrote to the police seeking protection, apprehending a threat to his life. Taking serious note of the death of journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Press Council of India chairman Justice Chandramouli Kumar Prasad has taken suo motu cognisance in the matter, the Council said in a statement in Hindi on Tuesday. The Government of Uttar Pradesh, the state Director General of Police and the Superintendent of Police, Pratapgarh have been asked to send a report based on the facts in the matter, the council said. The death of the TV journalist in Uttar Pradesh has sparked a row with the opposition parties demanding a free and fair probe. While Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has sought a high-level inquiry into the case, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati has called for a swift, impartial and credible probe. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has demanded a CBI probe into the case. The Editors Guild of India on Monday said that it was shocked by the cavalier manner in which the Uttar Pradesh Police was treating the mysterious death of the TV journalist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Himaani Chetaan- A Woman with Integrity and Passion!||Himaani's desire to help brands in showcasing themselves drove her to start her own firm. She approaches life with a can-do attitude and a desire to succeed, achieving all of her goals and dreams. Himaani has always enjoyed travelling, running, and feel-good music, or simply relaxing with interesting books, in addition to being passionate about her profession. She has spent almost a decade gaining experience and working in the events and travel industry, with well-known brands primarily in marketing and advertising, and was always in charge of a team and the face of any project she embarked on, which allowed her to gather a lot of skill in understanding how a business works as well as network with a lot of people, allowing her to make quality contacts in the industry. She genuinely believed that her skills and expertise would be valuable to start-ups and other businesses looking to build a reputation for themselves. Her drive and excitement for developing PR strategies for her clients gave her the confidence to start BeetRRuz. She founded BeetRRuz on the belief that every brand should have a strong digital presence and market reputation on a worldwide scale, using the pandemic as an example of how important it is. BeetRRuz is a public relations and advertising agency with contacts at major news outlets, publications, and influencers or celebrities who can help you shine a light on your growth and success. This agency works with some of India's most well-known brands, like Forbes India, Business Today, Fortune, India Today, and others, to assist their clients tell their stories on these platforms. Himaani explains “Our brand name is inspired on BeetRoot, a popular root vegetable with numerous health advantages and a dark colour that represents passion. In today's world, it's more crucial than ever to think about your brand's health, and BeetRRuz ensure that your reputation remains spotless. The logo, as well as the capitalised letters in our brand name is inspired by the initials of their core values: a) Being Social b) Reliable c) Relentless Improvement”. “From sleepless nights to morning celebrations of success, it’s been a rough yet exciting journey for me, in only around 6-7 months of prepping”, says The Founder. Himaani continues on to state, “Even though owning a business can be difficult at times, the joy I receive when we successfully complete a PR campaign for our clients and see them beam with pride makes it all worthwhile”. Despite a few people attempting to bring her down, she remained focused on her dream and worked hard to get to where she wanted to be. Now, here she is, celebrating her fourth month with her brand, working with clients for whom her team works relentlessly to make absolutely sure their clients receive the outcomes they expect with BeetRRuz- The House of Buzz||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Chirag Paswan removed as Lok Janshakti Party Chief||The Lok Janshakti Party on Tuesday removed Chirag Paswan as the party president, a day after five of the six MPs joined hands to elect Pashupati Kumar Paras, the youngest brother of Paswan's late father and party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, in his place, causing a big churn in Bihar politics. The LJP faction headed by Chirag expelled the five MPs of the party who had rebelled against him. While Chirag Paswan has been isolated in the parliamentary party as all other MPs beside him have backed Paras, sources said he continues to draw support from other leaders in the organisation. The matter is now likely to reach the Election Commission as both factions have claimed to represent the party. Chirag was ousted on basis of the "One Man, One Post", said the rebel MPs, who have chosen Suraj Bhan as the new working president and election officer of the LJP, according to a report by ndtv.com. Bhan has been asked to conduct an election for the new president within five days by calling the party's national executive, the report added. In his first reaction after his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras ousted him Chirag likened the organisation to a mother who should not be "betrayed". In a tweet, he said he made efforts to keep the party founded by his father Ram Vilas Paswan and his family together but failed. People are supreme in a democracy, Paswan said and thanked those who have kept faith in the party. Chirag also shared a letter he had written to Paras, the youngest brother of his father, in March in which he had highlighted his uncle's unhappiness over a number of issues, including his elevation as the party president. The Lok Sabha Secretariat on Monday evening recognised Paras as the leader of the LJP in the House, a day after the five MPs informed Speaker Om Birla about their decision. Paras lauded Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as a good leader and "vikas purush" (development-oriented man), highlighting the deep fault lines within the party as his nephew has been a strong critic of the supreme JD(U) leader. "I have not broken the party but saved it," Paras, the MP from Hajipur, told reporters. He asserted that 99 per cent of LJP workers were unhappy with the turn of events in Bihar as Chirag led his party against the JD(U) and it fared poorly in the 2020 assembly polls. The LJP has been on the brink of collapse, he said in reference to its poor show in the polls, and lashed out at "anti-social" elements in the party, an apparent pointer to a close aide of Chirag whose proximity to him has not gone down well with many party leaders. Paras said his group will continue to be part of the BJP-led NDA, and added that Chirag can remain in the organisation. There has been no comment from Chirag on the development in his party. Soon after Paras spoke to reporters, Chirag drove to his uncle's residence in the national capital to meet him. Chirag's cousin and MP Prince Raj also stays there. Chirag, who has not been keeping well for some time, waited for over 20 minutes in his car before he was let into the house and then left after spending more than an hour inside. He left without saying a word to waiting media persons. Paras had long been unhappy with Chirag's style of functioning and was joined by other MPs, including Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser, as they believed that his campaign against Nitish Kumar had left them at a disadvantage in the state's politics. Kaiser has been elected the party's deputy leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||India confirms first death due to Covid vaccine||A government panel studying Covid-19 vaccine side effects has confirmed the first death due to anaphylaxis following vaccination. The causality assessment of 31 reported Serious Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) cases following Covid-19 vaccination was carried out by the panel. According to a report by the National AEFI Committee, a 68-year-old man died due to anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction) after being vaccinated on March 8, 2021. However, the health ministry said that the benefits of vaccination are overwhelmingly greater than the small risk of harm "It is the first death linked to Covid-19 vaccination due to anaphylaxis. It re-emphasises the need to wait for 30 minutes at the inoculation centre after receiving the jab. Most of the anaphylactic reactions occur during this period and prompt treatment prevents deaths, Dr NK Arora, chairperson, National AEFI committee, told PTI. The Committee examined five such cases that took place on February 5, eight cases on March 9 and 18 cases on March 31. As per data in the first week of April, the reporting rate is 2.7 deaths per million vaccine doses administered and 4.8 hospitalisations per million vaccine doses administered, the report stated. The panel said mere reporting of deaths and hospitalisations as serious adverse events does not automatically imply that the events were caused due to vaccines. Only properly conducted investigations and causality assessments can help in understanding if any causal relationship exists between the event and the vaccine, the report said, adding for causality assessments, priority has been given to death cases. Of the 31 causally assessed cases, 18 were classified as having an inconsistent causal association to vaccination (coincidental - not linked to vaccination), 7 were classified as indeterminate, 3 cases were found to be vaccine product related, 1 was anxiety-related reaction and two cases were found to be unclassifiable, the government panel report said. Vaccine product-related reactions are expected reactions that can be attributed to vaccination based on current scientific evidence, it said. Examples of such reactions are allergic reactions and anaphylaxis, etc. Indeterminate reactions are reactions which have occurred soon after vaccination but there is no definitive evidence in current literature or clinical trial data that this event could have been caused due to the vaccine, the report said, adding further observations, analysis and studies are required. In the two other cases of anaphylaxis, two persons were given vaccines on January 19 and 16 and both of them were hospitalised and have since recovered. Unclassifiable events are events that have been investigated but there is not enough evidence for assigning a diagnosis due to missing crucial information. When this relevant information becomes available, the case may be reconsidered for causality assessment. Coincidental events are events that are reported following immunisation but for which a clear cause other than vaccination is found on investigation. The panel said the benefits of vaccination are overwhelmingly greater than the small risk of harm and as a measure of utmost precaution, all emerging signals of harm are being constantly tracked and reviewed periodically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Amit Shah's meet with MPs sets off cabinet expansion buzz||Union home minister Amit Shah's meeting with groups of BJP MPs, which generated speculation about a cabinet expansion, was part of an ongoing feedback exercise on the work of the government, Covid situation and other issues, sources said. Over the last five days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also held meetings with the minsters along with BJP chief JP Nadda. Shah had met MPs from Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat and some other states on Saturday and Sunday at his residence. Around 30 MPs and some ministers had visited him over the weekend, according to a report from ndtv.com. According to sources, political activities and physical meetings have resumed as the second wave of Covid has receded. The focus of the meetings this time is on the situation in the MPs' constituencies, the handling of Covid and their performance during the pandemic, and the grievances of the people. Also any reshuffle in the ministry is usually preceded by appraisal and stock taking. Over the last weeks, there has been talk of cabinet expansion with 28 berths remaining vacant. One was vacated by the death of Lok Janshakti Party chief Ram Vilas Paswan, who was in charge of the Food and Public Distribution portfolio. At present, there are 21 Cabinet ministers, nine ministers of state with independent charge, and 23 ministers of state besides PM Modi. An expansion is also expected to settle political tensions within the allies and giving due importance to states where the BJP came to power in assembly elections over the last two years. From Bihar, Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal United is expecting a cabinet berth. Another seat in the Council of Ministers should go to Mr Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party. Rewards are also expected in Madhya Pradesh, which came into BJP grasp after the churn in the Congress and changing of camp by Jyotiraditya Scindia with a chunk of his followers. Mr Scindia has already been given a Rajya Sabha seat, but there is speculation about a cabinet berth for him as well. The exception could be Bengal, where the BJP, while failing to oust Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee from power, won nearly a third of the assembly seats. There is speculation that Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh might get a cabinet berth. Sources said whenever the expansion takes place, Bengal will be given more representation to send a message that it is top on the BJP's priority list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Rs 150 per Covaxin dose to Centre not sustainable in long run, says Bharat Biotech||The supply price of Bharat Biotech's COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to the central government at Rs 150 per dose is not sustainable in the long run, the vaccine maker said on Tuesday. The Centre's supplying price is pushing the pricing structure for the private sector upward. Fundamental business reasons ranging from low procurement volumes, high distribution costs and retail margins among few others contribute to higher pricing of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech said justifying the higher price when compared to other COVID-19 vaccines available for the private sector in India. "The supply price of Covaxin to the government of India at Rs 150 / dose, is a non-competitive price and clearly not sustainable in the long run. Hence a higher price in private markets is required to offset part of the costs," it said in a statement. Bharat Biotech has so far invested over Rs 500 crores at risk from its own resources for product development, clinical trials and setting up of manufacturing facilities for Covaxin, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Sukhbir Singh Badal detained while protesting outside Punjab CM's house||Police on Tuesday used water cannons to disperse Shiromani Akali Dal and BSP leaders and workers when they were forcing their way to 'gherao' the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in Mohali. Protesters led by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal were shouting slogans against the Congress-led government over several issues including irregularities in the purchase of Fateh kits and alleged diversion of Covid-19 vaccine doses to private hospitals. BSP state president Jasbir Singh Garhi was also present at the protest. Several Akali leaders, including Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia, were detained by police. It was the first joint protest of the SAD and BSP, days after both the parties had stitched an alliance for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls. Police personnel were deployed in strength and multi-layered barricades were put up on the road leading to the Chief Minister's residence. The SAD and BSP had planned to 'gherao' the CM's residence at Siswan in Mohali. Initially, scores of Akali and BSP protesters forced their way through the first layer of barricades. Police used water cannons when protesters tried to cross the second layer of barricades. In the melee, turbans of several protesters were tossed aside as police resorted to water cannons. Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh was also present at the spot. Earlier, addressing the workers, SAD chief Badal slammed the state government over the issue of alleged irregularities in the purchase of Fateh kits and alleged diversion of vaccine doses to private hospitals. A 'Fateh kit' contains a pulse oximeter, thermometer, face masks, a steamer, sanitiser, Vitamin-C and zinc tablets and some other medicines for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Nine MLAs from Mayawati's party meet Akhilesh Yadav||At least five MLAs suspended by the BSP last year met Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday, triggering speculation that they may join his party. "The meeting with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, which lasted for 15-20 minutes, witnessed discussions on the upcoming UP Assembly elections, and it was a nice meeting," Sushma Patel, MLA from Mungra Badshahpur assembly constituency in Jaunpur district told PTI. When asked about the future course of action, Patel said, "Personally, I have made up my mind to join the Samajwadi Party." At present, there are 18 Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly. When asked what prompted the suspended BSP MLAs to meet Akhilesh Yadav, Patel said, "We were suspended in October 2020 during the Rajya Sabha elections, and we were categorically told not to use the flag and banner of the BSP, and also to not attend any party meeting." "At the time of the Rajya Sabha elections, the BSP did not issue any whip, nor did we indulge in cross-voting. We were suspended without any basis. We were suspended as we had gone to meet Akhilesh Yadav," she added. "Now, we have to look for alternatives. So, in this context, we had called upon Akhilesh Yadav," she said, and added that now she has nothing to do with the BSP. Others who met the SP chief are Mohd Aslam Raini, Hakimlal Bind, Mustafa Siddiqui and Hargovind Bhargav. In October 2020, seven BSP MLAs were suspended by party president Mayawati. They had opposed the nomination of party's official candidate Ramji Gautam for the elections to the Rajya Sabha. Apart from the five who met Yadav, Chaudhary Aslam Ali and Vandana Singh had also been suspended from the BSP. Earlier this month, Mayawati had expelled BSP's legislative party leader Lalji Verma and Akbarpur MLA Ram Achal Rajbhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||Liquor not allowed to be served in hotels, restaurants in Delhi||Booze lovers will have to wait for some more days before they could enjoy drinks at their favourite spots, as serving liquor at bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants in the city is yet not allowed, clarified Excise department. With a significant improvement in the COVID-19 situation in the national capital, liquor shops and restaurants that were closed after the imposition of lockdown in April have reopened now. "Bars in the hotels, clubs and restaurants are not allowed to open till further orders," stated a clarification issued by the Excise Department of Delhi government on Monday. All liquor shops in markets, malls and market complexes (outside containment zones) are allowed to operate between 10 am to 8 pm, it said. The liquor vends in the city reopened in Delhi on June 6. The clarification was issued in view of queries about bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants after Delhi government allowed restaurants to reopen from Monday, an official said. The restaurants permitted to serve takeaways have now been allowed to run with 50 per cent seating capacity on a trial basis till June 21. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in its order on Sunday stated that markets and restaurants will be under close watch for strict implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour and other guidelines. If cases of coronavirus start increasing in the city, the restrictions may be clamped again, it said. The DDMA also directed that liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco should not be consumed in shops, malls, markets, market complexes, restaurants and other such places. A close watch and supervision will be maintained on the overall functioning of markets, market complexes, malls and restaurants by district magistrates, DCPs and other officers. In case it is found that Covid appropriate behaviour is not being followed in the markets, market complexes, malls, restaurants and if the number of COVID-19 positive cases start increasing in Delhi, they will be closed without any loss of time, warned the DDMA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||HC grants bail to JNU, Jamia students in north east Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with a case related to larger conspiracy in the north east Delhi riots in February last year. The three accused were arrested in May last year in connection with the riots in north east Delhi. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani set aside the trial court's orders denying bail to the three accused and allowed their appeals by admitting them to regular bail. The high court directed Pinjra Tod group activists Narwal and Kalita and Tanha to surrender their passports and not to offer any inducement to prosecution witnesses or tamper with the evidence in the case. It directed them to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each along with two sureties of the like amount. The three accused shall not indulge in any unlawful activities and shall reside at the address as mentioned in prison records, the high court said. Communal clashes had broken out in north east Delhi on February 24 last year after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. Tanha had challenged a trial court's October 26, 2020 order dismissing his bail application on grounds that he allegedly played an active role in the entire conspiracy with reasonable grounds for believing the allegations to be prima facie true. Narwal and Kalita had challenged the trial court's January 28 order dismissed their bail pleas, saying the allegations against them were prima facie true and provisions of anti-terror law have been rightly invoked in the present case. They had had filed their appeals challenging a trial court's order dismissing their bail pleas in a Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case related to the riots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-59
15-06-2021||India||SC closes criminal case in India against Italian marines ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the closure of criminal proceedings in India against two Italian marines, accused of killing two fishermen off the Kerala coast in February 2012. A vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah quashed the FIR and proceedings emanating from the case against the two Italian marines. The bench said that as per the international arbitral award accepted by India, the Republic of Italy shall resume further investigation in the case. The top court termed the Rs 10 crore compensation paid by the Republic of Italy over and above the payment already made as reasonable and adequate . It said that out of the Rs 10 crore compensation, Rs 4 crore each shall be deposited in the name of heirs of two deceased Kerala fishermen and two crore shall be given to owner of boat. In February 2012, India had accused the two marines on board the MV Enrica Lexie -- an Italian flagged oil tanker -- of killing two Indian fishermen who were on a fishing vessel in India's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload lowest in 75 days||India saw a single-day rise of 60,471 new coronavirus infections, the lowest after 75 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,95,70,881, while the daily positivity rate declined to 3.45 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,77,031 with 2,726 fresh deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further declined to 9,13,378 comprising 3.09 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.64 per cent.A net decline of 59,780 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,51,358 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 38,13,75,984. The daily positivity rate dropped to 3.45 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 8 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 4.39 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 33rd consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,82,80,472, while the case fatality rate increased to 1.28 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 25,90,44,072 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,726 new fatalities include 1,592 from Maharashtra, 254 from Tamil Nadu, 161 from Kerala and 120 from Karnataka. A total of 3,77,031 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,12,696 from Maharashtra, 33,033 from Karnataka, 29,801 from Tamil Nadu, 24,839 from Delhi, 21,858 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,974 from West Bengal, 15,602 from Punjab and 13,334 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||G7 summit: PM signs Open Societies pact on universal rights||Fresh from signing an Open Societies Statement that commits signatories to “freedom of expression, both online and offline”, the Narendra Modi government has been reminded of how it is seeking to run with the hare and hunt with the hounds in the digital age. The Opposition jogged Modi’s memory by pointing out that India holds the chart-busting record on Internet shutdowns. For three years in a row, India has topped the global charts on Internet shutdowns, according to Access Now, an advocacy group for digital rights. On Sunday, India had joined G7 countries and other invitees to the 47th Summit in signing the Open Societies Statement that takes stock of the situation across the world on universal rights. The Modi government’s endorsement appears all the more rich because the statement, keeping China in mind, specifically mentions politically motivated Internet shutdowns. “We are at a critical juncture, facing threats to freedom and democracy from rising authoritarianism, electoral interference,... manipulation of information, including disinformation, online harms and cyber attacks, politically motivated Internet shutdowns, human rights violations and abuses, terrorism and violent extremism,” the Open Societies Statement says. According to Access Now’s report for 2020, India accounted for 109 of the 155 Internet shutdowns across the world, leaving runner-up Yemen way behind with just six such clampdowns. Till date this year, there have been 21 Internet shutdowns — 16 of them in Jammu and Kashmir and the remaining in the National Capital Region in January and February in the midst of the farmers’ protests. Given this background, plus the use of draconian provisions in the law books to curb freedom of expression, the Opposition was quick to seize the opportunity to call out what they saw as the Modi government’s doublespeak on democracy. “If only Modiji could practise in India what he preaches to the world. India has the highest number of govt imposed Internet shutdowns in the world — so much for freedom of expression online,” tweeted the Congress. “G7: India signs off on joint statement: Reaffirms the values of ‘freedom of expression, both online and offline’. Sign statements abroad, violate them at home. Freedoms devalued: Internet shutdowns, sedition targeting journalists, students, academics, etc,” chipped in Kapil Sibal of the Congress. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury referred to various reports detailing India’s record on Internet shutdowns. “India leads the world in Internet shutdowns. Since 2014, sedition cases up 96%; 2,301 new UAPA detentions without trial or bail. By making these tall claims internationally, Modi makes India a laughing stock. The facts are there for the world to see,” Yechury tweeted. Quoting the Prime Minister’s tweet in which he referred to his G7 speech and said “democracy and freedom are part of India’s civilisational ethos, and find expression in the vibrancy and diversity of India’s society”, Trinamul Congress MP Mahua Moitra tweeted: “Irony just died a thousand deaths.” The G7 countries reaffirmed commitment to democracy as an alternative to the Chinese system that has been gaining ground the world over. Reviving democracy at home and overseas is also a priority concern of US President Joe Biden who has made it a cornerstone of his Build Back Better agenda for America which has now become a mantra for the G7 also after this summit. The iteration comes at a time when the world’s oldest and largest democracies, the US and India, have been placed among the countries that have contributed to an accelerating wave of autocratisation, according to the latest Varieties of Democracies Index report released earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Covid: Novavax shows 90.4 per cent efficacy against the infection||India’s hopes to administer two billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines between August and December have received a boost with a new US-made vaccine to be produced in India by the Serum Institute showing high protective efficacy. The US-based vaccine maker Novavax announced on Monday that its protein-based Covid-19 vaccine has demonstrated 90.4 per cent efficacy against the novel coronavirus infection and 100 per cent efficacy against moderate and severe disease. The vaccine also showed 93 per cent efficacy against predominantly circulating variants of concern (VoC) or variants of interest (VoI), the company added, reporting the results of a clinical trial on over 29,900 participants at 119 sites across the US and Mexico. “Today, Novavax is one step closer to addressing the critical and persistent global health need for additional Covid-19 vaccines,” Stanley Erck, chief executive officer of Novavax, said in a statement. “These results reinforce that the vaccine is extremely effective and offers complete protection against both moderate and severe Covid-19 infection.” The Pune-based Serum Institute of India is expected to produce 1 billion doses of the Novavax vaccine during 2021 under a pact between the two companies last September. Novavax, which also has partner manufacturing sites in the Czech Republic, Japan, South Korea, Spain, the UK and the US, has said it will have a global production capacity of over 2 billion doses during 2021. “This is a major development with encouraging implications for India,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. “The Serum Institute has a large production capacity.” The Centre has said it expects to procure 200 million doses of the Novavax vaccine from the Serum Institute between August and December this year as part of a plan to acquire and administer over two billion doses during those five months. India’s vaccination campaign had until Monday morning administered over 254 million doses with about 47 million (3.5 per cent of the population) fully vaccinated with two doses. But health officials have said India hopes to immunise its entire eligible population by the end of 2021 through a bouquet of vaccines — Covaxin, Covishield, Sputnik, and jabs from Biological E and Novavax. The Novavax trial observed 77 Covid-19 cases, 63 among participants who received a placebo and 14 among participants who received the vaccine. All cases in the vaccine group were mild while the placebo group had 10 moderate and four severe cases, yielding a vaccine efficacy of 100 per cent against moderate or severe disease. The company said it intended to file for regulatory approvals in the third quarter and remained on track to reach a production capacity of 100 million doses per month by the end of the third quarter and 150 million doses per month by the end of the fourth quarter of 2021. Genome sequencing data were available for 54 of the 77 cases, the company said. Of the sequenced cases, 35 were VoCs, nine were VoIs and 10 were other variants. The trial recorded 38 VoCs or VoIs in the placebo group and six in the vaccine group. “The data show the vaccine is highly effective against variants,” said Jameel. “We’ll have to establish if this is also seen against the delta variant.” Genome and epidemiology studies have suggested that the delta variant, first detected in India, had contributed significantly to the country’s second wave. Although Novavax does not mention the delta variant in particular, the strain has been demarcated as a VoC by the World Health Organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Lawyer union urges CJI to reject plea to elevate SC advocates as high court judges||A union of lawyers has urged Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana to reject a plea to elevate Supreme Court advocates as judges of high courts, contending that it will undermine the independence of the judiciary and the transparency of the appointment process. “We are afraid that such a move, if true, would cause far-reaching negative consequences impacting the independence of the judiciary and its transparency, and would lead to substitution of the opinion of the High Court Collegium by that of the Supreme Court Collegium, in violation of Article 217 of the Constitution and constitution benches’ decisions of the Honourable Supreme Court of India with respect to appointment of judges of Honourable High Courts,” the All India Lawyers Union (AILU) said. “It militates against the federal principles, the autonomy of the High Courts and the constitutional norms in this regard,” the letter addressed to CJI Ramana added. Under Article 217 of the Constitution, a person can be appointed to a high court as a judge only if he or she has been a judge of a lower court for over 10 years or has been a lawyer with a minimum of 10 years’ experience in one or more high courts. The AILU’s opposition comes against the backdrop of a move by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), which represents lawyers appearing in the top court, to set up a search committee for the purpose of recommending names of eminent lawyers from the Supreme Court as judges of high courts. Now, Supreme Court lawyers are considered only for judges’ posts in the top court. AILU president Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya told The Telegraph: “The new process, if adopted, will also curb the rights of the lawyers practising in high courts. This move is backed by the BJP, which is trying hard to centralise powers.” Bhattacharyya added: “Not only us, more or less the Bar associations of every high court have opposed the move. The Calcutta High Court Bar Association sent a letter on Monday. The leaders of three bodies of Calcutta High Court will sit together in a day or two and jointly send a memorandum protesting against the move.” CJI Ramana at a recent conference of chief justices of high courts had also referred to the plea of the SCBA, but had not given any assurance on the matter. The SCBA is of the view that many advocates in the Supreme Court with over two decades of practice and with expertise in constitutional, criminal, civil, arbitration and other legal subjects should be considered for appointment as judges of high courts in view of the massive backlog of vacancies. India has over 4.5 crore pending cases at its 25 high courts, which are functioning at 50-60 per cent of their sanctioned strength. However, the AILU in its letter addressed to the CJI on Sunday through its president Bhattacharyya and general secretary P.V. Surendranath said it “notices with great concern and consternation the reported statement of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) that the Hon’ble CJI has agreed to the request made by the SCBA to consider elevation of Supreme Court lawyers as judges of High Courts and requested Chief Justices of High Courts to consider lawyers practicing in the Supreme Court for elevation to their High Courts”. The AILU took exception to the SCBA constituting a search committee for identifying and selecting suitable candidates from the Supreme Court Bar. “So far, no opportunity is conceded to the Bar Associations of the Honourable High Courts to constitute any ‘Search Committee’ to identify eligible suitable candidates from the Bar and to propose names to the Chief Justices of the High Courts for elevation as judges of the High Courts. In such a context, the… proposal of a ‘Search Committee’ and to institutionalise such appointments may lead to unhealthy and disastrous consequences,” the union said. The AILU added: “We, as a responsible organisation of lawyers concerned with an independent and accountable judiciary and a strong Bar, respectfully appeal that this sort of seminal issues may not be decided without affording sufficient opportunity for a thorough democratic and informed debate among all the stakeholders, including the Bar Associations of the High Courts. “The All India Lawyers Union (AILU) urges the Honourable Chief Justice of India to reject the proposal of the SCBA and may be kind enough to withdraw instructions, if any, given to the Honourable Chief Justices of the High Courts in favour of the proposal of the SCBA in this regard.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Ayodhya Ram temple: Congress urges SC to investigate land deal||The Congress has urged the Supreme Court to investigate the land deal in Ayodhya under which a plot was allegedly bought by the Ram Temple Trust for Rs 18.5 crore from buyers who had minutes earlier purchased it for Rs 2 crore. The Opposition party has also asked for a comprehensive audit of the cash donated by people for the construction of the temple, arguing that Ram symbolises faith and justice and that there can be no bigger sin than committing a fraud using the Lord’s name. The Sangh parivar ran a door-to-door fund collection drive and gathered around Rs 3,000 crore for a Ram temple in Ayodhya, after the Supreme Court paved the way for the construction of one. “The Ram Temple Trust was constituted by the Prime Minister on instructions from the Supreme Court. The entire fund collection should be audited under the court’s supervision,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Monday. “The Supreme Court should constitute a special investigation team (SIT) to examine the collections, the expenditure and all the land registrations,” he added. On Sunday, at separate media briefings, leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party and the Samajwadi Party had made the allegation of fraud. Both parties have sought probes by the CBI and the ED. The Congress stressed on the immorality of a fraud in the name of Ram to corner the RSS-BJP ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, where the start of the temple construction in Ayodhya could have been flagged as a big achievement by the ruling party. Surjewala asked: “Will the Prime Minister answer who gives patronage to sinners? Who are playing with the people’s faith in Lord Ram? How many more plots were purchased in the name of a temple in Ayodhya?” He added: “Those who deceive the Gods will not spare human beings. Trade in the garb of faith is a sin. The BJP has committed a sin by misusing the money given for the construction of the temple.” As the Congress addressed media conferences in Delhi and Lucknow and held demonstrations seeking the resignation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Rahul Gandhi set the tone by tweeting: “Lord Ram is himself justice, truth and religion. Fraud in his name is irreligious.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “Crores of people contributed to the construction of the temple because of faith and devotion. Misusing that money is anti-religion, a sin, an insult of their faith.” The Opposition has kicked up a huge ruckus to blunt the advantage in the election that the BJP could have got using the temple plank. A temple-oriented discourse will now create space for an effective intervention by the Opposition, and the BJP might be compelled to tone down its rhetoric. Giving the background, Surjewala said: “Kusum Pathak and Harish Pathak sold the land (12,080 square metres) on March 18 at 7.10pm for Rs 2 crore to Ravi Mohan Tiwari and Sultan Ansari. Same day at 7.15pm, Tiwari and Ansari sold the plot to the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust (via general secretary Champat Rai) for Rs 18.50 crore. “Witnesses for both deals are Anil Mishra and Rishikesh Upadhyay. Mishra is a member of the trust and a senior RSS leader and Upadhyay, a BJP leader, is mayor of Ayodhya, supposed to be close to both Yogi and Modi.” Surjewala said “the scandal is obvious” and argued that the value of no plot in the world has appreciated at this rate in five minutes. “It is interesting that Tiwari and Ansari got an e-stamp certificate for sale at 5.22pm but the trust got the e-stamp certificate at 5.11pm itself,” he said. Both Rai and Mishra have denied wrongdoing. Rai said in a statement that the purchase was transparent and the amount paid was less than the current market rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Ayodhya Ram temple: UP deputy CM pledges land deal probe||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said on Monday that the state government would conduct an inquiry into the allegation that the trust set up to monitor the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya had bought land at a highly inflated rate. An Aam Aadmi Party Rajya Sabha member and a former Samajwadi Party minister had alleged on Sunday that Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, with the help of trust member Anil Kumar Mishra, had bought a plot for Rs 18.50 crore, a rate over nine times higher than the Rs 2 crore for which it had been purchased from its original owner the same day. Rai and Mishra have denied the charges of money laundering levelled against them. Maurya, the deputy chief minister and BJP leader, said in Lucknow on Monday: “An inquiry will be conducted into the allegations and those found guilty must be brought to book.” Maurya, however, added that those who were “against the devotees of Lord Ram have raised this issue”. Quoting purported entries of the registered sale deed of the land, AAP leader Sanjay Singh and Samajwadi politician Tej Narayan Pandey had claimed at news conferences in Lucknow and Ayodhya, respectively, that the temple trust had entered into an agreement with Sultan Ansari on March 18 and he was paid an advance of Rs 17 crore, besides Rs 1.29 crore as stamp duty. Ansari had purchased the 1.208-hectare plot at Bag Bijaisi village in Ayodhya Sadar only minutes ago from Kusum Pathak for Rs 2 crore, according to the purported documents. Mishra was a witness in both deals. The two politicians have demanded probes by the CBI and the ED into the land deal. Rai issued a statement on Monday saying: “…The 1.20 hectares of land at Bag Bijaisi, Ayodhya, has been purchased in a transparent manner for some important temples, including Kaushalya Sadan. “Several agreements were struck in favour of the present seller involving the said land in 2011, 2017 and 2019…. The rate offered for the land was cross-checked as per the market rate. The rate was fixed at Rs 1,423 per square foot, which is less than the current market rate. (1.208 hectares is 130,028.04sqft. The price of 130,028.04sqft at Rs 1,423 per sqft comes to Rs 18.5 crore). “After a decision on the rate, it was necessary for those associated with it to fulfil their previous agreements….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||JDU criticises Chirag Paswan for LJP split||The Janata Dal United on Monday took potshots at Chirag Paswan after a split in his Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) came out in the open, saying that he was bearing the brunt of his own actions. Chirag has been left cornered in a revolt led by his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, the LJP MP from Hajipur, and supported by four other party MPs, including nephew Prince Raj. “There is a saying that you reap what you sow. Chirag is reaping the fruit of his own actions. He was heading a party, which was with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). But he adopted a stance that damaged it in the Assembly polls, leaving the leaders and party workers uneasy and dissatisfied,” JDU national president R.C.P. Singh told mediapersons in Patna. The remarks by Singh, a Rajya Sabha member, were a reminder of last year when LJP chief Chirag had gone all out against Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar in the run-up to the 2020 Assembly elections — criticising and attacking him despite being in the NDA. Nitish was the face of the poll campaign of the NDA and the chief ministerial candidate, but Chirag fielded candidates in constituencies where the JDU was contesting. It was seen not only as an attempt to undermine the JDU, but also to ensure that it gets fewer seats in comparison to ally BJP, which was said to be providing tacit support to Chirag and the LJP. His aim was to help BJP get the top place in the alliance, and ensure his rise to prominence in the state. “Getting a high position in the party without hard work is easy, but to digest it is hard. If you do not respect your seniors and colleagues then what will happen? This was the reason that the LJP MPs distanced themselves from him (Chirag). A person has to be stable and cool to become a racehorse that is up for the long haul,” Singh said. However, the JDU chief showered praises on LJP founder and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who died in October 2020. “Ram Vilas ji was a good person. He established the LJP. His coordination with the NDA was better and due to it the alliance managed to win 39 out of 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar (in 2019),” Singh added. The JDU leader refused to speak on speculation on the breakaway LJP leaders joining his party. Meanwhile, the BJP, whom ally JDU had blamed for encouraging the LJP to go against it in the Bihar Assembly elections, tried to distance itself from Chirag. “Chirag was taking all the decisions on his own during the state polls. His decisions helped the (Opposition) Grand Alliance. The LJP leaders and workers were angry with him since then,” BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Five Lok Janshakti Party MPs revolt against Chirag Paswan||The Lok Janshakti Party witnessed a coup on Monday when five of its six MPs revolted against party chief Chirag Paswan and elected his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the parliamentary party leader. The sudden implosion of the party formed by veteran Ram Vilas Paswan, who passed away last year, bore signs of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s cold revenge, months after Chirag led an aggressive campaign against Nitish and his Janata Dal United in the Assembly polls and spoilt its show. Five of the six LJP MPs (Chirag is the sixth) met at Hajipur Lok Sabha member Paras’s residence on Sunday, elected him leader of the parliamentary party and then went to meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to submit a letter and inform him about the decision. Chirag woke up to the coup on Monday morning and rushed to his uncle’s residence for rapprochement but had to return empty-handed. The LJP chief had to wait for nearly 30 minutes outside his uncle’s residence before he was let in and but Paras was not present in the house. The breakaway group of five MPs, led by Paras, reposed faith in the leadership of Nitish in Bihar and said they were part of the NDA, both at the national and state level, lending credence to the JDU’s role in the operation. “I have not split the party but saved it according the desire of five of our six MPs,” Paras told reporters, terming Nitish a “vikas purush (development man)”, stressing party workers were opposed to Chirag’s decision of contesting against the JDU. Taking control of the party after his father’s death, just ahead of the Bihar polls in October-November last year, Chirag had broken out of the NDA and unleashed a scathing campaign against Nitish. The JDU believes its seat tally dropped sharply because the LJP candidates played spoilsport. The LJP too had performed poorly, winning just one Assembly seat and the MLA has now defected to the JDU. Big brother BJP, which was believed to have indirectly backed Chirag’s oust-Nitish campaign, maintained silence over the sudden developments. Chirag had fielded candidates mostly against the JDU, while declaring his admiration for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The timing of the revolt was linked with the speculations of a cabinet expansion in Delhi. By asserting that he was part of the BJP-led NDA at the Centre and the Nitish-led alliance in Bihar, Chirag’s uncle appeared to be eyeing a berth in the Modi government. Paswan was a key minister in the Modi government as an ally. His son Chirag was hoping to get a place but internally, his claim was opposed firmly by the JDU, arguing that he had broken out of the NDA. The JDU’s opposition had also forced the BJP to cancel an invite to Chirag to attend a virtual NDA meeting in January this year. While BJP leaders claimed they had no role in the current development, LJP leaders close to Chirag felt the Lok Sabha Speaker agreeing to meet the rebel group so easily couldn’t have happened without a nod from the ruling party. “While we have no role in whatever is happening in the LJP but at the same time we have nothing to worry because the rebel group has said they will be part of the NDA,” one BJP leader said. This leader also slammed Chirag saying: “The young leader had gone too far.” BJP leaders handling the Bihar affairs of the party said they can’t annoy the JDU, since the party with 16 MPs, is currently the second largest constituent of the ruling NDA at the Centre after the departure of the Shiv Sena with 18 MPs. “Allies like Shiv Sena and Akali Dal have quit the NDA and so we need the JDU to send a good message,” one Bihar BJP leader said. Sensing the current perception, particularly after the BJP’s drubbing in Bengal and the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls, the JDU has started building pressure by demanding a “respectable share” in the Modi government. Nitish’s party had refused to join the Modi government after it was offered only a token representation. The JDU could now also press for inclusion of the LJP faction led by Paras, to increase its heft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Covid: Panel asks Centre to reserve 10% ICU beds for children||A paediatric panel has urged the Centre to earmark 10 per cent of Covid-19 intensive care unit beds for children, while asserting that there is no evidence to suggest that an anticipated “third wave” would be harder on kids than the earlier waves. The 14-member panel has recommended nationwide augmentation of paediatric care facilities through increase in beds, equipment and medications, training to enhance healthcare staff skills, and expanding telemedicine services amid concerns about gaps in paediatric critical care. It has also called on the government to reserve 20 per cent of general Covid-19 ward beds for children and to add ICU beds in non-Covid paediatric wards to manage cases of post-Covid multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) in any future surges. The paediatricians said available data indicates that the vast majority of children have mild disease, better infection outcomes and low mortality in comparison with adults. However, infants and children with underlying illness may be at higher risk and will require greater monitoring. “There appears to be no substantial evidence to suggest that children would be more affected or would have greater illness severity due to Covid-19 infections in the anticipated third wave,” the doctors said in a paper. “Further, we have insufficient information to estimate risk in children due to the new (coronavirus) variants and the consequences in children due to increase in adult vaccination rates,” they said. The paper — published by The Lancet Covid-19 Commission India Task Force, an initiative by the medical journal — comes at a time when India’s paediatric community has been trying to douse speculation that a future wave would be harder on children than the first and second waves. The panel analysed infection outcomes of over 2,500 hospitalised children aged below 10 years admitted in 10 public and private hospitals across the country during India two surges — between March and December 2020 and January and April 2021. In both waves they observed a mortality rate of about 2.4 per cent among hospitalised children aged below 10 years with about nine per cent of cases showing severe illness. About 40 per cent of the children who died had underlying health disorders. “We’re asking for earmarked paediatric ICU beds because during the earlier surges, there were instances of paediatric ICU beds used for adults,” said Siddarth Ramji, professor of paediatrics at the Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, and a panel member. Ramji and other panel members said their recommendations are intended to strengthen overall paediatric care facilities in hospitals across the country, especially in the public district hospitals, the vast majority of which currently lack paediatric critical care resources. “We see this as an opportunity during adversity,” said Dr Sushma Nangia, professor of paediatrics and head of neonatology at the Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi, and another panel member. “While resources for newborn care have improved in district hospitals across the country, most of them still do not have paediatric ICU facilities required to manage severe respiratory distress. They will need equipment and adequately trained staff,” Dr Nangia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-60
15-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: ABP News journalist found dead||A journalist with ABP News and ABP Ganga was found dead on an Uttar Pradesh road, his clothes torn and his face bearing multiple injuries, a day after he had written to police expressing fear that the liquor mafia would “harm” him and seeking protection. Police initially said that Sulabh Srivastava, 42, died in an accident after falling off his motorbike when it skidded on a rain-soaked road in Pratapgarh town late on Sunday night and hit a hand pump. On Monday, the police registered a case of murder and criminal intimidation against unknown persons on the basis of a written complaint from Renuka Srivastava, Sulabh’s wife, said Surendra Dwivedi, additional superintendent of police of Pratapgarh district. Sulabh had written to the additional director-general of police of the Allahabad zone, Prem Prakash, on Saturday mentioning that he feared for his life and that of his family after he had reported on the liquor mafia. The letter in Hindi, widely shared on social media, said: “The applicant Sulabh Srivastava, a resident of Sahodarpur, Kotwali, Pratapgarh, is a district correspondent of the esteemed ABP News and ABP Ganga…. The police had recently conducted raids on the liquor mafia at Kunda, Hathigawa and Antu (in Pratapgarh).... The applicant had covered the incident…. I had also filed an article on the digital platform (of ABP Ganga) on June 9. “Since then there has been a lot of buzz about this report. I’ve come to know from my sources that the liquor mafia are unhappy with me. For the past two days whenever I leave home, it appears as if someone is following me. I fear that the liquor mafia might harm me or my family.” Sulabh had requested police protection. ADG Prakash confirmed that he had received Sulabh’s letter. “I had forwarded it to district officers and discussed the issue with them,” he said. According to Dwivedi, Sulabh was riding home on Sunday when his bike skidded and hit a handpump. The officer said: “He fell from his motorcycle near a brick kiln. Some labourers lifted him and called up his friends from his cellphone. The labourers also called an ambulance. He was taken to the district hospital where doctors declared him dead.” The police said Sulabh had suffered a head injury and died of excessive bleeding. “However, we are probing all angles,” Dwivedi said. NDTV reported that a photograph of the body taken at the scene of the “accident” showed Sulabh lying on the ground and there appeared to be multiple injuries on his face. His shirt seemed to have been almost entirely removed and his trousers unbuttoned and pulled down. A relative of the journalist, requesting anonymity, corroborated that Sulabh had been “found half-naked” and that “there were many injury marks on his face”. The relative told local reporters in Pratapgarh that the family was living in fear “as some people have been watching us”. Renuka, Sulabh’s wife, alleged on Monday after filing the police complaint that the liquor mafia had murdered her husband. She alleged that Sulabh had received threats to his life after reporting on the liquor mafia and that the police had not taken any action despite being informed in writing. Renuka said Sulabh had shown her on his mobile phone the letter he had written to the police. Renuka said that on Sunday her husband had gone to report on an illegal arms factory and that she received news of his death in a “motorcycle accident” around 11 at night. She said she rushed to the hospital but he had died by the time she reached. Akash Tomar, the superintendent of police of Pratapgarh, said: “We are probing the case and will not spare the guilty if we find that anybody is involved in his death.” Sulabh’s death triggered widespread condemnation. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra accused the Yogi Adityanath government of fostering lawlessness in Uttar Pradesh. “The liquor mafia have been on a killing spree, from Aligarh to Pratapgarh, but the UP government is silent. Journalists are asking dangerous questions to expose the truth, but the government is asleep. Does the UP government, which nurtures jungle raj, have any answer to the tears of the family members of journalist Sulabh Shrivastava?” she tweeted in Hindi. Over 100 people had died in Aligarh two weeks ago after consuming spurious liquor. Chief minister Adityanath claims that his government has cracked down on the liquor mafia by booking cases under the National Security Act and the Goonda Act, and confiscating properties of those involved, in cases of death after consuming illicit liquor. Police sources said large quantities of illicit liquor had been manufactured in view of the recent panchayat polls in the state. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Monday: “Shocked at the demise of ABP journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Uttar Pradesh. Sad to see that despite ‘democracy & freedom’ being a part of our ethos, we are unable to save lives who are working tirelessly towards unfolding the truth.” The Editors Guild of India expressed shock at the “cavalier manner in which Uttar Pradesh police is treating the mysterious death of TV journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Pratapgarh”. The Guild noted that Sulabh’s death had come at a time when the media were under increasing pressure from the Centre and several state governments “who insist that they follow the official narrative regarding the administration’s handling of the pandemic”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||India||Girl child labour rescued from retired collector’s house ||A 12-year-old girl was rescued on Monday from the house of a retired collector at IRC Village in Bhubaneswar where she was working as a domestic help. The former bureaucrat’s son is a professor at the National Law University in Hyderabad and his daughter-in-law runs an English medium school for kids at IRC Village. “The child was trafficked from her village at Berhampur in November 2020 and was engaged in domestic servitude. When she was trafficked, she was studying in Class V. Though the daughter-in-law of the house owner runs a school in Bhubaneswar, she never allowed this girl to sit in the classroom. It is really shameful. The girl’s father is a rickshaw puller and her mother works as a domestic help.” Childline director Dr Benudhar Senapati told The Telegraph. The director said the officer concerned had served as Ganjam collector and retired in 1994. “Using his contacts, he had managed to bring the girl from Berhampur in Ganjam district to Bhubaneswar. It needs to be investigated how many children he had engaged as domestic help over the years. It’s also shameful that his son allowed such things to happen despite being a teacher of laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||India||Covid: Odisha govt to cover study costs of orphan children||The Odisha government has decided to bear the education cost of children who have lost their parents to Covid-19. Thirty-five children in the state have so far been orphaned by Covid-19. Talking to the media on Monday, advisor to the women and child development department, Sulata Deo said: “The education cost of the children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 will be borne by the state government. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has issued directions to bear the entire cost toward their studies in medical, engineering and technical courses also.” Apart from this, she said the state would also bear the expenses of orphaned children pursuing courses in private institutions. Minister for social security and empowerment of persons with disability, Ashok Chandra Panda told The Telegraph:  “We will soon come out with a detailed list of the children who have lost their parents in the pandemic.” “The state will provide a stipend to these children under the Madhu Babu Pension Yojana (a social security scheme) and they will be given the monetary advance for three months. They will get the money till they attain the age of 18. The officials have been asked to meet these children at their houses and hand over the money to them.” The orphaned children are entitled to get monetary assistance of Rs 500. To protect children from becoming the victims of a possible third wave of Covid-19, the state has given direction to officials to ensure their safety. “All the district administrations have been directed to set up paediatric wards in every Covid hospital in their respective districts. The special paediatric wing is being set up with an objective to check possible transmission of the virus from the Covid affected children to the non-covid affected kids,” said additional chief secretary in charge of health department P.K. Mohapatra. Officials said as many as 357 beds will be available in seven state run-medical colleges and hospitals for treatment of the children affected with the infection. Of the total beds, 44 will be in the HDU, 94 in paediatric care units and special newborn care units and 64 in neonatal intensive care units. “Nearly 114 doctors and 1,036 health workers from community health centres to medical college level will be trained in handling Covid cases in children. All the district administrations have been directed to make provisions for 10 isolation beds in all district headquarters and sub-divisional hospitals and 155 beds, including 64 newborn intensive care units in the seven state-run medical colleges and hospitals,” officials said. Besides, dedicated Covid blocks will come up in the Sishu Bhawan (Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Postgraduate Institute of Paediatrics) in Cuttack. “Breastfeeding corners will be established in all the dedicated Covid facilities. Mother’s milk is the best for a child,” said officials adding that in areas where the caseload is expected to be high, the government will consider setting up standalone paediatric Covid care facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||India||Gujarat polls 2022: Kejriwal opens AAP office in Ahmedabad ||Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal blew the bugle for next year’s Assembly polls in Gujarat by inaugurating a party office in Ahmedabad and inducting a senior journalist on Monday. Kejriwal slammed both the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress and pitched his “Delhi model of welfare” as an alternative to the “Gujarat model” of growth touted by Narendra Modi. “For the past 27 years, only one party has been ruling Gujarat. But the past 27 years are a story of the partnership between these two parties. Whenever the BJP needs, supply of leaders and resources is fulfilled by the Congress. Who will think about Gujarat? The farmers of Gujarat are committing suicide. The condition of the government schools and hospitals is extremely poor,” Kejriwal told reporters in Ahmedabad. He added: “A few months ago, I was to meet a very big Chamber of Commerce to which I had been invited. At the last minute, the Gujarat authorities pressured them to cancel my tour. The traders of Gujarat are scared and in the past year amid the pandemic, the state has been left orphaned.” Kejriwal said the AAP would contest all seats in the state and welcomed popular Gujarati news anchor Isudan Gadhvi into the party. The AAP had contested 29 of the 182 seats in 2017 and got only 0.62 per cent of votes. “The people of Gujarat have understood that the Congress and the BJP are alike. They have got a competent choice in AAP. Citizens of Gujarat also deserve free 24X7 electricity, good schools and hospitals” Kejriwal said. The AAP received a shot in the arm after it wrested the Opposition mantle from the Congress in the Surat Municipal Corporation earlier this year, winning 27 of 120 seats. The Congress drew a blank. The BJP increased its tally from 80 to 93. However, veteran political commentator and author Achyut Yagnik was sceptical of AAP’s prospects. “Surat and other places with a large number of outsiders are different from the rest of Gujarat. History and caste equations make it difficult for any party to go beyond the BJP-Congress binary here. The AAP will attract dissidents from both parties, but is unlikely to make any significant difference to the outcome of the elections,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Aisha Sultana moves Kerala HC for anticipatory bail||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana on Monday moved Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail in a sedition case filed against her in Lakshadweep. Police in Kavaratti had on Friday registered an FIR based on a complaint filed by local BJP president C. Abdul Khader Haji and charged Aisha under IPC Sections 124A (sedition) and 153B (assertions against national integration) over her reference to a “bio-weapon” while speaking on the Covid outbreak on the islands during a TV debate. Later, the 26-year-old filmmaker had clarified that she had meant controversial Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel while referring to the “bio-weapon”. But the BJP’s Haji had in his complaint accused Aisha of describing the Union government as a “bio-weapon”. In the anticipatory bail plea, she cited imminent arrest as she has been summoned to appear before Kavaratti police on June 20. “The applicant apprehends imminent arrest and detention… for allegedly committing non-bailable offence,” the plea stated. “The applicant is absolutely innocent of the allegations levelled against her. The applicant has been falsely implicated in this case with ulterior motives and vexatious intentions,” her bail application said. The plea also pointed out that her remarks did not amount to sedition since there was no call for violence. “It is further submitted that the offences under Section 153B of the IPC also will not stand against the applicant as the words spoken are not prejudicial to national integration or causing disharmony or feelings of enmity or hatred or ill-will,” the application said. Aisha on Monday joined the islanders in their Black Day protest to mark the weeklong visit of Patel to Lakshadweep. She posted on Facebook her picture clad in a black dress and a black mask. “No longer will we, the people of Lakshadweep, tolerate fascism. We will stand against totalitarian policies, and we will survive this siege on Lakshadweep. As long as fascism tries to discriminate, my voice will never abate. Today is a black day for Lakshadweep natives…,” she wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
15-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep greets Praful Khoda Patel with Black Day||Praful Khoda Patel arrived in Lakshadweep on Monday after more than a month to a cold reception as people observed Black Day by wearing black clothes and holding black flags against the controversial administrator. The special aircraft carrying Patel flew directly to Agatti airport in Lakshadweep as he bypassed the usual practice of flying from Kochi since protesters in Kerala, including MPs and MLAs, had been waiting at Kochi airport to meet him to raise their objections to his overbearing reforms. Only his subordinates were present to receive Patel at Agatti airport. The administrator is on his third trip to the archipelago after taking over on December 5. The icy welcome was in sharp contrast to the manner in which the islands’ residents had welcomed Patel the first time he had landed at Agatti in December when elected representatives had received him and thousands of men and women had held up placards greeting him. On Monday, people dressed in black protested at their homes, respecting the Covid protocols. They held up placards and banners with “Recall Praful Khoda Patel” and “Go Back Praful Khoda Patel” written on them. The administrator’s unpopular reforms have shaken the Union Territory and affected the life and livelihood of the 68,000 people who depend on fishing and coconut farming. Police removed a large number of black flags strung on fences of residential properties in several places, including Kavaratti, the headquarters of the Union Territory, ahead of Patel arrival. Kavaratti village panchayat member Thaha Malika of the Congress was among those who were left stranded as the police surrounded the area around the administrator’s bungalow as he arrived at 2.40pm. “We were at a house near the bungalow, but were not allowed to even step out as he arrived. I have never seen this kind of security here,” Malika told The Telegraph. Patel has been widely accused of pushing the “saffron agenda” in the Muslim-majority islands by removing beef from mid-day meals in schools, painting tree trunks in saffron, bringing an anti-gangster law in a place with near-zero crime rate, introducing a two-child norm for panchayat members, empowering the administration to take over anyone’s land and destroying fishing infrastructure — all in the name of transforming the place into “another Maldives”. The Save Lakshadweep Forum, an all-party initiative formed recently to protect the rights of the people, has decided not to cooperate with the administrator if Patel does not invite them for talks. “This is the first time the people of Lakshadweep are observing a ‘Black Day’ to mark the arrival of the administrator. Historically, we have accorded warm receptions to all the administrators every time they have come to the islands,” local CPM leader and SLF joint convener Komalam Koya told this newspaper on Monday. “We will not go to him seeking anything. But if he invites us, our six-member core committee will meet him and present our memorandum demanding the immediate withdrawal of all the controversial reforms,” he said. Lakshadweep district panchayat member Asif Ali of the NCP said all parties were on the same page. “Many BJP leaders have quit or expressed open support to the movement against Patel’s anti-people reforms. We will not cooperate with him (Patel) unless he is ready to correct his steps,” Ali told this newspaper. Although the Lakshadweep unit of the BJP is a part of the SLF, a spate of resignations protesting the drastic changes brought about by Patel and backseat driving from the Kerala unit of the party have left it divided. The party’s Kerala-based national vice-president, A.P. Abdullakutty, who is in charge of the Lakshadweep BJP unit, has been at the receiving end of criticism from his own party men in the islands with many blaming him for the decision to book filmmaker Aisha Sultana for sedition over her reference to a “bio-weapon” during a TV debate. A series of audio clips from his telephone conversations with party leaders in the islands have kicked up a row. In the latest audio recording, Abdullakutty can be heard warning party members against participating in the 12-hour hunger strike on June 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-61
