16-06-2021||India||Fire breaks out at AIIMS hospital in Delhi, no injuries reported ||A fire broke out at the Convergence Block of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi on Wednesday night. According to the fire department, a call about the fire was received at around 10.30 pm after which 22 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. No injury has been reported so far in the fire that broke out on the ninth floor of the hospital's Convergence Block, they said. The site of the fire does not house patients and mostly houses laboratories and the examination section. It is a diagnostic building with multipurpose labs, examination section as well as an in-built auditorium with AIIMS SET Facility. Fire-fighting operations are underway and the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the officials said. The cause of the fire is not known and the extent of damage has not been ascertained so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
16-06-2021||India||Russia's Sputnik V pilot in final leg, scaled up to 9 other cities||Dr Reddys Laboratories which has soft-launched Russias COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V here has expanded the pilot which is in the final leg to other cities such as Mumbai, Bangalore and New Delhi. Presently it being a limited pilot phase, registration on CoWIN is not open for the public and will become open once the commercial launch is commenced, a press release from Dr Reddy's said on Wednesday. The limited pilot soft-launch of the Sputnik V vaccine in India that was initiated by Dr Reddy's in Hyderabad on May 14 has now been successfully scaled up to other cities such as Visakhapatnam, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Kolkata and Delhi, Baddi, Chennai, Miryalaguda and Kolhapur with more cities to follow in the next few days, Dr Reddy said in an update. The pilot programme for Sputnik V, which received clearance from the drug regulator for emergency use in April, was launched on May 17 by Dr Reddy's in collaboration with Apollo Hospitals. Dr Reddys Laboratories is in a pact with Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell the first 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of SputnikVin India. The Indian drug-maker recently received nearly three million doses of Sputnik V. The pilot has allowed Dr Reddys to test the cold storage arrangements of -18C temperature in the cities, CoWIN integration, track and trace and other logistical arrangements ahead of the commercial launch, the release said. The limited pilot phase is currently in its final leg as we gear up to ensure a smooth commercial launch, it said. Adequate number of cold chain units is being deployed and the last mail arrangement is being validated at every partner hospital to ensure seamless storage and handling of the vaccine, Dr Reddys said. According to a ndtv.com report, the Russian vaccine has a high efficacy rate of 91.6 per cent. According to the Centre's pricing schedule, it will be priced at ₹ 1,145, including hospital charges and tax.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Centre approves restructuring of Ordnance Factory Board into seven new entities||In a major reform initiative, the government on Wednesday approved a long-pending proposal to restructure the nearly 200-year-old Ordnance Factory Board that operates 41 ammunition and defence equipment production facilities into seven separate corporate entities to improve its accountability, efficiency and competitiveness. The decision to corporatise the OFB on the lines of defence public sector undertakings was taken at a meeting of the union cabinet, nearly two decades after the reform measure was mooted to bring professionalism and significantly enhance its productivity. Describing it as a "historic decision", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said there will be no change in service conditions of nearly 70,000 employees of the organisation and the decision is driven by efforts to boost India's defence manufacturing sector. "It is a big decision that complements India's national security requirements. It will help in achieving our targets for defence production. There will be no change in service conditions of the employees," he told a small group of journalists. Officials said each of the seven entities will be like any other defence public sector undertaking (DPSU) and they will be operated by professional management with a larger goal of enhancing the product range, increase competitiveness and improve cost-efficiency. They said the reform process is being implemented as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision for self-reliance in the defence sector. "All employees of OFB (Group A, B and C) belonging to the production units would be transferred to the corporate entities on deemed deputation initially for a period of two years without altering their service conditions as central government employees," said an official. The pension liabilities of the retired and existing employees will continue to be borne by the government, according to the Cabinet decision. At present, the OFB functions under the department of defence production of the Ministry of Defence. The seven entities will include an ammunition and explosives group, vehicles group, weapons and equipment group, 'troop comfort items group', ancillary group, optoelectronics group and parachute group, the officials said. The ammunition and explosives group would be mainly engaged in the production of ammunition of various calibre and explosives and its focus would be to exploit the huge potential to grow exponentially including for the export market. The vehicles group would mainly engage in the production of defence mobility and combat vehicles such as tanks, BMPs (infantry fighting vehicle) and mine protected vehicles. The focus of the group would be to increase its share in the domestic market through better capacity utilisation and also to explore new export markets. The weapons and equipment group would be mainly engaged in the production of small arms, medium and large-calibre guns, and other weapon systems and is expected to increase its share in the domestic market through meeting domestic demand as well as product diversification, the officials said. "Today's decision would allow these companies autonomy, as well as help improve accountability and efficiency in the functioning of the 41 factories under the new companies," said another official. He said the restructuring would help in overcoming various shortcomings in the existing system of OFB by eliminating inefficient supply chains. The government has also decided to delegate the authority of the cabinet to an empowered Group of Ministers headed by Singh to decide on matters related to the restructuring of the OFB. At present, the government has to shell out around Rs 5,000 crore annually to pay the salaries of the OFB employees. Additionally, it gives around Rs 3,000 crore to OFB as an operational cost. The ordnance factories were set up as "captive centres" to serve the needs of the armed forces, but they have been facing performance-related issues for a long time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Delhi court defers order on release of Pinjra Tod activists||Student-activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were granted bail by Delhi High Court on Tuesday, weren't released from jail on Wednesday as a Delhi court deferred the hearing of the issue. The court said that it will pronounce a verdict on the matter on June 17 at 11 am. "Order could not be passed due to heavy board of bail applications listed before the undersigned. Be put up for orders tomorrow at 11 am", livelaw.com quoted the bench as saying, The order comes after the Delhi police sought time to verify the sureties and match the residential addresses of the appellants with official records. Narwal, Kalita and Tanha had moved the trial court for their immediate release after they remained imprisoned past the 1 pm deadline set by the High Court on Tuesday. They were ordered to be released on personal bonds of ₹ 50,000 each and two sureties of a similar amount. The case was heard on Wednesday afternoon with the lawyers for the activists pitted against the investigating officer and Special Public Prosecutor. Both sides had lots to say, according to a report in ndtv.com. At the end of it,  Additional Sessions Judge Revinder Bedi said she would pass her order later on Wednesday. “The accused have given permanent addresses as Jharkhand, Assam and Haryana. It has to be verified... (there is) paucity of time to complete the verification,” the special prosecutor said in the court. “Charge sheet lists address as Delhi. Arrest memo shows Delhi address. Parents' address (hometowns) isn't our address here. As adults we rent a place and live in Delhi,” the activists’ lawyer shot back. The Delhi Police have also moved the Supreme Court challenging three separate judgements of the Delhi High Court granting bail to the activists. The three appellants, Narwal, Kalita and Tanha, were arrested at different times last year. Narwal and Kalita, both JNU students, were arrested in January, and charged with making inflammatory speeches and inciting people to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Tanha, a Jamia Millia Islamia was arrested in May, accused of being part of a “premeditated” conspiracy to provoke the riots. The high court judges set aside a decision by the trial court to refuse bail to the three accused. They were asked to post a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each as well as two sureties of similar amounts. All three accused were charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. However, the two-judge bench of Justice Sidharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani declared: “We are unable to discern in the subject charge-sheet the elemental factual ingredients that are a must to found the offences defined under Section 15, 17 or 18 UAPA.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||ICSE Council to declare Class 12 results by July 20||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) is likely to announce its Class 12 exam results by July 20, reported ndtv.com, attributing sources. According to the report, assessment will be based on the students' internal marks for Classes 11 and 12. The board will also consider the best performances from 2015 to 2020. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had called for an online meeting of heads of schools presenting candidates for ISC 2021 on June 7 to discuss issues related to the submission of the average marks of Class 12 examinees scored in Classes 11and 12. But the meeting was cancelled on June 5. The CBSE and the CISCE had earlier informed the Supreme Court that they would lay down “objective criteria” for assessing Class 12 students, now that the board exams had been cancelled. The CBSE and CISCE had cancelled its Class 12 board exams owing to the pandemic situation. The CISCE had on June 1 said in a media release that after the declaration of the ISC results, if some students are not satisfied with the marks awarded to them, it will give an “option to such candidates to write the ISC (Class XII) Year 2021 Examination at a later date, when the situation is conducive to conduct the same”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||100 historians of the world express concern over fate of National Archives||The change of land use status of the plot where a part of the National Archives of India is going to be demolished under the Central Vista project has raised concerns among historians who wonder if the facility would be accessible to them once the project is ready. Over 100 historians from across the globe have written to the director-general of the National Archives of India and are still awaiting a response. “Archives are the public repository of memory, the documentary evidence of the relationship between the government and its people. It is the official records of a policy, a social movement pertaining to any particular era. It is very important for the archives to be accessible to scholars and historians,” said Prachi Deshpande, associate professor of history at Calcutta's Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, who had co-drafted the letter with Bhavani Raman, associate professor of history, University of Toronto. The Toronto-based historian said most people were unaware why the archives are important which was precisely why it was crucial tha theirletter be be discussed in public. “Archives for us is an institution that is fundamental to democracy,” Raman said. “Who were consulted on this rebuilding? What is the plan? What will happen to the documents while the rebuilding is on, nothing has been disclosed. We are seeking answers.” Redevelopment of the Central Vista at Rs 20,000 crore, in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi built in the 1930s, is a pet project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the work on which has been going on in a war footing despite the raging pandemic that has left a devastating trail of death. The project involves tearing down of several landmarks and government buildings along with building a new Parliament. The National Archives of India’s building and the campus was accorded Grade 1 heritage site status on October 1, 2009. The Delhi High Court had, earlier this month, dismissed a public interest litigation filed before it against the project. The land-use status of the existing building has been changed from “public and semi-public land” to “government land” as per an order issued on March 20, 2020. “How will this change in the land use status affect this public oriented mission, and the rules that govern the public’s access to the National Archives? We seek clarity about the reason behind this change in land use, and details about the deliberation with various stakeholders-professional historians, public consultation, expert committee-deliberation that preceded this decision,” the letter states. The letter highlights the importance of the National Archives as an “invaluable repository of historical documents that pertain to important political, social and cultural developments across the country.” “It belongs as much to India’s diverse citizenry and regions as it does to the sovereign state. Historians from central and state universities from all over India and the world use these papers for their research. We therefore consider your response to be essential to ensure the NAI’s future as an accessible public space for pursuing historical research by scholars and members of a diverse, multi-lingual public,” reads the letter. The historians have also sought a clarification on how long the archives will remain out of bounds for researchers. “Research projects are lined up much in advance, there are deadlines for submitting research papers. We have no clarity yet on how long the archives will remain closed. Research activities will be seriously affected,” Deshpande said. The Centre had earlier stated that the existing building of the National Archives would not be demolished as it was a heritage structure.  However, the annexe building would be replaced. The Union culture minister, Prahlad Singh, had issued a statement on May 20, 2021, to assure  researchers that records would be safely stored and preserved while the annexe was being rebuilding. The government has also remained silent on the deadline for completion of the project, though unnamed officials of the ministry of culture have been reported as saying that the projct could take till 2026 to complete.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Chirag Paswan blames JD(U) for split||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan on Wednesday blamed Janata Dal (United) for engineering the split in his party and rejected the decisions taken by the faction headed by his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, saying the party's constitution does not authorise them any such power. In his first interaction with media after the split in the party, he struck a combative note by describing himself as "sher ka beta" (lion's son) and asserted that he will fight for the cause of the party founded by his father Ram Vilas Paswan. While blaming the JD(U) for the split, he steered clear of questions regarding the role of the BJP in the development and added that what has happened is also an internal matter for which he will not target others. It is going to be a long battle, he said, as the group headed by him fights the faction of five other party MPs, led by Paras, to claim ownership of the LJP. The JD(U), he alleged, had been working to cause a split in the party even when his father was alive. "A conspiracy was hatched behind my back while I was ill," Paswan claimed. On Tuesday, Chirag contested Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla's decision to name Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House, saying it is "contrary" to provisions of his organisation. In a letter Paswan had also informed Birla of the party's decision to expel five MPs, who have joined hands against him, and urged the Speaker to review the earlier decision and issue a new circular naming him as the LJP leader in the Lok Sabha. "Since Article 26 of the Constitution of Lok Jan Shakti Party empower Central Parliamentary Board of the party to decide who would be Leader of our Party in Lok Sabha, hence, the decision of announcing Sh. Pashupati Kumar Paras MP as Leader of LJP party in the Lok Sabha is contrary to provision of Constitution of our party," he wrote. Paswan's paternal uncle Paras has been elected as their leader by the five of party's six MPs in place of him. Both factions have now moved to control the party and project their group as the real LJP, founded by Paswan's father Ram Vilas Paswan. While the wing led by Chirag Paswan has expelled the five MPs from the party, the rival group has removed him as its president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Delhi Police moves SC against bail of 3 student activists in riots cases||Delhi Police on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court challenging three separate judgements of the Delhi High Court granting bail to three student activists in last year's north-east Delhi riots cases. The high court on Tuesday had granted bail to two JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and a Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha saying in its anxiety to suppress dissent, the State has blurred the line between right to protest and terrorist activity and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a "sad day for democracy". Terming as "somewhat vague" the definition of 'terrorist act' under the stringent UAPA laws and warning against its use in a "cavalier manner", the high court set aside the trial court orders denying bail to the student activists. "We are of the view that the foundations of our nation stand on surer footing than to be likely to be shaken by a protest, however vicious, organised by a tribe of college students or other persons, operating as a coordination committee from the confines of a University situate in the heart of Delhi," the high court had said. In three separate judgements of 113, 83 and 72 pages, the high court had said that although the definition of terrorist act' in section 15 of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) is wide and somewhat vague, it must partake the essential character of terrorism and the phrase terrorist act' cannot be permitted to be applied in a cavalier manner to criminal acts that squarely fall under the IPC. We are constrained to express, that it seems, that in its anxiety to suppress dissent, in the mind of the State, the line between the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity seems to be getting somewhat blurred. If this mindset gains traction, it would be a sad day for democracy" which would be in peril, the High Court had said, adding there was nothing to show the possible commission of a terrorist act. The high court had directed Pinjra Tod activists Narwal and Kalita and Tanha, who were arrested in May last year in connection with alleged larger conspiracy in the riots, to surrender their passports and not to offer any inducement to prosecution witnesses or tamper with the evidence in the case. The three accused shall not indulge in any unlawful activities and shall reside at the address as mentioned in records, the high court had said. Kalita, Narwal and Tanha are accused in four, three and two cases respectively relating to communal riots that broke out on February 24 last year and will be released from jail now as they have already secured bail in other matters. The high court had said there is absolutely nothing in the charge sheet, by way of any specific allegation to show the possible commission of a terrorist act' within section 15 UAPA, an act of raising funds' to commit a terrorist act under section 17 and an act of conspiracy' to commit or an act preparatory' to commit, a terrorist act within section 18 UAPA. It noted that the charge sheet was filed on September 16, 2020 and there are 740 prosecution witnesses and the trial is yet to commence which is unlikely to begin soon in view of the truncated functioning of courts by reason of the prevailing second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Regarding Narwal and Kalita, the high court had said considering their educational background, profile and position in life, it sees no reason to suspect or apprehend that they are either a flight risk or that they will indulge in evidence tampering, or witness intimidation, or will otherwise impede the trial in any way. It said no specific act is attributed to Narwal, apart from the admitted fact that she engaged herself in organising anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and anti-National Register of Citizens (NRC) protests around the time when violence and rioting broke-out in the certain parts of north-east Delhi. It had said allegations relating to inflammatory speeches, organising of 'chakka jaam', instigating women to protest and to stock-pile various articles and other similar allegations, at worst, are evidence that she participated in organising protests, but there is no specific allegation that she incited violence, what to talk of committing a terrorist act or a conspiracy to commit it. Regarding Kalita, it had noted that as a member of certain women's rights organisations and other groups, she did participate and help organise protests against the CAA and the NRC in Delhi and said the right to protest, which is a fundamental right to assemble peaceably and without arms, is surely not outlawed and cannot be termed as a terrorist act' within the meaning of the UAPA, unless of ingredients of offences are clearly discernible from the allegations. It had added that inflammatory speeches and organising chakka jams are not uncommon when there is widespread opposition to governmental or parliamentary actions. Even if we assume...inflammatory speeches, chakka jams, instigation of women protesters and other actions, to which Kalita is alleged to have been party, crossed the line of peaceful protests permissible under our constitutional guarantee, that however would yet not amount to commission of a terrorist act' or a conspiracy' or an act preparatory' to the commission of a terrorist act...under the UAPA," it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Centre dispels twisted social media posts on Covaxin||Facts have been "twisted and misrepresented" in some social media posts which suggested that indigenously developed Covaxin contains newborn calf serum, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. Newborn calf serum is used only for the preparation and growth of vero cells. Serum from bovine and other animals are standard enrichment ingredients used globally for vero cell growth, it said. Vero cells are used to establish cell lives which help in the production of vaccines. This technique has been used for decades in developing vaccines against polio, rabies, and influenza. After growth, the vero cells are washed in water and with chemicals, also technically known as buffer, multiple times to make them free from newborn calf serum. The vero cells are then infected with coronavirus for viral growth, the health ministry said. The vero cells are completely destroyed in the process of viral growth. Thereafter, the grown virus is also killed (inactivated) and purified, it said. The killed or inactivated virus is then used to make the final vaccine. No calf serum is used in the formulation of the final vaccine, according to the statement. "Hence, the final vaccine (Covaxin) does not contain newborn calf serum at all and the calf serum is not an ingredient of the final vaccine product."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Mayawati dismisses reports of BSP MLAs joining Samajwadi Party||A day after reports of some suspended BSP MLAs meeting with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav surfaced, BSP chief Mayawati on Wednesday said it is an illusion. In a series of tweets, she attacked the Samajwadi Party (SP) accusing it of being an expert in "narrow politics". "The Samajwadi Party, which is an expert in narrow politics of despicable manipulations, malice and casteism, is publicising through the media that some BSP MLAs are breaking away to join the SP. This is an intense illusion," she tweeted in Hindi. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief said that those MLAs were suspended from the party long back for colluding with the SP and an industrialist during the Rajya Sabha elections for defeating a Dalit candidate. She added, "Had the SP been even a bit honest towards these suspended MLAs, it would have not kept them in lurch. The SP knows that if these MLAs join their party, then there will be a rebellion and disunity in SP, whose leaders are eager to cross over to the BSP." "The SP has always been anti-Dalit and they do not want to improve. This is why the SP government had stopped the welfare works undertaken by the BSP. Bhadohi was not made a new district as Sant Ravidas Nagar, which is extremely condemnable," Mayawati said in another tweet. She alleged that the "drama" of publicising the meeting of suspended BSP MLAs with Yadav is a new "stunt" by the SP ahead of the upcoming zila panchayat elections. "BSP has emerged as a party to fulfil the aspirations of the people in Uttar Pradesh and it will continue to do so," she tweeted. On Tuesday, at least five MLAs suspended by the BSP last year met Yadav, triggering speculation that they may join his party. Handia legislator Hakimlal Bind said he, along with Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hargovind Bhargav, Aslam Raini and Shushma Patel met the SP chief. The two other suspended legislators are Ramveer Upadhyay and Anil Singh, he said. However, Hargovind Bhargav had told PTI that he was not present at the meeting. "I was in Sidhauli (his Assembly constituency) and did not go there. I also saw my name being flashed on news channels," he said. Mungra Badshahpur MLA Sushma Patel had told PTI, "The meeting with Akhilesh Yadav, which lasted for 15-20 minutes, witnessed discussions on the upcoming UP Assembly elections." When asked about the future course of action, Patel said, "Personally, I have made up my mind to join the Samajwadi Party." In October 2020, seven BSP MLAs were suspended by party president Mayawati. Apart from the MLAs whose name cropped up with regard to the meeting with the SP chief, Vandana Singh is the seventh legislator to be suspended. Earlier this month, Mayawati had expelled BSP's legislative party leader Lalji Verma and Akbarpur MLA Ram Achal Rajbhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||Discussions underway over Covishield dose gap, says NTAGI chief||Discussions are underway whether India should revert to a four or eight weeks interval for the Covishield vaccine and the emerging evidence regarding efficacy of partial versus full immunisation is also being considered, Chairman of India's Covid-19 Working Group of NTAGI, Dr N K, Arora said. He stressed that the decision to increase the gap between two doses of Covishield from 4-6 weeks to 12-16 weeks was based on scientific decision and there was no dissenting voice among the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) members. "Covid-19 and the vaccination are very dynamic. Tomorrow, if the vaccine platform tells us that a narrower interval is better for our people, even if the benefit is 5%-10%, the Committee will take the decision on the basis of merit and its wisdom.On the other hand, if it turns out that the current decision is fine, we will continue with it," Arora said. The decision to increase the gap lay in the fundamental scientific reason regarding behaviour of adenovector vaccines, a Health Ministry statement quoted him as telling DD News. Arora’s statement comes a day after NTAGI scientists, classified by the government as three of the 14 “core members”, said the body did not have enough data to make such a recommendation. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday backed Arora and tweeted, “The decision to increase the gap between administering two doses of Covishield has been taken in a transparent manner based on scientific data. India has a robust mechanism to evaluate data. It is unfortunate that such an important issue is being politicised!” In the last week of April, the data released by Public Health England, United Kingdom's executive agency of the Department of Health, showed that vaccine efficacy varied between 65-88 per cent when interval is 12 weeks. "This was the basis on which they overcame their epidemic outbreak due to the Alpha variant. The UK was able to come out of it because the interval they kept was 12 weeks. We also thought that this is a good idea, since there are fundamental scientific reasons to show that when interval is increased, adenovector vaccines give better response. Hence the decision was taken on May 13, to increase the interval to 12-16 weeks," he said. “This also gives flexibility to the community, since everyone cannot come at precisely 12 weeks or so,” he added. “We have a very open and transparent system where decisions are taken on a scientific basis. The Covid Working Group took that decision, with no dissenting voice. This issue was then discussed threadbare at an NTAGI meeting, again with no dissenting notes. The recommendation was that the vaccine interval has to be 12-16 weeks," he said. Dr Arora said the earlier decision of four weeks was based on the bridging trial data available then. He also cited that the increase in gap between two doses was based on studies that showed higher efficacy with increase in gap. Initial studies on Covishield were very heterogeneous. Some countries like the UK went for a dose interval of 12 weeks when they introduced the vaccine in December 2020, he said. "While we were privy to this data, when we had to decide our interval, we went for four weeks interval based on our bridging trial data which showed good immune response. Later we came across additional scientific and laboratory data, based on which after six weeks or so, we felt we should increase the interval from four weeks to eight weeks, since studies showed that vaccine efficacy is about 57 per cent when it is four weeks and about 60% when it is eight weeks,” he said. On why the NTAGI did not increase the gap earlier to 12 weeks, Arora said,” We decided we should wait for ground-level data from the UK (the other biggest user of AstraZeneca vaccine).” He also said that there were other examples like Canada, Sri Lanka and few other countries that are using the 12-16 weeks interval for AstraZeneca vaccine, which is the same as Covishield vaccine. On the protection from single-dose versus two doses, Dr Arora explained how emerging evidence and reports regarding efficacy of partial versus full immunisation were being considered by NTAGI. “Two-three days after we took the decision to increase the dosage interval, there were reports from UK that single dose of AstraZeneca vaccine gives only 33 per cent protection and two doses give about 60 per cent protection; discussion has been going on since mid-May whether India should revert to four or eight weeks," he said. He also said that it was decided to establish a tracking platform to assess the impact of the vaccination programme. "When NTAGI took this decision, we also decided that India will establish a vaccine tracking platform - to assess not only the impact of the vaccination programme, but also type of vaccine and interval between doses, and what happens when someone is fully/ partially immunized. This is very important in India since around 17-18 crore people have received only one dose, while around 4 crore people have received two doses,” he said. Dr. Arora referred to a study by PGI Chandigarh which compared effectiveness of partial versus full immnunisation. A PGI Chandigarh study very clearly shows that vaccine effectiveness was 75 per cent for both partially immunised and fully immunized. So at least in the short run, effectiveness was similar whether you are partially or fully vaccinated. This was in relation to the Alpha variant which had swept Punjab, Northern India and came to Delhi. This also meant that even if you received only one dose, still you are protected. Results from the CMC Vellore study are similar, he says. “Few days back, another very important study by CMC Vellore, Tamil Nadu which covers most of the current epidemic wave India experienced in April and May, 2021 shows that if somebody is partially immunised, vaccine effectiveness of Covishield is 61% and with two doses, the effectiveness is 65% - and there is very little difference, especially since there is some degree of uncertainty involved in these calculations,” he said. Dr Arora said that besides PGI and CMC Vellore studies, two other studies are coming up from two different organizations within Delhi. And both these studies show that breakthrough infection with one dose is around 4 per cent, and around 5 per cent with two doses, basically hardly any difference. And the other study shows that 1.5- 2 per cent breakthrough infections, he said. Data from various sources will be integrated to assess and report on the impact of various aspects of the vaccination programme, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-56
16-06-2021||India||UP Police book Twitter, journalists in connection with Ghaziabad attack case||The Uttar Pradesh Police have booked microblogging platform Twitter, a news portal and six persons in connection with the circulation of a video in which an elderly Muslim man narrates his ordeal after he was allegedly attacked by some people in Ghaziabad. The FIR, which was lodged at the Loni Border police station in Ghaziabad around 11.30 pm on Tuesday on the basis of a complaint lodged by a local policeman, alleges that the video was shared with an intention to provoke communal unrest. In the video clip, which surfaced on social media on June 14, the elderly Muslim man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, alleges he was thrashed by some young men and asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. However, the Ghaziabad police, who have arrested six persons, including Muslims, have ruled out a communal angle. They said the accused were unhappy about the 'tabeez' (amulet) he had sold to them. The arrested youth have been identified as Kalloo and Adil. Apart from them, Polly, Arif, Mushahid and Parvesh Gurjar were also involved in the incident, Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak said on Tuesday. Later on Tuesday, the police lodged an FIR against Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammad Zubair and Rana Ayyub, Congress politicians Salman Nizami, Masqoor Usmani, Dr. Sama Mohammad and writer Saba Naqvi for sharing the clip. "These people did not verify the truth of the matter and shared it online with a communal angle with an intention to disrupt public peace and create a divide between religious groups," the FIR states. "Besides this, Twitter Inc and Twitter Communications India also did not take any measures to remove their tweets," it adds. The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, class etc), 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief), 120B (criminal conspiracy), among others. The move precedes the Union government’s decision of denying Twitter its 'safe harbour' protection in India over non-compliance with IT rules and failure to appoint key personnel mandated under the new guidelines, despite repeated reminders. The platform will now be liable for action under the Indian Penal Code for third party unlawful content, sources said. IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad later in the day said Twitter failed to comply with intermediary guidelines and has "deliberately" chosen the path of non-compliance despite being granted multiple opportunities. Lashing out at the micro-blogging platform over non-compliance, Prasad said that it is "astounding" that Twitter that portrays itself as the flag bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the Intermediary Guidelines. "There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision. However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from May 26," Prasad said in a series of posts on homegrown microblogging platform Koo. The minister also tweeted on the issue. Prasad asserted that Twitter was given multiple opportunities to comply with the rules, but deliberately chose the path of non-compliance. "Further, what is perplexing is that Twitter fails to address the grievances of users by refusing to set up processes as mandated by the law of the land. Additionally, it chooses a policy of flagging manipulated media, only when it suits its likes and dislikes," he said. The minister said that what happened in Uttar Pradesh was illustrative of Twitter's "arbitrariness" in fighting fake news. "While Twitter has been over-enthusiastic about its fact-checking mechanism, its failure to act in multiple cases like UP is perplexing as well as points towards its inconsistency in fighting misinformation," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||India's active Covid caseload falls below 9 lakh after 70 days||A single day rise of 62,224 new coronavirus infections were reported taking India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,96,33,105, while the active cases were recorded below nine lakh after 70 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,79,573 with 2,542 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further declined to 8,65,432 comprising 2.92 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.80 per cent. A net decline of 47,946 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 19,30,987 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 38,33,06,971. The daily positivity rate dropped to 3.22 per cent . It has been less than five per cent for nine consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 4.17 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 34th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,83,88,100, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.28 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 26,19,72,014 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,542 new fatalities include 1,458 from Maharashtra, 267 from Tamil Nadu, 166 from Kerala and 115 from Karnataka. A total of 3,79,573 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,14,154 from Maharashtra, 33,148 from Karnataka, 30,068 from Tamil Nadu, 24,851 from Delhi, 21,914 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,049 from West Bengal, 15,650 from Punjab and 13,342 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Twitter loses legal shield in India||Twitter has lost its 'safe harbour' protection in India over non-compliance with IT rules and failure to appoint key personnel mandated under the new guidelines, despite repeated reminders, and the platform will now be liable for action under the Indian Penal Code for third party unlawful content, sources said. Earlier this month, the government had given one last chance to Twitter to comply with the new IT rules, that came into effect on May 26, and had issued a stern warning that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Sources in the government confirmed that Twitter has lost the safe harbour immunity, as it failed to comply with the IT rules, and appoint key executives under the new guidelines. While the resident grievance officer and the nodal contact person nominated by the company, is not an employee of Twitter Inc in India, the Ministry had also not received any concrete information on Chief Compliance Officer, the name, or details, sources said. Another source said that Twitter's intermediary status and the legal shield it had, ended automatically on May 26, given its non-compliance with new guidelines. Same is true for any other social media platform, which has not complied with the requirement under the IT rules. The government has confronted Twitter over multiple instances in the past months, including during the farmers' protest and later when it tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP, as "manipulated media", triggering a sharp rebuke from the Centre. The last flashpoint was the delay in complying with the IT rules that mandate large digital platforms to undertake greater due diligence as well as appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents of India. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), on June 5, had said that Twitter's refusal to comply with the rules demonstrated the microblogging site's "lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform". The IT Ministry had earlier questioned Twitter over not providing information about the Chief Compliance Officer as required under the Rules. Also, the resident grievance officer and the nodal contact person nominated by the company, is not an employee of Twitter Inc in India as prescribed in the rules, the ministry had flagged. When contacted, Twitter did not comment on queries related loss of the intermediary status. Twitter on Tuesday said it has appointed an interim Chief Compliance Officer and the details of the official will be shared directly with the IT Ministry soon. The US-based company had assured the Indian government last week that it is in advanced stages of finalising the appointment of chief compliance officer, and that it would submit additional details within a week. That deadline ended on Monday. A Twitter spokesperson on Tuesday said the company continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines, and is keeping the IT Ministry apprised of progress at every step of the process. Meanwhile, the government has contended that the office address in India mentioned by Twitter is that of a law firm, which is also not as per the rules. "Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, it is beyond belief that Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India based, clearly identified resources," the IT ministry had said in its notice earlier this month. The ministry had on June 5, also said that though with effect from May 26, 2021, "consequences follow" given Twitter's non-compliance with rules "however, as a gesture of goodwill, Twitter Inc is hereby given one last notice to immediately comply with the rules, failing which the exemption from liability available... shall stand withdrawn and Twitter shall be liable for consequences as per the IT Act and other penal laws of India." The Ministry had warned Twitter that non-compliance will lead to "unintended consequences", including Twitter losing exemption from liability as intermediary under the IT Act. Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India, as per data cited by the government recently. The new IT rules mandate large digital platforms to undertake greater due diligence, and make them more accountable and responsible for the content that is hosted. Social media companies will also have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for issues such as nudity and pornography under the new rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Kashmiri activist jailed for airing misgivings on outsiders||A Kashmiri activist has been jailed after an IAS officer from outside the state took exception to his declaration that he had no expectations from such officials, bringing into sharp focus the fault lines that mark the Centre’s assimilation policy that followed the revocation of the special status. Ganderbal activist Sajad Rashid Sofi, former sarpanch and son of a retired police officer, was booked on June 10 on the charge of prompting enmity between different groups and under some other sections of the IPC. Sofi is alleged to have offended Ganderbal deputy commissioner Krittika Jyotsna during a Janata Darbar on June 10. By evening, he was in jail. A court granted Sofi, 50, bail on June 12 but the police added two more charges and he continues to be imprisoned, his associates said. The incident comes at a time complaints have been aired that the administration has been increasingly sidelining Kashmiri officials in the Valley after Article 370 was diluted in 2019. CPM state secretary Mohamad Yousuf Tarigami on Tuesday said the arrest of the activist was “an unwarranted and brazen violation of fundamental rights”. Unlike many Kashmiris, Sofi and his associates from Safapora village of Ganderbal have been regularly participating in the Janata Darbars, a public outreach programme aimed at building bridges after the special status and statehood were revoked. The participants are supposed to speak their mind during such events, and Sofi did that, only to land in jail. At last Thursday’s event, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s adviser Baseer Khan was in Ganderbal to listen to the grievances of the residents. During an interaction, Sofi, who headed a delegation from Safapora, is reported to have told the adviser that he could have expectations from the official as he was a Kashmiri. “I can grab you by the collar and seek answers. But what expectations can I have from officers who are not from the state?” a source quoted Sofi as having said at the meeting. Jyotsna, a 2014-batch IAS officer who was recently sent on deputation to Jammu and Kashmir from Uttar Pradesh along with her husband, who too is an IAS officer, was apparently angered by the remarks. A police report said Jyotsna stood up and “strongly objected”. Jyotsna was not available for comment to this newspaper. Ganderbal police chief Suhail Munawar Mir said he “will not comment” on the matter. Safapora sarpanch Sheikh Mehraj, who was part of Thursday’s meeting with the adviser, said Sofi was summoned in the same afternoon by the police. “During the day, he was arrested. He was released in the evening but re-arrested at 10.30pm from his home. An FIR was lodged well past midnight,” Mehraj said. “On Saturday, a local court granted him bail. When we approached the SHO with the bail, he asked us to approach the SSP. But he was not released.” An associate of Sofi, who pleaded anonymity, told The Telegraph: “For the past five days he has been in jail. The police have refused to honour the bail granted by a court. A delegation of village elders on Saturday went to deputy commissioner madam and told her that it was a slip of the tongue.” Sofi’s associate added: “An elderly man in the delegation told her that he saw her as a daughter and asked whether she would not respond to a request from a father-like figure. Initially, she was unmoved but later assured us help. But he continues to be in jail.” The Safapora sarpanch said that after the court granted bail, the police added two more charges (abetment and joining assembly likely to cause disturbance in peace) to the case. Safapora block development council member Gowhar Reshi said: “I think many people would now hesitate to participate in such meetings. If he can be arrested, so can others. “We had gone to the meeting with our longstanding demands, like the establishment of a college and upgrade of a hospital.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: HC grants bail to three activists charged under UAPA||The State’s anxiety to suppress dissent is somewhat blurring in its mind the line between the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity, Delhi High Court said on Tuesday while granting bail to three student anti-CAA protesters charged under the anti-terror law UAPA. “If this mindset gains traction, it would be a sad day for democracy,” the division bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani said. The court granted bail to JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha. The bench questioned the purported evidence furnished by the police against the trio, arrested in April last year and charged with inciting the February 2020 communal riots in Delhi after they participated in protests against the new citizenship matrix. Natasha, 32, Devangana, 31, and Tanha, 25, were all implicated in several cases. The trial courts had withheld regular bail only in the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act case. In its order on Natasha’s bail, the bench said: “Allegations relating to inflammatory speeches, organising of chakka jaam, instigating women to protest and to stockpile various articles and other similar allegations, in our view, at worst, are evidence that the appellant participated in organising protests, but we can discern no specific or particularised allegation, much less any material to bear out the allegation, that the appellant incited violence, what to talk of committing a terrorist act or a conspiracy or act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act as understood in the UAPA.” It added: “We are constrained to express, that it seems, that in its anxiety to suppress dissent, in the mind of the State, the line between the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity seems to be getting somewhat blurred. If this mindset gains traction, it would be a sad day for democracy.” The court said it was not convinced by any of the purported evidence against the three. About the two women —  members of the Pinjra Tod feminist student group —  it observed that the allegations “are not even borne out from the material on which they are based”. Granting bail to Devangana, the court said: “We are afraid, that in our opinion, shorn off the superfluous verbiage, hyperbole and the stretched inferences drawn from them by the prosecuting agency, the factual allegations made against the appellant do not prima facie disclose the commission of any offence under sections 15, 17 and/or 18 of the UAPA.” All three students were granted bail against personal bonds of Rs 50,000, two local sureties of the same amount and other routine conditions such as surrender of their passports. Tanha, a member of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind’s Students Islamic Organisation (SIO), has for the past week been held in a hotel room in south Delhi’s Nehru Place under an “interim custody bail” so he can take his examinations. Devangana and Natasha are in Tihar jail. Natasha had been granted three weeks’ bail in May to attend to the last rites of her father and CPM activist Mahavir Narwal, who had died of Covid. She returned to prison after the three weeks. Granting bail to Tanha, the court said: “… as we speak now these are mere allegations and, as discussed above, we are not convinced prima facie of the veracity of the allegations so made.” A police source said the force would challenge the high court ruling in the Supreme Court. Charges have been framed against 15 people, including six students, in the terrorism case. Of them, only Jamia's Safoora Zargar had till now received regular bail, granted on medical grounds of pregnancy. The CPM politburo said in a statement: “The court has shown the mirror to the government. This applies to numerous cases in which any form of dissent is termed anti-national and individuals are bullied, intimidated, threatened, imprisoned under UAPA and laws of sedition.” Hailing the judgment, the politburo demanded “that the government apply this standard to all the false cases and release all political prisoners”. The high court said the phrase “terrorist act” cannot be applied in a “cavalier manner” to criminal acts that fall under the ambit of the Indian Penal Code. “Where court finds that an act or omission is adequately addressed and dealt with by the ordinary penal law of the land, the court must not countenance a State agency ‘crying wolf’,” the bench said in the order on Natasha's bail. “Since courts often tend to fall into this error, it is extremely important to bear in mind the words of the Supreme Court that grant of bail cannot be thwarted merely by asserting that an offence is grave, since the gravity of the offence can only beget the length of the sentence, which may be awarded upon conclusion of the trial.” Both the BJP-led Centre and the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government had sanctioned the prosecution, as required under the UAPA. Former Congress municipal councillor Ishrat Jahan and suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain are among those jailed in the terror case. On Tuesday, the Students Islamic Organisation said: “We are glad that the honourable court called out the hollowness of the bogus conspiracy charges against young activists.” “We hope that this verdict will serve as a precedent in curbing the long and unjust incarceration of innocent persons under draconian laws. We pray to Almighty that all the political prisoners languishing in jail will be acquitted and released soon, and the true culprits of the Delhi pogrom will face justice.” The CPIML Liberation’s All India Students' Association said: “Taking cognisance of the spirit of the Delhi HC order upholding the right to protest and democracy, the judiciary should intervene and free Anand Teltumbde, Sudha Bharadwaj, father Stan Swamy and other political prisoners arrested under UAPA in the Bhima Koregaon case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Covid: Health authorities failed to respond to variant warning||A veteran public health expert warned top Indian officials in early March that a new variant of the coronavirus was spreading quickly in a rural district in Maharashtra and that the outbreak required urgent attention. Federal health authorities failed to respond adequately to that warning, Dr Subhash Salunke, who has 30 years of experience in public health in India, Indonesia and the US, told Reuters. The variant, now known as B.1.617, triggered a catastrophic wave of coronavirus cases in India and has since spread to more than 40 other countries. In May, the World Health Organisation (WHO) termed it a “variant of concern”, citing its high transmissibility. Salunke, a former WHO official advising the Maharashtra government, said he alerted some of India’s most senior health officials in early March, speaking on the telephone to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s main coronavirus adviser, V.K. Paul, and the head of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Sujeet Kumar Singh. In response to Reuters’ questions, Paul said he had spoken with Salunke but described the conversation as Salunke conveying information rather than issuing a warning. The variant’s first impact had been detected months earlier in Maharashtra’s Amravati district, where health authorities recorded a rapid increase in coronavirus infections in early February, even as cases fell elsewhere in India. Salunke told Reuters he had warned both Paul and Singh that the virus was showing signs of mutating in Amravati, that its transmissibility was increasing, and requested federal help in sequencing more samples to establish how the variant was behaving. Reuters could not independently confirm what was said in those conversations. “In spite of a public health person like me giving them a sound warning, they did not take heed,” Salunke told Reuters. Paul rejected Salunke’s accusation that he did not take heed, saying he had requested that India’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) study the variant more closely, and told the Maharashtra government to intensify its existing response to the virus. Reuters could not determine if the NIV carried out any such study. The NIV directed Reuters’ questions to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which did not respond. The government strengthened the sequencing and clinico-epidemiological studies, Paul told Reuters. The government intensely, repeatedly, from multiple fora, emphasised the need for containment using all the tools even more vigorously and optimising testing. The NCDC’s Singh and the Union health ministry did not respond to questions from Reuters about Salunke’s warning. Despite Salunke’s flagging of the problem, and a further warning in early March from a forum of scientific advisers that the new variant was taking hold in the country, the central government allowed election rallies, religious festivals and other mass gatherings to proceed, and failed to take measures to halt the spread of the virus. Within 80 days, the variant went from Amravati to dozens of countries around the world, including the UK, US and Singapore, presenting a setback to global efforts to contain the disease. It is impossible to say exactly how many infections in each country have been caused by the new variant, because very few samples from positive tests have been sequenced. US authorities estimated last week that the variant accounted for 6 per cent of coronavirus infections there. In India, the dramatic rise in infection numbers from April onwards — partly driven by the variant, according to public health studies — overwhelmed the country’s health system, causing hospitals to run out of beds and oxygen and causing crematoriums and graveyards to overflow. India’s health minister, Harsh Vardhan, said last month that the variant had been identified in about 20 per cent of samples in the country that had been sequenced. In late January, when India’s daily count of coronavirus infections had fallen to around 12,000, Modi had all but declared victory at a World Economic Forum event, saying the country had “saved humanity from a big disaster by containing coronavirus effectively”. That sense of optimism was sweeping large parts of India, including Amravati, where cases had dropped to a trickle, according to local health officials. The district, home to 2.9 million people, had reported only dozens of Covid-19 cases daily through much of January, according to government data. “Everyone was relaxed,” said Shyamsunder Nikam, Amravati’s civil surgeon, who supervises public health matters in the district. But case numbers started suddenly rising in late January, alarming Nikam and other local officials. New infections rose to around 200 a day by February 7 and reached 430 a day a week later, as the virus tore through the district’s rural interior that had been largely unscathed during India’s first wave in 2020. A task force set up by the Maharashtra government to guide its pandemic response ordered a probe. Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, who was part of the investigation, said he analysed four positive samples from the region and found they all contained a mutation called E484Q, a sign that a variant was likely at play. Karyakarte told Reuters he had presented the findings to the Maharashtra task force in a videoconference on February 16. Reuters could not independently confirm if he had done so or how the task force responded. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, a member of the task force, did not respond to questions from Reuters. The discovery of the new mutation and spiking case numbers in Amravati alarmed Salunke. He said he travelled to Amravati in late February and conducted coronavirus tests on nearly 700 people. Around half of them turned out positive for Covid-19. Within a few days, he told Reuters, state health authorities sent samples from Amravati to the NCDC for further genetic sequencing to establish if a variant was present. The NCDC did not respond to questions from Reuters about what it did with those samples. Meanwhile, Union health officials played down the potential role of new variants in the spike of infections. “There is no direct relation between the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and some other states with the mutant virus strains N440K and E484Q of Covid-19,” India’s health ministry said in a media statement on February 23. According to Modi’s coronavirus adviser Paul, that assessment had been based on the data authorities had at the time. “We knew that something had been spotted but we didn’t know the significance thereof at that point,” Paul told Reuters. “The true significance of variants emerges with time. Scientific data has now led us to understand the role of these variants.” In late February, central and local officials had a meeting to discuss the spike in Amravati, according to a senior government scientist who attended it. At the meeting, Maharashtra’s state surveillance officer, Dr Pradip Awate, said the rise in cases owed to voters flocking to local elections held in January rather than any kind of new variant, the scientist who attended the meeting told Reuters. Central officials, including some from the Indian Council of Medical Research, appeared convinced by that explanation and did not press for further investigation, the scientist said. “At that time there was certain confusion,” Awate told Reuters, which made it hard to assess exactly why cases were rising. The emergence of the new variant was not treated with the urgency it deserved, said Salunke. “What happened in Maharashtra is a natural phenomenon. And it should have been addressed on a war footing, as an absolute emergency,” he said. “It was ignored and the entire focus was on the elections,” he added, referring to a series of state elections held through March and April, drawing crowds of thousands to rallies by Modi’s party as well as Opposition politicians. Missing the rise of the variant in Amravati in late February was a “major mistake”, said the scientist who attended the Maharashtra meeting. State health official Awate said Maharashtra could have imposed stricter lockdowns and restricted inter-district travel much sooner. Instead, lockdowns were imposed in Maharashtra and other major cities such as New Delhi only in mid-to-late April. Between March and April, the Union government allowed the Kumbh Mela to proceed, drawing millions of people from around the country for a holy dip in the Ganga, many of whom travelled back home carrying the virus, according to public health officials. Even as it spread across India, the variant was carried to other countries where too it sparked a rash of cases. In Britain, a related variant — called B.1.617.2 or Delta by the WHO — was found in areas where many people travel back and forth to India, according to experts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||'Murderous attack' on Aam Aadmi Party MP's home||Unidentified men on Tuesday defaced the nameplate at the residence of an Aam Aadmi Party MP who had released documents to the media alleging fraud in the purchase of land for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. In his complaint to police, AAP Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh said that a “murderous attack” was attempted on him at his North Avenue residence at the behest of unnamed BJP members, at noon. “I was speaking to some people on my lawn when the assailants started raising slogans such as ‘Shoot Sanjay Singh’ and ‘Death to Sanjay Singh’, while advancing towards the door, attempting to break the nameplate and blacken it. The people with me caught two of the attackers and handed them over to North Avenue police station nearby,” Singh’s complaint said. He said after he revealed the fraud and named Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay of the BJP, “… many BJP leaders and IT cell members gave inflammatory statements against me and incited people to make an attempt on my life”. Deputy commissioner of police, New Delhi, Deepak Yadav tweeted, “An attempt was made to deface the name plate at the residence of Shri Sanjay Singh, MP. Two persons have been detained in this regard. No physical injury has been caused to any one. Further investigation is on.” Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, had dismissed the allegations of a scam as “misleading”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||India-China: New Delhi still silent on restoring status quo along LAC||A year to the day after 20 Indian soldiers died in the Galwan Valley trying to get Chinese intruders to “disengage”, New Delhi remains silent on any restoration of status quo along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. A ground assessment by Indian forces suggests only a “partial” disengagement by the Chinese from the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake along with a massive Chinese build-up at the remaining friction points: the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra. On June 15 last year, 20 Indian soldiers had died in the Galwan Valley. The Indians inflicted an unspecified number of casualties on the Chinese. The Indian casualties included the commanding officer, Colonel B. Santosh Babu, and the deaths occurred  during hand-to-hand combat with the Chinese during a “de-escalation process” in the Galwan Valley. Four days later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared that no one had intruded into India or occupied Indian territory – a remark never retracted or properly explained and one that Beijing has exploited to call India the transgressor and claim ownership of all the territory under Chinese occupation. “It’s been a year since 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with the Chinese army but the government has so far not provided any clarity on what exactly happened that day. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has rarely named China since then,” a retired lieutenant general said regretfully. China, he recalled, had claimed sovereignty over the entire Galwan Valley after the clash and blamed India for the skirmish. The veteran told The Telegraph that the Galwan Valley had been a settled area on the Indian side of the frontier since the 1962 war, until Chinese troops intruded into the area in May last year. “But our Prime Minister has stuck to his no-intrusion claim,” he said. Modi had told an all-party meeting on June 19: “Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, nor is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else.” Later, under disengagement processes that belied Modi’s no-intrusion claim, the Chinese retreated partially in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake while remaining well within India-claimed lines. In a trade-off seen by veterans as capitulation, Indian troops moved back by the same distance within India-claimed territory, prompting charges that the government was handing over further territory to the Chinese on a platter. A veteran on Tuesday said the Chinese continued to occupy areas within India-claimed lines also at Hot Springs and Gogra and the strategically crucial Depsang Plains, where they were preventing Indian patrols from accessing the Line of Control. “It seems the restoration of status quo ante (to April 2020 positions) at the LAC is not the Indian government’s priority at the moment. There has been no visible urgency to resolve the border standoff,” he said. Eleven rounds of military talks have taken place without any breakthrough. India’s government and army statements, released after each round of talks, have in recent months dropped any reference to the demand for restoration of status quo ante – an omission questioned by many veterans and security experts. China’s army has continued to strengthen its positions on the Depsang Plains and in Gogra and Hot Springs by setting up additional military camps inside India-claimed lines. Indian Army sources say a delay in getting high-speed boats is making surveillance difficult at the nearly 140km long and 7-8km wide Pangong Lake, of which China controls two-thirds. “That we still haven’t provided enough high-speed boats to the army to patrol the crucial Pangong Lake shows our lack of intent even after losing territory to the Chinese,” a retired colonel said. An army official said: “We hope to get delivery (of the high-speed boats) in the next couple of months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Covishield: Govt decision to increase dose gap raises questions||The Indian government doubled the gap between the two doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine without the agreement of the scientific group that it said recommended the increase, three members of the advisory body told Reuters. The Union health ministry had announced the decision to change the gap between doses of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, from six-eight weeks to 12-16 weeks on May 13, at a time when supplies of the shot were falling short of demand and infections were surging across the country. The ministry said the extended gap was recommended by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), based on real-life evidence mainly from the UK. Yet the NTAGI scientists, classified by the government as three of the 14 “core members”, said the body did not have enough data to make such a recommendation. M.D. Gupte, a former director of the state-run National Institute of Epidemiology, said the NTAGI had backed increasing the dosing interval to 8-12 weeks — the gap advised by the World Health Organisation. But he added that the group had no data concerning the effects of a gap beyond 12 weeks. “Eight to 12 weeks is something we all accepted, 12 to 16 weeks is something the government has come out with,” he added. “This may be all right, may not be. We have no information on that.” This was echoed by his NTAGI colleague Mathew Varghese, who said the group’s recommendation was only for eight to 12 weeks. The health ministry, citing the head of NTAGI’s working group on Covid-19, said the dosing decision was based on scientific evidence. “There was no dissenting voices among the NTAGI members,” it tweeted on Tuesday. The ministry’s statement on May 13 said that it had accepted the 12-16 weeks’ recommendation from NTAGI’s Covid working group, as had a group of mainly government officials tasked with vaccine administration, known as NEGVAC (National Expert Group for Vaccine Administration of Covid-19). Government health officials told a news meet on May 15 the gap was not increased to address a vaccine shortage but was a “scientific decision”. J.P. Muliyil, a member of the seven-strong Covid working group, said there had been discussions within the NTAGI on increasing the vaccine dosage interval but that the body had not recommended 12-16 weeks. “That specific number was not quoted,” he said, without elaborating. N.K. Arora, head of the Covid working group, declined to comment on its recommendations but said all decisions were taken collectively by the NTAGI at large. A NEGVAC representative said it “respects the decisions of the NTAGI and use them for our work”, declining to elaborate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Trade unions to hold demonstrations on June 26 ||Ten central trade unions on Tuesday asked their members to hold demonstrations on June 26 to support the farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws. Farmers under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, are protesting since November 26, 2020, against the three farm laws. The 10 central trade unions have been supporting the farmers’ agitation from the beginning. On June 26, farmer unions will hold sit-ins at Raj Bhavans and in front of offices of district collectors across the country to mark the completion of seven months of the agitation. The trade unions also demanded a legal guarantee for the minimum support price for farm produce. The trade unions, including the Congress-backed Indian National Trade Union Congress, the CPM-affiliated Centre of Indian Trade Unions and the CPI-backed All India Trade Union Congress, also demanded repeal of the four labour laws brought by the Narendra Modi government. “The labour laws brought by the central government are equally dangerous like the farm laws. The labour laws do not protect the workers but serve the interest of the rich corporates,” said A.R. Sindhu, Citu general secretary. Last year, Parliament passed the labour laws on health and safety standards, social security and industrial relations. In 2019, Parliament had passed a law on wages. All these laws have some stringent provisions allowing companies engaging up to 300 workers to sack employees without approval of government. The law on social security seeks to ensure security measures but there is no clear provision for funding. In India, 90 per cent of workforce are not covered under any social security scheme. The unions also demanded a monthly assistance of Rs 7,500 to every non-income-tax-paying family in addition to 10kg of food grains till the Covid crisis gets over. “The working class today has no work and no income. They are struggling to buy food and essential commodities. The government must provide each family Rs 7,500 for a few months till the economic activities return to normal,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-57
16-06-2021||India||Congress asks NSDL and Sebi to publicize Adani investor data||The Congress on Tuesday asked National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to place before the nation full facts about the Mauritius-based overseas funds that had invested in the Adani group and whose demat accounts are reported to have been frozen. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “The NSDL and Sebi should come out with a complete disclosure about the nature of these funds, ultimate beneficial ownership of these funds, the findings of their inquiry (if any), what securities these funds hold and why were their accounts frozen? We also ask the government to order an investigation by the Enforcement Directorate if the Sebi’s ongoing investigation has revealed any irregularities with regard to price manipulation of Adani group stocks.” Referring to reports about the NSDL freezing the demat accounts of three overseas funds — Albula Investment Fund, Cresta Fund and APMS Investment Fund — that have invested in Adani group companies, Vallabh said: “Why has the NSDL, which is under the jurisdiction of the ministry of finance, not come out with a public statement in the middle of all the confusion, whether accounts of these funds pertaining to their investments in the Adani group companies have been frozen and which ones are active? The Sebi and NSDL should reveal the nature and background details of these three foreign funds, who are the ultimate beneficial owners of these funds that have greater than 95 per cent of their net worth due to Adani shares only, and what have the Sebi and NSDL uncovered already about these funds?” Adani Enterprises on Monday afternoon said the demat accounts through which these funds held their investments in the group’s companies had not been frozen. “Why three other Adani group companies, where these funds have an investment, have not come out with a statement?” Vallabh asked. These three funds together own over Rs 43,500 crore worth of shares in four Adani group companies, he added. Pointing out that these funds are all registered at the same address in Port Louis, Mauritius, but do not have websites, Vallabh said: “These funds derive more than 95 per cent of their net worth from their investments in the Adani group companies. As per Sebi guidelines, a foreign portfolio investor (FPI) can’t hold more than 10 per cent equity stake in any listed Indian firm. It is important to understand the ultimate beneficial ownership of these funds as they all have the same address and don’t even have websites that raises the suspicion further.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
16-06-2021||India||Supreme Court quashes murder case against two Italian marines||The Supreme Court on Tuesday quashed the murder case against the two Italian marines in the 2012 shooting of two Kerala fishermen after Italy deposited the entire Rs 10 crore compensation agreed at an international tribunal. The Centre and the Kerala government too assured the top court that the criminal case against the marines would be pursued in Italy, as ordered by the international tribunal. Of the Rs 10 crore, Rs 4 crore each would be paid to the families of the slain fishermen, the bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M.R. Shah said. The owner of the boat will receive the remaining Rs 2 crore, the bench added while disposing of a joint application moved by the Centre, Kerala and Italy seeking the quashing of all the criminal charges. The apex court also took into consideration the consent of the families of the deceased. It said that after the compensation is paid to the families, “their interest is also required to be protected so that the amount of compensation paid to them is not frittered away, by investing the amount in the name of the dependents/heirs of each deceased in a fixed deposit in a nationalised bank for some time and they will be paid the periodical interest accrued thereon”. The bench requested the Kerala High Court chief justice to “ensure that the compensation is duly received by the heirs and not diverted/misappropriated”. It “directed that the Union of India, Republic of Italy and the state of Kerala shall cooperate with each other in pursuit of that (Italian) investigation”. On February 15, 2012, the two victims were fishing off the Kerala coast when they were allegedly shot dead by Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone from the passing Italian merchant ship M.V. Enrica Lexie. The two marines were guarding the ship and allegedly mistook the two fishermen for pirates. As the Kerala government got the Italian ship to dock at Kochi, arrested the two marines and registered a case of murder and other offences, India and Italy got involved in a diplomatic face-off. The two marines were eventually allowed to return to Italy on humanitarian grounds. On May 21 last year, the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea under the United Nationals Convention on the Law of the Sea ruled that India had no territorial jurisdiction to deal with the offence. But it recorded an undertaking from Italy that it would resume its criminal investigation into the killings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
16-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Aisha Sultana bail hearing on Thursday||Kerala High Court has posted the anticipatory bail plea hearing of Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana for Thursday as requested by her counsel since she has been asked to appear before Kavaratti police on Sunday in a sedition case. Considering the plea, the court directed the Lakshadweep police to inform its view and posted the matter for Thursday for further consideration. In her plea, Sulthana submitted that she has been directed to appear at the police headquarters at Kavaratti, Lakshadweep on June 20 for interrogation. She submitted that there is a possibility of her arrest, if she reaches Kavaratti. Sulthana was booked on June 10 on sedition charges following a complaint by a BJP leader that she spread false news about the spread of Covid-19 in the union territory during a TV debate. The complaint was filed by the BJP's Lakshadweep unit president Abdul Khader. Sulthana hails from Chetiath island in Lakshadweep. According to the FIR lodged by the Kavaratti police, a case under sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of the Indian Penal code has been registered against the filmmaker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
16-06-2021||India||Covid: Health ministry records India’s first vaccine-related death||The Union health ministry has recorded the country’s first vaccine-related death since the start of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign and classified seven post-vaccination deaths as “indeterminate”, meaning there is no evidence to link them to the vaccines. A 68-year-old man died following anaphylaxis, a rare but severe allergic reaction, after receiving a Covishield dose on March 8. This was part of the findings of investigations into 28 deaths, all occurring within March 31, by a national panel on the adverse effects following immunisation (AEFIs.) An anaphylactic reaction can be triggered by exposure to something one’s allergic to, among them peanuts, shellfish, bee stings, penicillin, even aspirin, milk or the latex in gloves or balloons. Every vaccination site is expected to have an emergency medicine called epinephrine to be administered immediately if a vaccine recipient shows any symptoms of anaphylaxis such as itching, low blood pressure, a swollen tongue or throat, or breathing trouble. The AEFI panel has classified 18 of the other 27 deaths as coincidental, for which there were clear causes other than vaccination, and two as unclassifiable for which there was not enough evidence for a diagnosis owing to “missing crucial information”.Health officials have asserted that the Covid-19 vaccines are safe and that the data on AEFIs, released as part of a transparent reporting process following investigation into the events, should not be used to create any doubts about the vaccines. “The vaccines fulfil the criteria of huge, huge safety,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national advisory panel on Covid-19 vaccination policy. The information on AEFIs being “truthfully presented should not be used to create any doubts about vaccines”, he said. The ministry released data on 31 serious AEFIs, including 28 deaths and three hospitalisations that were followed by recoveries assessed by the AEFI panel. The ministry said the vaccination campaign had, since its start on January 16 till June 7, administered over 235 million doses and received reports of 488 deaths. This translates into 0.0002 per cent deaths, which is “within the death rates expected in the population”. For a comparison, the US had between December 14 last year and June 7 administered 302 million vaccine doses. During this period its vaccine adverse events reporting system received reports of 5,208 deaths, or about 0.0017 per cent.Immunisation advisers have underlined that the mere reporting of adverse events does not imply the events were caused by vaccines, and the serious events, including deaths, may be coincidental in people with diagnosed or undiagnosed health disorders. “The minuscule risk is negligible, almost non-existent,” Paul said, asserting that the one anaphylaxis-linked death should be viewed through a public health perspective where the gains of vaccines far outweigh their small risks. “It is unfortunate if such reactions occur, but this should not be a reason for creating any doubts,” he added.Two of the three AEFI patients who recovered had suffered anaphylactic reactions. The AEFI document released by the ministry did not provide details of the circumstances under which the 68-year-old died after anaphylaxis. Seven of the 28 deaths were indeterminate, implying the reactions occurred soon after vaccination but there was no definitive evidence in the medical literature or clinical trial data to link them to the vaccine. “Further observations, analysis and studies are required,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
16-06-2021||India||Covid: Odisha govt plea to Centre for higher allocation of vaccines||The Odisha government has urged the Centre to revise the ratio of vaccine allotment for government and private hospitals in view of low presence of private healthcare sector in Odisha. Odisha has sought an increase of the government’s share of Covid-19 vaccine and demanded that the ratio of vaccine allocation between the state government and private hospitals be revised to 95:5 instead of existing 75: 25. “You are aware that in Odisha the presence of private hospitals is very low and limited to only about 5 per cent of the total healthcare sector in the state. “Hence it is apprehended that as per the existing guidelines, Odisha will lose out on its proportionate share of 25 per cent allocation of vaccines to the private sector,” said additional chief secretary, family and health welfare P.K. Mohapatra in his letter to the Union secretary, ministry of health and family welfare. According to the new guidelines issued by the Centre on June 8, 25 per cent of the monthly production of vaccines by domestic manufactures can be directly procured by private hospitals. The new guidelines of the Centre will come into effect from June 21 across the country. The state government also informed the Centre that only four private hospitals in the state have so far been able to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers. “We have asked the Centre that the share of the private sector may be handed over to the state government for subsequent mobilisation and allocation to private hospitals,” additional chief secretary Mohapatra told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-58
