17-06-2021||India||Google announces Rs 113 crore grant to boost rural healthcare infrastructure in India||Tech giant Google on Thursday said Google.org - its philanthropic arm - has announced a grant of Rs 113 crore (USD 15.5 million) to support procurement and installation of about 80 oxygen generation plants and upskilling of healthcare workers in rural parts of the country in partnership with various organisations. “Our hearts go out to those in India impacted by the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, and we continue to look for ways to help,” tweeted the company’s chief executive Sundar Pichai. Google.org will support procurement and installation of about 80 oxygen generation plants in healthcare facilities in high-need and rural locations with new grants of about Rs 90 crore (USD 12.5 million) to GiveIndia and about Rs 18.5 crore (USD 2.5 million) to PATH. It will also finance efforts of Apollo Medskills to help upskill 20,000 frontline health workers through specialised training in COVID-19 management and strengthen the stressed rural health workforce and rural health systems. Towards this, Google.org will make a Rs 3.6 crore (USD 500,000) grant to ARMMAN to run skilling programs for 180,000 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and 40,000 Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) in 15 Indian states. ARMMAN will also use the grant to set up a call centre to provide additional help and advice for ASHAs and ANMs where required. "As India slowly emerges from the crisis of the past few months, it's been humbling and inspiring to see individuals, communities, institutions, and governments work together to manage the impact on a scale we haven't experienced before. "Our focus at Google has been on making sure people have the information and tools they need to stay informed, connected, and safe," Google India Country Head and Vice President Sanjay Gupta said. The company is broadening its COVID-19 support efforts to help strengthen India's healthcare infrastructure and workforce -- especially in rural areas, he told reporters in a virtual briefing. "With these new commitments, Google is proud to be supporting our partners as they build a bigger, better-equipped healthcare system, help India steady itself after the second wave, and lay the foundations for a sustainable and future-ready healthcare system, he said. These new commitments build on the Rs 135 crore (USD 18 million) funding that was announced by Google in April for COVID-19 response. These included two grants from Google.org, totalling Rs 20 crore (USD 2.6 million) to GiveIndia to provide cash assistance to families hit hardest by the crisis to help with their everyday expenses, and UNICEF to help get urgent medical supplies, including oxygen and testing equipment. In addition to this, Google employees worldwide have donated and helped raise USD 7 million for organisations supporting high-risk and marginalised communities. Google.org has committed grants worth USD 57 million in India over the last five years. Asked if Google would offer vaccination booking through any of its platforms, Gupta said the company is trying to enable people who want to offer services to consumers in healthcare, to use Google Play as a platform. "So as CoWIN opens API and a lot of people want to use those APIs to build better products and services, Google Play will enable all that. Our effort is to use technology that we understand where let's say languages, or how to reach out our apps to many more consumers by leveraging Google Playstore, use all those to enable people who understand health very well, to connect those dots," he added. The government had, last month, released new guidelines for the integration of CoWIN with third-party applications, easing the way for such apps to offer vaccine bookings. Following this, platforms like Paytm are now allowing people to use their platforms to not only look for slots but also book vaccination appointments through their platform. India has been ramping up vaccination to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. India has so far administered over 26.5 crore jabs to eligible beneficiaries. Atul Satija, CEO of GiveIndia, said the organisation will work with PATH to oversee the oxygen programme, providing project management support including procurement and installation of plants. PATH will identify the target locations and provide technical assistance for the project, working with state governments and other authorities, and complete the installation of oxygen generation plants. The plants are expected to be installed and ready for use in 3-6 months and will continue to be supported for about three years, he added. Neeraj Jain, Country Director of PATH India, noted that the organisation provides support to the state governments in putting in place the right kind of oxygen-related ecosystem and health infrastructure that can serve as a foundation for more sustainable and equitable oxygen systems for now and the future. "The support from Google to Apollo Medskills to upskill 20,000 rural frontline health workers, will surely complement and strengthen the stressed rural health workforce and rural health systems, Srinivasa Rao Pulijala, CEO of Apollo Medskills, said. Apollo Medskills is the skilling arm of Apollo Hospitals group. The support from Google.org will enable us to continue augmenting and implementing our tech-based interventions, so that health workers can offer the necessary care and guidance to pregnant women, mothers and children across the country, Aparna Hegde, founder and Managing Trustee of ARMMAN, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
17-06-2021||India||Sputnik V to offer booster shot against Delta variant to other vaccine makers||Russia’s Sputnik V will soon offer a booster shot, adjusted to work against the Delta variant of coronavirus, first detected in India, to other vaccine manufacturers, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Thursday. Taking to Twitter, the official handle of the Russian vaccine affirmed on Tuesday that Sputnik V’s efficacy is better on the Delta variant than any other vaccine that has published results on the strain so far. “Sputnik V is more efficient against the Delta variant of coronavirus first detected in India, than any other vaccine that published results on this strain so far – the Gamaleya Centre study submitted for publication in an international peer-reviewed journal,” the makers said further. Private hospital chain Fortis Healthcare on Thursday announced that Sputnik V, the third anti-coronavirus vaccine approved for use in India, will be available at its Gurgaon and Mohali facilities as part of a limited pilot roll-out from Saturday. The vaccine stock has been procured directly from Dr. Reddy's Laboratories according to government guidelines, it said. "The two-dose vaccine will be available at Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, and Fortis Hospital, Mohali," the private hospital chain said in a statement. In the coming days, the vaccine will be available at more Fortis hospitals across 11 cities as part of the phase-wise pilot project. Dr Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, MD and CEO, Fortis Healthcare, said, "Fortis is actively working towards ensuring that as many Indians as possible are fully vaccinated. To date, our units were only providing Covaxin and Covishield." "However, we are pleased to announce that Fortis, in collaboration with Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, is among the first to provide a third vaccine option, at Fortis Memorial Research Institute and Fortis Hospital Mohali, with the dual objective of expanding and scaling up the vaccination drive and lowering the infection risks to future mutations of the virus." Earlier, Delhi's Indraprastha Apollo Hospital and Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital had also said they will start administering the Russian COVID-19 vaccine by June 20. The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at Rs 1,145 per dose. The maximum price of Covishield for private COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at Rs 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin is Rs 1,410 per dose. Russia's Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology has developed the vaccine and the Russian Direct Investment Fund is marketing it globally. Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country, has been importing the shots from Russia. Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India. Sputnik V uses two different viruses that cause the common cold (adenovirus) in humans. It employs a different vector for each of the two shots, given 21 days apart. According to Gamaleya and the RDIF, Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 92 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
17-06-2021||India||Party needs to put its house in order before next general elections: Congress's Jairam Ramesh||Jairam Ramesh of Congress admitted that the party needs to put its "house in order" before the next general elections roll around and also indicated that this was essential in order to come to an understanding with like-minded opposition parties for forming a common front against the BJP. In an exclusive interview with NDTV, Jairam Ramesh said, “If you are asking me .. if you are telling me ... that we need to resolve the leadership issue one way or the other ... I agree - these are issues that we should not keep hanging for too long.  We lost badly in 2014. We lost very very badly in 2019 and we have to get our house in order.  House in order means getting the organisation in order, getting the leadership in order, getting our messaging in order.  All this has to move.” He also added, "No one leader has a magic wand... this is a team effort". Since the 2019 general elections, the Congress has been floundering without a leader, when Rahul Gandhi stepped down from the party's top post. Despite promises to sort out the leadership issue following the explosive letter by 23 prominent leaders of the party, Sonia Gandhi remains as the interim chief, reports NDTV. “Youngsters who have left us are privileged by birth.  They got good positions by the party," the former Union minister admitted, days after another key GenNext leader, Jitin Prasada left for the BJP. But "for every Scindia who left, there are thousands of young Congress party workers who are fighting for the party," he said. "We are not in power at the Centre. In spite of this, there are thousands of youngsters who have committed their lives to the Congress," he added. He also questioned why the BJP is accepting those it had always scorned for being "privileged". "Why is the BJP accepting those they criticise for being privileged? When these people are in Congress, BJP criticises them but then it takes them too... there is a certain discipline to a party - people can't just go and come as they please," Ramesh said. On this note, he also praised Sachin Pilot – considered another flight risk after his rebellion last year against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Mr Pilot, he said, is a "great asset to the Congress... there is a great future ahead of him in the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
17-06-2021||India||Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita walk out of Tihar prison||Student activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita walked out of Tihar prison on Thursday, hours after a court here ordered their immediate release in the north-east Delhi riots "conspiracy" case. The order came two days after the Delhi High Court granted bail to Narwal, Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were arrested in May last year under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). A senior jail official said Kalita and Narwal have been released from the Tihar prison as per court orders received. Asif Iqbal Tanha was released around 7.30 pm after the completion of formalities. "It shows the desperation of the government... We are women who are not scared of them," Kalita told reporters after coming out of the jail gates, amid a sea of supporters shouting slogans, as per a report by ndtv.com. "We survived because we received tremendous support from friends, from well-wishers. I thank them all," she said. Narwal said she doesn't want to comment on the case as it's still in court. "However, we would like to thank the Delhi High Court for upholding what we believe in. Any such protest that we have done is not terrorism. It was a democratic protest, led by women," Narwal said. "They won't be able to threaten us with jail. If they threaten to incarcerate us, that will only strengthen our resolve to carry on our fight," Narwal said. Her father, Mahavir Narwal, died of Covid in May while she was in jail. Her brother, who came to receive her, said they miss their father, who if alive would have come to greet her on walking out of jail. "We should ask ourselves, how did we reach such a point where the line between terrorism and dissent has been blurred?" Narwal told NDTV. "People are jailed with frivolous charges. When people protest, it is not terrorism," she said. The three student activists were not released from the prison on time over delays in verifying their addresses and sureties. In its order for the immediate release of the trio, the Delhi court said the delay in the verification process by the police could not be a plausible reason for the accused to be kept imprisoned. After securing bail from the high court, the activists had moved the trial court, seeking immediate release from prison. When the trial court deferred the order on their plea for Thursday, they moved the Delhi High Court, which ordered the lower court to proceed with the issue with "promptitude and expedition". The students, who have already spent over a year in jail, surviving two Covid-19 waves, were obliged to spend more time in jail. A sessions court judge held off Wednesday on ordering the immediate release of the students on bail after Delhi police demanded three days to verify the addresses of the accused and the sureties posted by them. The three student activists were arrested in May 2020 and are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which left 53 people dead and more than 200 injured. The high court, while granting them bail on June 15, had observed that "in an anxiety to suppress dissent, the state has blurred the line between right to protest and terrorist activity" and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a "sad day for democracy". The High Court said “... that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the state has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest” and “terrorist activity.” The two-man bench went on to add that: “If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.” Delhi police on Wednesday petitioned the Supreme Court to cancel Tuesday’s bail to three student anti-CAA protesters, and appeared to be relying on certain technicalities in the trial court to try and delay their release from prison. Delhi police, who are under the control of the Centre, have in the plea to the apex court argued that the accused, charged under the anti-terror law UAPA, could tamper with evidence and intimidate witnesses unless their bail was quashed. The apex court is expected to hear on Friday the police’s challenge to Delhi High Court’s bail order, with solicitor-general Tushar Mehta likely to appear for the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-52
17-06-2021||India||Kerala HC grants interim bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker||The Kerala High Court on Thursday reserved orders in the anticipatory bail application filed by Ayesha Sulthana who was booked on sedition charges in Lakshadweep, but granted relief to the filmmaker by directing police to grant interim bail in the event of her arrest after interrogation. The court also directed her to appear before the Kavaratti police for interrogation on June 20. In the event of arrest after interrogation, she should be granted interim bail, Justice Ashok Menon said. The allegation is that the filmmaker, while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7, made an assertion that the Central Government has used a biological weapon against the people of Lakshadweep. When the matter was taken up, Sulthana tendered an apology for making such a statement. The filmmaker submitted that she never realised that usage of the word bio-weapon is an offence and the remark was made not intending to create hatred in the minds of the people. She said she was ready to appear before the police for interrogation but sought protection from arrest. Opposing her anticipatory bail plea, the Lakshadweep administration submitted that Sulthana promoted separatism and communalism even in the minds of school children by making such a statement. Counsel for Lakshadweep administration said the police never intended to arrest her and she should cooperate with the investigation. Only thereafter decision regarding arrest will be taken, counsel said. The crime was registered on June 9 for offences under section 124-A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of IPC on the basis of a petition lodged by a political leader residing at Kavaratti. In a statement filed in the court on Wednesday, the administration had submitted that Sulthana made a specific baseless assertion having serious consequences against the Central Government established by law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||A mellifluous tribute to the martyrs of Galwan||To mark the first anniversary of India’s clash with Chinese forces in the Galwan Valley, the Indian Army has unveiled a song called “Galwan ke Veer” as a tribute to the soldiers who lost their lives during the clashes last year. A total of 20 Indian soldiers were killed during the Galwan clash, while 43 casualties were reported on the Chinese side. Featuring a portrayal of Indian troops toiling away on the challenging terrains of Galwan, the song manages to capture the resilience, the valour, and the sacrifice involved in defending the nation. Padma Shri recipient Hariharan, who lent his voice to the song, said it “has been the happiest moment for me to sing this song for the Army, for the bravehearts of Galwan. The song has been arranged beautifully and it was my privilege to have sung it in honour of desh bhakti.” The visuals serve as a poignant accompaniment to Hariharan’s voice, depicting how the Army undergoes rigorous preparations to be ready for combat in extremely hazardous conditions. Valiant soldiers are shown undertaking meticulous measures to remain one step ahead of the enemy, be it through the use of military arsenal or conflict strategy. Reflecting on the visual qualities of the song, Girish Malik, in charge of video direction and compilation for “Galwan ke Veer”, observed, “We wanted to show what it really takes for the soldiers to defend our borders, what they really go through. The idea was to project India’s strength to the world, to display the bravery of our armed forces. The Army cooperated in every way possible, presenting multiple perspectives and angles from the Galwan clash.” The music, which moves from lilting to sombre to uplifting, has been composed by Bickram Ghosh, who explained his thought process behind the composition: “Whenever we think of the country and think of our matribhumi, it has nothing to do with politics. It has to do with our mitti and the sensations it brings. I always believe that patriotic songs need to have a strong melody. They should start slowly before rising to a crescendo, and that is precisely what I tried to do here. Hari ji was extremely forthcoming in singing it and, as usual, Girish has been fantastic with the visuals. When I saw the entire song coming together, it gave me goosebumps.” A whole year later, tensions on the border between India and China are yet to be resolved completely, with forces from both countries deeply entrenched along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Pashupati Kumar Paras is LJP’s new president: Sources||Lok Janshakti Party MP Pashupati Kumar Paras, who recently staged a political coup and deposed nephew Chirag Paswan as the party chief, was on Thursday declared elected, unopposed, the new national president of the outfit. Party sources said no other contender filed nomination papers till 3 pm and a formal announcement with regard to the election of the Hajipur MP will be made in the evening. The sources added that the former state minister was also scheduled to make a courtesy call on Chief Minister Nitish Kumar whom supporters of Chirag have been accusing of having engineered the split, which has left the son of LJP founding president late Ram Vilas Paswan cornered. It was not known whether any decision was taken about Chirag, whom Paras, late Paswan's youngest brother, had replaced as the party's leader in Lok Sabha earlier this week, armed with the support of four remaining LJP MPs. A couple of days ago, a national executive meeting of the party was held in Delhi where former MP Suraj Bhan Singh was made the working president and Chirag was removed from the post, though the latter has indicated he was bracing for a legal battle over the move. Incidentally, party MP Prince Raj, whose late father Ram Chandra Paswan was a prominent LJP leader and the founding president's younger brother, was conspicuous by his absence at the meeting held at Suraj Bhan Singh's residence here. The 31-year-old first-term MP is in the soup over allegations of sexual harassment by a former party functionary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Ghaziabad: Editors Guild demands withdrawal of FIR against journalists||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Thursday demanded that the FIR lodged by the Uttar Pradesh Police against a news portal and some journalists for circulating a video clip of an elderly Muslim man on social media be withdrawn immediately. It said this wanton use of the law to criminalise reporting and dissent to harass independent media was condemnable. “The EGI condemns the filing of the FIRs by the Uttar Pradesh government against The Wire and several journalists, for their tweets on an assault on an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad on June 5,” the Guild said in a statement. It demanded that the FIRs be withdrawn immediately. The Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday had filed a first information report (FIR) against Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news portal The Wire, scribes Mohammad Zubair and Rana Ayyub and senior journalist and author Saba Naqvi as well as Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Masqoor Usmani and Sama Mohammad for sharing on social media a video clip in which an elderly Muslim says he was thrashed by some people and forced to chant Jai Sri Ram Several media organisations and journalists, besides the ones charged by the police, posted this video on their social media feeds, the Guild said. “Subsequently, there was an alternative version offered by the Uttar Pradesh Police claiming that the assault was borne out of a dispute regarding a ‘talisman' that the elderly man had sold to some people, which was also reported by these media organisations and journalists,” it added. “The Guild is deeply concerned by the UP police's track record of filing FIRs against journalists to deter them from reporting serious incidents without fear of reprisals,” the EGI said. The Guild said it is the duty of the journalists to report on the basis of the sources and in case the facts become contested, later on, to report the emerging versions and facets. “For the police to wade into such professional calls by the journalists and attribute criminality to their actions is destructive of freedom of speech, which is constitutionally protected and is an entrenched feature of the rule of law,” the EGI said. “Further it is quite evident that the police have been discriminatory in targeting those media organisations and the journalists when thousands had tweeted the video that has been critical of the government and its policies,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Centre makes pollution certificate for vehicles uniform across India||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued a notification to make the PUC (Pollution Under Control) certificate for all vehicles uniform across the country and also to link the PUC database with the National Register. After the changes in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989 by the road ministry, the QR code shall be printed on the PUC form and will have details of the vehicle, owner and the status of the emission. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued a notification dated 14th June, 2021, for a common format of the PUC Certificate to be issued across the country, under Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989," an official statement said. According to the statement, the new PUC will have the vehicle owner's mobile number, name and address, engine number and chassis number. "The owner's mobile number has been made mandatory, on which an SMS alert will be sent for validation and fee," it said. The statement said the concept of rejection slip is being introduced for the first time. "A common format of rejection slip is to be given to the vehicle owner in case the test result value is more than the maximum permissible value, as mandated in the concerned emission norms," the statement said. It added that this document can be shown at the service centre for getting the vehicle serviced or can be used, in case the PUCC centre device is not working properly when tested at another centre. As per the statement, if the enforcement officer has reason to believe that a motor vehicle is not complying with provisions of emission standards, he may communicate in writing or through electronic mode to direct the driver or any person in-charge of the vehicle to submit the vehicle for conducting the test in any one of the authorised PUC testing stations. "If the driver or person in-charge of the vehicle fails to submit the vehicle for compliance or the vehicle fails to comply, the owner of the vehicle shall be liable for payment of penalty," it said. The statement said that enforcement would be IT-enabled and would help in better control over polluting vehicles. "If the owner fails to comply with this, the registering authority shall, for reasons to be recorded in writing, suspend the certificate of registration of the vehicle and any permit granted, until such time a valid PUC certificate is generated," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||NIA arrests ex-Mumbai cop in Ambani security scare case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested former "encounter specialist" police officer Pradeep Sharma in Mumbai for his alleged involvement in the Antilia' bomb scare case and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, an official said. An NIA team had picked up Sharma from Lonavla near Mumbai late on Wednesday night, after which he was brought to the central agency's office in south Mumbai for questioning, he said. "The NIA also conducted a raid at his residence located in J B Nagar in Mumbai's Andheri (west) around 6 am, and the operation continued for several hours. The officials recovered some incriminating documents from his house," the official said. After questioning him for a few hours, the NIA placed him under arrest on Thursday, he said, adding that Sharma will be produced before a local court once a medical examination is conducted on him. Around two months ago, the NIA had questioned Sharma at its office for two days after his name cropped up in the case. Sharma is the fifth person from the police department to be arrested in the case by the NIA. This is the eighth over arrest in the case. Earlier, the agency had arrested police officers Sachin Waze, Riyazuddin Kazi, Sunil Mane. After their arrest, they were dismissed from service. The agency had also arrested former police constable Vinayak Shinde in this connection along with cricket bookie Naresh Gor. On June 11, the NIA held Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav from suburban Malad, saying that both of them were involved in the conspiracy to plant the explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence. The SUV was found abandoned near Ambani's south Mumbai residence Antilia' on February 25 this year. Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed that he was in possession of the vehicle, was found dead at a Mumbra creek on March 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Police files supplementary charge sheet in R-Day violence case||Delhi Police on Thursday filed a supplementary charge sheet against actor-activist Deep Sidhu and others in the Republic Day violence case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar will pass the order on the point of cognisance of the fresh charge sheet on June 19 at 2 pm. The investigating officer of the case pointed out the names of the witnesses who were severely injured or from whom the weapon was snatched, the court noted. On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with the police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort injuring scores of policemen. The Crime Branch is tasked with investigating the case. On May 17, it filed a 3,224-page charge sheet and sought prosecution of 16 accused including Sidhu. Sidhu, who was accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was arrested on February 9. The police had also accused him of fuelling the chaos at the Red fort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Centre extends validity of motor vehicle documents till September 30||The government on Thursday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents like driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till September 30, 2021, in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said it has advised the enforcement authorities that the validity of fitness, permit (all types), licence, registration or any other concerned document(s) may be treated to be valid till September 30, 2021. "This covers all documents whose validity has expired since Feb 1, 2020, or would expire by September 30, 2021. This will help out citizens in availing transport related services, while maintaining social distancing," it said. The ministry's advisory said all the states and union territories are requested to implement this advisory in letter and spirit so that citizens, transporters and various other organisation, which are operating under this difficult time, may not get harassed and face difficulties. It had earlier issued advisories dated March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020, August 24, 2020, December 27, 2020 and March 26, 2021 in connection with extension of validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. From a daily case count of over 4 lakh, the number of new COVID-19 cases has been hovering around 70,000 in the last few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court orders release of students||Student activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha were granted a release order by a Delhi court on Thursday, two days after the high court had granted them bail in a case related to the riots that broke out last year. The order comes hours after the Delhi High court asked a trial court to decide with "promptitude" and "expedition" the issue of their release from jail. "The continuing custody despite clear mandate of law, beyond 24 hours since direction to verify sureties, is illegal. Direct the authorities to release us forthwith," the students had said in their plea, according to a report by ndtv.com. The three student activists were not released from the jail on time citing lack of verification details of their addresses and sureties. The trio is accused of being the ''masterminds'' of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and and more than 200 injured. The students, who have already spent over a year in jail, surviving two Covid-19 waves, were obliged to spend more time in jail. A sessions court judge held off Wednesday on ordering the immediate release of the students on bail after Delhi police demanded three days to verify the addresses of the accused and the sureties posted by them. The Delhi High Court ordered on Tuesday in separate rulings taking up the allegations against each of the accused that the three should be immediately released on bail and made stinging remarks about their arrest under UAPA. The High Court said “... that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the state has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest” and “terrorist activity.” The two-man bench went on to add that: “If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||Cops had questioned Twitter India head over Cong toolkit, say officials||Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari was questioned by the Delhi Police last month in connection with its probe into the 'Covid toolkit' case, officials said Thursday. They did not divulge further details, but said he was also questioned about the company's policy behind flagging tweets by users as "manipulated media". This came after Twitter labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on a ‘Covid toolkit', attributed to the Congress, on how to target the Modi government over its handling of the coronavirus crisis. A senior police officer said Thursday that a Delhi Police's Special Cell team, which is probing the matter, was sent to Bengaluru on May 31 where Maheshwari was questioned. The row over the purported toolkit' escalated after the Delhi Police's Special Cell 'visited" two Twitter India offices on May 24 and served a notice, asking it to share information based on which it had classified Patra's tweet as "manipulated media". The police action drew sharp criticism from the opposition Congress and Left which had accused the government of trying to stifle free speech and indulge in intimidation. Protesting the Delhi Police "visit" to its offices, Twitter had said it was concerned about its employees and the potential threat to freedom of expression. In response, the Delhi Police had issued a release terming Twitter's statements "mendacious", and designed to impede a lawful enquiry and seek "dubious sympathy". The strongly-worded Delhi Police statement had also termed Twitter's conduct "obfuscatory, diversionary and tendentious". The government had asked Twitter to remove the ''manipulated media'' tag as the matter was pending before the law enforcement agency, and made it clear that the social media platform cannot pass judgment while the issue is under investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-53
17-06-2021||India||CBSE, CISCE announce Class 12 marking plan, results out by July 31||There will be no rollback of the decision to cancel class 12 board exams, the Supreme Court said on Thursday and approved the CBSE and CISCE assessment schemes of a 30:30:40 formula for evaluation of marks for students based on results of class 10, 11 and 12 respectively. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) said however that it would consider the performance of students for the last six classes, unlike CBSE which is taking note of performance in class 10, 11 and 12 exams, in finalising the final board results. Senior advocate JK Das appearing for CISCE said the board would assess students based on performance in Class 10, 11 and 12 by taking the best marks awarded in these years. However, to rationalise the marks, the historical performance of the past six years will be taken into consideration. Both the boards said they would declare the results on or before July 31. The Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE), in its assessment scheme, referred to components to be evaluated and the weightage in percentage to arrive at final results. CBSE said it will evaluate class 12 students for theory based on 30 per cent marks from class 10 board, 30 per cent from class 11 and 40 per cent from marks based on the performance in unit, mid term and pre-board tests. It said the marks obtained by class 12 students in practical and internal assessment on actual basis as uploaded by schools on CBSE Portal will be also considered in deciding final results. A special vacation bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari rejected the plea of senior advocate Vikas Singh that there should be a relook of the decisions of CBSE and CISCE to cancel class 12 board exams in view of the fact that tests like Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) would be conducted in physical manner. "We have no manner of doubt that this cannot be taken forward. We have already accepted in principle the decision taken by the Boards and placed before us. "In any case, the students who want to appear can do so for improvisation of marks and that takes care of the students who want to appear. In other words, no prejudice will be caused to students who want to appear," the bench said. In the hearing conducted through video conferencing, the top court said prima facie, it has no reservation to accept the assessment schemes and the boards can proceed on the same. However, the (assessment) scheme must incorporate the provisions for dispute resolution in case students want correction of final result declared and the second is for declaration of results and when the timeline for optional exams would be declared, the bench told Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the CBSE and senior advocate J K Das, representing CISCE. Both the boards agreed to the suggestions of the bench which has now posted the matter for hearing on Monday when senior lawyer Vikas Singh would advance arguments on assessment schemes. "We will have it on Monday. You (CBSE and CISCE) are free to finalise your scheme and notify it. If further suggestions are given, then we can consider it," the bench ordered, adding that the suggestions of Singh may be incorporated later. The bench was hearing pleas seeking directions to cancel the class 12 exams of the CBSE and CISCE amid the pandemic situation. While dealing with some interim pleas relating to cancellation of class 12 board exams by various state boards, the bench said the copies of the applications be given to the counsel for state governments. At the outset, Venugopal said, CBSE has been in existence since 1929 and this has never happened before in the history of CBSE . He said the assessment criteria has been devised by a committee of experts and for this purpose, the CBSE has decided to consider the performance of students in class 10, 11 and 12. For class 10, the marks based on the average theory component of the best three performing subjects of the main five subjects would be considered and their weightage would be 30 per cent, the law officer said. Elaborating further, he said the marks obtained in theory paper in class 11 will be considered and given 30 per cent weightage. The marks obtained in unit test, mid-term and the pre-board exams of class 12 would be given 40 per cent weightage in deciding the final results, he said. Marks of practical/internal assessment etc of class 12 will be considered on actual basis as uploaded by the schools on CBSE portal, he said, adding that the "total marks awarded should be in consonance with the past performance of the schools in class 12 board exams . During the hearing, the bench said there should be a forum for disputes redressal mechanism in the scheme itself and timelines be given as to when the results would be declared and the optional exams would be conducted. "There has to be some outer date. Optional examination will also be specified. Subject to conducive situations and logistical issues, the bench said, adding that if one lakh students decide to appear in optional exams then it can be managed, keeping in mind the COVID protocols. "We will certainly do so. This is the totality of it. We will note down the suggestions and consider them seriously," Venugopal said. On June 3, the bench had said it was happy to note that the government had cancelled the class 12 board exams, and had directed the CBSE and CISCE to place on record well-defined objective criteria for assessment of students in two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Ghaziabad: Delhi police claim fresh complaints have been filed  ||The Delhi Police has received a complaint against actress Swara Bhaskar, Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari and others in connection with social media posts about an attack on an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad on June 5, officials said Thursday. Police said the complaint was received at Tilak Marg police station. "We have received a complaint against Swara Bhaskar, Manish Maheshwari, MD Twitter, and others at Tilak Marg police station. It is under inquiry," a senior police officer said. Further details about the complaint were not immediately available. In a video uploaded on social media, the elderly Muslim man had accused four people of beating him up, chopping his beard and asking him to chant "Jai Shri Ram" in the Loni area of Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad police had said it has already registered an FIR in connection with this alleged incident which took place on June 5, but was reported to police two days later. Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak had said the victim, Abdul Samad, a Bulandshahr resident, had not made any allegation of being forced to chant Jai Shri Ram or the chopping up of his beard in his FIR lodged on June 7. The Uttar Pradesh Police has filed the FIR against Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news portal The Wire, scribes Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, and senior journalist and author Saba Naqvi, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Masqoor Usmani and Sama Mohammad for sharing the video clip on the social media. The police action came on a day the Narendra Modi government at the Centre persisted with its sabre-rattling strategy in an effort to cow Twitter into submission on the new information technology intermediary guidelines. If the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh pursues the FIR with vigour, it is expected to become a test case, especially since there is no official word yet that the micro-blogging platform has lost its protective cover under the revised IT rules from pesky lawsuits. Some cyber law analysts suggested that no specific government action was required and Twitter could be deemed to have automatically lost the shield as soon as the compliance deadline ended on May 25. Twitter has said it “continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines”. The police have accused them of tweeting the video without verifying facts and “giving a communal colour” to the incident. Although hundreds of social media users had tweeted the video, it is not clear why the journalists and politicians have been picked out for the police action. The police have ruled out any communal element, claiming that a dispute over amulets (tabeez) sold by Samad had led to the assault on him by six men who included Hindus and Muslims. Three suspects have been arrested. The FIR said that despite a clarification put out by Ghaziabad police ruling out any communal link, the users did not delete the posts and Twitter took no action to remove them. An official in the Union government asked: “Why did Twitter not flag the particular video linked to the case as ‘manipulated media’ even though thousands of people re-tweeted it?” However, Samad’s family has contested the police version. “My father never sold tabeez in his life. We are carpenters. We do not know why the police have come up with such a baseless story. We want a fair probe into the case,” Babloo Saifi, Samad’s son, told NDTV. The family had filed an FIR with Ghaziabad police on June 6. The police FIR against Twitter and others have been registered under Sections 153 (provocation to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between religious groups), 295A (acts intended to insult religious beliefs), 505 (mischief) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The Press Club of India on Wednesday expressed concern over the police FIR against The Wire and the journalists and appealed to the Uttar Pradesh government to intervene and ensure that journalists are not made easy targets of “police highhandedness” through the filing of FIRs against them. Govt heat On Wednesday, information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad piled pressure on Twitter — ironically through a series of tweets. “There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision. However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from the 26th of May,” he tweeted. The safe harbour provision in the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, provides a shield against lawsuits. Since February this year, this protection has become contingent on social media players putting in place a grievance redress system and on the appointment of key personnel who will become responsible for compliance with Indian laws. “It is astounding that Twitter, which portrays itself as the flag-bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the Intermediary Guidelines,” Prasad tweeted. The pressure on Twitter to comply has coincided with its refusal to take down tweets that were critical of Prime Minister Modi and its decision to tag a tweet of at least one BJP leader as “manipulated media”. Prasad said: “If any foreign entity believes that they can portray itself as the flag bearer of free speech in India to excuse itself from complying with the law of the land, such attempts are misplaced.” Twitter officials said that till Wednesday evening, they had not received any communication from the information technology minister on the status of its safe harbour provision. Safe harbour N.S. Nappinai, founder of Cyber Saathi, said: “It is incorrect to assume Twitter has lost its tag as intermediary. What it has lost is the protection under Section 79 of the IT Act due to non-compliance. This again has nothing to do with government whim or action. “Any intermediary which enjoys protection under Section 79 has to comply with the conditions set out therein. One of the conditions is compliance with the rules framed by the central government. Failure to do so automatically takes away the protection. No specific government action is needed for such loss of protection.” Cyber law expert Pavan Duggal said: “Twitter, by not complying with the rules, lost its statutory immunity after the expiry of 90 days from February 25. “Effectively, it now means that the honeymoon period of Twitter as a service provider under the Indian cyber law is over. They no longer have the suraksha kawach or statutory exemption from legal liability. This effectively means that they are liable to be sued in civil and criminal courts across the country and they are liable to defend each one of them for third party data or information made available by them.” The Internet Freedom Foundation, which is fighting for digital freedom rights, said in a series of tweets: “The present concerns arise from Rule 7 of the IT rules, but Rule 7 only says that the provisions of Section 79 of the IT Act won’t apply to intermediaries that fail to observe the IT Rules. As per Section 79, intermediaries are immune from liability/ penalty if they comply with legal takedown requests of user posts from courts & public authorities.” The foundation added: “The new IT rules, as per several digital rights organisations, are unconstitutional. In fact, they have been challenged in several high courts. Even if we presume that the IT rules are legal and constitutional, where alleged non-compliance is for appointment of officers, etc, when companies like Twitter are prosecuted, courts will decide if it is an intermediary and not the government.” The parliamentary standing committee on information technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, has asked the representatives of Twitter and the IT ministry to present themselves before the panel on Friday. They have been asked to submit their views on the subject, “safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/ online news media platforms including special emphasis on women’s security in the digital space”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||India adds 67,208 fresh Covid cases, 2,330 casualties in a day||A single day rise of 67,208 new coronavirus infections were recorded taking India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,97,00,313, while the active cases declined to 8,26,740, the lowest after 71 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 3,81,903 with 2,330 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases declined to 8,26,740 comprising 2.78 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.93 per cent. A net decline of 38,692 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 19,31,249 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 38,52,38,220. The daily positivity rate was recorded 3.48 per cent . It has been less than 5 per cent for the 10th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.99 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 35th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,84,91,670, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.29 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 26,55,19,251 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,330 new fatalities include 1,236 from Maharashtra, 270 from Tamil Nadu, 148 from Karnataka and 147 from Kerala. A total of 3,81,903 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,15,390 from Maharashtra, 33,296 from Karnataka, 30,338 from Tamil Nadu, 24,876 from Delhi, 21,963 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,118 from West Bengal, 15,698 from Punjab and 13,354 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Delhi police move SC challenge of bail order for three students arrested on anti-terror charges||The Delhi Police has moved at high speed to challenge in the Supreme Court a Delhi High Court order granting bail to three students –Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha -- who were arrested after the Delhi riots in early 2020 under the tough anti-terror law. Calling the High Court’s judgement “perverse,” the Delhi Police said that: “We are proceeding with the filing of a special leave petition (to appeal) before the honourable Supreme Court.” Lawyer B. V. Balram Das, acting for the police, added the fact that “the High Court has commented on facts outside the jurisdiction of the bail plea... will impact every National Investigation Agency (NIA) investigation under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act).” according to ANI news agency quoting what it said were police officials familiar with the case. Meanwhile, the students, who have already spent over a year in jail, surviving two Covid-19 waves, were obliged to spend more time in jail. A sessions court judge held off Wednesday on ordering the immediate release of the students on bail after Delhi police demanded three days to verify the addresses of the accused and the sureties posted by them. The Delhi High Court ordered on Tuesday in separate rulings taking up the allegations against each of the accused that the three should be immediately released on bail and made stinging remarks about their arrest under UAPA. The High Court said “... that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the state has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest” and “terrorist activity.” The two-man bench went on to add that: “If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.” In response to the High Court ruling, Das said in commenting that the case against the accused was “not borne from the evidence or charge sheet,” the High Court had gone beyond “its limited jurisdiction of dealing with the bail applications of the accused.” Justices Siddarth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani noted in their ruling that the allegations against the three did not “prima facie” constitution violations of the UAPA. As a result, the sections of the UAPA against granting the accused bail did not apply to their cases, the judges said. The three were thus entitled to be granted bail under the usual provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. “... we are of the view that no offence under sections 15, 17 or 18 UAPA is made out against the appellant on a prima facie appreciation of the subject charge-sheet, the High Court said Tuesday. “Restrictions for grant of bail under section 43D(5) UAPA do not apply; and the court may therefore fall back upon the usual and ordinary considerations for bail” under the criminal code, the bench said. Former Supreme Court judge Deepak Gupta hailed Tuesday’s High Court ruling, telling Bar & Bench that it stood as “a beacon of hope for people who believe in liberties, especially civil liberties of the citizens,” “This judgement lays out the law which is crystal clear,” says senior advocate Dushyant Dave, a former president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. The high court judges had said that “frivolously” laying charges under the UAPA “would undermine the intent and purpose of the Parliament in enacting a law that is meant to address threats to the very existence of our Nation.” Former Supreme Court justice Gupta said that the high court ruling was important in another context also. “These are cases in which the UAPA is invoked where there is a presumption that bail cannot be granted unless the court comes to the conclusion that a prima facie case is made out that bail has to be granted.” For Narwal, the judgement came too late to see her father who died of Covid-19. She had been unable to speak to him before his death but was granted interim bail for three weeks after he died. “The news of the bail order hit me both with relief and sorrow. In normal circumstances, it would have been a celebration, but I couldn't help but think every other minute how happy our father would have been to see his daughter," Narwal’s brother Aakash told PTI. “I am very sure that his last thoughts would have been of Natasha.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||PM Modi announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of deceased||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the loss of lives in a road accident in Gujarat's Anand district and announced that an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each would be provided to the next of kin of the deceased.  Two children and seven adults were killed in the road accident after the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck near Indranaj village in Anand district on Wednesday morning, police said.  Apart from the two children, who were in the age group of three to five years, two women also died in the accident, they said.  "Saddened by the loss of lives due to a road accident in Anand district in Gujarat. Condolences to those who lost their near and dear ones," Prime Minister Modi was quoted as saying in a tweet by his office.  An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund would be provided to the next of kin of those deceased, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Congress asks why RSS remains an unregistered body||The Congress on Wednesday cited two controversial financial deals to ask why the RSS remains an unregistered body, out of the accountability framework, despite being an important player in India’s power politics. “We want to know why the RSS has not been registered so far. Why does it not keep a register of its members? Why does it not pay income tax? Do they own this country?” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera asked. One of the controversies involves two Sangh parivar members buying for Rs 18.5 crore a plot in Ayodhya that had sold for Rs 2 crore minutes earlier. VHP leader Champat Rai and RSS functionary Anil Mishra — members of the trust set up to monitor the construction of the Ram temple — have denied any corruption in the land deal. The other scandal involves a video and an audio that have been cited to accuse RSS leaders of negotiating commissions for releasing government payments in Jaipur to a private company. While the Ayodhya controversy has attracted nationwide spotlight, Khera underlined that the other had been widely covered by the local media in Rajasthan. “The video shows the zonal pracharak (the top RSS official in Rajasthan) Nimba Ram participating in a conversation about commissions with one Rajaram, a BJP leader and husband of the mayor of the Greater Jaipur Municipal Corporation, for releasing dues of Rs 276 crore to a Nagpur-based company, BVG. There is an audiotape also about the deal-making,” Khera said. He played the video and the audio at the news conference. BJP leaders have dismissed the video as an edited one and alleged a Congress conspiracy. The Rajasthan government’s anti-corruption bureau has started a preliminary investigation and promised an FIR if the video turns out genuine. BVG had been awarded a contract for garbage collection in Jaipur by the previous Vasundhara Raje government in 2016. Of the pending Rs 305 crore, Rs 276 crore was to be released after levying a penalty for unsatisfactory work. In one of the tapes, a man — alleged to be the mayor’s husband — is heard telling someone, purportedly from the BVG, not to make senior BJP leaders Nitin Gadkari and Devendra Fadnavis call his wife for the release of payments. “It’s a shame that the top RSS official of the region is participating in a commission-seeking deal. Rajaram, husband of mayor Somya Gurjar who is in suspension because of a scuffle with the municipality commissioner, is telling the company official that the payment has to be made in cash, not by cheque,” Khera said. “Some BJP leaders have said the negotiation was about a donation for the Ram temple. Commission money for the temple? Some said it was CSR (corporate social responsibility). Why not (pay by) cheque if it is CSR? And why is the RSS zonal head discussing it?” Khera continued: “Why does the BJP bring in Lord Ram whenever they (leaders) are caught? Is Lord Ram a shield for corruption? The RSS has fooled three generations of Hindus.... The two scandals exposed their reality. “We have seen the true culture of the RSS — its senior leaders are arm-twisting, blackmailing companies for commission. They can’t enjoy power without responsibility. They can’t escape accountability. The RSS people are also collecting donations for the Ram temple since 1999. Why has no audit taken place so far? Have they kept records; did they take all the donations by cheque?” The Congress has demanded a Supreme Court-monitored investigation into the Ayodhya land deal and an audit of all the plots bought recently in connection with the proposed Ram temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||P. Chidambaram questions Nirmala Sitharaman's GST claim ||Congress veteran P. Chidambaram on Wednesday accused finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman of making a false statement that GST (goods and services tax) dues of all states had been cleared. Chidambaram, a former finance minister, said: “Yesterday (Tuesday), in an interview to a television channel, the finance minister (Sitharaman) angrily rebuffed the interviewer and snapped: ‘What dues, I have cleared the GST dues of all states’. The finance minister was wrong. The anger was unjustified. I have gathered data about GST dues from three states. Punjab has dues of Rs 7,393 crore as on June 1, 2021, Rajasthan’s dues are Rs 7,142 crore as on May 21, 2021, and Chhattisgarh has dues of Rs 3,069 crore as on June 1, 2021.” Chidambaram later added: “Tamil Nadu’s dues are Rs 6,415 crore. Yet the finance minister said that she has cleared the GST dues of all states. Who is right? Who will answer?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||BJP reluctant to back PM Modi’s 'Hanuman' Chirag Paswan||The BJP’s apparent reluctance to back Narendra Modi’s “Hanuman” Chirag Paswan has led sections to fear that its leadership has buckled under pressure from partner Nitish Kumar at a time the party’s new-found vice grip on Bihar politics seems to have loosened in the aftermath of the Bengal misadventure. Chirag, felled by a coup in the Lok Janshakti Party led by his uncle, too is feeling let down by Modi after he worked assiduously to weaken Bihar chief minister Nitish in the elections. The BJP leaders feel the leadership is wary of annoying allies, especially those like Nitish with whom relations have been uncomfortable of late, at a time the party’s seeming electoral invincibility has cracked in Bengal and Modi’s image has taken a battering due to the mishandling of the pandemic. “It’s quite clear that Nitish Kumar is behind the split in the LJP and our party appears to be quietly accepting everything,” a Bihar BJP leader said. The leader felt the central leadership could be reluctant to irritate Nitish by backing Chirag also because several long-time allies have severed ties with the BJP. “Maybe the central leaders don’t want any wrong signal to go out ahead of the Uttar Pradesh polls next year,” a Bihar MP said. After the exit of the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal, the JDU with 16 MPs is currently the only significant ally left in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre. Realising the need for partners in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections, the BJP leadership has begun wooing disgruntled smaller allies who had felt slighted by the Big Brother. Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda have been hosting leaders of parties with pockets of strength in Uttar Pradesh, such as the Apna Dal and the Nishad Party. Efforts are also apparently afoot to woo back another estranged ally, Om Prakash Rajbhar of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party. The BJP feels the party needs to weave a coalition of different castes and communities to win the heartland state decisively. The perception that the BJP may be aiding, or at least playing along with Nitish’s determined attempt to split the LJP has been strengthened by the swiftness with which Chirag’s uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras was recognised as the leader of the LJP in the Lok Sabha within 24 hours on Tuesday. Paras and the other rebel LJP MPs met and petitioned Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Sunday evening for the designation, and late on Monday night the name of the new leader was notified by the Lower House secretariat. Caught unawares by the coup, Chirag on Tuesday rushed a letter to the Speaker urging him to withdraw the notification. He claimed that according to the constitution of the LJP, the central parliamentary board (of which Chirag is the chairman) of the party is empowered to decide on the Lok Sabha leader.“We are already facing problems in states we rule and it would not be prudent to open another front with Nitish,” a BJP leader said. The BJP has been rushing party managers to Karnataka, Gujarat, Goa and Madhya Pradesh in addition to Uttar Pradesh, with murmurs of discontent and rebellion rising against the chief ministers in these states. “Had we won Bengal, things would have been different. The rebellion in the LJP would also not have taken place,” another BJP leader said. Many in the BJP believe Nitish has taken advantage of the post-Bengal political atmosphere to strike at the LJP and assert himself before the BJP. Nitish had been feeling increasingly hemmed in by the BJP after the party became the dominant partner in the alliance for the first time after the 2020 Bihar elections. In Bihar’s political circles a buzz had been growing that the BJP could move to claim the chief minister’s post in the state had it wrested Bengal. Nitish’s JDU had managed to win only 43 seats while the BJP’s tally had jumped to 74. The JDU had blamed the LJP and it’s then chief Chirag for its emaciated tally of 43. Chirag had opposed Nitish’s leadership, broken out of the NDA and fielded candidates mostly against the JDU while claiming he was with the BJP. The JDU felt that Chirag’s candidates cut into the NDA’s votes and defeated their nominees. Chirag had during the campaign cast himself as Modi’s “Hanuman” and it was widely believed that the BJP was using him to undercut Nitish. On Tuesday, Chirag indicated that his “Ram” had dumped him.Asked why he hasn’t sought help from his “Ram”, Modi, Chirag said on Tuesday: “If Hanuman has to seek help from Ram then what is the point of Ram or Hanuman?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Kashmir: Activist jailed for airing misgivings on outsiders released||A Kashmiri man arrested for declaring he had no expectations from non-local officers has been released and has vowed to be cautious the next time he approaches officials on issues of public importance. Ganderbal activist Sajad Rashid Sofi said he hadn’t said “anything offensive”. He suggested the reaction by non-local IAS officer Krittika Jyotsna, who sent him to jail, had been prompted by a comment from the adviser to lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. The police released Sofi on Tuesday night after he had spent five days in jail, the administration apparently yielding to the outcry over his arrest. Such reprieves are rare in Kashmir.“I will not stop visiting officers to seek redress to public grievances. But the next time I shall write a qasida (eulogy) or rubai (poem) and humbly request, ‘Please rectify the matter... be kind enough’,” Sofi told The Telegraph. “Whatever I say, I shall try to be cool. It’s because of some pressure (that I was released). Otherwise the possibility was — particularly if I had any small (adverse comment) in the police records — they would have booked me under the (anti-terror) Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.” Sofi is alleged to have offended Ganderbal deputy commissioner Jyotsna during a Janata Darbar outreach programme on June 10 when he made a comment about non-Kashmiri officials to Baseer Khan, adviser to the lieutenant governor and a local man. “I can grab you by the collar and seek answers. But what expectations can I have from officers who are not from the state?” Sofi said. Sofi told this newspaper that it was Khan’s reply that seemed to touch a raw nerve with Jyotsna, who was raised in Hyderabad.He told this paper: “Baseer Sahab said, ‘Why did you utter the word Kashmiri’ and that ‘We are all Indians here’. Initially she (Jyotsna) did not mind. (Following Khan’s remarks), she stood up (and objected to my comment). Baseer Sahab later tried to placate her and asked her to sit down.” “I think that was one of the reasons (she objected). The fact is I had got a little emotional because it was the fourth time we were meeting the adviser to the lieutenant governor for redress of our grievances.” Sofi, a former sarpanch and son of a retired police officer, was arrested on June 10 on the charge of prompting enmity between different groups. Two days later he was granted bail by a court but the police added two more charges (abetment and joining assembly likely to cause disturbance in peace) and refused to release him. An activist and associate of Sofi who requested anonymity told this newspaper the police had on Tuesday said they would release him in two or three days. “But later in the evening, because of pressure from different quarters, we received a call and were told to apply afresh for bail before a tehsildar. We did and he was released at night,” he said. Khan, contacted for his reaction, said he had “no idea” about the arrest and the controversy. Sofi said he and his civil society team had been seeking the establishment of a degree college, upgrade of the local health centre, land for a playground and a solid waste management department for the development of the Manasbal lake. “I told him (Khan) that your officers — I was not referring to the DC (Jyotsna) who had joined only recently — had done nothing. I repeated the word thrice,” he said. “I told him (Khan) that you are a Kashmiri and I too am a Kashmiri. It is as though somebody is from Ganderbal and I tell him, ‘You are from Ganderbal and if you can’t solve it, who else will?’… I think I did not say anything offensive.” Khan was divisional commissioner for Kashmir when Article 370 was diluted in 2019. He is believed to have been rewarded for his role during the crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Supreme Court ‘shock’ at year’s delay in  bail hearing||The Supreme Court has expressed shock at Punjab and Haryana High Court not even listing the bail application of an accused for over a year, let alone decide on the plea, making a rare intervention on the ground of violation of the fundamental right to life and liberty. The top court also said that despite the pandemic, at least half the judges must sit on alternate days to hear matters relating to people’s distress. A Supreme Court bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V. Ramasubramanian said it was “shocked” that the bail application of Chunni Lal Gaba was pending for more than a year and asked the high court to hear it at an early date. Gaba is facing criminal prosecution by the Enforcement Directorate for alleged financial irregularities. The accused had moved the special leave petition in the apex court pleading that despite a year having passed since he applied for bail, the high court had not listed the matter for a formal hearing. Agreeing with Gaba, the Supreme Court passed the following order: “The present special leave petition is directed against an order whereby the request for hearing of an application for bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, pending since 28.0 2.2020, was declined. Normally, we do not interfere with an interim order passed by the high court but we are constrained to pass the present order as we are shocked to see that the bail application under Section 439 CrPC is not being listed for hearing for more than one year. “The accused has a right to hearing of his application for bail. In fact, the denial of hearing is an infringement of right to life and liberty assured to an accused. Even during the pandemic, when all courts are making attempts to hear and decide all matters, non-listing of such an application for bail defeats the administration of justice. “Under the prevailing pandemic, at least half of the judges should sit on alternate days so that hearing is accorded to the person in distress. Non-listing of application for regular bail, irrespective of seriousness or lack thereof, of the offences attributed to the accused, impinges upon the liberty of the person in custody. Therefore, we hope that the high court will be able to take up the application for bail at an early date so that the right of the accused of hearing of application for bail is not taken away by not entertaining such application on the mentioning memo. “Let the registrar-general of the high court bring this order to the notice of the competent authority to take remedial steps at the earliest….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-54
17-06-2021||India||Covishield: Experts term Centre's 16-week gap decision 'arbitrary'||The Narendra Modi government’s decision to set 16 weeks as the outer limit for the gap between the two doses of Covishield was “arbitrary” and “lacked scientific basis”, multiple medical experts have said. The Centre, which is insisting that the decision to increase the gap was based on scientific evidence, has not cited any study that specifically mentions 16 weeks. Instead, the government has been relying on studies that have researched the impact up to 12 weeks, not 16 weeks. While the prevailing minimum gap — 12 weeks — is indeed based on scientific studies, it is the outer limit of 16 weeks that has landed the government on what appears to be thin ice. The government on Wednesday indicated that the 16-week limit is not cast in stone and did not rule out revisiting the decision. There is no evidence for gains in the vaccine’s efficacy if the gap between the first and second dose is delayed to 16 weeks instead of 12 weeks, according to the experts, including a senior vaccination policy adviser with the WHO. Here, a little-noticed suggestion attributed to the World Health Organisation (WHO) comes into play. The WHO had in March this year asked countries facing limited Covishield supplies to consider vaccinating “a maximum number of persons... with a first dose and preferentially planning for the second dose to be provided 12 weeks later or as soon as possible thereafter”. Translated into plain language, this means: widen the gap if you are running short of vaccine supplies. The operative part is supply constraints, not the science of vaccines. “India took a decision it had to, but the logic and explanation it has given for that is not entirely correct. It might have been simpler to just say we want to prioritise first doses and explain why,” an expert familiar with Indian and global Covid-19 vaccination campaigns told The Telegraph on Wednesday. On May 13, the Union health ministry said it had accepted a recommendation from two advisory panels to expand the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks from the earlier 6-8 weeks. The ministry said the panels — the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) — decided to expand the gap after new “real-world evidence” had emerged from the UK. “These are pure science-based decisions,” NEGVAC’s chair Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and member of Niti Aayog, India’s apex government think tank, had asserted, saying the NTAGI had relied on the “real-life experience” of millions of vaccinated individuals in the UK. With the official health establishment so far unwilling to produce any “science-based” study that refers to the 16-week limit, the Modi government could have taken the nation into confidence in May and announced that vaccines were in short supply and the gap for Covishield was therefore being widened to 16 weeks. But the Centre gave the impression that the new window of 12-16 weeks was based on science, which has been established only partially so far. Politics, not science, appeared to have led the Centre to leave a haze around the 16-week ceiling. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has been denying that there was any shortage of vaccines in the country. The availability of vaccines had become a political flashpoint with Prime Minister Modi boasting about India being the “pharmacy of the world” and the Opposition alleging that he did not show the foresight to reserve more vaccines from manufacturers abroad or halt exports in the initial stages. The Centre’s decision in April to open vaccination to everyone 18 years or older had overnight more than doubled the eligible population to more than 950 million without provisions for extra doses. At the time, India had access to roughly 85 million doses a month. For the Union government, after having insisted there was no shortage, it would have been politically unwise to admit that the opposite was the case. With the Centre stoutly defending the decision to double the gap to 12-16 weeks, few academics were willing to speak to this newspaper on record. They did not want to be seen as questioning the government in public. However, a clue came from the government side itself on Wednesday. Narendra Arora, chair of the Covid-19 working group of the NTAGI that made the recommendation for the new interval, said the 12-16 weeks gap also “gives flexibility” to people because “everyone cannot come at precisely 12 weeks”. PTI quoted Arora as adding: “Covid-19 and the vaccination are very dynamic. Tomorrow, if the vaccine platform tells us that a narrower interval is better for our people, even if the benefit is 5-10 per cent, the committee will take the decision on the basis of merit and its wisdom. On the other hand, if it turns out that the current decision is fine, we will continue with it.” A query sent by this newspaper to the health ministry and to Arora seeking references to studies or evidence that support the 16-week outer limit have not evoked a response. “The decision to widen the gap was appropriate given vaccine supply constraints and the need to prioritise first doses, but there is no scientific evidence for the outer limit of 16 weeks,” said a public health expert. Delaying the second dose allows more people to get the first dose and, experts say, such decisions take into account the potential gains of expanding the number of people with first doses and the potential risks of delaying second doses. “Under vaccine supply constraints, it might be better to give a first dose to more people than to give two doses to half that population,” said a senior vaccination specialist who requested anonymity. “And this is particularly so if the efficacy gain with two doses is not double.” “The latest available evidence also suggests that India should for now continue to prioritise the first dose over the second dose,” said Gagandeep Kang, professor of clinical microbiology and member of NTAGI. Kang cited data released by the UK’s Public Health England on Monday showing that the AstraZeneca vaccine (Covishield in India) is 71 per cent effective after a first dose and 92 per cent effective after a second dose against hospitalisation from Covid-19 caused by the Delta variant, first detected in India. “Protection from hospitalisation is more important than protection from the infection,” Kang said. An independent academic modelling study by Gautam Menon at Ashoka University and his colleagues has also indicated that prioritising the first dose for those at most risk (the elderly and people above 45 with underlying chronic disorders) is the best option for now. The second dose grants additional protection, but appears to be less important than ensuring that as many people as possible receive the first dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: Police moves SC to cancel bail order of three activists||Delhi police on Wednesday petitioned the Supreme Court to cancel Tuesday’s bail to three student anti-CAA protesters, and appeared to be relying on certain technicalities in the trial court to try and delay their release from prison. JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha were still in custody late on Wednesday night, with the trial court listing for Thursday the police’s unusual plea for more time to verify their addresses and various details of those who have stood surety for them. The apex court is expected to hear on Friday the police’s challenge to Delhi High Court’s bail order, with solicitor-general Tushar Mehta likely to appear for the government. If the trial court grants the police’s request or the hearing stretches further, the accused are unlikely to be released before the apex court delivers its verdict. CPM politburo member Brinda Karat, one of the two people who stood surety for Natasha, termed the delay in release an attempt by the police to “sabotage and subvert” the high court order. She told The Telegraph the police had visited the homes of those standing surety, including hers, twice — on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning — and verified identity cards and bank documents. “Yet at 1pm today (Wednesday), they said (before the trial court of Shahdara district’s additional sessions judge Ravinder Bedi) they were not ready. The hearing was online but the six of us standing surety were in court, as required for verification,” she said. “Around 3.15pm, the police told the court that only one surety for each of the students had been verified, and the second had not. This is not true as they had visited the others standing for surety — two JNU professors, renowned activist Gautam Bhan, and two other residents of Delhi — and verified whatever they needed.” She added: “What’s most bizarre is the police saying they need to verify the permanent addresses (of the students), take a Rajdhani train to Assam to verify Devangana’s address, which would take time. All these students are residing in Delhi, and were arrested in Delhi…. When special public prosecutor Amit Prasad arrived, he was unaware that the police had filed such an affidavit.” Natasha is from Rohtak in Haryana, Devangana is from Assam, while Tanha is from Jharkhand. Legal sources said Delhi police were free to call up their counterparts in these states to have the addresses verified instead of despatching teams. A former Delhi High Court judge, Justice Jaspal Singh, told this newspaper: “In my long years as a judicial officer since 1964 and as a high court judge for eight years, I have never seen a magistrate ask the police to verify a bail bond or a surety being verified. Courts see if the surety has proper control of the accused… so he does not abscond. This is entirely in the domain of the court.” Delhi police, who are under the control of the Centre, have in the plea to the apex court argued that the accused, charged under the anti-terror law UAPA, could tamper with evidence and intimidate witnesses unless their bail was quashed. The police have also protested Delhi High Court’s observation on Tuesday that the State was blurring the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in its “anxiety to suppress dissent”. Their petition called the observation “an insinuation, albeit unfounded and perverse, that the present case was registered by the government to suppress dissent”, and that it “was a false case”. While granting bail, the high court had said the accused would be released after the trial court had satisfied itself that all the bail conditions and requirements could be met. One requirement being that the police should be able to trace the accused at any time, the cops sought time to verify their addresses. Tanha’s lawyer Siddharth Aggarwal said: “Not only did the police seek more time, they also sent a notice to the Unique Identification Authority of India to verify the Aadhaar numbers of the students. This is unprecedented. The law of the land is that those in custody have to be released within 24 hours of getting bail.” Karat said: “When the police visited this morning, they said they would take statements from my neighbours as well.” The Delhi police did not respond to queries from this newspaper. The lawyers for Devangana and Natasha had moved an application before Bedi on Wednesday for their immediate release. In the day’s order, Bedi said the order on bail could not be passed because of “heavy board of bail applications listed before the undersigned”. On Tuesday, the high court had questioned the police’s purported evidence against the three students, arrested in April last year and charged with inciting the February 2020 communal riots in Delhi after they participated in protests against the new citizenship matrix. “We are constrained to express, that it seems, that in its anxiety to suppress dissent, in the mind of the State, the line between constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity seems to be getting somewhat blurred. If this mindset gains traction, it would be a sad day for democracy,” the bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani had observed. Natasha, 32, Devangana, 31, and Tanha, 25, were all implicated in several cases. The trial courts had withheld regular bail only in the UAPA case. Devangana and Natasha are in Tihar jail. Tanha, a BA (Persian) student, is on interim custody bail at a south Delhi hotel so he can write his final semester exams. Devangana’s husband Andre Ling said: “It’s been an exhausting and painful year of separation, and when we were on the cusp of justice finally being served, we’re again thrown into this heart-wrenching uncertainty.” Normally, the top court cancels bail only in extraordinary circumstances, having repeatedly reaffirmed the maxim laid down decades ago that bail is the norm and jail the exception. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court had upheld citizens’ “right to criticise or comment upon the measures undertaken by the government and its functionaries” while quashing the sedition case against veteran journalist Vinod Dua. In their appeal, the Delhi police have argued that the high court’s reasoning that UAPA provisions apply only to matters that have a profound impact on the “defence of India” is “an irrelevant consideration to grant bail”. According to the police, the high court order, “through an erroneous interpretation has watered down the provisions of UAPA which will have wide ramifications and will affect all the cases registered by the National Investigating Agency under the provisions of UAPA”. The Delhi government’s standing counsel at Delhi High Court, Rahul Mehra, tweeted: “Unfortunate that the court below chose to seek verification of the accused by the police when both of them ought to have been released fm judicial custody yesterday itself….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||UP: FIRs against Twitter, journos and Congress leaders||Uttar Pradesh police have registered an FIR against Twitter, several journalists and Congress leaders over a video showing a Muslim from Ghaziabad alleging that he was assaulted and his beard was cut off. The police action came on a day the Narendra Modi government at the Centre persisted with its sabre-rattling strategy in an effort to cow Twitter into submission on the new information technology intermediary guidelines. If the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh pursues the FIR with vigour, it is expected to become a test case, especially since there is no official word yet that the micro-blogging platform has lost its protective cover under the revised IT rules from pesky lawsuits. Some cyber law analysts suggested that no specific government action was required and Twitter could be deemed to have automatically lost the shield as soon as the compliance deadline ended on May 25. Twitter has said it “continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines”. The FIR has been filed at Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh against journalists Saba Naqvi, Rana Ayyub, Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair, online news portal The Wire and Congress leaders Shama Mohamed, Salman Nizami and Maskoor Usmani for tweeting the video. The police have accused them of tweeting the video without verifying facts and “giving a communal colour” to the incident. Although hundreds of social media users had tweeted the video, it is not clear why the journalists and politicians have been picked out for the police action. On Sunday, the video clip did the rounds on Twitter accounts and showed the elderly man, identified as Abdul Samad, saying he was assaulted on June 5, his beard was chopped off and he was forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” by some attackers. The police ruled out any communal element, claiming that a dispute over amulets (tabeez) sold by Samad had led to the assault on him by six men who included Hindus and Muslims. Three suspects have been arrested. The FIR said that despite a clarification put out by Ghaziabad police ruling out any communal link, the users did not delete the posts and Twitter took no action to remove them. An official in the Union government asked: “Why did Twitter not flag the particular video linked to the case as ‘manipulated media’ even though thousands of people re-tweeted it?” However, Samad’s family has contested the police version. “My father never sold tabeez in his life. We are carpenters. We do not know why the police have come up with such a baseless story. We want a fair probe into the case,” Babloo Saifi, Samad’s son, told NDTV. The family had filed an FIR with Ghaziabad police on June 6. The police FIR against Twitter and others have been registered under Sections 153 (provocation to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between religious groups), 295A (acts intended to insult religious beliefs), 505 (mischief) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The Press Club of India on Wednesday expressed concern over the police FIR against The Wire and the journalists and appealed to the Uttar Pradesh government to intervene and ensure that journalists are not made easy targets of “police highhandedness” through the filing of FIRs against them. On Wednesday, information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad piled pressure on Twitter — ironically through a series of tweets. “There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision. However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from the 26th of May,” he tweeted. The safe harbour provision in the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, provides a shield against lawsuits. Since February this year, this protection has become contingent on social media players putting in place a grievance redress system and on the appointment of key personnel who will become responsible for compliance with Indian laws. “It is astounding that Twitter, which portrays itself as the flag-bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the Intermediary Guidelines,” Prasad tweeted. The pressure on Twitter to comply has coincided with its refusal to take down tweets that were critical of Prime Minister Modi and its decision to tag a tweet of at least one BJP leader as “manipulated media”. Prasad said: “If any foreign entity believes that they can portray itself as the flag bearer of free speech in India to excuse itself from complying with the law of the land, such attempts are misplaced.” Twitter officials said that till Wednesday evening, they had not received any communication from the information technology minister on the status of its safe harbour provision. N.S. Nappinai, founder of Cyber Saathi, said: “It is incorrect to assume Twitter has lost its tag as intermediary. What it has lost is the protection under Section 79 of the IT Act due to non-compliance. This again has nothing to do with government whim or action. “Any intermediary which enjoys protection under Section 79 has to comply with the conditions set out therein. One of the conditions is compliance with the rules framed by the central government. Failure to do so automatically takes away the protection. No specific government action is needed for such loss of protection.” Cyber law expert Pavan Duggal said: “Twitter, by not complying with the rules, lost its statutory immunity after the expiry of 90 days from February 25. “Effectively, it now means that the honeymoon period of Twitter as a service provider under the Indian cyber law is over. They no longer have the suraksha kawach or statutory exemption from legal liability. This effectively means that they are liable to be sued in civil and criminal courts across the country and they are liable to defend each one of them for third party data or information made available by them.” The Internet Freedom Foundation, which is fighting for digital freedom rights, said in a series of tweets: “The present concerns arise from Rule 7 of the IT rules, but Rule 7 only says that the provisions of Section 79 of the IT Act won’t apply to intermediaries that fail to observe the IT Rules. As per Section 79, intermediaries are immune from liability/ penalty if they comply with legal takedown requests of user posts from courts & public authorities.” The foundation added: “The new IT rules, as per several digital rights organisations, are unconstitutional. In fact, they have been challenged in several high courts. Even if we presume that the IT rules are legal and constitutional, where alleged non-compliance is for appointment of officers, etc, when companies like Twitter are prosecuted, courts will decide if it is an intermediary and not the government.” The parliamentary standing committee on information technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, has asked the representatives of Twitter and the IT ministry to present themselves before the panel on Friday. They have been asked to submit their views on the subject, “safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/ online news media platforms including special emphasis on women’s security in the digital space”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Rajnath Singh calls for navigation freedom in the Indo-Pacific region||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday called for an open and inclusive order in the Indo-Pacific region and underlined the need for ensuring freedom of navigation and unimpeded commerce in the international waterways including the South China Sea. During his virtual address at the Asean Defence Ministers’ Meeting-Plus (ADMM-Plus), Singh, in an obliquereference to China’s military behaviour in the South China Sea and Indo-Pacific, said the sea lanes of communication were critical for peace, stability, prosperity and development of the region. Singh said developments in the South China Sea have attracted attention in the region and beyond. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army has been taking an assertive stance in the South China Sea and is challenging India’s domination in the region. “Maritime security challenges are a concern to India. The sea lanes of communication are critical for peace, stability, prosperity and development of the Indo-Pacific region,” Singh said. “India calls for a free, open and inclusive order in the Indo-Pacific, based upon respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations, peaceful resolution of disputes through dialogue and adherence to international rules and laws.” India, Singh said, has strengthened its cooperative engagements in the Indo-Pacific based on converging visions and values for promotion of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. “Premised upon the centrality of Asean, India supports utilisation of Asean-led mechanisms as important platforms for implementation of our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific,” Singh said. The defence minister said terrorism and radicalisation were the “gravest threats” to peace and security in the world and a collective approach was required to combat the challenges. He called for strong action against those encouraging, supporting and financing terrorism and providing shelters to terrorists. The ADMM-Plus is a platform comprising the 10-nation Asean (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and its eight dialogue partners — India, China, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea, Russia and the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Covid: Cong to gather nationwide data||The Congress has drawn up an elaborate plan to start a nationwide campaign to gather data on Covid-affected families, patients and the deceased, ostensibly to challenge the allegedly manipulated official counts. The Congress has designed the campaign as an outreach programme to help frontline health workers and patients, with the planned data collection of the infected and the dead billed as a “subsidiary aim”. The drive aims to cover three crore households in 30 days, reaching out to approximately 12 crore people. The party general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, said: “Congress president Sonia Gandhi and the respective PCC presidents will also be writing condolence letters to the next of kin of those who have passed away due to the pandemic.” All Pradesh Congress Committees have been asked to set up control rooms and appoint at least one person in every block or ward to monitor the campaign. The block and town area presidents will each identify 10 workers — those who have been active in helping people during the pandemic — and designate them “Covid warriors” to collect data from the ground. Each “Covid warrior” is expected to visit a minimum of 10 to 15 households per day, Venugopal said. They will carry a questionnaire with questions like: “Was anyone from your family infected by Covid-19; Has any family member died due to Covid-19, their name and age; Was he/she the breadwinner of the family; Has anyone in your family lost his/her job due to the Covid-19 lockdown; Any support that they may be needing (ration, job, education, financial support) etc.”, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Modi govt delays survey to estimate poverty, shelves previous reports||India has no official data showing how many people got out of or slipped into poverty over the last 10 years, with the Narendra Modi government delaying exercises to estimate poverty and shelving the reports of surveys that had already done so. The standard way of estimating poverty has two steps. One, the National Statistical Office or NSO (formerly National Sample Survey Organisation or NSSO) carries out a sample Consumer Expenditure Survey every five years to see how much families are spending on necessities. Two, a previously set poverty line — a set of minimum expenditure criteria — is applied to the survey findings to determine what percentage of families qualifies as poor. This poverty line is expected to be revised every 10 to 15 years. However, the Centre has refused to release the report of the 75th Consumer Expenditure Survey, done in 2017-18, claiming a divergence between its findings and “administrative data”. According to a report in the Business Standard newspaper, the survey had found a fall in consumer spending for the first time in more than four decades. So, the latest poverty data the country has come from the previous such survey from 2011-12, which put 21.9 per cent of the population below the poverty line. Nor has the Centre revised the old poverty line, fixed in 2005, after having rejected the recommendations of an expert committee the UPA had formed in 2012 to work out a new poverty line. N.C. Saxena, a retired bureaucrat who was a member of the UPA-era National Advisory Council, said poverty data was crucial to determining how effectively government welfare schemes were helping people improve their living standards. Such data is also key to estimating where India stands in relation to other countries in the matter of poverty alleviation, and whether it can achieve the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal target of eradicating poverty by 2030, to which New Delhi is a signatory. “There’s no data on the progress towards poverty eradication. Had the NSO report been released, the poverty estimate would have come in 2019,” Saxena said. “But the government did not release that report as it found it uncomfortable. Now we have to wait for the next NSO report.” The NSO’s sample household survey captures how much money a family has been spending on food, shelter, clothing, health, education, transport, entertainment and other needs. The current poverty line was fixed in 2005 by the Suresh Tendulkar committee set up by the UPA government. The committee suggested that a person should be considered poor if they spend less than Rs 447 a month in rural areas and Rs 578 a month in urban areas (in keeping with the 2004-05 price index). Based on this, 37 per cent people — 26 per cent in urban areas and 42 per cent in rural India — were found to be poor in 2004-05. This improved to 21.9 per cent by 2011-12. In 2012, the UPA government set up a committee under C. Rangarajan to revise the poverty line. In June 2014, the committee submitted its report to the Modi government, which rejected it. In 2015, the government set up a task force under the then Niti Aayog deputy chairman, Arvind Panagariya, to recommend a fresh poverty line. On February 4 this year, the minister of state for planning, Rao Inderjit Singh, told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply that the task force had not recommended any definition of poverty or a methodology to estimate poverty (poverty line) but suggested that another expert panel be set up. No such panel has been set up yet. Retired economic services officer K.L. Datta, who has authored the book Growth and Development Planning in India, regretted the delay in revising the poverty line and in estimating the proportion of people living below it. “There’s been no official poverty estimation data for the past 10 years. The government only says that India will be able to achieve the (UN-mandated) goal on poverty; but there’s no data,” Datta said. “The Tendulkar methodology can still be used. But the government is neither coming out with any new methodology nor using the existing methodology.” Saxena agreed that Tendulkar’s poverty line can still be used if no new methodology is worked out. Separate emails sent to Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar and minister Inderjit Singh seeking the perspectives of the Aayog and the government had remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Covid: Bihar relaxes restrictions, night curfew reduced by an hour||Bihar provided further relaxation on Tuesday in the curbs imposed in the wake of the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus or Covid-19 pandemic, but decided to keep educational and religious institutions closed till further orders. The night curfew has been curtailed by an hour. The decisions were taken at the meeting of the crisis management group chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar to discuss the curbs and relaxations needed at the present stage of the pandemic. “We reviewed the situation of coronavirus infection in the state. We are providing relaxation in the restrictions for the next one week from June 16-22 to allow government and private offices to function till 5pm. Shops and business establishments can remain open till 6pm. The night curfew will remain in force from 8pm to 5am,” Nitish said. Nitish’s announcements will be implemented in the second week of the ‘unlock’ or easing of restrictions after a 35-day lockdown from May 5 to June 8 during which the state was reeling under the second wave of Covid-19. The poor health infrastructure and management of the pandemic aggravated the situation. The offices were allowed to function till 4pm and the shops could stay open till 5pm during the unlock-I from June 9 to 15. Later on Tuesday, chief secretary Tripurari Sharan issued a detailed notification for the unlock-II guidelines. He said that the offices could function with 50 per cent attendance. Shops and business establishments will open on alternate days, which will be decided by the concerned district magistrates. Shops will have to keep sanitisers at their counters and ensure that everybody wears a mask, as well as, maintain social distancing. Legal action will be taken against their owners on any digression from the rules. Cinema halls, clubs, swimming pools, parks and stadiums will remain shut during this week-long period and no socio-cultural-public functions will be held. Only 20 people will be allowed to attend marriage functions, funeral processions and last rites. Under the new restrictions, restaurants and eateries could provide only home delivery service from 9am to 9pm daily. Bihar has witnessed 7.18 lakh coronavirus cases, including 9,505 deaths till Monday. Altogether 324 new cases of infections were detected and the number of active cases in the state has come down to 4,771.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Heavy rainfall unleashes flood fury in Bihar||Heavy rainfall in Bihar and neighbouring Nepal for the last two days has made rivers swell and unleashed flood fury in northwestern parts of the state on Wednesday. Discharge of a high volume of water into the Gandak river from Valmikinagar barrage along the Indo-Nepal border in Bihar’s West Champaran district since Tuesday has worsened the situation. The Gandak (called the Narayani in Nepal) originates from the north of Dhaulagiri mountains in Tibet, flows through Nepal and enters Bihar at Valmikinagar. It falls into the Ganga opposite Patna. Currently over four lakh cusecs of water is being discharged from the Valmikinagar barrage. One cusec (cubic feet per second) is equivalent to 28.32 litres of water passing at any particular point per second. This has led to the Gandak and its tributaries like the Sikarahana, Pandarai, Masan, Harbora, Oraiya and others in Bihar flooding several parts of West Champaran, Gopalganj and Saran districts. On the other hand, the Budhi Gandak river is also threatening flood in West Champaran, East Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria districts. Floodwater was flowing over the roads at several places in West Champaran and Gopalganj districts, disrupting connectivity and movement of people. Parts of Bagaha town and several villages in Ramnagar, Chautarva and Thakarha blocks in West Champaran district have been submerged. People have started leaving their houses for safer places to escape flooding. Water has also entered the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR). As the situation turned grim, Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawans had to leave their border outpost at Jhandutola in West Champaran district and move to safer places. “Much water has entered West Champaran so we had to pull back our jawans from one of our border outposts. We may shift them from other outposts also if needed. The rain and floodwaters have disrupted the connectivity in the area where we operate. Moreover, we are not allowed to build permanent structures there because they are located in forest areas,” SSB Patna frontier inspector-general Pankaj Kumar Darad told The Telegraph. Meanwhile, the Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued an “orange bulletin” warning about severe flood situation in Bihar. It said the Gandak was flowing at a level of 62.4 metres at Dumariaghat in Gopalganj district, 18 centimetres above the danger level, with a rising trend. “The Budhi Gandak river at Chanpatia in West Champaran was also in a severe situation, flowing at a level of 74.48 metres, which was 80 centimetres above the danger mark,” the CWC bulletin said. West Champaran district magistrate Kundan Kumar said that apart from very heavy rainfall in the catchment area of the Gandak in Nepal, the intensity of rain in the northwestern area of Bihar has also been high. “At present around 4.12 lakh cusecs is being released from the Valmikinagar barrage into the Gandak due to heavy rain in Nepal. West Champaran has also received around 160 millimetres rainfall from Monday to Tuesday,” he told this newspaper. “The situation is under control as the rainfall has eased now. All our flood-fighting teams are in place. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed. We are making announcements on the public address system to alert people about the situation. Around 80 people have been evacuated from Lakshmipur Rampurva,” he added. Around 1,500 people are being evacuated in East Champaran district as a precautionary measure, while Gopalganj has also sounded a flood alert and is planning to shift people before the heavy discharge of water in the Gandak spills over into the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
17-06-2021||India||Covid: Partial unlock in Odisha, restrictions lifted in 17 districts  ||The Odisha government on Wednesday announced a partial unlock plan by lifting major restrictions in 17 districts with Covid positivity rate of 5 per cent or less while sanctioning minor relaxations in the rest 13 districts which have a higher positivity rate. While the districts with less positivity rate, most of them from western and southern Odisha, have been put in the “A” category others have been placed in the “B” category. However, the partial lockdown will continue till July 1 and the weekend shutdown will continue in all districts. The partial unlock process will begin from Thursday morning. Addressing a press conference here chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra said: “The Covid-19 infection rate has drastically declined and the test positivity rate (TPR) has come down to 6 percent this week. I thank the people of Odisha for abiding by the lockdown measures strictly.” Stating that the peak period of the epidemic was over he sought the cooperation of people till the situation was fully under control. Under the new unlocking measures, restrictions will be eased in 17 “A” category districts from Thursday with shops allowed to remain open in these areas between 6 am and 5 pm. The districts under this category include Sundargarh, Jharsuguda, Bargarh, Sambalpur, Deogarh, Kalahandi, Bolangir, Nuapada, Sonepur, Ganjam, Gajapati, Kandhamal, Boudh, Koraput, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri and Rayagada. The test positivity rate (TPR) in these districts is 5 per cent or less. However, in rest 13 districts placed in category B shops will remain open between 6 am and 1 pm. Most of the coastal districts with a high positivity rate have been placed under this category. These districts include Khordha, Puri, Nayagarh, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Angul, Dhenkanal, Balasore, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj and Keonjhar. The Covid-19 lockdown was initially imposed in the state from May 5 to May 17. It was first extended to June 1 and subsequently again to June 17 following rise in the number of infections. Among others the state government has decided to open sweet shops in the partial unlock period keeping in view the livelihood of milk producers. But sweet shop owners will be allowed to sell items only in parcels. Cycle (sale) and automobile repair shops will be opened as per the unlock plans. Morning walk, cycling and jogging activities have been allowed from 6 am to 9 am but parks and gyms will remain shut in all the districts. Shopping malls, saloons, cinema halls, swimming pools will also remain closed. Weekly shutdowns will continue in all the districts and night curfew will also remain in force as before. Jatra (mobile theatre performances) and outdoor shooting will not be allowed. All the restrictions with regard to marriage, cremation, meetings, social gatherings and opening of temples will continue as before during the partial unlock process. All essential services, transport of goods, industrial activities and construction activities will be allowed but public bus services have been restricted. Government and private offices across the state will operate with 50 per cent staff. Meanwhile, Odisha reported 3,535 new corona positive cases during the last 24 hours but 44 persons succumbed to the virus during this period. The death toll has remained above 40 in the state for last several days, which continues to be a cause for concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-55
