18-06-2021||India||Centre likely to hold talks with all regional J&K parties before month-end: Officials||The central government is likely to hold discussions with all regional parties in Jammu and Kashmir before the end of this month as part of its initiatives to bolster political processes, including holding assembly elections, in the union territory, officials said here on Friday. The central leadership may even invite National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah, PDP chairperson Mehbooba Mufti, Altaf Bukhari of the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), People's Conference head Sajjad Lone for discussion, the officials said. Both Abdullah and Mehbooba had served as chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. The meeting is likely to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other central leaders. Asked about the prospect of talks with the Centre, CPI(M) leader and spokesperson of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) M Y Tarigami said there has been no word from New Delhi, but added that if it happens, it would be welcomed. "We have never closed our doors for meaningful engagement with the Centre. Though I have no information about any dialogue, if it happens, it will be welcomed," Tarigami told PTI from Srinagar. PAGD is an alliance of some parties in Jammu and Kashmir, including the NC and the PDP, that was formed in the aftermath of the abrogation of its special status and its bifurcation into union territories. JKAP president Bukhari said, "I welcome, if and when, the talks take place. This vindicates our position of March 2020 when we had made it clear that dialogue is the only mechanism to restore democracy and statehood for Jammu and Kashmir." "Better late than never as the solution to all our problems lies with New Delhi and nowhere else," he added. The Jammu and Kashmir units of the BJP and the Congress are also likely to be part of these discussions, which are being seen as part of efforts to strengthen normal political processes in the union territory. The officials said the delimitation commission under the leadership of Justice (retd) Ranjana Desai, which was set up immediately after the passage of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill in Parliament, is likely to expedite its work and submit its report. The commission was set up in February 2020 and has been given an extension of one year in March this year. Barring Bukhari, other leaders have served a spell of detention following the August 2019 decision of the Centre to abrogate special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcating the erstwhile state into union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. In the District development Council election last year, the PAGD surged way ahead of the BJP and its allies, including the JKAP, by bagging 110 seats out of 280 with the National Conference emerging stronger with 67 seats within the alliance. The BJP was the single largest party with 75 seats. The political mainstream of the union territory, especially those having a strong base in Kashmir Valley, have been critical of successive administrations of the union territory for neglecting the demands of the people and raising questions on the development slogan raised post August 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
18-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra records 9,798 cases, 198 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 9,798 new Covid-19 cases, taking its case tally to 59,54,508, while 198 fatalities raised the death toll to 1,16,674, the health department said. Of 198 deaths, 133 occurred in the last 48 hours while 65 took place in the last week. Another 450 deaths which had taken place earlier were added after reconciliation of records. The death toll, overall, went up by 648. Discharged patients outnumbered new infections. With 14,347 patients getting discharged during the day, the total of recoveries reached 56,99,983. There are 1,34,747 active cases in the state. The recovery rate of Maharashtra is now 95.73 per cent, while fatality rate is 1.96 per cent. With 2,20,897 tests conducted during the day, the number of samples tested for coronavirus so far rose to 3,90,78,541. There are 8,54,461 people in home quarantine while 4,831 are in institutional quarantine. Mumbai city added 758 cases which increased its caseload to 7,18,590, while 19 deaths took the fatality count to 15,266. The larger Mumbai division including neighbouring satellite towns reported 2,051 Covid-19 cases and 52 deaths, taking the region's caseload to 15,71,515, and death toll to 31,129. Palghar district in the division reported 18 deaths on Friday. The Nashik division reported 941 cases and 23 deaths of which 13 deaths were reported in rural parts of Ahmednagar district. Pune division reported 2,665 cases and 25 deaths, of which 16 deaths were reported in Satara district alone. The Kolhapur division's caseload increased by 3,106, while out of 71 new deaths, rural parts of Kolhapur accounted for 32 followed by 17 deaths in rural parts of Sangli district. Aurangabad division reported 371 cases and 12 deaths, while 253 cases and eight deaths were reported in Akola division. The Nagpur division's Covid-19 caseload increased by 169 while it reported only four fatalities. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures: Positive cases 59,54,508, New cases 9,798, Death toll 1,16,674, Recoveries 56,99,983, Active cases 1,34,747, Total tests 3,90,78,541.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
18-06-2021||India||Siddque Kappan, jailed under UAPA, loses mother||Journalist Siddique Kappan, who is in jail since last year after being arrested while on his way to Uttar Pradesh's Hathras to report on the alleged gang-rape of a Dalit woman, has lost his mother, resports said on Friday. According to a report by ndtv.com, Kappan’s mother was over 90 years old and had been ill for a long time. Her funeral will be held on Friday, which means he will not be able to perform her last rites or say goodbye to her. A trial court in UP’s Mathura district will take up Kappan’s bail plea for hearing on June 22. He had last met his mother in February, when the Supreme Court had granted him bail for five days. The court had said Kappan could only speak to relatives and doctors treating his mother. He was escorted by cops at all times; UP Police was ordered to arrange for his travel and return, the report by ndtv.com says. Sources, as quoted by ndtv.com, said Kappan had then told his relatives to arrange an immediate funeral for his mother when she died. Kappan had been admitted to the Mathura hospital after he fell unconscious in jail and tested positive for the coronavirus. Kappan's wife Raihanth Kappan had written to CJI NV Ramana seeking his immediate release from the hospital, alleging he is "chained like an animal in a cot" there. The FIR against Kappan and three others has been filed under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for having alleged links with the PFI. The police had said it arrested four people having links with the PFI in Mathura -- Siddique from Malappuram, Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur. Kappan was arrested on way to Hathras, which has been in the news following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14, 2020, in a village in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
18-06-2021||India||Indian law Supreme, not your policy, Parliamentary Panel tells Twitter||Amid a tussle between the Union government and Twitter over the new IT rules, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT on Friday told the US-based social media giant that the rule of the land was supreme and the company must abide by the Indian laws.

During a 90-minute deposition before the panel, chaired by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, the Twitter India officials were asked "tough and searching questions", including why the company should not be fined as it has been found "violating" rules of the country, sources said.

Twitter India's public policy manager Shagufta Kamran and legal counsel Ayushi Kapoor deposed before the parliamentary panel.

Later in a statement, a Twitter Spokesperson said the company "stands prepared to work with the Committee on the important work of safeguarding citizens' rights online in line with our principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy."

"We will also continue working alongside the Indian Government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation", the spokesperson said while appreciating the opportunity to share views of Twitter before the Standing Committee on Information Technology.

BJP MPs --Nishikant Dubey, Rajyawardan Rathore, Tejasvi Surya, Sanjay Seth, Zafar Islam, Subhash Chandra-- were among those present during the meeting while from the opposition there were TMC MP Mahua Moitra and TDP MP Jaidev Galla apart from Tharoor.

During the meeting, panel members mostly from ruling BJP asked Twitter officials whether their policy is more important or rule of land, to which officials responded that they respect the Indian laws but they have to follow their policy as well for larger interest, sources said.

The panel members took strong objection to Twitter stance and categorically told them that the rule of land is supreme not the company policy, sources said.

As per sources, there was unanimity in the panel that Twitter should abide by IT rules and appoint chief compliance officer.

"The answers (by Twitter officials) lacked clarity and were ambiguous", a source said.

It was also raised by the MPs in the meeting that instead of appointing a full-time compliance officer, Twitter has appointed an interim officer, who is a lawyer, sources said.

According to sources, Dubey also raised question over neutrality of fact-checks on Twitter and claimed that many of them are not "politically neutral".

The parliamentary panel had last week summoned Twitter over issues related to misuse of the platform and protection of citizens' rights.

According to sources, the opposition members opined that another round of meeting should be held with Twitter officials, but the panel has sought written reply from Twitter on various questions.

The panel members also held a meeting with Information and Technology Ministry officials after the deposition.

Earlier this month, the Central government issued a notice to Twitter, giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules and warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act.

Sources said the panel will also summon top officials of Google, Facebook, YouTube and other tech giants.

Twitter and the Centre have been at loggerheads over several issues for the last few months.

The microblogging site had also faced backlash when it briefly removed the 'blue tick' verification badge from the personal account of Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and of several senior RSS functionaries, including its chief Mohan Bhagwat.

Earlier, Delhi Police had sent a notice to Twitter, seeking an explanation of how it described an alleged "Congress toolkit" against the Central government as "manipulated media".

The police reportedly had also questioned Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari on May 31 and visited the Twitter India offices in Delhi and Gurgaon on May 24 over the toolkit issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
18-06-2021||India||Lok Sabha speaker calls Central Vista a necessity||Not a single MP in either Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha had objected to the construction of a new parliament building when a request for it was made by both the Houses to the Centre, Speaker of the lower house Om Birla said on Friday. Describing the new Parliament building as a "necessity", he said though the construction is running 16 days behind schedule, it will be completed by October 2022. "We were (initially) 27 days ahead of schedule. But after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic (second wave), the construction is now 16 days behind schedule," Birla said. To questions on construction of a new parliament house at a press conference here, the Lok Sabha speaker said the existing building cannot be expanded and does not cater to the needs of changing times. "The existing building is a historical one. Many historic decisions were taken in this building. But it cannot be expanded further and therefore a new building is a necessity," he said. About MPs from opposition parties opposing the project, Birla said it was both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha who had requested the Central government for a new parliament building. "When the request for a new parliament building was made by both the houses, no MP had objected to it. No one has approached me opposing it," Birla said. Opposition parties and the BJP are engaged in a political slugfest over the construction of the new building. The opposition parties say the project should be stopped to save funds for the management of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
18-06-2021||India||An Economy Overview of The Kerala State Government||Since December 2019. The world has been dealing with the Coronavirus pandemic, and to limit the pandemic, the majority of the countries have established quarantines and social distancing practices and lockdowns. The 69-day countrywide lockdown has wreaked havoc on all sectors of the national and state economy. As a result, the IMF forecasts a 1.9 percent GDP growth rate for the country in 2020, the slowest pace since the balance of payment crisis 1991. Throughout the Thirteen five-year plan, the Government of Kerala had to deal with several challenges. First, significant weather events occurred in the country, with Cyclone Ockhi in 2017 and extreme precipitation events followed by floods and mudslides in 2018 and 2019. In 2018, the state also had to deal with Nipah. In addition to natural calamities, the Central government’s stringent policy measures, such as demonetization and introduction of Goods and Services tax, impacted the state economy, particularly the financial resources available to the state for development activities. Impacts of Lockdown The 69-days lockdown can be divided into three stages, based on the limits imposed and relaxations granted. In the first stage of 27 days, from March 24 to April 19, a lockdown similar to a curfew was enacted in the country. All Federal and government offices, as well as the commercial and private businesses and commute services, were shut down. In addition, all kinds of functions, places of worship, and educational institutions were closed except for a few essential services. A few relaxations were allowed during the second stage of lockdown, from  April 20 to May 3, and more time-outs were permitted during the third stage of 28 days, from May 4 to May 31. As a result, the rate of loss in the production of goods and services or GSDP differs for each of the three stages. The lockdown has resulted in massive job losses in all sectors. More than 50 percent loss of employment was observed in most of the tertiary sector’s subsectors. It ranged from 50 to 80 percent in sectors like industry and construction. Kerala’s GSDP Loss The COVID pandemic has thrown the economy into disarray and put a strain on state finances, with Kerala’s economy expected to lose ₹1,56,041 in 2020-21, according to the Budget Estimate of 2020-21. The GSDP reduction could have been worse, but a ₹20,000 economic boost was revealed earlier in the pandemic. This stimulus package assisted the most vulnerable members of society and significantly reduced the impact of COVID-19 on GSDP. Over the Budget Estimate 2020-21, the state’s revenue is expected to grow at a rate of 6.5 percent, and GST collection is a sign of a more rapid economic recovery. Some lotteries curb unemployment in the country, one of which is Win-Win Lottery. One of the lotteries run by the state of Kerala is Kerala State Lottery, and it comes with many benefits. For example, the GST collected from the sales of lottery tickets has been used to fund numerous welfare schemes in Kerala. Kerala’s Economic Response to Pandemic While anticipating the adverse impacts of COVID-19, the government of Kerala took some initiatives to protect the state’s economy and the lives of people. These include bringing money into the economy via direct and indirect aid, ensuring food and shelter for the poor, creating job opportunities, and increasing agricultural and industrial production. To ensure a V-shaped recovery and ensure jobs, the government plans to immediately start the sectors such as tourism, MSME, and agriculture. Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and externally aided projects would increase capital expenditure. Measures to improve development and well-being shall continue, health protection will take precedence, and improving the quality of higher education will be given priority. Notably, the Kerala state government unveiled an economic assistance package worth ₹ 20,000 crores on March 20, 2020, which was a significant amount.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
18-06-2021||India||Twitter officials appear before Parliamentary panel ||Amid a tussle between the Union government and Twitter over the new IT rules, officials of the microblogging site on Friday deposed before a parliamentary panel chaired by Congress' Shashi Tharoor over preventing misuse of social media. Earlier this month, the Centre issued a notice to Twitter giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules and warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, chaired by Tharoor, had last week summoned Twitter over issues related to misuse of the platform and protection of citizens' rights. Twitter India's public policy manager Shagufta Kamran and legal counsel Ayushi Kapoor deposed before the panel on Friday. Twitter and the Centre have been at loggerheads over several issues for the last few months. The microblogging site had faced backlash when it briefly removed the 'blue tick' verification badge from the personal account of Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and of several senior RSS functionaries, including its chief Mohan Bhagwat. Earlier, Delhi Police had sent a notice to Twitter, seeking an explanation of how it described an alleged "Congress toolkit" against the Central government as manipulated media. The police reportedly had also questioned Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari on May 31 and visited the Twitter India offices in Delhi and Gurgaon on May 24 over the toolkit issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
18-06-2021||India||Students' bail fine, but HC views on terror law needs scrutiny, says Supreme Court ||The issue of reading down of anti-terror law UAPA is important and can have pan-India ramifications, the Supreme Court said on Friday making it clear that the Delhi High Court verdicts granting bail to three student activists in north-east Delhi riots case will not be used as precedent by courts in the country. A vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian termed as troubling that the high court has written 100 pages discussing the entire anti-terror law UAPA while deciding the bail applications in the case and said it will require interpretation by the apex court. The apex court agreed to hear the appeals filed by Delhi Police challenging the verdicts of the high court and issued notices to JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha seeking their responses. While refusing to stay the high court verdicts granting bail to the three accused, the bench said that these judgements will not be treated as precedent by any party before any court. “It is clarified that release of the respondents (Narwal, Kalita and Tanha) on bail is not interfered with at this stage,” the bench said. Taking note of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta's submission that the entire Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) has been turned upside down by the high court in granting bail in the case, the bench said, The issue is important and can have pan-India ramifications . “We would like to issue notice and hear the other side,” it added. Mehta urged the apex court to stay the high court verdicts saying the findings arrived at in these judgements virtually record acquittal for these accused and other co-accused would also seek bail relying on them. “The way the Act has been interpreted, probably it will require interpretation by the Supreme Court. That is why we are issuing notice,” the bench said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the student activists, said there is no doubt that the apex court should consider the ramifications and interpretation of the UAPA so that there is a judgement on the issue from the top court. “We are dealing with bail applications,” Sibal said. “That is what is troubling us. It is surprising that in a bail application, there is 100-page judgement discussing the entire law,” the bench said. “There are many questions which arise as legality of the UAPA was not challenged before the high court. These were bail applications,” the bench observed. The top court issued notices to these student activists and said that the matter would be heard in the week commencing July 19. At the outset, Mehta referred to the judgements of the high court and said, the entire UAPA has been turned upside down on its head . He argued that after these verdicts, technically the trial court is required to place these findings in its order and discharge the accused in the case. Mehta said that 53 persons died and over 700 were injured during the riots which took place at a time when the then US President and other dignitaries were here. “The high court has made wide ranging observations,” he said, adding, “They are out on bail, let them remain out but please stay the judgements.” “Stay by the Supreme Court has its own meaning,” he said. While reading down some paragraphs from the high court verdicts regarding right to protest, Mehta said, “If we go by this judgement, even the lady who assassinated the former Prime Minister was also protesting.” “Kindly stay these orders,” he told the bench. Sibal said the student activists also have a lot to argue in the matter. The bench, while issuing notice on the appeals, said the counter, if any, be filed within four weeks. The high court had on June 15 granted bail to these three student activists saying in an anxiety to suppress dissent the State has blurred the line between right to protest and terrorist activity and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a "sad day for democracy". The high court, in three separate judgments, set aside the trial court's orders denying bail to these student activists and allowed their appeals by admitting them to regular bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each along with two sureties of the like amount. These three student activists were released from jail on June 17. The case relates to last year's communal violence in north-east Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). In its three separate appeals filed in the apex court, Delhi Police has said that the high court's findings are perverse and contrary to record and appeared to be based more on the social media narrative than the evidence gathered and elaborated in the charge sheet". In the appeals, the police has dubbed the verdicts as "mini trial" and said such observations were unfounded and perverse insinuation. Delhi Police contended that bail was granted to the accused on an irrelevant consideration which will have far reaching consequences for cases investigated by NIA and other probe agencies. “The high court not only conducted a mini-trial but has also recorded perverse findings which are contrary to record and almost decided the case while adjudicating bail pleas," said the police while seeking to set aside three bail verdicts. Kalita, Narwal and Tanha are accused in four, three and two cases respectively relating to communal riots that broke out on February 24 last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
18-06-2021||India||SC refuses to cancel, postpone PG final year medical exams||The Supreme Court Friday refused to direct the medical universities to cancel or postpone the final year Post Graduate exams on the ground that the examinee-doctors have been engaged in COVID-19 duty. A vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah said it cannot pass any general order to all the universities to not conduct or postpone the final year post graduate medical examination. The top court noted that the National Medical Council (NMC) has already issued an advisory in April asking the universities in the country to take the COVID situation into consideration while announcing the dates for final year examination. "We have interfered where it was possible like postponing by one month the INI CET examination conducted by AIIMS, New Delhi, where we have found that there was no justification in fixing the date for the examination without giving appropriate time to students to prepare," the bench said. It rejected the submission of senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for 29 doctors, who have filed the writ petition that NMC be directed to issue directions to all the universities to give reasonable time to students to prepare for the examination. "We don't know what could be the reasonable time for preparing for the examination. How can the court decide the reasonable time? Everyone may have their reasonable time. Let the university decide on the basis of the advisory of NMC as per the pandemic situation prevailing in their area," the bench said. The top court said, In a vast country like India, the pandemic situation cannot be the same. In April-May the situation in Delhi was very bad but now it is hardly 200 cases per day. In Karnataka, however, the situation is not that good even now. Therefore, we cannot pass any general order without hearing the universities . Advocate Gaurav Sharma, appearing for NMC said that not all doctors were engaged in COVID duty and the council had issued an advisory in April to all the universities to hold the examination after taking into consideration the COVID situation in their respective areas. Hegde said that since the doctors were engaged in COVID duty, they were not able to prepare for the examination, which will enable them to become senior resident doctors. At the outset, the bench clarified that it is not allowing the doctors to be promoted without appearing for the examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: Supreme Court issues notice to students released on bail||Reading down of anti-terror law is an important issue and may have pan-India ramifications, the Supreme Court said on Friday and sought responses from three student activists granted bail by the Delhi High Court in north-east Delhi riots case. The high court judgements will "not to be treated as precedent by any Court" to give similar reliefs, the apex court said while hearing Delhi Police appeal against the bail. A vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian made it clear however that the bails granted to these student activists will not be affected for the time-being. Taking note of Solicitor Generak Tushar Mehta's submission that the entire anti-terror law, UAPA, has been turned upside down by the Delhi High Court while granting bail to these activists, the bench said what is troubling it was that 100 pages of the verdict have been rendered while granting bail and judgement discussed the entire law. The Supreme Court was hearing three separate appeals filed by the police who have said the high court’s findings were “perverse and contrary to record” and appeared to be based “more on the social media narrative”. The Delhi Police had said that: “We are proceeding with the filing of a special leave petition (to appeal) before the honourable Supreme Court.” Lawyer B. V. Balram Das, acting for the police, added the fact that “the High Court has commented on facts outside the jurisdiction of the bail plea... will impact every National Investigation Agency (NIA) investigation under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act).” according to ANI news agency quoting what it said were police officials familiar with the case. Three student anti-CAA protesters whose release on bail had been stalled over technicalities were set free on Thursday evening after a court, on the prodding of Delhi High Court, said that address verification could not be a plausible reason for continued imprisonment. Natasha, Devangana and Asif — in jail since April last year and booked under a host of charges, including the anti-terror law UAPA — walked free around 7.30 pm. The Delhi High Court had on June 15 granted bail to JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha saying that in an anxiety to suppress dissent the State has blurred the line between right to protest and terrorist activity and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a "sad day for democracy". It had said, "... that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the state has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest” and “terrorist activity.” The two-man bench went on to add that: “If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril.” The high court, in three separate judgments, set aside the trial court's orders denying bail to student activists and allowed their appeals by admitting them to regular bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each along with two sureties of the like amount.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Modi launches crash course programme for Covid warriors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a customised crash course programme that aims to skill and upskill over one lakh "Covid warriors" across the country. Speaking on the occasion, Modi urged the people to remain cautious, stressing that the virus is "still amongst us" and the possibility of it mutating is also there. He also said the central government is committed to provide Covid vaccination free to everyone, starting June 21. "In the second wave of coronavirus, we saw what kind of challenges the ever-changing form of this virus can bring before us," Modi said. "We have to further enhance the preparedness of the country to meet the challenges ahead," Modi asserted. With this goal in mind, a massive campaign to prepare about 1 lakh frontline "Corona warriors" is being started in the country, he said. Modi also said work is underway on war footing to ready over 1,500 oxygen plants and efforts are on to reach every district. The 'Customised Crash Course programme for Covid-19 Frontline workers' aims to skill and upskill over one lakh "Covid warriors" across the country, according to the PMO. The training will be imparted to them in six customised job roles namely home care support, basic care support, advanced care support, emergency care support, sample collection support, and medical equipment support. The course has been designed as a special programme under the central component of the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0, with total financial outlay of Rs 276 crore, the PMO said. The programme will create skilled non-medical healthcare workers to fill the present and future needs of manpower in the health sector, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Delhi HC takes cognisance of Covid norm violation in markets||The Delhi High Court on Friday took cognisance of the violation of Covid-19 protocols in various markets in the national capital and observed that such breaches will only hasten the third wave which cannot be permitted at all. The high court asked the Centre and Delhi government to take strict measures, sensitise shopkeepers and hold meetings with markets and vendors associations in this regard. A vacation bench of Justices Navin Chawla and Asha Menon took note of certain photographs sent to one of the judges of the high court by an AIIMS doctor showing scant regard for Covid-19 protocols by street vendors in markets. "We have paid a huge price in the second wave. We don't know if there is any household which has not suffered in the second wave, closely or remotely," the bench observed. Huge crowds were witnessed at the popular shopping markets in the city, breaking Covid protocols such as social distancing and wearing of masks, just a little over a month after Delhi faced its worth public health crisis when the second wave of coronavirus peaked. According to reports, Thousands crowded into metro stations and shopping, prompting some doctors to warn it could lead to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. According to ndtv.com, doctors and disease experts are worried about Delhi's near-complete re-opening and have cautioned that a race towards resuming business as usual would compromise vaccination efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid deaths the lowest in 61 days||With 62,480 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 2,97,62,793, while the death toll climbed to 3,83,490 with 1,587 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 61 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The active cases have fallen below 8 lakh after 73 days and the national COVID-19 recovery rate has crossed 96 per cent. The active cases have declined to 7,98,656 comprising 2.68 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.03 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 28,084 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 19,29,476 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 38,71,67,696. The daily positivity rate was recorded 3.24 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 11 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.80 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 36th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,85,80,647, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.29 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 26,89,60,399 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 1,587 new fatalities include 636 from Maharashtra, 210 from Tamil Nadu and 138 from Karnataka. A total of 3, 83,490 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,16,026 from Maharashtra, 33,434 from Karnataka, 30,548 from Tamil Nadu, 24,886 from Delhi, 22,030 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,182 from West Bengal, 15,738 from Punjab and 13,361 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||UP Police send notice to Twitter India head over assault video||The Ghaziabad Police has sent a notice to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari, asking him to join a probe in connection with the case involving an assault on a Muslim man here earlier this month, officials said Friday. He has been asked to appear at the Loni Border police station here within seven days to get his statement recorded in the case in which an FIR was lodged against the social media giant also, a senior police official said. "Manish Maheshwari is the MD of Twitter India and was sent a notice yesterday under CrPC section 166 seeking his cooperation in the probe. Some other details have been sought from him and he has been given seven days' time to appear at the local police station," Superintendent of Police (Ghaziabad Rural) Iraj Raja told reporters Friday. The Ghaziabad Police had on June 15 booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. They were booked over the circulation of a video in which the elderly man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, claims he was allegedly thrashed by some young men who also asked him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on June 5. The police claim the video was shared to cause communal unrest. The police have maintained the assault took place because the accused were unhappy about the 'tabeez' (amulets) sold to them by Saifi, a resident of adjoining Bulandshahr district, and ruled out any communal angle in the case. In the video that triggered a nation-wide reaction, Saifi purportedly says he was attacked by some young men and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. But, according to the district police, he has not made any such allegations in his FIR lodged on June 7, two days after the incident. The June 15 FIR states that the Ghaziabad Police had issued a statement with facts of the incident but despite that the accused did not remove the video from their Twitter handles. The police had also clarified that those who attacked Saifi included Hindu as well as Muslim men and the incident was a result of personal issues between them and not a communal one, it said. "Besides this, Twitter Inc and Twitter Communications India did not take any measures to remove their tweets," it added. The FIR has been lodged under sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, class etc), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The Ghaziabad Police has so far arrested nine people, including key accused Parvesh Gujjar, in the case, according to officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||SC accepts in principle formulas suggested by CBSE and ISC boards||The Supreme Court on Thursday accepted in principle the formulas suggested by the CBSE and the ISC board to award marks to this year’s outgoing Class XII students, but decided to delay final approval till it had heard the students’ views on Monday. Largely, the marks would be awarded on the basis of the students’ performances in their Class X boards and their school Class XI and XII exams, normalised on the basis of their school’s performance in Class XII boards over the past three (CBSE) or six (ISC) years. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal placed the methodology for the CBSE, and advocate J.K. Das did so for the CISCE — the board that conducts the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams — before the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari. The matter was posted to Monday for final approval after senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for some students, sought permission to place the student community’s views on the criteria adopted by the boards. The CBSE said it would declare the final results by July 31, while the CISCE said it would declare the results by July 20. Both the boards’ Class XII exams have been cancelled because of the pandemic. Any student who fails to meet the qualifying criterion (to pass) will be placed in the “essential repeat” or “compartment category” and can appear in a physical exam, to be held whenever the situation is conducive. The court said there should be a dispute resolution mechanism if some aggrieved students seek rectification of their declared results. Students who are still dissatisfied with the marks awarded to them will be allowed to take the physical exam, whenever held, to improve their scores. The court was dealing with a public interest plea that Mamta Sharma, an advocate, had moved seeking cancellation of this year’s Class XII exams by the two all-India boards in the light of the pandemic. The bench said a plea for the cancellation of state boards’ Class XII exams in Assam, Punjab, Tripura, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh would be taken up on Monday. Kerala has conducted a part of the Class XII board exams but not completed it. The rest of the states have either cancelled their Class XII board exams or already conducted them, the court was told.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||CBSE weightage plan for evaluating outgoing Class XII students ||The Central Board of Secondary Education on Thursday suggested the following formula — provisionally approved by the Supreme Court — for awarding marks to its outgoing Class XII students after this year’s exams were cancelled because of the pandemic. Different subjects will have different weightages for the theory and practical-internal assessment (IA) portions. The weightage for the theory portion will vary from 80 per cent (for example, languages) to 70, 60, 50 or 30 per cent (for example, painting), with the practical-IA portion accordingly accounting for 20 to 70 per cent. ⚪ Scores obtained in the Class XII exams will be accorded 40 per cent weightage while calculating the theory marks in each subject. In Class XII, the schools conduct unit tests, a mid-term (half-yearly) test and a pre-board exam. It’s for the individual school result committee to decide whether to consider a student’s scores in all these exams and work out an average for each subject, or consider only one of the exams (pre-board), or some but not all. ⚪ The score obtained in the theory component of the Class XI final exam will get 30 per cent weightage. ⚪ The average theory component score from the student’s best three performing subjects out of the main five subjects in the Class X board exams will get the remaining 30 per cent weightage. “This average will be uniformly awarded to all the Class XII subjects based on theory weightage,” the gist of the formula provided by the apex court says. ⚪ All this means that in a subject where the theory component is accorded 80 per cent weightage, the Class XII marks will get an overall 32 per cent weightage and the Class XI and X marks, 24 per cent each. In a subject where the theory component accounts for 30 per cent weightage, the Class XII-XI-X weightage will be 12-9-9 per cent. The practical/internal assessment component will consist entirely of the actual practical/IA marks awarded in Class XII and uploaded by the school on the CBSE portal. Practical/IA marks are awarded just once in Class XII, and not with every exam. Each school will form a result committee of five members — the school principal (as chairperson), two senior-most teachers of the school who conduct Class XII classes, and two Class XII teachers from neighbouring senior secondary schools. As the marks obtained in the Class XI and Class XII exams will have been awarded by the schools themselves, they may not be strictly comparable across schools because of “variations in the quality of question papers, the evaluation standard and processes, the mode of conduct of exams, etc”, says the gist. “To ensure standardisation, each school will have to internally moderate the marks by using a reliable reference standard.” ⚪ The particular year out of the previous three years in which the school performed the best in the Class XII board exams will be the reference year. ⚪ The average marks awarded by the school in any subject for 2020-2021 should be within a range of plus 5 or minus 5 from the average score obtained by its students in that subject in the reference year. ⚪ The average marks the school awards its students in 2020-2021 across all the subjects should not exceed the overall average marks obtained by its students in the reference year by 2 marks. ⚪ The school result committee must ensure that the students’ marks “are aligned with the broad distribution of marks provided by the board” — that is, the proportion of the schools’ students obtaining, say, an aggregate score above 90 per cent should be roughly the same as the proportion of students scoring 90 per cent across CBSE schools. A physical Class XII board examination will be held “when the conditions become conducive” for “private, patrachar (correspondence) and 2nd-chance compartment candidates, etc” and students dissatisfied with the marks awarded to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Centre moves to establish oversight over TV content through aggrieved consumer route||The Centre on Thursday moved to establish oversight over television content through the aggrieved consumer route by creating a statutory three-tier complaint redress mechanism in line with the one introduced in the new information technology rules. The government was always equipped with the power to take action against programmes that did not conform to the Programme Code and the Advertising Code. But the new rules notified by the information and broadcasting ministry opens up a window for taking action against a network or programme on the basis of a consumer’s complaint. A significant addition appeared to be an oversight mechanism of the central government. According to the changes notified in the Cable Television Network Rules, 1994, on Thursday, every broadcaster will need to have its own complaint redress mechanism. If not satisfied with the action taken at this level, a complainant can approach the self-regulating mechanism of broadcasters like the News Broadcasters Standards Authority (NBSA), which has been functioning for a decade now. In the eventuality of the complainant remaining dissatisfied with the action taken at this level also, there will be the oversight mechanism of the central government. This will be an inter-departmental committee headed by the additional secretary in the I&B ministry with representatives from the ministries of women and child development, home, electronics and information technology, external affairs and defence, besides experts. Acknowledging the existence of an institutional mechanism by way of an inter-ministerial committee to address grievances and self-regulatory mechanisms of broadcasters/associations, the ministry said that still a need was felt to lay down a statutory mechanism for strengthening the grievance redress structure. “Some broadcasters had also requested for giving legal recognition to their associations/bodies,” the ministry said. It added that in 2000, the Supreme Court, while expressing satisfaction over the existing mechanism of grievance redress set up by the central government, had “advised to frame appropriate rules to formalise the complaint redressal mechanism”. While some channels already have their own redress mechanisms, many are also members of one of the three main self-regulatory structures that both news and non-news networks have created after resisting efforts by successive governments in the past, including the Atal Bihari Vajpayee dispensation, to install a broadcast regulatory set-up for the industry. Besides the NBSA, there is the Broadcasting Content Complaints Council for non-news channels and the National Broadcasters Federation, which is the second such collective for news channels. There was no immediate response from the broadcasters on the new rules that were announced on Thursday evening by I&B minister Prakash Javadekar via Twitter, a social media platform the government is currently at loggerheads with over compliance with the new information technology guidelines. “The @MIB_India has by amending the Cable Television Network Rules, 1994, developed a statutory mechanism to redress citizens’ grievances & complaints against programmes of TV Channels. The @MIB_India has also decided to recognise Statutory Bodies of TV channels under CTN Rules,” Javadekar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||Delhi High Court prod frees three anti-CAA protesters||Three student anti-CAA protesters whose release on bail had been stalled over technicalities were set free on Thursday evening after a court, on the prodding of Delhi High Court, said that address verification could not be a plausible reason for continued imprisonment. Jawaharlal Nehru University students Natasha Narwal, 32, and Devangana Kalita, who turns 32 on Friday, and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, 25 — in jail since April last year and booked under a host of charges, including the anti-terror law UAPA — walked free around 7.30pm. Natasha and Devangana were released from Tihar jail. Asif, who had been on interim custody bail at a south Delhi hotel, was taken back to Tihar and released with the others. He had been at the hotel for over a week after the court permitted him to write his BA Persian final semester exams. Natasha’s brother Aakash said in a statement: “I wish our father was here to share this moment with us today. We owe it to him; as Natasha, myself and all justice-loving people had a strong moral backing from him all these months.” Their father Mahavir Narwal had passed away on May 11 while Natasha was in jail. The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Friday appeals from Delhi police challenging the Delhi High Court order granting bail to the three student activists. The Supreme Court vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V. Ramasubramanian will hear the three separate appeals filed by the police who have said the high court’s findings were “perverse and contrary to record” and appeared to be based “more on the social media narrative”. The high court had said it seemed the State was blurring the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in its “anxiety to suppress dissent”. On Thursday, Delhi High Court had advised the trial court of Shahdara district additional sessions judge Ravinder Bedi to deal with the bail applications before it with “promptitude” and “expedition”. “Trial court cannot be lax about it once the order is passed by this court,” the high court added. The three students had moved the high court, which granted them bail on June 15 after the trial court had withheld their bail. The trial court, which was supposed to satisfy itself that the bail conditions were implementable, had asked the police on Wednesday to verify the bail bonds and the details of the people standing surety for the accused. The police had then told the court that they needed time till June 22 to complete the verification of the permanent addresses of the students. CPM leader Brinda Karat had told this newspaper earlier: “This is a most shameful effort by the Delhi police special cell, which comes directly under the home ministry, to sabotage and subvert the significant judgment of the high court….” Natasha is from Rohtak in Haryana, Devangana is from Dibrugarh in Assam while Asif is from Hazaribagh, Jharkhand. The police had also sought to verify their Aadhaar numbers from the Unique Identity Authority of India. The trial court had granted the police time till June 23 to verify the outstation addresses. On Thursday morning, the Delhi High Court division bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Bhambhani, while hearing the pleas of the three students against the trial court, refused to intervene but said: “The learned special court is expected to proceed with the pending issues with promptitude and expedition; and pronounce orders on the issues pending determination before it forthwith.” The high court said that its earlier directive mandated forthwith release of the accused. Minutes later, trial court judge Bedi told the defence during a hearing that she had already passed the orders at 11am. Her order asked the police to finish verifying the current Delhi addresses of the three students by 5pm on Thursday, after the defence gave an undertaking that they would not leave Delhi. The court said: “Apropos the reason forwarded by the IO (investigating officer) that verification qua accused’s permanent address would need time. I would say that this by itself cannot be a plausible reason for the accused to be kept imprisoned till the time such reports are filed.” A legal source said: “The court staff verified the bail bonds, sureties, spellings of names and so on. The release warrant was finally sent to Tihar prison after 5pm.” Another source said Karat remained in court till the evening to ensure there was no last-minute hitch. Karat has stood surety for Natasha, whose father was a CPM member. When Delhi High Court was informed that the trial court had ordered the “immediate release” of the students, it said, “That’s wonderful.” The high court bench of Justices Mridul and Bhambhani said: “Once the trial court has issued release orders to the jail superintendent, that is the end of the matter. Nothing more needs to be done. The first step we need to cross today is your release.” The high court had on June 15 granted bail to Pinjra Tod activists Natasha, Devangana and Asif, who had been arrested in connection with the alleged larger conspiracy behind the Delhi riots in February last year that followed the protests against the Centre’s new citizenship regime. Natasha and Devangana were on Thursday evening greeted by several students outside Tihar jail. The students carried placards demanding the release of all undertrials in cases related to the protests against the CAA. Charges have been framed against 15 people, including six students, in the UAPA case. Besides the trio released on Thursday, only Jamia’s Safoora Zargar is out on regular bail, granted on medical grounds of pregnancy. Asif said in a statement: “At this time, I would specifically like to appeal to the government to address the Covid condition in prison. Prisoners with shorter sentences need to be released to end overcrowding and all prisoners must immediately be vaccinated. “I want to reiterate that our fight is against the discriminatory CAA and not against people of any faith. I’m glad that the honourable court has asserted that our peaceful and democratic protests had nothing to do with the riots. I hope that this judgement will serve as an important precedent.” Devangana told reporters: “It is really important the court has come out and could say this (that organising protests is not a terrorist act) because people like us are languishing in jail just for protesting against this government or raising their voice against this government — which is the basic essence of democracy.” Natasha thanked those who had supported her in prison. On Wednesday, UN special rapporteur on human rights defenders Mary Lawlor had tweeted: “I’m hearing disturbing reports that… Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita have not been released after @DelhiPolice challenged yesterday’s Delhi High Court decision to grant them bail. I find their incarceration following #antiCAA protests in #India deeply concerning.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-50
18-06-2021||India||‘Assaulted’ Sufi Abdul Samad sticks to his version ||Sufi Abdul Samad, whose video statement is at the centre of an FIR by Uttar Pradesh police against Twitter, several journalists and Opposition politicians, has stood by his account detailing an assault on him, according to a fresh video clip recorded by reporters at his ancestral home in Bulandshahar on Wednesday night. “Those who had attacked me had forced me to chant Jai Shri Ram. They were beating me and had put a pistol on my head,” said the elderly Samad after reaching, along with his family members, Meera Mohalla of Anupshahar in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahar. The assault took place at Loni in Ghaziabad in the first week of this month. But Uttar Pradesh police claimed there was no communal element in the attack and linked it to a dispute over the alleged sale of amulets. On Wednesday night, Samad said he was never involved in exorcism or in the sale of amulets. “They offered me urine when I told them that I was thirsty.... They started cutting my beard,” said Samad, breathing heavily. He was unable to move on his own and his two sons were seen helping him walk. “I didn’t know the attackers before and none of them was a Muslim as they wouldn’t have asked me to chant Jai Shri Ram. I never did exorcism or sell amulets; I am a traditional carpenter-blacksmith,” Samad said. Umed Pahalwan, a Samajwadi Party leader, accompanied Samad and his family to the village. Bulandshahar police on Thursday registered a case against Pahalwan and two others for collecting a large number of people at the door of Samad on Wednesday night. Sections linked to the pandemic have been slapped on Pahalwan. Pahalwan has been booked for a negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life (Section 269), malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life (Section 270), disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant (Section 188). The Epidemic Disease Act was also slapped on them.  Samad said he and his family had gone to Ghaziabad to meet one of his relatives. The police said Samad had filed a police report on June 7 against two people at Loni police station, accusing them of manhandling and insulting him in Hajipur village on June 5. Four suspects have been picked up so far. However, after two videos of the incident started circulating on social media, the police booked Twitter and some journalists and politicians who tweeted the clips. Ramsen Singh, station house officer of Anupshahar, said: “Loni police are looking after the case. They are here but we don’t have to do anything with it.” Harendra Singh, additional superintendent of police of Bulandshahar, said: “We are aware of the case and helping Loni police.” The Centre is not in favour of banning any social media platform like Twitter and WhatsApp but they must follow the law of the land, Union information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad was quoted as saying on Thursday. “The government is not in favour of banning any social media platform. If half of the government is on Twitter, including the Prime Minister and President, it shows how fair the government is, but social media intermediaries, a status that Twitter has lost, have to follow local rules,” the minister told ANI. Cyber law analysts have said Twitter has not lost the intermediary tag but the protection under Section 79 the IT Act because of non-compliance with the new rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Covid: Study detects nearly similar widespread infections in children and adults ||A four-city study during the second Covid-19 wave in India has detected nearly similar widespread infections in children and in adults and suggested that any future surges caused by the current coronavirus variants are unlikely to disproportionately impact children. The study has found 56 per cent of children between two and 17 years and 64 per cent of adults sampled from 2,000 randomly selected urban and rural households in Agartala, Bhubaneswar, Delhi and Gorakhpur showing antibodies against the coronavirus. The findings from antibody surveys between April and June have also indicated that seropositivity levels — a sign of previous infection — have increased over six-fold to 60 per cent in children between 10 and 17 years, compared with nine per cent during August-September last year. Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who led the study, said the “high and comparable” infection rates in children and adults make it “unlikely that any third wave by the prevailing variants would disproportionately affect children”. The findings come at a time health officials and medical experts have been trying to douse speculative notions among sections of the public that a possible third Covid-19 wave might hit children harder as adult infections dominated the first and second waves. The comparable and high infection prevalence rates in children and adults are not surprising given independent studies indicated that the second wave was driven by a variant much more transmissible than variants during the first wave, experts said. The seropositivity levels detected in the four-city survey, one expert said, suggest that the population may be approaching the herd immunity threshold, a point at which the virus has already infected so many people that it finds it hard to continue to spread fast in those populations. “If we also see similar seropositivity levels across the country, a third wave is extremely unlikely with the current variants,” said T. Jacob John, a former professor of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “We’ll know how close we are to that threshold after a fresh nationwide survey.” The Indian Council of Medical Research is conducting an antibody survey at the same 70 sites across the country where it had measured seropositivity levels earlier in April-May 2020, September-August 2020 and January 2020. The findings of the third sero-survey released in January 2020 had indicated that 21.6 per cent of the population had antibodies against the virus. Health researchers involved in the current survey expect to find the proportion of population infected much higher now. “Anecdotal accounts suggest that the within-household spread of the coronavirus during the second wave was very high, in some cases near 100 per cent, much higher than during the first wave,” John said. “This would explain the comparable and high prevalence rates we see among children.” Paediatricians have said they have observed no differences in patterns of Covid-19 infections among children between the first and second waves. The vast majority of children have shown no symptoms and only a small proportion of them required hospital care.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Complaint against Twitter India chief, Swara Bhasker and others||A complaint has been lodged in Delhi against Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari, actress Swara Bhasker and others in connection with a social media video on the assault of an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad on June 5. “We have received a complaint against Swara Bhasker, Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari and others at Tilak Marg police station. The matter is under inquiry,” a police officer said. Sources said the complainant, advocate Amit Acharya, had urged the police to register an FIR against Maheshwari, Bhasker and the others under Sections 153 (provocation to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between religious groups), 295A (acts intended to insult religious beliefs), 505 (mischief) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. On Thursday evening, Bhasker retweeted some message in her support. In his complaint, the police said, Acharya has alleged that Bhasker had tweeted the video on social media without verifying its authenticity and Maheshwari did not remove the “false” tweet or tag it as “manipulated media”. On Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh police had registered an FIR against Twitter, several journalists and Congress leaders for posting on Twitter the video in which the elderly Muslim man alleged that four people had assaulted him, chopped off his beard and forced him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in the Loni area of Ghaziabad. Ghaziabad police have in their FIR accused the journalists and the Congress leaders of tweeting the video without verifying facts and “giving a communal colour” to the incident. If the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh pursues the FIR with vigour, it is expected to become a test case, especially since there is no official word yet that Twitter has lost its protective cover under the revised IT rules from pesky lawsuits after its failure to comply with the new guidelines. The clip showed the elderly man, identified as Abdul Samad, alleging that the attackers had offered him an auto ride, taken him to an isolated place, thrashed him and forced him to chant Jai Shri Ram. The police have denied any communal element. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Thursday on the Twitter controversy: “Very unfortunate. This is very unfortunate. They cannot control Twitter. That’s why they want to bulldoze Twitter. They cannot control me, so they want to bulldoze my government. They want to bulldoze my party. They cannot control some journalists, so they want to kill them. So that is their phenomenon.” “One day, there will be an end. There will be an end of everything. I condemn this,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Interim relief for Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana||Kerala High Court on Thursday granted a week’s interim anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who is facing a sedition case for referring to a “bioweapon” while speaking about the Covid outbreak in the archipelago. Justice Ashok Menon ordered her to appear before Kavaratti police for interrogation on Sunday but granted protection from being taken into custody. “The court ordered that she should be released on bail against two sureties of Rs 50,000 each in the event of an arrest. She has been ordered to cooperate with the investigation and subject herself to interrogation,” senior lawyer P. Vijayabhanu, who appeared for Aisha, told The Telegraph. The court reserved its order on the anticipatory bail plea of the filmmaker, who was booked under IPC Section 124A (sedition) and 153B (assertions against national integration). Participating in a TV debate, Aisha had said a “bioweapon” had been unleashed on the islanders, referring to the Covid outbreak in Lakshadweep after restrictions were eased by administrator Praful Khoda Patel. The complainant, Lakshadweep BJP president C. Abdul Khader Haji, has claimed that Aisha had referred to the central government while mentioning the “bioweapon”. Aisha has said she had meant Patel and his decision to lift the standard operating procedures that had helped Lakshadweep keep the coronavirus at bay for a year. In his arguments in court, Vijayabhanu pointed out that the “bioweapon” remark had been “made in the heat of the moment”. “I had argued that it was much ado about nothing and the comment was made in the heat of the moment since she was not aware of the implications. She had also apologised for the remark,” Vijayabhanu said. Senior counsel S. Manu, the standing counsel of Lakshadweep, had opposed the anticipatory bail plea on the ground that the remarks could create disaffection among the islanders against the central government. But Vijayabhanu pointed out that there was no incitement to violence, and referred to Supreme Court cases including the quashing of sedition charges against senior journalist Vinod Dua.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||CBSE: Stakeholders query weightage to Class X, XI scores||Several students, parents and educationists on Thursday criticised the formula announced by the Central Board of Secondary Education for awarding marks to its outgoing Class XII students, especially the weightage given to their Class X and XI scores. The critics said there was no correlation between the subjects taught in Classes XII and X, making such weightage irrelevant, and that students generally did not take the Class XI exam seriously and underperformed in it. The Supreme Court is expected to take a final decision on the formula on Monday. C.B. Sharma, former chairman of the National Institute of Open Schooling, a national board for non-formal students, underlined that the Class X syllabus contained a “generic” paper like “science” while the Class XII curriculum had separate physics, chemistry and biology papers. Under the CBSE formula, 30 per cent weightage will accrue (in the theory component) to the average score from the student’s best three performing subjects out of the main five subjects in the Class X board exams. “In Class X, students have the option of taking two language papers and a few other subjects. If a student did well in the language papers and another humanities subject and then chose the science stream in Class XII, their aptitude in the (Class XII) science subjects will be judged partly by their performance in humanities subjects,” Sharma said. He said commerce students would suffer the worst. “Commerce students study subjects like accountancy and business studies, but the Class X syllabus offers no such subject. So commerce students’ Class X scores have little relevance to their Class XII performance,” Sharma said. He also criticised the 30 per cent weightage given to the students’ scores from their Class XI annual exam, saying the students don’t normally take that exam seriously. “As a long-term policy measure, this would have been good because it would have forced the students to study seriously in every class,” Sharma said. “But you can’t catch them unawares (by suddenly) enforcing this policy with retrospective effect.” Shreya Sasmal, a Class XII student from Delhi Public School, Udhampur (Jammu), said the credibility of any assessment without a board exam being held would remain questionable. “I would have been happier had the exams not been cancelled. The Class XII certificate carries a lot of importance throughout a student’s career. Now they have worked out a formula, but the credibility of the certificate may be affected,” she said. Sasmal, a science student, is preparing for a career in medicine, where an all-India entrance test is the norm. But for many of her peers who will seek admission to general science, arts or commerce courses, the Class XII marks will be key. Janvi Raj, who studies at a CBSE school in Sharjah, was unhappy with the weightage given to the Class XI exam. She said students tend to take it easy in Class XI, which falls between the two “stressful” years of preparing for the Class X and XII board exams. “Therefore, it’s natural that the Class XI results don’t reflect the full capability of an average student. Class XII is quite different, so it’s obvious that students would score better in Class XII,” Janvi said. “My suggestion is that the Class XI marks be kept out of the assessment.” Alpana Mishra, a parent and a biology teacher from Vadodara, said that giving weightage to the Class X boards was unfair because the students’ attitudes and performance change in the subsequent two years. “Some students transform into mature and focused pupils while some get distracted. Some students do better in Class XII when they can study subjects of their choice. On the other hand, many students take Class XI as a fun year,” Mishra said. Some principals and students, however, supported the formula. “The CBSE took the past three years’ performance into consideration (as a tool for moderation) to ensure there was no spiking of marks by schools,” Priyadarshi Nayak, principal of Doon Public School in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, said. “I have a sense that giving weightage to the Class X marks will not make much of a difference. However, a section of students and teachers will have concerns about any formula.” Shakti Sharma, a Class XII student from Jaipuriar School, Mumbai, said the formula rewarded “academic consistency”. But he found the idea of using a reference year to check artificial inflation of marks an “arbitrary” practice. Under the formula, the year out of the previous three in which a school’s students did the best in the Class XII boards is to be taken as the reference, and the marks for 2020-21 are not to diverge beyond a prescribed range from that year’s. “Students’ scores being limited by the past performance of the school will have undesirable consequences,” Sharma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Flood situation grim in Bihar as rain continues||The flood situation in northwestern parts of Bihar remained grim on Thursday as rains continued in the area and neighbouring Nepal, but a ray of hope came out of the clouds as the discharge into the Gandak river from Valmikinagar barrage located on the Indo-Nepal border dipped. “We are hoping the situation in West Champaran, East Champaran and Gopalganj districts to improve because the discharge from Valmikinagar barrage has come down to 2.6 lakh cusec. “A day ago it had touched 4.12 lakh cusec but is now showing a declining trend. The level of the river will go down now,” disaster management department officer on special duty (OSD) Avinash Kumar told The Telegraph. One cusec or ‘cubic feet per second’ is equivalent to 28.32 litres of water passing any particular point per second. The OSD asserted that the flood situation was under control as the spread of water from the spilling of Gandak, its tributaries, other small rivers and rivulets was limited to low-lying areas, agricultural fields and villages located in the space between rivers and embankments along them. “National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed in West Champaran, Gopalganj and East Champaran districts. Two NDRF teams are positioned in West Champaran and one each in Gopalganj and East Champaran districts,” Kumar added. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall in different parts of Bihar and Nepal also posed a threat to northern and northeastern parts of the state. Over 1 lakh cusec water was being discharged from the Birpur barrage on the Indo-Nepal border into the Kosi river, which is called ‘the sorrow of Bihar’ due to its disastrous floods. A sustained release of high volume of water into the river could bring floods in several districts of north Bihar. The Budhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Bhuthi Balan and other rivers are also brimming with water and further heavy rains could lead to extensive floods in the state. Meanwhile, apart from the Gandak, smaller rivers and rivulets entering Bihar from Nepal also spilled over at many places to submerge villages and agriculture fields in West Champaran and East Champaran districts. The high level of water in Gandak moved towards Gopalganj and Saran districts. Several villages in the low-lying areas in the two districts are facing floods and erosion. The Central Water Commission (CWC) maintained the forecast of severe flood condition in Gopalganj, East Champaran and Saran districts over the next few days. Its director Sharad Chandra asserted that the flood situation in Gandak and Budhi Gandak rivers was mainly due to extreme rainfall in the catchment areas in Nepal. It is expected to abate slowly. People in flooded villages and Bagaha town in West Champaran have started shifting to safer areas. The district administration has also launched evacuation, but on a very small sale. Flood protection work is also going on to ensure that no embankment breaches under the pressure of floodwaters. The Bihar government has banned the use, production and trade of single-use plastic and thermocol in the state. A decision in this regard was taken by a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar. The government will issue detailed notification later. The state has already banned polythene bags.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Rajnath opens 10 ‘strategic’ roads in Arunachal Pradesh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday inaugurated 12 roads, of which 10 are in frontier Arunachal Pradesh, that have “strategic and socio-economic” importance, two days after the first anniversary of the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in eastern Ladakh. The remaining two roads are in Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir, which like Arunachal Pradesh share border with China that has been engaged in long-drawn territorial disputes with India. China considers Arunachal Pradesh to be an extension of south Tibet. Addressing the inaugural programme at Kimin in Papum Pare district, Rajnath said the strategic roads built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) would be helpful in fulfilling the “needs of our armed forces and transporting necessities like medicines and ration to remote areas”, adding that these projects were part of the Centre’s “Act East Policy” under which special emphasis is being laid on the overall development of the border areas. Rajnath paid tribute to the soldiers who showed exemplary courage during the Galwan Valley clash and made the “supreme sacrifice in the service of the nation” but also warned of befitting reply in response to aggression. “We want peace but will give a befitting reply to aggression. There has been no aggression from our side. Aggression against anyone has never been our objective. But if somebody shows aggression, we will give a befitting reply,” the defence minister said without naming any country. Rajnath described India as a “priest” of world peace but added that any serious disturbance to tranquillity in the border areas would have adverse implications. Amid ongoing efforts with China for the disengagement of troops in the Ladakh sector, India has been trying to spruce up its infrastructure along the border for better movement of troops and weapons during exigencies. Last October, Rajnath had inaugurated 44 bridges along the border in Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, with China responding by asserting it does not recognise Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh as part of India. The roads inaugurated on Thursday have been constructed under the Arunank, Vartak, Brahmank, Udayak, Himank and Sampark projects of the BRO, which has been lauded for its efforts to build infrastructure on very challenging terrain. The roads, Rajnath said, hold strategic and socio-economic importance, as they will play an important role in strengthening national security as well as promoting development of the Northeast. The inauguration of the 20km Kimin-Potin Road, about 60km from Arunachal capital Itanagar, was also attended by Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu, Union minister of state for youth affairs and sports Kiren Rijiju, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and DG Border Roads Lt Gen. Rajeev Chaudhry. Junior Northeast development minister Dr Jitendra Singh joined the programme virtually. Rajnath reiterated the resolve of the Narendra Modi government for the development of the Northeast, describing the region as the gateway to not only the overall development of the country but also to the nation’s relations with East Asian countries. The defence minister also touched upon some of the major reforms undertaken by the Centre, including appointment of the chief of defence staff, measures to boost self-reliance in defence manufacturing and the corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board. “These reforms are proving to be a game changer in the military’s preparedness in the rapidly changing times.… We are actively working towards making India a defence manufacturing hub. Self-reliance in defence production will reduce our dependence on imports, increase exports and strengthen our economy,” Rajnath said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Fresh poll bribery FIR on Kerala BJP chief K Surendran ||Kerala BJP president K. Surendran was named as the first accused in a poll bribery case registered by Sultan Bathery police station in Wayanad district on Thursday. Former state president of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party, C.K. Janu, is the second accused in the FIR registered under IPC Sections 171e (punishment for bribery) and 171f (punishment for undue influence in an election). The FIR came a day after a court in Wayanad ordered the police to register a case over the allegation that Surendran had bribed Janu who later returned to the NDA. The order was passed on a plea filed by P.K. Navas, state president of the Muslim Students’ Federation, the student arm of the Indian Union Muslim League. Janu was the losing NDA candidate from Sultan Bathery in the recent state polls. The case was booked in connection with a purported telephone conversation between JRP treasurer Praseetha Azhikode and Surendran in which the state BJP chief was heard confirming the deal to pay Rs 10 lakh to Janu to return to the NDA with her party. She had apparently asked for Rs 10 crore but settled for Rs 10 lakh. Surendran was recently named in a similar case registered in Kasaragod for allegedly bribing K. Sundara, the Bahujan Samaj Party candidate from Manjeshwar, to withdraw his nomination papers and work for him. The FIR was registered after losing CPM candidate V.V. Rameshan secured a court sanction. Surendran was booked under IPC Sections 171b (bribery related to election) and 171e (punishment for bribery). Sundara, who was later sacked by the BSP, had alleged that he was forced to pull out of the race by Surendran in exchange for Rs 2.5 lakh, a mobile phone and a wine shop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
18-06-2021||India||Bar Council of India to make surprise visits to law colleges||The Bar Council of India has announced that it will undertake surprise visits to law colleges and other centres of legal education in view of complaints of deteriorating standards of education as institutions “mushroom”. The BCI, which regulates legal education and the conduct of lawyers, said the inspections would begin after the pandemic situation stabilises. It has requested the state governments “to be very diligent before granting no-objection certificates” and take into consideration the population ratio and the need for a centre for legal education at a particular place. In a statement issued through BCI secretary Srimanto Sen, the regulator also requested the universities to carry out inspections and meticulous scrutiny of the proposed institutions before granting affiliation, warning that it would seriously consider derecognising degrees if due diligence was not followed. “The Bar Council of India is not going to compromise with the standard of legal education and the universities are advised to affiliate law colleges only with better infrastructure to compete with international standards. Mushrooming of law colleges has to be stopped at any costs,” the statement said. According to the BCI, new law teachers would be required to undertake proper training before being allowed to teach. The council has requested the state governments and state-owned universities to fill up all vacant teachers’ posts within three months. In 80 per cent of government institutions, more than 50 per cent teaching seats are vacant. The state governments are not showing any interest in filling up the vacancies, which is a matter of serious concern, the BCI said. The council recalled that a three-year moratorium had been imposed on opening law colleges and other centres of legal education through a resolution dated August 11, 2019. The BCI had imposed the moratorium to curtail the mushrooming of law colleges and improve the standards of legal education. There had been numerous requests to lift the moratorium, but the BCI had not agreed. However, on December 4, 2020, Punjab and Haryana High Court set aside the moratorium as being violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution (fundamental right to carry out any profession). The BCI noted that state governments often issue no-objection certificates in a casual manner without considering the demands of a particular area or population. Quite often, the universities grant affiliation to law colleges recklessly without undertaking careful inspection, the BCI said. It noted that the regulatory body is handicapped by the fact that it comes into the picture only in the third stage of opening a law college. The state government concerned issues the first NOC, followed by the university from which the college seeks affiliation. Affiliation is to be granted after a full-fledged inspection by the university, during which it is expected to examine the infrastructure and the quality of the faculty. In the third stage, the BCI considers whether to grant or decline approval of the affiliation already granted by the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-51
