20-06-2021||India||PM Modi to address Yoga Day programme on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday morning address a programme to mark International Yoga Day whose theme this year is ‘Yoga For Wellness’. “Tomorrow, June 21, we will mark the seventh Yoga Day. The theme this year is ‘Yoga For Wellness’, which focuses on practising Yoga for physical and mental wellbeing,” Modi tweeted. “Tomorrow, June 21, we will mark the seventh Yoga Day. The theme this year is ‘Yoga For Wellness’, which focuses on practising Yoga for physical and mental wellbeing,” Modi tweeted. “Around 6:30 am tomorrow, will be addressing the Yoga Day programme,” he said. The Ayush Ministry, which is the nodal ministry for International Day of Yoga (IDY), in a statement has said that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent restrictions on congregational activities, the lead event of the day will be a televised programme with Prime Minister Modi's address being the highlight. Scheduled to start at 6.30 am on all Doordarshan channels on Monday, the event will also include an address by Minister of State for Ayush Kiren Rijiju and a live yoga demonstration by the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, the Ministry said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
20-06-2021||India||Sudheendra Kulkarni's wish for Rahul stirs undeclared anguish ||Sudheendra Kulkarni, who had worked closely with Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani, on Saturday wished Rahul Gandhi through a tweet: “Dear HOPE, happy birthday.” Kulkarni attached to the tweet a picture of Rahul speaking to some people sitting on a pavement. While such a gesture from an intellectual so deeply entrenched in BJP politics not long ago delighted Congress workers, a senior leader of the Opposition party told The Telegraph during an informal conversation: “The tweet could have been worded differently — Dear HOPE, don’t cause so much despair.” This leader, not a dissident by any standard and who has worked closely with the Nehru-Gandhi family, added: “There is no doubt that the leadership crisis in the Congress has caused much despair in the Opposition and the country, and Rahul cannot escape the responsibility. He turned 51 today and we all expect him to be more responsible and demonstrate greater resilience.” The refrain among the majority of Congress workers is that Rahul is the only “hope” and they are desperately awaiting his return to the helm of the party. But there is no denying that another category of leaders within the Congress — albeit a small section — believes that Rahul is incapable of leadership and has already missed the bus. They point to his rigidity in walking away from the party’s leadership and wasting precious time that could have been used to rebuild the organisation and wonder what he was waiting for if he intended to return. But an organised resistance to Rahul’s return seems impossible at this stage as no other Congress leader has nationwide acceptability and stronger credentials to confront Narendra Modi. The real problem is the uncertainty about Rahul’s own plans as there is complete agreement among Congress leaders and workers that wasting even another month will be unpardonable. A Congress general secretary told this newspaper: “While there may be uncertainty about the timing, there is no doubt that he is the only leader and he will have to return. The last time we met him, he had said he was ready to do whatever the party decided. Our impression is that he will become the party president soon. There is no other way to revive the party and strengthen the Opposition.” Who wished Rahul on his birthday and who didn’t also became a topic of discussion. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi usually greets him, no such gesture was extended this time on social media with their relations appearing to have further strained in the aftermath of Rahul’s incessant attacks on him over China, the pandemic and other issues. What triggered gossip in political circles was Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari — both from the BJP — greeting Rahul. Among the key Opposition leaders, Sharad Pawar, M.K. Stalin, Tejashwi Yadav, H.D. Deve Gowda, Arvind Kejriwal and Omar Abdullah wished Rahul on Twitter, while Mamata Banerjee, Akhilesh Yadav and Uddhav Thackeray did not do so in public. Some leaders, however, may have wished him personally. Stalin put out an emotional tweet, saying: “Wishing my beloved brother Rahul Gandhi on his birthday and I join others in praising his selfless, untiring work to establish an egalitarian India in every aspect. His commitment to the ethos of Congress party has been exemplary.” Many leaders referred to Rahul’s humane qualities. Former Prime Minister Deve Gowda tweeted: “Rahul Gandhi has always come across as a fine person, deeply committed to a humane and inclusive society. It is his birthday today. I wish him well and sincerely pray that his view of the world and his compassion defeats the narrowness that surrounds us.” Actress Swara Bhasker said: “Happy birthday to present day India’s most gracious and decent politician. Rahul Gandhi, more power to you. May you always have the strength to fight for India’s constitutional principles… and rise above the vitriol.” Filmmaker Anubhav Sinha tweeted: “Happy Birthday Mr @RahulGandhi. Stay strong like you have been.” Rahul had already announced that he would not celebrate his birthday because of the miseries caused to the nation by the pandemic. The Congress observed the day as “Sewa Diwas”, distributing food, dry rations, medicines and masks among people. The Youth Congress and the NSUI organised free vaccination camps in several states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
