21-06-2021||India||Vaccines losing effect on new variants of Covid-19: WHO official  ||According to a World Health Organization (WHO) epidemiologist, Covid-19 vaccines are showing reduced signs of efficacy against the Delta variant of coronavirus. The vaccines are, however, still found to be effective at preventing severe illness and death. As per a Hindustan Times report, in future, there might be a "constellation of mutations" which means vaccines are likely to lose their potency against fighting the coronavirus, the WHO official added. “Vaccines are a critical tool in the battle against Covid-19, and there are clear public health and lifesaving benefits to using the tools we already have. We must not put off getting vaccinated because of our concerns about new variants, and we must proceed with vaccination even if the vaccines may be somewhat less effective against some of the Covid-19 virus variants. We need to use the tools we have in hand even while we continue to improve those tools. We are all safe only if everyone is safe,” WHO said in a statement recently. The Delta plus variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant. First detected in India, the Delta variant  – which now accounts for more than 90% of new Covid cases in the UK – has raised concerns as it appears to be somewhat more resistant to vaccines than the Alpha variant that was first detected in Kent and previously dominated in the UK. It is also considered one of the drivers of the second wave in India. The highly transmissible variant of the virus is listed as the fourth variant of concern by the WHO. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday warned of a "rough winter" ahead even though things may be "looking good" for July 19 to be the so-called "terminus point" marking an end to all lockdown restrictions in the country. His warning came as the UK registered a further 9,284 daily Covid-19 infections on Sunday, a day before the government had planned to ease all lockdown measures until the Delta variant forced a month-long delay into July. "You can never exclude that there will be some new disease, some new horror that we simply haven't budgeted for or accounted for," said Johnson, when asked about further lockdowns in future. "But looking at where we are, at the efficacy of the vaccines against all variants that we can currently see, I think it's looking good for 19 July to be that terminus point," he told reporters. He indicated that the cases of the Delta variant are rising at a rate of about 30 per cent a week, with hospitalisations and intensive care admissions "roughly the same". "I think what the scientists are saying is that things like flu will come back this winter, we may have a rough winter for all sorts of reasons, and obviously there are big pressures on the NHS. All the more reason to reduce the number of Covid cases now, give the NHS the breathing space it needs to get on with dealing with all those other pressures, and we are certainly going to be putting in the investment to make sure that they can, he added. The Russian authorities have also blamed the ongoing surge in cases, which has seen more than 17,000 new Covid-19 cases reported for a fourth day running, on the new Delta variant, while conceding that a nationwide ad campaign meant to encourage people to get vaccinated had fallen short. President Vladimir Putin warned on Monday that the coronavirus situation in some Russian regions was getting worse. Additionally, the Portuguese authorities have confirmed suspicions that the new delta variant of the coronavirus is driving a spike in new cases in the Lisbon region. Portugal's National Health Institute said Sunday the highly infectious variant that was first found in India has a prevalence of 60% of new cases in the nation's capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Amarnath Yatra cancelled, will be kept symbolic||In the wake of the Covid pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has decided that the annual Amarnath Yatra will be kept symbolic, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on Monday. The 56-day yatra to the 3,880-metre-high Himalayan cave shrine was proposed to start from the twin routes of Pahalgam and Baltal on June 28 and culminate on August 22. The pilgrimage was cancelled last year too due to the pandemic. Sinha also directed officials to ensure devotees can virtually attend the morning and evening 'aartis' (prayers) at the shrine. This will allow them to pay their obeisance while also avoiding travel and exposure to the infection, the lieutenant governor (L-G) said. He said that at the shrine, all traditional and religious rituals shall be performed according to past practice. "It's important to save people's lives. So, it is not advisable to hold and conduct this year's pilgrimage in the larger public interest. Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) is aware of and respects the sentiments of millions of devotees, and to keep the sentiments alive, the board shall continue the live telecast of morning and evening 'aarti' from the holy cave shrine," Sinha, who is also the board's chairman,said. The decision to keep the pilgrimage symbolic was taken after discussions with members of the SASB, an official spokesman said. Following the meeting with the board's members, the L-G also held deliberations with Chief Secretary Arun Kumar Mehta, DGP Dilbag Singh, Principal Secretary Home Shaleen Kabra, and Principal Secretary to the Lt Governor Nitishwar Kumar, who is also the CEO of the Shrine Board, he said. Those in the meeting were informed that the SASB has made arrangements so that devotees can watch the morning and evening prayers on virtual platforms and television, the spokesman said. The L-G stressed upon the need to follow Covid protocol on significant and pious days like 'pratham pooja' and 'samapan pooja'. He further stressed that seers visiting the shrine cave to perform 'aartis' according to rituals must follow Covid appropriate behaviour. The SASB CEO said the shrine board has made the arrangements for the mace of Lord Shiva Chhari Mubarak' to be taken to the holy cave on August 22, when the yatra is to conclude coinciding with the festival of Raksha Bandhan. "The Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board has been assessing the Covid situation in the Union Territory and the country. Our focus is on containing the pandemic and strengthening health infrastructure," he observed. The CEO Kumar said that both morning telecast of 'aarti' at 6 am and evening aarti' at 5 pm, each for 30 minutes, is to be live-streamed on the board's official website and an app specifically dedicated for devotees. The devotees can pay their virtual obeisance online through the Shrine Board's aarti' link.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Shakti Singh Extols Students’ Contribution To Promote Vaccination Prog During Apna Nawada’s Virtual Seminar||The world is dealing with a crisis named COVID-19 since 2020 and thousands of lives have already been lost at its altar. Naturally, society is doing everything possible to create awareness against this virus and its spread. One such effort was recently organized by Apna Nawada in which Shakti Singh, prominent students' activist and former President of Delhi University Students Union, also addressed the participants through a virtual seminar. The topic of the seminar was “Role of Students in Covid Period.” Addressing the virtual seminar, Shakti Singh drove home the relevance of standard operating protocols against Coronavirus and how students can play a significant role in culling misleading information being spread by vested interests. He said, “When India became one of the first countries in the world to manufacture a vaccine for Coronavirus, it was a proud moment for every Indian. We must thank our great scientists and researchers who gave this great gift to not just 135 crore countrymen but also to the world.” He said that India had managed to stop the virus well in its tracks due to the brilliant management of the crisis under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his team of ministers and bureaucrats as well as the frontline workers including doctors, healthcare workers, policemen and safari karamcharis. He said it was a commendable thing that even as developed nations like the US were seen struggling with this disease, despite having one of the best health infrastructures in the world, India stopped this threat from reaching the financially weaker sections of the society. He added, “If the economically weaker sections had become affected by this virus, it would have meant disaster for the poor families with no resources at all.” Shakti Singh extolled the students to engage themselves in awareness activities and events regarding vaccination campaign throughout Uttar Pradesh. He was of the opinion that in a country like India, with such diversified communities and geographical limitations, a large part of the population still lived in villages, where the misinformation campaign against the vaccine could spread like wildfire. The BJP leader asked the students to visit rural areas in large groups and motivate people to go for vaccination. Shakti Singh said if students stand behind the government’s vaccination campaign, they could make it an enormous success and help the country in its fight against the pandemic. The organiser of the event Apna Nawada is a digital media portal and advocacy group based in Bihar. It was founded by Suman Shekhar, a journalism graduate from Delhi University in 2014. Apna Nawada mainly works on publishing authentic news and information pertaining to Nawada and surrounding districts of Bihar, India. It also works with civil society groups, public representatives and district administration in dissemination and verification of information. Apna Nawada is actively indulged in creating awareness against the COVID crisis through propagating expert information into the public. Apna Nawada : (apnanawada.in)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||SIDDHAGURU – Understanding an accomplished enlightened Guru||Who is a Siddhaguru? The word “Siddhaguru” that is prefixed before the name of a spiritual teacher signifies his uninterrupted connection with the Self. A spiritual master who attained completeness is a Siddhaguru. His mind is entirely accommodated to the words of the “Thy” and “Thyself”, are destroyed in him. How old is this lineage? Siddhaguru follows the concept of “Lord is one”. They do not stand by one religion word. Defacto, their actions remain devoid of religion. The primary guru of this lineage is Lord Shiva-The Brahman, and the lineage continues to this day with numerous incarnations of Paramagurus and Immediate Gurus. Why do I need a guru on the path of attaining self? A journey of attaining true self cannot be complete without Guru’s helping hand. Without it, it's like putting your efforts in traveling in a fuel-free vehicle. How can I identify a Siddhaguru (or a genuine guru)? It is simple. Like a Jasmine spreads its fragrance to those who come to its arena. A Siddhaguru with his aura draw attention of many people towards him. Your mind becomes still in his proximity. He always speaks about enlightenment experience. He celebrates the day of his Self-realization. What do a Siddhaguru do to his Disciple? A Siddha guru can make his disciple like him. He transmits spiritual energy in his disciple through Shaktipat and awakens Kundalini (Cosmic Energy) in him. His Crown Chakra stays open because of which energy flows continuously in his body What does a Siddhaguru expect from his disciples? Guru Bhakti, being considered as “The Yoga of love”, is a practice of submitting yourself to a Siddhaguru and being loyal to him for attaining the state of completeness. It is not taught or learned indeed. Guru Bhakti gives patience in a disciple and enhances fidelity towards a guru.   How does a Siddhaguru direct his disciples? A Siddhaguru guide as per the seeker’s mindset. His aura always works to take away the deep karmic impressions of the seeker and contributes to the spiritual elevation of the seeker according to his/her receptivity and admissibility. What qualities a disciple should possess to get qualified for attaining Self-realization? Passion to attain God or Guru. It is the only quality which makes you qualified for attaining enlightenment. Your passion should be like a man drowned in the water trying to get out of that wood, like an infant crying for her mother’s affection. How strong is the Guru-Disciple relation? This is dependent upon the disciple's unconditional love and loyalty to his Guru. The more love, the more graciousness. What is Shaktipat? Why a Siddhaguru Perform Shaktipat? Shaktipat is a transfer of spiritual energy by a Siddhaguru to his/ her disciple for dissolving the accumulated impressions from many incarnations and take him/her into higher realms of consciousness. It brings about a dimensional change by burning the useless scrap metal in its astral body and makes it ready to reach completeness. Guru or the Lord. Whom to Choose? Both are important in one’s life. A guru makes you experience God, who in turn makes it an unbroken experience. This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to have panel comprising Duflo, Raghuram Rajan for economic rebound||An Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister would be constituted with leading experts including Nobel laureate Prof Esther Duflo, Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit said here on Monday in his customary address to the Assembly. The Council is to prepare a roadmap for "rapid" and inclusive economic growth of the state, Purohit said in his first address to the House, which also marks the commencement of the first session after the formation of the DMK government last month. "In recent years, we have seen a slowdown in Tamil Nadu's economic growth rate. This government will make all out efforts to reverse this trend and usher in a period of rapid economic growth...," he said and announced that the panel would be set up. Besides Duflo of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology-USA, former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan, former chief economic advisor to the union government, Arvind Subramanian, development economist Prof Jean Dreze and former union finance secretary S Narayan would be part of the Economic Advisory Council, he said. Based on the council's recommendations the government would take steps to revitalise economy and see that the benefits of growth reached all segments of society, he said. The fiscal health of the state is a cause for concern and the government would focus on improving it and bringing down debt burden and a white paper on Tamil Nadu's finances would be released in July. There could be no social justice when there is high economic inequality and stratification. Inclusive growth is government's priority and growth and progress must benefit all sections of society and not just the top of the economic pyramid, the Governor noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||More than 80 lakh people vaccinated in a day as new rule kicks in||More than 80 lakh vaccine doses, the highest in a single day, were administered across the country on Monday as the revised guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination came into effect, the Union Health Ministry said. India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has reached 28.33 crore since January 16, it said. "Today's record-breaking vaccination numbers are gladdening. The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight Covid-19. Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all the front-line warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. The previous single-day record was of over 48 lakh on April 1. In June so far, India saw an average vaccination of around 31 lakh per day. The average single-day vaccinations fell to as low as around 16 lakh in the first week of May when the country was at the peak of the second wave. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Modi said that central government is beginning the 'Free Vaccination For All campaign' for every Indian from today. "The biggest beneficiary of this phase of India's vaccination drive shall be the poor, the middle class and the youth of the country. All of us should pledge to get ourselves vaccinated. Together we will defeat Covid-19," he said. According to the revised guidelines, vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to states and UTs based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination, and all above the age of 18 will be eligible for the free jabs. Any wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively, they said. The Centre will now procure 75 percent of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country. It had earlier allowed states and private hospitals to procure 50 percent of the vaccines following demands for decentralisation of the process. However, after several states complained of problems including of funding, Prime Minister Modi announced the revision of the vaccine guidelines on June 8. In order to incentivise production by vaccine manufacturers and encourage new vaccines, domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to also provide vaccines directly to private hospitals. This would be restricted to 25 percent of their monthly production, the new guidelines stated. Within the population group of citizens more than 18 years of age, states and UTs may decide their own prioritisation factoring in the vaccine supply schedule, the revised guidelines issued by the health ministry stated. The states and UTs would aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution between large and small private hospitals and regional balance, they said. "Based on this aggregated demand, the Government of India will facilitate the supply of these vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority's electronic platform. This would enable the smaller and remoter private hospitals to obtain a timely supply of vaccines, and further equitable access and regional balance," the ministry said. The price of vaccine doses for private hospitals would be declared by each vaccine manufacturer, and any subsequent changes would be notified in advance. The private hospitals may charge up to a maximum of Rs150 per dose as service charges. State Governments may monitor the price being so charged, the guidelines said. All citizens irrespective of their income status are entitled to free vaccination. Those who have the ability to pay are encouraged to use private hospital's vaccination centres, the guidelines said. "To promote the spirit of 'Lok Kalyan' (public good), use of non-transferable Electronic Vouchers, which can be redeemed at private vaccination centers, will be encouraged. "This would enable people to financially support vaccination of Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) at private vaccination centres," the revised guidelines said. The COVID vaccination in the country commenced with the vaccination for all healthcare workers from January 16. The programme was expanded with time to include vaccination of frontline workers, citizens more than 60 years of age, citizens more than 45 years of age and eventually citizens more than 18 years of age. Under the National COVID Vaccination Program, from January 16 to April 30, 100 percent of vaccine doses were procured by the Government of India and provided free of cost to state governments. State Governments were, in turn, asked to administer vaccination free of cost to defined priority groups. To increase the pace of vaccination, participation of private hospitals was also enlisted where individuals could also choose to get vaccinated at a prescribed rate, the ministry said. In response to the suggestions of many state governments to be permitted the flexibility to procure vaccine directly and administer them as per their own prioritisation based on local requirements. From May 1, the Centre was procuring 50 percent of the vaccine produced and was continuing to provide them to states free of cost for administering to priority groups. The state government and private hospitals were now also empowered to directly procure from the remaining 50 percent vaccine pool. "Many states have, however, had communicated that they are facing difficulties in managing the funding, procurement and logistics of vaccines, impacting the pace of the National COVID Vaccination Program. "Also it was noted that smaller and remoter private hospitals were also facing constraints. "Keeping in view these aspects and the repeated requests received from states, the Guidelines for National COVID Vaccination Program were reviewed and revised and new guidelines were issued on June 8," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi convenes party meet on June 24 ||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has convened a meeting of the party's general secretaries and state in-charges on June 24 to chalk out a strategy to plan protests against the government on issues such as the hike in petrol and diesel prices. In the meeting, which will be held virtually, party leaders will also discuss the current Covid and political situations. They will give their suggestions for taking on the government and reaching out to the people to highlight its failures, sources said. Besides the hike in fuel prices, the Congress will also plan protests against the government over high inflation, the pace of Covid vaccination and handling of the pandemic, they said. The economic situation of the country is also likely to figure during the discussions. The meeting comes ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament which is likely to start in July. The Congress has been also attacking the government on issues related to the farmers' agitation against three new agri laws. The Congress chief had been vocal about various issues in the past. In May, she had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure the assured supply of essential medicines for the treatment of mucormycosis (black fungus) and cost-free care to those affected. "I understand that Liposomal Amphotericin-B is absolutely essential for the treatment of Mucormycosis. However, there are reports of its acute scarcity in the market," the Congress chief wrote in the letter. In another letter, she entreated Narendra Modi to provide free education to children who had lost both parents or the earning guardian to Covid-19. “Amidst the devastation caused by the pandemic and the heart-wrenching tragedies being faced by affected families, news of young children losing one or both parents to Covid-19 are the most poignant. These children are left with the trauma of loss and no support towards a stable education or future." Sonia wrote to the Prime Minister||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Don't believe Third or Fourth Front can successfully challenge BJP, says Prashant Kishor ahead of Sharad Pawar's Opposition meet||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Monday met political strategist Prashant Kishor here and will host a meeting of leaders from several parties and eminent personalities on Tuesday to discuss the current scenario in the country, his party said and asserted that the Maratha strongman is working to unite the Opposition. The meeting held at Pawar's residence, which was their second this month, lasted for more than two hours and has further fuelled speculation that a Third Front could be in the works to take on the BJP. According to a NDTV report, Prashant Kishor has ruled out any association with an opposition front to take on the BJP in the next general election. "I don't believe in a third or fourth front... don't believe Third or Fourth Front can successfully challenge BJP," he told NDTV. Today's meeting came amid speculation about a plan for "Mission 2024" for opposition parties to take on the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance in the next national election. Kishor, who was instrumental in the Trinamool Congress' victory in the recent West Bengal assembly election, had a meeting with Pawar over lunch in Mumbai on June 11. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) spokesperson and minister in the Maharashtra government Nawab Malik in a series of tweets said Pawar will host a meeting of prominent political leaders as well as eminent persons at his residence in Delhi on Tuesday. The meeting has been called to discuss the current scenario in the country and it will be attended by National Conference leader and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah, TMC leader Yashwant Sinha, Sanjay Singh from AAP and D Raja from CPI, Malik said. Sanjay Jha, Pawan Verma and Sudheendra Kulkarni will also be present in the meeting, Malik said. "Pawar is working to unite all opposition leaders. Maybe, the meeting was to discuss it. The party's national executive meeting is also taking place in the national capital tomorrow," Malik said in Mumbai when asked about the NCP chief's meeting with Kishor. Yashwant Sinha later tweeted that Pawar is hosting a meeting of the 'Rashtra Manch', a political action group floated by the former BJP leader in 2018 that targeted the Modi government's policies. "We shall have a meeting of the Rashtra Manch tomorrow at 4 PM. Sri Sharad Pawar has kindly agreed to host the meeting at his place," he said. Besides politicians, eminent people from various fields such as senior advocate KTS Tulsi, former chief election commissioner SY Qureshi, former ambassador KC Singh, lyricist Javed Akhtar, film-maker Pritish Nandy, advocate Colin Gonsalves, filmaker Pritish Nandi and media personalities Karan Thapar and Ashutosh will attend Tuesday's meeting, Malik said. Kishor, who was part of the BJP's 2014 Lok Sabha campaign, later handled the campaign of several opposition parties like the TMC, AAP and the DMK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||Facebook, WhatsApp urge HC to stay CCI notice on Privacy policy ||Facebook and WhatsApp on Monday urged the Delhi High Court to stay the Competition Commission of India (CCI) notice asking them to furnish certain information in relation to a probe ordered by it into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. A vacation bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh said it will pass an order on the application. During the hearing the bench said since it was sitting on a vacation bench, it did not want to delve into the merits of the matter even as the main petitions are pending before a bench headed by the Chief Justice. We will pass an order. The matter will be listed on July 9 (the date already fixed for the main petitions), the bench said. The case relates to the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe CCI ordered into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. The high court had earlier issued notices on the appeals and asked the Centre to respond to it. In their fresh applications filed in the pending appeals, Facebook and WhatsApp sought stay on the CCI's June 4 notice asking them to furnish certain information for the purpose of inquiry conducted by it. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing WhatsApp, said the problem is that they have received a fresh notice on June 4 and the last date to respond is today, that is June 21. He said the privacy policy is already under challenge in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court by way of a batch of petitions and even the government is looking into it. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook, said the question here is of propriety and it is not correct as the highest court of the country, that is, the Supreme Court is looking into the matter. Why did they wait for June 4 evening to issue the notice? They could have done it earlier, he said. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi, representing CCI, opposed the pleas saying at the stage of inquiry furnishing of information will not lead to any order by the CCI and the notice is in pursuance to the inquiry which was not stayed by the high court and that this not the first notice issued to them. ASG Balbir Singh, also appearing for CCI, said since there is a statutory order against Facebook and WhatsApp, they should not use the high court's order and say that they will not furnish the information sought by CCI and the information should not be stalled at this stage. When the court asked what was the hurry of issuing notice by CCI, Lekhi said the question was not of hurry but the matter itself requires a lengthy process. He said till a report is submitted by the Director General to the CCI, there will be no precipitate action against them. The high court had on May 6 issued notice and sought reply of CCI on the appeals filed by Facebook and WhatsApp. The single judge on April 22 had said though it would have been "prudent" for the CCI to await the outcome of petitions in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court against WhatsApp's new privacy policy, not doing so would not make the regulator's order "perverse" or "wanting of jurisdiction". The court had said it saw no merit in the petitions of Facebook and WhatsApp to interdict the investigation directed by the CCI. The CCI had contended before the single judge that it was not examining the alleged violation of individuals' privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court. It had argued before the court that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp would lead to excessive data collection and "stalking" of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users and is therefore an alleged abuse of dominant position. "There is no question of jurisdictional error," it had contended saying that WhatsApp and Facebook's pleas challenging its decision were "incompetent and misconceived". WhatsApp and Facebook had challenged the CCI's March 24 order directing a probe into the new privacy policy. CCI had also told the court that only after the investigation can it be determined whether the data collection by WhatsApp and sharing it with Facebook would amount to an anti-competitive practice or abuse of dominant position. It had also contended that the data collected, which would include an individual's location, the kind of device used, their internet service provider and whom they are conversing with, would lead to creation of a customer profile and preference which would be monetised by way of targeted advertising and all this amounts to "stalking". The two social media platforms had contended that when the top court and the Delhi High Court were looking into the privacy policy, CCI ought not to have "jumped the gun" and intervened in the issue. They had also said that CCI's decision was an abuse of the commission's suo motu jurisdiction. They had claimed that the CCI in the instant case had "drifted far away" from the competition aspect and was looking into privacy issues which were already being looked into by the apex court and the Delhi High Court. In January, the CCI on its own decided to look into WhatsApp's new privacy policy on the basis of news reports regarding the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
21-06-2021||India||India to have 257 crore Covid vaccine doses by December, says Nadda||India will have 257 crore Covid vaccine doses by December to take up double dose vaccination of people in full swing, BJP national president JP Nadda said on Monday. He said this while visiting a vaccination centre at the RML hospital in the national capital. Nadda said 130 crore people of the country have come forward to take vaccines on the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, despite the opposition trying to mislead them and create obstructions. "Some leaders opposed vaccines saying they were not guinea pigs or mice. Those who doubted vaccines are now getting them. I want to ask such leaders if it was due to change in their mind, heart or soul," the BJP national president said. He lauded BJP workers for helping people during the pandemic, saying that while other parties went into quarantine or the ICU, party workers risked their lives to provide relief to the people on the ground. Nadda said BJP workers in all booths of the country were reaching out to people to ensure implementation of the prime minister's call for vaccination. He said that in India, the world's "largest and fastest" vaccination programme is going on and within 9 months the country produced two indigenous vaccines against Covid under the leadership of Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Prashant Kishor meets Sharad Pawar second time in two weeks||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor met with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar today for second time in two weeks amid buzz about preps for "Mission 2024" to fight Prime Minister Narendra Modi's BJP, according to a report from NDTV.com. The two met in Delhi days after their last meeting on June 11 at Sharad Pawar's Mumbai home. Their second meeting lasted half an hour, sources say, unlike the previous one that went on for three hours. Their discussions are seen to have a larger context related to the 2024 election and talk of a third front - minus the BJP or Congress - and a joint opposition candidate to challenge PM Modi. Many parties have indicated their willingness to join such a grouping, say sources. Kishor's client Mamata Banerjee, who won a third straight term in West Bengal after fighting off a difficult challenge from the BJP, was asked whether she saw herself as the opposition prime ministerial candidate. "I think all together, we can fight the battle for 2024. But let's fight Covid first," she had said soon after the verdict. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had talked about the need for an alliance of opposition parties at the national level. Raut had said that he had spoken Sharad Pawar on this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||SC reserves verdict on Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia compensation to kin of Covid deceased||The Supreme Court Monday reserved verdict on the pleas seeking directions that ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh be paid to the families of those who have died of COVID-19. A special vacation bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah heard Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and senior advocate S B Upadhyay and other lawyers for almost two hours. The top court asked the parties to file written submissions in three days and specifically directed the Centre to simplify the process of grant of death certificates to the dependents of those who have died of COVID-19. The Centre had earlier told the apex court that the ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh cannot be paid to the families of those who have died of COVID-19 as the finances of state governments and the Centre are under severe strain. In an affidavit filed before the top court, the Ministry of Home Affairs said the Centre submitted that it has by ways of Minimum Standard Relief under section 12 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, taken several steps providing for substantial and speedy measures by way of, increase in the health, infrastructure, ensuring food safety to every citizen. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, one of the petitioners in the matter, had argued that under section 12(iii) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, every family whose member died due to disaster is entitled for ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4,00,000. He had argued that since COVID-19 has been declared as a disaster and as per the order dated April 8, 2015, every family whose member dies due to disaster is entitled for ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh. The counsel, appearing for another petitioner Reepak Kansal, had argued that a large number of deaths were taking place due to COVID-19 and death certificates need to be issued, as only after that the affected family members can claim compensation under section 12 (iii) of the Act. In his plea, Kansal has said that states should be directed to fulfil their obligation to take care of victims of COVID-19 and also their family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Transcending Boundaries: Laxmi Narayan Tripathi on Championing Transgender Rights||Even though the Constitution of India contains the provision for a third gender, Indian society as a whole is yet to embrace the existence of transgenders, whether as a biological fact or as a part of our socio-cultural reality. To shed light on the struggle of transgenders and the need to sensitise Indian society on the same, Kalam Vishesh, an initiative of Prabha Khaitan Foundation, organised a virtual interaction with Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Laxmi Narayan Tripathi. A transgender rights activist who has worn many hats, Laxmi has been an author, actress, Bharatnatyam dancer, choreographer, and motivational speaker. In 2008, she became the first transgender individual to represent Asia Pacific at the United Nations. Featured in several documentaries over the years, Laxmi was also a part of the popular reality show Big Boss in 2011. Conversing with Laxmi on a range of issues affecting transgenders in India was Apra Kuchhal, Ehsaas Woman of Jaipur. Kuchhal kick-started the discussion by contextualising the fight for the recognition of transgenders: “This is a fight that has to be fought at three levels, first with the self, then with one’s loved ones, and finally with society...Laxmi is someone who has kept fighting this fight without bending or stopping at any stage.” Talking about how she did not consider herself a boy (the gender assigned to her at birth) while growing up, Laxmi recounted that “it was society that kept reminding me at every stage that I was different. I never felt I was different from society. I wanted to do normal things, live life normally, but people would not let me.” Shifting the discussion to her writing, Kuchhal asked Laxmi about the motivation behind the autobiographical book, Red Lipstick, which addresses the relationship Laxmi has shared with the most important men in her life, including her father. “My life has always been an open book, so I thought I might as well write a real book on it! I wanted to tell my story as it is, for I have done nothing wrong,” responded Laxmi. During the next part of the conversation, Laxmi brought up the nefarious impact of colonisation on the perception of transgenders in India. She argued how “the British, with their Victorian morality, could not understand the nuances of Indian lifestyle and culture. They were the ones who began the process of denigrating transgenders by spreading rumours about the community, such as how transgenders are prone to kidnapping children.” Concluding her thoughts on her journey, Laxmi recounted her mother’s advice: “My mother always told me that society can take away everything from you, but it cannot take away your character. For me, the most important tool of empowerment is to believe in oneself and to fight for one’s own dignity.” At the end of the interaction between Laxmi and Kuchhal, Laxmi fielded a number of questions from the audience, including how the title of Mahamandaleshwar has affected her identity and what she thinks is the biggest strength of the transgender movement in India. "Since I became Mahamandaleshwar, I have become more patient, more Indian in my outlook than Western, and I have started to comprehend myself better...to make sense of who I really am…. As for the transgender movement, we are the youngest civil rights movement in India and we have already accomplished a number of things. But there is still a long way to go, and I am confident we will achieve complete dignity and equality, for that is the belief that keeps us going, that is the belief that keeps us united,” emphasised Laxmi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Nation celebrates International Day of Yoga||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Centre to increase pace of Covid vaccination in July-August, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said the central government has decided to increase the pace of vaccination against COVID-19 in July and August. Talking to reporters after visiting a vaccination centre here, Shah said with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision to provide free vaccine against COVID-19 to people aged 18 and above, "we will fast achieve the goal of inoculating almost everyone". "The central government has decided to increase the pace of vaccination in July and August," he added. Shah said from Monday morning, an important journey has started in the fight against Covid-19 under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The PM had taken an important decision that the Centre will provide free of cost vaccination to those aged 18 and above, he said. In a country having such huge population, providing free vaccination is a big decision, he said. On the International Yoga Day on Monday, the drive of free vaccine for all is being launched across the country, Shah said, adding that India was already on top in the vaccination programme. "Now we will reach the target to vaccinate almost all very fast," he said. Shah is on a two-day visit to Ahmedabad from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Daily Covid count in India lowest in 88 days||India logged 53,256 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 88 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,99,35,221, while the active cases further reduced to 7,02,887, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 3,88,135 with 1,422 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 65 days. The active cases now comprise 2.35 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 26,356 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 13,88,699 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 39,24,07,782. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 3.83 per cent . It has been less than 5 per cent for 14 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.32 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 39th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,88,44,199, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.30 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 28,0036,898 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 1,422 new fatalities include 605 from Maharashtra, 182 from Tamil Nadu, 120 from Karnataka and 112 from Kerala. A total of 3,88,135 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,17,961 from Maharashtra, 33,885 from Karnataka, 31,197 from Tamil Nadu, 24,914 from Delhi, 22,178 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,348 from West Bengal, 15,826 from Punjab and 13,387 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Yoga remains a 'ray of hope' amid global fight against Covid, says Modi ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said yoga remains a "ray of hope" as the world fights the coronavirus pandemic and asserted that in these difficult times it has become a source of inner strength. Addressing the 7th International Yoga Day programme, Modi also said that in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), India had taken another important step and now the world was going to get the power of M-Yoga application, which will have many videos of yoga training based on Common Yoga Protocol available in different languages of the world. “This will help us in making the 'One World, One Health' motto successful,” he said. "At a time when the whole world is fighting the coronavirus pandemic, yoga remains a ray of hope," Modi said. The prime minister noted that there may not have been any major public events in countries around the world and in India for around a year and a half, but the enthusiasm for Yoga Day has not diminished. For most of the countries of the world, Yoga Day is not their age-old cultural festival and in this difficult time, people could have forgotten about it and ignored it, but on the contrary, people's enthusiasm for yoga has increased, he said. "When the unseen coronavirus knocked on the doors of the world, no country was prepared for it in terms of resources, capability and mental state. We all have seen that in such difficult times, yoga has become a great source of inner strength," he said. Yoga shows us the way from stress to strength and from negativity to creativity, he asserted. Modi noted that the medical science focuses as much on "healing" as on treatment, and said yoga plays a role in healing. "Yoga not only focuses on physical health but also mental health. During Covid, several studies are going on, researching the benefits of yoga on our body and immunity. We see that yoga and breathing exercises are being done at the beginning of online classes. This is helping children in fighting the virus," PM Modi said. Many schools now begin their online classes with yogic exercises like pranayam, he said, adding that this prepares children physically to deal with Covid. The prime minister expressed confidence that yoga will continue playing its preventive, as well as promotive role in healthcare of masses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Congress prods Supreme Court, PM Modi on Ram temple land ||The Congress on Sunday questioned the silence of the Supreme Court and Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the Ram Mandir trust, which received donations from people across the country to build the temple in Ayodhya, was accused of having bought another plot of land at inflated rates. “The trust was constituted by the Prime Minister on the instructions of the Supreme Court. Shouldn’t the Supreme Court take note when the donations given by the people are looted by members of the RSS-BJP, under direct or indirect patronage of the central and state governments?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala asked. “The Supreme Court should intervene if thousands of crore meant for construction of the temple is being eaten up by the thieves,” he said. Surjewala cited a report in the news portal Newslaundry on Saturday that alleged that a plot that was sold for Rs 20 lakh in February had been bought by the Ram Mandir trust for Rs 2.5 crore in May. Earlier, it has been alleged that the trust paid Rs 18.5 crore to buy another plot that had been purchased by the seller for Rs 2 crore just minutes earlier. Trustee Champat Rai has denied any wrongdoing in that deal. The Congress has sought a probe by the Supreme Court. Surjewala continued: “The question is whether the Supreme Court and the Prime Minister will do their duty or not. We leave it to their conscience. Both constitutional responsibility and morality demand their intervention. We are surprised the Chief Justice of India is silent even as the evidence of loot is absolutely clear. “And why is the Prime Minister not taking action against those who are looting the contributions made by devotees? The Prime Minister will definitely be judged by his action in this case.” The Congress has firmly rejected the charge by the RSS-BJP that it wanted to delay the construction of the temple by raising such issues, asking the government to respond on the specific point of swindling of funds instead of making wild allegations. The party sees questions like whether their leaders had contributed to the fund as attempts at diversion from the core concern about loot. Surjewala repeatedly used words like “sin” and “deceit” while saying that “chanda-chor” and “chanda-khor” hurt the religious sentiments of the devotees. “Why is the Prime Minister protecting those RSS-BJP leaders who are cheating the God? Even the trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopaldas has condemned what happened and said he was not consulted on how the money is being spent. Even Sankaracharya Swamy Swaroopanand Saraswati has demanded a probe,” he said. Arguing that “hawks, masquerading as devotees, have an evil design to loot the donations made by devotees” Surjewala said: “We saw how a piece of land purchased for Rs 2 crore was sold for Rs 18.50 crore within five minutes. Now another case involving BJP leaders has come to light.” Surjewala then repeated details of the deal cited in the Newslaundry report. He said Deep Narayan, a relative of Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyaya, had bought a plot in Ayodhya for Rs 20 lakh in February and sold it to the Ram Mandir trust for Rs 2.5 crore in May. Upadhyaya, when contacted by Newslaundry, had neither denied nor confirmed that Narayan was a relative. He described the allegations as politically motivated and said the transactions were clean, but added that only the trust or Narayan could comment on the deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Chirag Paswan announces Bihar roadshow||Chirag Paswan on Sunday announced a roadshow in Bihar next month, seeking to demonstrate mass support and claim control of the Lok Janshakti Party after being pushed into a corner by his uncle. Chirag held a meeting of party office bearers here on Sunday and claimed 90 per cent of the working committee members of the LJP were with him. Early this week, Chirag had been taken by surprise when four of the six MPs of the LJP elected his uncle Pasupati Paras as the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha, displacing him. The rebels later elected his uncle the president of the LJP. After the meeting on Sunday, Chirag told reporters he would hold the roadshow across Bihar in July to mark the birth anniversary of his late father Ram Vilas Paswan, who was the party’s founder and a Dalit leader. The meeting also decided to demand  Bharat Ratna for Ram Vilas. “My father’s birth anniversary falls on July 5.… So, we have decided to launch an Aashirvad Yatra from July 5 from Hajipur,” Chirag told reporters. Hajipur is the Lok Sabha constituency that Ram Vilas had represented many times. Chirag appears to be planning the roadshow and the demand for Bharat Ratna for his father to not only assert his claim over the party formed by his father but also to send a message to the BJP to not back his uncle. He has already petitioned Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to recant his decision of declaring Paras as leader of the LJP and is also gearing up for a legal battle to claim the party formed by his father. The rebellion by the uncle is widely seen to have been pushed by Bihar chief minister and JDU boss Nitish Kumar. It is being seen as a hit-back for Chirag’s move to contest separately in the October-November Bihar polls and harm the JDU. The BJP so far has maintained silence over the developments in the LJP. Chirag now wants to prove that he carries the legacy of his father and so he can’t be ignored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-48
21-06-2021||India||Bihar panchayat polls: State govt asks EC to make vaccination mandatory for candidates||The Bihar government has petitioned the state election commission to make Covid vaccination mandatory for people who want to contest the upcoming panchayat polls in the state. The request is being seen as an attempt to boost the state’s vaccination drive, which is lagging because of hesitancy and resistance from people, especially in the rural areas, and to check the spread of the infection during the elections. “Those who want to contest the polls but are not getting vaccinated should stay at home instead of moving around campaigning and spreading the coronavirus,” Bihar panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary told The Telegraph. Asked whether making vaccination mandatory for poll contestants might fall foul of the Constitution, state election commission (SEC) secretary Yogendra Ram said he hadn’t seen the government letter but indicated such a demand might be accepted in the public interest. “We don’t want a repeat of Uttar Pradesh here,” he said, referring to the April panchayat polls in the heartland state where not just contestants and voters but over 1,600 schoolteachers assigned poll duty are believed to have died of Covid. The Bihar panchayat elections, which were to be held by June 15, have been postponed because of the pandemic and a delay in procuring electronic voting machines. But with the Covid second wave waning, Yogendra indicated the polls could be held after the rains. Samrat said: “I formally requested the SEC on Saturday not to permit non-vaccinated people to contest the panchayat elections. The Disaster Management Act is in force and everybody should cooperate.” He added: “Around 25 lakh people are expected to contest the polls. These are people considered aware about the situation. They will travel house to house and hold small meetings canvassing votes. If they don’t take the vaccine, what will the others learn from them? They need to conform to the government’s policies while running the local self-government.” Told about possible constitutional difficulties and reminded that the central and state governments had not made vaccination compulsory for everybody, the minister defended his stand. “Making a demand is not banned under the Constitution. It’s up to the SEC to accept or reject it. Everybody should do their bit to tackle the disease,” he said. Yogendra said: “We’ll have to first see the letter. Even if the demand is for mandatory Covid vaccination for the candidates, we might accept it in the interest of public safety.” He added: “We have the example of Uttar Pradesh which suffered high casualties when the panchayat elections were held during the pandemic. Many candidates too died of the virus. We don’t want it to happen in our state.” Yogendra appealed to all voters to take the vaccine shots. “The monsoon season has begun, so the panchayat polls will be held after it. We appeal to all the voters to take the Covid vaccine,” he said. The panchayat polls will involve 8,386 panchayats, block samitis and zilla parishads across the state, covering 2.59 lakh posts in six categories: mukhiya (panchayat headman or chief), ward members, sarpanch (village court head), panch (village court member), and others at the block and district levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir parties likely to accept Centre’s offer of talks||Jammu and Kashmir’s political parties are likely to accept the Centre’s offer of talks, where they might reaffirm their call for restoration of special status, but a formal decision is expected only by Tuesday. Fourteen leaders from key parties here have been invited to an all-party meeting on Kashmir that Prime Minister Narendra Modi plans to hold in Delhi on Thursday, marking the Centre’s first outreach to the Valley’s mainstream parties since the dilution of Article 370 on August 5, 2019. The Valley parties see the offer as an admission on the Centre’s part of its failure to provide a political alternative in Kashmir, or even to restore a semblance of normalcy. The constituents of the five-party alliance that includes the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party have held intra-party discussions on the Centre’s offer. The alliance will meet on Tuesday to take a formal decision. Speculation is rife that the Centre wants to offer the restoration of statehood and discuss the redrawing of constituencies and an Assembly election. It’s not clear how willing the Valley parties would be to soften their stand on restoration of the special status and agree to participate in elections. The National Conference meeting was chaired by its president Farooq Abdullah, while Mehbooba Mufti presided over the PDP meeting. Sources in both parties said there was near-consensus on accepting the offer and using the meeting to renew the call for restoration of the special status. Akbar Lone, National Conference MP from Baramulla, said his party had decided to attend the Delhi meeting but the party’s provincial president, Nasir Sogami, said a decision would be announced only after further consultations. Hasnain Masoodi, National Conference MP from Anantnag, told The Telegraph the party favoured dialogue. “But we are part of the alliance and (have to abide by) whatever consensus emerges during Tuesday’s alliance meeting,” the former high court judge added. “Our meeting under Farooq Sahab’s leadership lasted two-and-a-half hours, during which more than a dozen leaders expressed their opinion. We believe that restoration of the August 4 (2019) status should be the starting point for further consultations. Our stand remains that Articles 370 and 35A should be restored.” Both articles gave certain special rights and privileges to Jammu and Kashmir and its permanent residents. PDP chief spokesperson Suhail Bukhari said his party had at Sunday’s meeting authorised Mehbooba to take the decision on participating in Thursday’s talks. A PDP source said the party’s leaders were in favour of the talks. “There were differences on whether we should separately put forward our demands before the Prime Minister or as part of the alliance,” he said. “We are meeting other constituents of the alliance and will see what emerges there. Since there is no fixed agenda for the talks with the Prime Minister, we will be free to air our views. We are clear that Article 370 has to be restored fully.” The source said Mehbooba had told the meeting that the Centre’s agenda seemed to be to complete the ongoing delimitation exercise that will carve out more constituencies, possibly in Hindu-majority Jammu, and hold Assembly elections. “But she said this was not our agenda, which remains the full restoration of Article 370. She said Delhi should have taken some confidence-building measures before announcing the meeting,” the source said. PDP sources said they could not afford to snub Modi, implying the meeting was a compulsion too. The Centre has cracked down on the pro-India politicians over the past two years, arresting former ministers including chief ministers, and former legislators. Most of them have been released but many continue to be chased by the central agencies. On Saturday, the government released Mehbooba’s uncle and senior PDP leader Sartaj Madni, which was seen as a confidence-building measure. On Sunday, Mehbooba’s key aide Waheed Para, booked in a militancy case, was shifted to Srinagar’s central jail from a Jammu jail where he had been transferred just two days ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Covid: Father’s Day gift for Odisha orphaned children||On the Father’ Day, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik acted like a father and launched a scheme named “Ashirbad” for children orphaned by the Covid pandemic. Under the scheme, these children  will get a monthly assistance from the government. According to the announcement on Sunday, children who have lost both their parents or single parent are entitled to get Rs 2,500 per month and those who  lost  one of their sole earning parents are entitled to get Rs 1,500 per month under the scheme. The amount will be directly credited to the accounts of the guardians of the children till they attain the age of 18. However, the government will not give any kind of financial assistance if the child is adopted by someone. “Children who lost their parents due to Covid on or after April 1, 2020 will be covered under the scheme,” said a press release issued by the chief minister’s office. The government has announced to extend health services and food security for the children under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana and state food security scheme.  In order to ensure that orphaned children get the best possible education, the Odisha government has announced that they would be given seats in Odisha Adarsha Vidyalaya, Central schools and other reputed schools. “Under the Green Passage scheme, the state will also bear the educational expenses for their higher studies,” said the press release. In order to encourage the guardian to look after the orphaned children,  the chief minister also announced that people who  take care of the children and are eligible to get houses will be given houses under Pradhan Mantri Yojana and Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana on a priority basis. “For children residing in child care institutions, government will deposit Rs 1,000 in their respective bank accounts till they attain the age of 18 years,” the press release said. Similarly surviving mothers of such children, if eligible, will be covered under Madhu Babu pension scheme (social security scheme). To ensure that children are not being exploited, the district child protection units, childline, block and panchayat level committee and frontline workers will be in touch with their guardians. Sources said the government decided to launch the scheme after terrifying stories of children losing their parents came to its notice. One such was the story of Krishna from Balasore. At the tender age of seven, Krishna is saddled with the responsibility of looking after her two month-old baby brother. Krishna’s world turned upside down within a span of just two months that saw both her parents succumbing to Covid-19. Her father, Kamlesh  Panda was an employee of the East Coast Railways and her mother Smita  a staff nurse at  Acharya  Harihar Regional Cancer Centre, Cuttack.  Her pregnant mother was rushed to the hospital where she delivered a baby boy on April 15. She had tested Covid positive but the boy was healthy and tested negative. She passed away on May 2. Later Kamlesh was found positive and admitted to the hospital. After spending 15 days there he, too, passed away on June 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Odisha doctor to ensure fitness of Tokyo-bound hockey team ||Dr Sudeep Satpathy (physiology and sports medicine), professor of Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences, is a much elated man after being nominated as the doctor of the Tokyo-bound Indian men’s Olympic hockey Squad. He has the onerous job to ensure that the players remain fit and give their best during the matches without any health issues. “The team is practicing in Bangalore. I am going to join the team soon. I do have a big responsibility. As per the Japanese government’s direction, the Indian team along with 11 other countries have to report to Tokyo at least seven days ahead of the Olympic. As the Olympics begin from July 23, we are likely to leave India by July 17-18,” Satpathy told The Telegraph. Stating that the Covid pandemic has thrown a new challenge for the doctors, Satpathy said: “The players are not used to going for tests always. We have to ensure that the players go for the Covid test and other tests regularly without a single miss. They will remain in a bio bubble. No one will be allowed to go outside the bio-bubble created for a specific purpose. We did it in the Indian senior men’s hockey team tour for Argentina from April 1 to April 15 for two games of FIH pro league and four practice games in build up for Tokyo Olympics. We will repeat again basing on the international Covid code.” Dr Satpathy, who holds a diploma in sports medicine from the International Olympic Committee (IOC) said, “The job of a doctor now is three fold. He will have the responsibility of regular treatment, see no one is victim to any kind of dope testing and there  is an issue of infection. Other people including physiotherapists are there to support the team.” Satpathy was a doping control officer in the medical delegation for Asian Federation Cup (AFC) championship league 2020, Doha, Qatar. Stating that hockey is a very fast-paced game, Satpathy said: “We need to be very careful about the health of the individual players. We have noticed how football players die because of sudden cardiac arrest. For this purpose, we build specific emergency plans. The health plan is individual specific and not team specific. We need to be careful from their diet to sleep. Everything will be monitored and not a single deviation will be allowed.” He said: “The sports and exercise medicine field is a niche field where all the potential as a doctor and a scientist is involved. We study and look at athletes (Man as a Machine) and help them in preventing injuries and improvement of performance. It involves a lot of dedication and care and the motivation to be a help to the athletes. It’s a whole world of knowing the human body better and taking the advantages of learning in practice. We are there for the safety and health of athletes so that they can utilise their potential and skill to the maximum.” He also has a note of praise for the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT Deemed University) and Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS) founder Prof Achyuta Samant. “Prof Samant continues to encourage and I am indebted to him,” Satpathy said. Satpathy, who did his MBBS from VSS Medical College Burla and MD from SCB Medical College, Cuttack had worked as sports medicine doctor in Rio Olympics polyclinic at the Olympic village in 2016 and also as team doctor for the Kerala Blasters in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Covid: Can't pay Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia to families of dead, Centre tells SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court the cash-strapped Union and state governments cannot pay Rs 4 lakh in ex-gratia compensation to the families of dead Covid patients, as sought by petitioners who have cited the Disaster Management Act and a six-year-old government order. “It may also be noted that the term ‘ex-gratia’ itself connotes that the amount is not based on legal entitlement,” an affidavit placed before the apex court by the Union home ministry says. It asks the court not to “second guess” or “substitute its own judgement for the decision to be taken by the executive” on relief, saying the DM Act, 2005, leaves such matters to the “national authority”. The affidavit adds that the government has provided the “minimum standard relief” mandated by the DM Act by improving the health infrastructure and ensuring food safety for every citizen. It describes the idea that help can be provided only through ex-gratia assistance as “a rather pedantic and narrow approach”. “The prayer of the petitioner for payment of ex-gratia to all deceased persons due to Covid-19 is beyond the fiscal affordability of the state governments,” the affidavit says. “Already the finances of state governments and the central government are under severe strain due to the reduction in tax revenues and increase in health expenses on account of the pandemic. “Thus, utilisation of scarce resources for giving ex-gratia may have unfortunate consequences of affecting the pandemic response and health expenditure in other aspects and hence cause more damage than good.” Section 12 of the DM Act says it’s the “national authority” that is empowered to recommend guidelines for the minimum standards of relief, including ex-gratia assistance, the affidavit says. “It is well settled through numerous judgments of the Supreme Court that this is a matter which should be performed by the authority to whom it has been entrusted and not one where the court will substitute its own judgement for the decision to be taken by the executive,” the Centre has argued. The Centre said: “Any attempt to second guess may create unintended and unfortunate constitutional and administrative ramifications.” In contrast to the “narrow approach” of ex-gratia assistance, the Centre has recommended “a broader approach, which involves health interventions, social protection and economic recovery for the affected communities” as “more prudent, responsible and sustainable”. “Globally, the governments in other countries too have followed this approach, and have announced interventions that provide fiscal stimulus. Government of India has followed a similar approach,” the affidavit says. The apex court is hearing two petitions, one seeking directions to the Centre and the states to provide Rs 4 lakh in compensation to the families of dead Covid patients and the other seeking a uniform policy on Covid death certificates. Many have complained that the death certificates of Covid patients often mention other conditions as the cause of death, preventing their families from claiming compensation. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, one of the petitioners, had argued that under Section 12(iii) of the DM Act, every family that loses a member to a disaster is entitled to an ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh. He said the Centre had notified this on April 8, 2015. Since Covid has been declared a disaster, he said, families losing members to the virus are entitled to this compensation. On May 24, the top court had sought the Centre’s reply on both petitions and asked it to furnish the Indian Council of Medical Research guidlines on the death certificates for Covid patients. On June 11, the Centre had told the top court the issues raised in the petitions were “genuine” and the government was considering them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Life after Covid took one parent||When schoolteacher Dimple Arora died of Covid in April, she left husband Vijay Jagga with not just a sense of loss but deep anxiety over the future of their child. Jagga, 45, is worried how to afford the education of daughter Niharika, a Class XI student who aspires to be a doctor, and save their house from being auctioned off by their bank. Dimple, who taught at the Kendriya Vidyalaya Pragati Vihar here, had bought the Faridabad house with a loan from the State Bank of India. Her death stopped her salary, leading to EMI default. The bank has frozen her salary account and initiated the process of seizing the house. Vijay had lost his job with a private firm during last year’s March-May national lockdown and is yet to find another. Dimple, who wanted Niharika to become a doctor, had got her admitted to a private coaching institute against a quarterly fee of Rs 25,000, paying which has become a challenge for her husband. Vijay will not receive any family pension or death gratuity. Dimple had been recruited in 2007 after the Centre had abolished the traditional pension scheme and brought in the National Pension Scheme (NPS) without family pension or gratuity. Vijay will only receive what Dimple and her employer contributed under the NPS. “Every single day, the burden is increasing on us. I have borrowed from relatives. I have visited the school four times to have my NPS dues processed. I’m worried about my daughter’s education,” he said. Vijay and Niharika will get no help from the central government, either. “The Centre has announced help only for children who have lost both parents to Covid. But my wife was the sole earning member and her death has left us devastated in every sense,” Vijay said. “The government should think of helping all the children who have lost a parent, and even those whose parents have lost their jobs.” It’s a demand being echoed by child rights activists who say that children orphaned by Covid make up a small fraction of children rendered extremely vulnerable by the pandemic, and the government’s scheme therefore leaves thousands of such children in the lurch. Several state governments too have announced help — again, only for children orphaned by Covid. As for Vijay, he did not receive any ex gratia from the KV Sangathan, either. He is unsure if he would get any job on compassionate grounds because the list of aspirants is long and the backlog stretches back years. On May 29, the Centre announced a corpus of Rs 10 lakh from the PM-Cares fund for each child who has lost both parents to Covid. The money will be available only when the children turn 18. For five years after turning an adult, the child will receive a monthly payment towards higher education and then the balance as a lump sum at the age of 23. Those orphaned by Covid and aged below 11 years have been offered admission to a Kendriya Vidyalaya or a private school. The government will bear the expenses on tuition, uniforms, textbooks and notebooks. But if the child has to shift from a village to a town for KVS admission, the government will not pay for lodgings or food. Those aged 11 to 18 years have been offered seats at central government-run residential schools where hostel and mess charges will be waived too. For higher studies, the children will receive scholarships or subsidised education loans. They will be covered under government health insurance. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) told the Supreme Court on June 6 that 3,621 children had been orphaned by Covid while 26,176 had lost one parent between April 1 and June 5 this year. The NCPCR added that 274 children had been “abandoned” by parents impoverished by the pandemic. Figures for the entire pandemic period from March last year could not be obtained from any authority. Enakshi Ganguly, child rights activist and co-founder of HAQ: Centre for Child Rights, said the central and state governments’ schemes for children orphaned by Covid might draw public attention and create an impression of the authorities being proactive, but they left out the vast majority of Covid-hit children. “Many children have been orphaned but many more have lost one parent, who may have been the sole breadwinner for the family. According to the NCPCR, many children have also been abandoned. They really need to be supported by the State,” she said. “By announcing help for the orphans, the government has gone for the lowest-hanging fruit to create hype. It has ignored a much larger segment of vulnerable children who are staring at a bleak future.” Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab have announced monthly allowance schemes for children orphaned by Covid. Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have announced fixed deposits that can be withdrawn after the child turns 18; while Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka have announced both a monthly allowance and a deposit. Ganguly also cited problems with the implementation of the government scheme because of the requirement for documentation. For instance, the child must furnish an RT-PCR test report of the dead parent, or the parent’s name must figure in the government’s record of Covid deaths. “During these abnormal times, the procedure should be smooth and simple,” Ganguly said. “Without proper coordination and guidance, there will be confusion and the children will fall through the cracks.” An email sent to the women and child development ministry on June 1 seeking its reaction to the calls for government support for all children who have lost one parent to Covid or been left vulnerable for other reasons has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
21-06-2021||India||Nigerian dead after ‘rescue’ in Ghaziabad||A 30-year-old Nigerian died in hospital after being found bedridden and malnourished by police in a home in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad, which for practical purposes is considered as a Delhi suburb. A Nigerian activist in the capital identified the deceased as auto parts dealer Michael Emenike Madueke, and alleged that he was confined and starved by his landlord for the past eight months for not paying rent. The police said they had not yet found evidence to back up  the charge. No external injuries were found by a doctor who first attended to him. An officer from Nandgram police station told this paper that they received a call on the emergency number 112 on Saturday afternoon. “He was living with the family of one Rahul in this flat for three months. The door was not locked when we arrived… His friend Charles Kennedy of Greater Noida and a few other Nigerians were present, and he took him to hospital with our assistance. There is no FIR.” The Nigerian Citizens Welfare Association, a group of expats headed by Kennedy, recorded videos of the “rescue” at the apartment. The video shows Michael’s skin sticking to his shoulder bones. He is heard saying: “He wants more  money everyday.” A man in the house is seen telling police in Hindi:  “We fed him, what else do you want? Talk to his friend Rahul Chauhan.” A woman is heard crying and saying: “Hamne kuchh nahi kiya (We did  not do anything).” The officer added: “Michael did not show us his passport or its soft copy. He said that it has gone for renewal…. Rahul is at fault as he did not inform police that he sheltered a foreign national. The local intelligence unit (of  Ghaziabad police) is verifying his passport and these other details… Rahul is also a tenant.” The officer said it needed to be verified if he was in hiding as his passport had expired. Kennedy said the  passport might have been “held as ransom”. Rajeev Tyagi, medical director of Ghaziabad’s Apex Multi Specialty Hospital, attended to Michael first. Tyagi told The Telegraph that Michael’s breathing was laboured, his oxygen saturation was 79 and pulse, 44. The normal values are above 94 and 60 to 100, respectively. “He was unable to move both legs properly. He was not even able to move himself from the stretcher to the bed…. It seemed like a neurological disorder such as GuillainBarré syndrome (in which the immune system mistakenly attacks nerves located outside  the brain and spinal cord). He needed a CT scan or MRI…. He was having edema (fluid retention) in his legs and looking quite malnourished. Either he was not eating properly or not taking a balanced diet. I asked Michael when he had his last meal. He replied that last night he had chicken and rice,” Tyagi said. Asked, the doctor said: “There was no sign of assault. Neither did he (Michael) talk of anything like that.” Tyagi says that he recommended that he be moved to a more advanced hospital with equipment to treat neurological disorders. “Charles said that his family is in Mehrauli (south Delhi), and he should be referred to Medics Clinic over there. I  said that he is not in a position to be treated in a clinic and he needs a super specialty hospital. He said that if the clinic recommends, then Michael could be moved to AIIMS or Safdarjung (Hospital)… We arranged an ambulance with oxygen. The driver told me that the patient had a cardiac arrest after 15 minutes after reaching after reaching Medics Clinic and expired…. Somebody from Medics Clinic told to shift him to AIIMS mortuary. Two (UP) policemen were in the ambulance,” Tyagi added. The report from the emergency department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences recorded “MICHEAL” (sic) a 30 years old male, ‘BROUGHT DEAD, PENDING INVESTIGATION” at 8.08 pm. No response was received from a phone number given by Kennedy who said it belonged to Rahul, with  whom Michael was staying. Kennedy said Michael’s family in Nigeria had sent Rs 42,000 in two instalments to Rahul. It is not clear how much Michael owed Rahul. “We have not filed a formal police complaint yet as we are waiting for what his family and the Nigerian High Commission tell us,” Kennedy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-49
