22-06-2021||India||Covid: Pending editions of JEE-Mains likely in August, NEET in September||The Ministry of Education is contemplating conducting pending editions of engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains in July and August while the medical entrance exam NEET can be shifted to September, according to sources. However, a final decision in this regard is yet to be taken and the Ministry is in process of reviewing the Covid-19 situation across states and UTs. "The pending editions of JEE-Mains are likely to be conducted either at the end of July or August with a fortnight's gap between the two tests. NEET is likely to be pushed to September," a source said. From the current academic session, JEE-Mains is being conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase in February was followed by the second phase in March, while the next phases were scheduled for April and May. But those were postponed after an exponential rise in the number of COVID-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic in the country. The JEE-Advanced exam, which is conducted for admission to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology, was also postponed. The exam was scheduled on July 3. While no further decision was taken on NEET-UG which is scheduled on August 1, the registration for the exam, which was supposed to commence from May 1, was kept in abeyance. The ministry is also yet to decide on the fate of the Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET). Earlier this month, the CBSE cancelled class 12 board exams in view of the pandemic and has announced a marks tabulation policy. Following the same route, the CISCE and several state boards also cancelled the same exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
22-06-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra's daily cases rise to 8,470||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 8,470 new coronavirus cases - up from 6,270 cases a day ago - taking its Covid-19 tally to 59,87,521, while 188 fresh deaths pushed the count to 1,18,795, the state health department said. According to NDTV news report, as many as 9,043 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recovered cases to 57,42,258, a statement from the health department said. There are now 1,23,340 active cases in the state, where the coronavirus recovery rate is 95.9 per cent, while the fatality rate is 1.98 per cent, the statement said. The health department said 2,16,861 people were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and added that so far, 3,98,86,554 tests have been conducted in the state. According to the statement, Mumbai city reported 568 new cases and 10 deaths, taking its infection tally to 7,21,099 and the count to 15,315. In the wider Mumbai division, comprising the city and its satellite towns, there were 1,784 cases and 33 deaths. This took the cumulative caseload in the region to 15,79,123 and the deaths to 31,401, it said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Tuesday administered a record 5.52 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, breaking its previous record of inoculating 5.34 lakh people on April 26, a senior official said, according to news agency PTI. The state, till 8pm on Tuesday, had given 5,52,909 doses, and the actual figure could increase further, according to additional chief secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas. With this, the total number of doses administered in Maharashtra stands at 2.85 crore, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||China recruits Tibetans in army amid standoff with India||China’s People’s Liberation Army has reportedly raised a new batch of soldiers comprising Tibetan youths in the strategic Chumbi Valley in Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) amid a months-long standoff with India. According to a report by the Hindustan Times, which quoted sources familiar with the development who cited intelligence reports, this exercise is a part of enhanced efforts to recruit more Tibetans in the Chinese army. Indian security agencies, over the past year, have been gathering information regarding the Chinese Army holding recruitment drives across TAR to rope in more people from the area. However, these are the first reports about the raising of new Tibetan militias in the eastern segment of the LAC, sources quoted by Hindustan Times said. At least two batches of youths, each batch comprising 100 of them, have been recruited to join the Chinese force. One batch has completed its training with the PLA and has been deployed at different locations across Chumbi Valley, including Yadong, Cheema, Rinchengang or Renqinggang, PB Thang and Phari, the anonymous sources said. The second batch is being trained at an army facility in Phari, the sources said, citing intelligence reports and communications intercepts from different security agencies. The soldiers presently operate without uniforms or ranks, they added. “The militias are being raised with the aim of being deployed mostly in local border areas to exploit their knowledge of the local terrain, language, demography and weather conditions,” a source told Hindustan Times. Tibetans who get into the PLA’s Special Tibetan Army Unit are taken to Buddhist monks for their blessings after completing their training, security agencies have learnt. “There are no records of such a practice of taking Tibetan recruits to Tibetan monks for their blessings. This is likely a new strategy by the PLA to get some religious mileage from the newly-recruited Tibetan troops,” the source cited above told Hindustan Times. China’s official statistics from 2010 show that 2.1 million Han personnel operate in the Army, compared to 4,300 Tibetans. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||Pfizer in final stages of agreement for supply in India, says CEO||US Pharma giant Pfizer is in the final stages of an agreement with India to supply anti-COVID-19 vaccines, CEO Dr Albert Bourla said on Tuesday, observing that the domestically manufactured vaccines would be the backbone of vaccinating the Indian people. Addressing the 15th edition of the India-US Bio Pharma & Healthcare Summit being organised by the US-India Chamber of Commerce, Dr Bourla also said that Pfizer has made a specific plan that the mid and low-income countries, which includes India, will receive at least two billion of such doses. "My hope is that very soon we will finalise the approval of the product in India by the Indian health care authorities and the agreement with the government so that we can also start sending vaccines, on our side, Bourla said. The Pfizer CEO said that significant local manufacturing of vaccines that is happening at the Serum Institute of India will provide the backbone of vaccinating the Indian people. "But getting the additional mRNA vaccines from us and also from Moderna will contribute significantly," he said. Pfizer, he said, is confident of producing three billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines and another four billion by next year, making it seven billion in all. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||Adityanath, RSS leaders visit UP Deputy CM’s home as Assembly polls near||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday joined senior RSS leaders for lunch at the home of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, as the ruling party geared up for the Assembly polls just months away. RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale and two other functionaries, Krishna Gopal and Anil, spent an hour and a half at Maurya's house, where the chief minister and another deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma were also present. The meeting was described as informal and the guests blessed Maurya's recently married son and daughter-in-law. But some significance is being seen in this being the first time that the CM has dropped in at the official residence of his deputy, located close to his own in Lucknow. Recently, replying to reporters' queries in Bareilly, Maurya had said the BJP parliamentary board will decide under whose leadership the next Assembly elections are to be fought, a remark interpreted by the Opposition as a sign of a rift between the two. A party spokesperson had dismissed the comment as the BJP's traditional stance, but Maurya had been seen as a likely candidate for the CM's post before the party chose Adityanath the last time. Earlier, on Monday, Adityanath, his deputies Sharma and Maurya, and RSS leaders Hosabale Krishna Gopal had met BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh and BJP vice-president and Uttar Pradesh in-charge Radha Mohan Singh at the CM's home. The two central BJP leaders also met the party office bearers at the state unit headquarters on Tuesday. A Maurya aide said Tuesday's lunch was the first time that Adityanath visited the deputy CM's official residence. But before this, the CM had visited Maurya's family home in Kaushambi district in October 2018, when the deputy CM's father Shyam Lal Maurya passed away. Maurya presented a saffron angavastra to Adityanath and white ones to his other lunch guests. His family posed for photographs with them. His son Yogesh Kumar Maurya married Anjali Maurya on May 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||Opposition talks Covid management, unemployment at Sharad Pawar's meeting||Leaders of several Opposition parties including the TMC, SP, AAP, RLD and the Left assembled at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's residence here on Tuesday and discussed various issues facing the country, amid heightened speculation about the possibility of a third front against the ruling BJP. Leader of the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) Nilotpal Basu, who attended the meeting, said it was not a political meeting but an interaction among like-minded people. "Issues like Covid management, 'attack' on institutions and unemployment were discussed at the meeting," he said. "The meeting was called by Yashwant Sinha, not Sharad Pawar, this was not a political meet," reasserted Majeed Memon, a leader of Pawar's NCP. "There are talks that the meeting was for a third front without the Congress, which is not the truth. There is no discrimination. We called all like-minded people. We also invited Congress leaders. I called Vivek Tanha, Manish Tiwari, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Shatrughan Sinha for the meeting. They couldn't come. It's not true that we didn't invite Congress," he stressed, when mediapersons inquired about the absence of the congress in the meeting. The meeting lasted over two hours. Former finance minister and Trinamul Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha, Samajwadi Party's (SP) Ghanshyam Tiwari, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary, Sushil Gupta from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Binoy Viswam from the Communist Party of India (CPI) were among those present at the meeting. National Conference (NC) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah, former Congress leader Sanjay Jha and former Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Verma also participated. Other prominent personalities who arrived at Pawar's residence to attend the meeting were Javed Akhtar and KC Singh. "Yashwant Sinha heads the Rashtra Manch. He asked to meet with Mr Pawar. So the meeting is an initiative of the Rashtra Manch," NCP leader Praful Patel was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. Sources close to Sharad Pawar, as quoted by ndtv.com, said neither he nor his party had put out any invitations. "This is a highly overrated and speculative meeting," they said. Earlier in the day, a senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, on the condition of anonymity, said though Pawar is hosting the meeting, it has been organised by Yashwant Sinha who is the convenor of the Rashtra Manch. Sinha formed the Rashtra Manch, a political action group, in 2018 that targeted the BJP-led government's policies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||Eight Opposition parties, including TMC and AAP, attend Sharad Pawar's meeting||Leaders of several opposition parties including TMC, SP, AAP, RLD and the Left parties assembled at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's residence here on Tuesday to hold a meeting, amid the heightened speculation about the possibility of a third front against the ruling BJP. Former finance minister and Trinamul Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha, Samajwadi Party's (SP) Ghanshyam Tiwari, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary, Sushil Gupta from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Binoy Viswam from the Communist Party of India (CPI) and Nilotpal Basu from the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) arrived at Pawar's residence to attend the meeting. National Conference (NC) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah, former Congress leader Sanjay Jha and former Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Verma also came to participate in the meeting. Other prominent personalities who arrived at Pawar's residence to attend the meeting were Justice A P Shah, Javed Akhtar and KC Singh. The meeting was still on. Earlier in the day, a senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, on the condition of anonymity, said though Pawar is hosting the meeting, it has been organised by Sinha, who is the convenor of the Rashtra Manch. Sinha formed the Rashtra Manch, a political action group, in 2018 that targeted the BJP-led government's policies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||How does a menu QR code change the ways restaurants operate during the COVID-19 pandemic?||Since its spread in the early 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic becomes the biggest problem the world is currently facing today. It causes fear, hunger, risks and death to anyone who is infected. Because of its severe negative effect to the people’s health and well-being, many stores and public places are closed, to mention, restaurants, gatherings, beaches and more. But as their closing are sought to be a temporary one, some business establishments are not able to reopen their business due to staff and financial constraints. As essential food is in people’s lives, restaurants and other foodservice businesses are trying their best to minimize the risk of infection while providing the best service they can give to their customers. While mandating people to follow the regulated health protocols that the local health center mandates like maintaining social distancing measures and wearing a face mask, restaurants are also doing their part by thinking of new safe operating ways to serve their customers. How does a menu QR code change the ways restaurants operate during the COVID-19 pandemic? As the use of disposable menus can not only increase the amount of waste they need to throw per day, the use of a menu QR code enables them to change their restaurant operating means with the following means. Transforms physical food ordering into contactless one Restaurants were able to transform their food ordering means into a contactless one with the use of menu QR codes. Their use of it help them maintain the social distancing protocol because they will no longer need to mandate their staff to go wait tables for them. With their customers scanning the menu QR code and place their orders through it, their staff can only appear serving the food at their table. Reduces time consumed in taking orders Since restaurants are tapping the use of menu QR codes for customers to view with their phones, the time consumed in taking orders lessens. As they can easily scroll through the menu appetizers, entrée and desserts, they can easily decide on which food should they order. Through quick ordering decisions made, a restaurant can have the pre-COVID number of diners in a day, depending on how fast their restaurant serve food for their customers. Cuts down their usual paper usage As it printing menu QR codes can only take small amount of paper to set up, their usual paper usage cuts down. How can you create a menu QR code for your Restaurant? If you are thinking of making your restaurant a safe place for diners to dine in, you can start transforming your physical menus into a menu QR code by following these 1. Open a QR code generator with logo online. 2. Click the menu QR code category and upload your menu file. 3. Generate and customize your QR code. 4. Do a scan test of your menu QR code to check if it directs you to your menu page. 5. Download and place your menu QR code in your restaurant. Conclusion: It is very important for restaurant owners to have their menu QR code on the table to help promote efficient and contactless access to the menus. The experience would be the main reason why some customers are coming back and forth. Besides, you wouldn’t want that you or one of your staff or one of your customers be a victim of the Covid-19 virus. Since we are all following all safe health protocols, restaurants can give the best and safe dining experience for their customers by utilizing the use of a QR code generator online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||22 Delta plus Covid variant cases in the country till now, says govt||As India achieved a "historic milestone" of administering 88.09 lakh coronavirus vaccine doses in a single day on June 21, nearly 64 per cent of the jabs were given in rural areas, the government said on Tuesday. Madhya Pradesh administered the maximum number of doses on June 21, followed by Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Assam, an official said. Addressing a joint press conference on the pandemic situation and vaccination status, the official said, "A historic milestone was achieved on 21st June 2021 -- 88.09 lakh doses administered in a single day." Of the doses, 36.32 per cent were administered in urban areas and 63.68 per cent in rural areas, the official said. Since the vaccination began in mid-January, India has administered 29.16 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines till 3 pm on June 22, he said. The government also said the coronavirus situation has been improving in the country but stressed on following COVID-19-appropriate behaviours. It said there has been an almost 90 per cent decline in India's daily COVID-19 cases as compared to the highest peak reported on May 7. It said 22 cases of delta plus variant of the coronavirus have been detected in the country so far, and added that it's still not a variant of concern. Of the 22 cases of delta plus variant, 16 have been reported from Ratnagiri and Jalgaon in Maharashtra and the rest from Madhya Pradesh and Kerala, the government added. India recorded less than 50,000 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 91 days, taking the total tally of cases to 2,99,77,861, while active cases fell below 7 lakh after 79 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 42,640 Covid infections were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 3,89,302 with 1,167 daily fatalities, the lowest in 68 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||CBSE, CISCE marking scheme fair and reasonable, says SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with the assessment scheme propounded by both CBSE and CISCE for evaluation of Class 12 students, whose board examinations have been cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The top court rejected the objections raised by a parents' body as well as students and said that it is not possible to have a second guess approach with regard to various aspects of the assessment scheme. A special bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said, "We accept the scheme as propounded by both the boards-(CBSE and CISCE)." The bench also noted the submission of Attorney General K K Venugopal, assisting the court in individual capacity and also appearing for the Centre, that University Grants Commission (UGC) will issue directives to all the colleges and varsities that admissions be made after the declaration of results by all the boards -- CBSE, CISCE and state boards. The top court, which dealt with all the major objections of the interveners -- Uttar Pradesh Parents' Association, and second compartment and private students -- said the scheme propounded cannot be doubted on the mere apprehension of manipulation of marks by the CBSE schools to favour their own students. The bench rejected the submission of senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for UP Parents Association, Lucknow, that option to students for external examination as given in the CBSE's scheme should be offered at the very initial stage to both the school and the students and the results should be declared together. It said that after hearing the views of Venugopal, We are of the view that this suggestion cannot be taken forward. This would result in denial of an option to the students and also result in increasing the uncertainty until the exam of improvisation is conducted and the results are declared". The bench said that if students are given the option of internal assessment then as per the schemes, their results will be declared by July 31 and thereafter they can opt for improvisation, if their marks are less. :Therefore, the suggestions given cannot be accepted," the bench said, adding that the boards have taken a conscious decision to cancel the class 12 exams, which is in larger public interest. It said that on the suggestion that the results (of both physical examination and internal assessment) be declared on the same date to avoid students missing the opportunity in admissions to colleges, the Attorney General has made statement on instructions that UGC will direct all universities to complete the process of admissions after declaration of results by all the boards. "In view of the above we hold that there is no reason to interfere with the scheme propounded by CBSE and CICSE," the bench said, adding that the schemes take into account the concerns of all sets of students. With regard to compartment and private students, the bench said that they will be allowed to take the physical examination to be held by CBSE in between August 15 and September 15, 2021. On Monday, the top court had asked the CBSE and the CISCE to respond to the concerns raised by some students and parents on the schemes of both the boards formulated to evaluate Class 12 students. The UP parents' association and the students have flagged several concerns with regard to the CBSE and ICSE schemes for evaluation for Class 12 results and said that many clauses are arbitrary and would be detrimental to future prospects of the students. Earlier, the CBSE and CISCE boards told the Supreme Court that class 12 board examination results would be declared by July 31 and the students, desirous of taking up the board examination physically of CBSE can do so between August 15 and September 15, subject to conducive pandemic situation. The CISCE has said its students can take improvement examinations which may commence from September 1, subject to the situation remaining conducive. The apex court was told by both Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CICSE) that they have amended their respective evaluation scheme to assess Class 12 students and incorporated a dispute resolution mechanism for the candidates who have any objections with regard to the results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||Will press PM for restoration of J&K’s special status, says Mehbooba||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's all-party meet, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said peace in the region cannot be restored without undoing the "illegal" and "unconstitutional" act of revocation of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. Speaking to reporters at the end of a huddle of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), she said during the meeting with the prime minister on Thursday, she will press for the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir which was "snatched away from us". "The agenda of the alliance, for which this alliance has been formed, what has been snatched away from us, we will talk on that, that it was a mistake and it was illegal and unconstitutional, without restoring which the issue of J-K (cannot be resolved) and the situation in J-K (cannot improve) and peace in the whole region cannot be restored," she said. Mehbooba, who was flanked by other leaders of the alliance including its chairperson Farooq Abdullah, said the Centre should hold dialogue with everyone including Pakistan to resolve the Kashmir issue. "They (India) are talking to the Taliban in Doha. They should talk with everyone in Jammu and Kashmir and with Pakistan as well for the resolution (of Kashmir issue)," she said. The PDP president said her party was never against dialogue with the Centre, but wanted some confidence-building measures for the people of Jammu and Kashmir like release of prisoners as in other parts of the country due to Covid. She said the political prisoners and other detainees from J-K should have been released if the Centre truly wanted to reach out to the people of J-K and to the political parties who were "humiliated so much" over the last two years. "I think they should have done so, but it does not mean that we are against the dialogue," she said. The PDP president, who is also the vice-chairperson of the PAGD, said she wanted Abdullah as the head of the PAGD to represent the alliance for the prime minister's meeting, but "he (Abdullah) said as the leaders have been invited individually, so we all should go individually". "Whatever agenda they have, we will place our agenda before them. We hope that with our going for the meeting, at least our people who are in various prisons in and outside J-K, are released and those who cannot be released, be at least brought to J-K. Poor people have to collect money to go and meet their kin (who are in prisons outside J-K) once or twice a year," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-44
22-06-2021||India||BJP responds to 'white paper', says Rahul playing politics over Covid crisis||The BJP on Tuesday accused Rahul Gandhi of playing politics over the coronavirus crisis after the Congress leader released a "white paper" on the Centre's handling of the pandemic. Releasing the "white paper" prepared by his party, Gandhi said it was clear that the government's management of the first and second waves of COVID-19 was "disastrous". Hours after Gandhi released the document, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra told a press conference, "Since yesterday we have been fearing this. Whenever something good happens in our fight against coronavirus, the Congress and Rahul Gandhi specially do something to derail it." "Yesterday was a significant day when India became the first country in the world to administer 87 lakh vaccine doses in one day. People seemed excited and jubilant. There is a feeling that India is winning in its fight against coronavirus, just then Rahul Gandhi spoke of white paper and tried to derail it," he said. Patra said that from the beginning of the fight to contain the pandemic, the Congress party had questioned every step taken by the government. "Whenever we are at a crossroads in our fight, Rahul Gandhi and the Congress party have tried to derail the efforts by playing politics. In fact, the Congress has really worked tirelessly to create hurdles and obstacles in our path, he said. The BJP spokesperson said that the second wave began with a Congress-ruled state, the most number of the infected were from Congress-ruled states and so were the most number of deaths. He said that the maximum vaccine hesitancy was seen in Congress-ruled states and so was the highest COVID-19 positivity rate. "The demand for decentralisation of vaccines came from the Congress-ruled states and then the U-turn demanding centralisation too came from them. Instead of virtual press conferences and white papers, Rahul Gandhi should go to such states and give them this data, said Patra. Calling Gandhi confused , Patra accused the Congress party of making contradictory demands. "First they called the lockdown 'Tughlaki', then they questioned why there was no lockdown.... They promoted vaccine hesitancy... I would like to ask Rahul Gandhi how long will he conduct just virtual press conferences? When will you do some real work? "Go to states ruled by your party and see the situation there. How vaccines are being wasted in Rajasthan, how vaccine profiteering is happening in Punjab and how Chhattisgarh is misusing vaccines. Go to the ground and survey," Patra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Fake TRP case: Arnab Goswami named as accused in second charge sheet||The Mumbai Police has named senior television journalist Arnab Goswami as an accused in the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam in its second charge sheet filed before a court here on Tuesday. The charge sheet was submitted before a magistrate's court by the police's Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) probing the case. "Among others, Goswami and ARG Outlier have been named as accused in the charge sheet," lawyer of Goswami, the Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, said. The alleged fake TRP scam came to light in October last year when the rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group (HRG), alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. The police named Republic TV and two other Marathi channels that were allegedly involved in the practice. They further said that sample houses, where bar-o-meters had been installed to monitor the ratings, were paid to watch certain TV channels to boost the TRP. The amount paid was between Rs 400 and Rs 500 per house per month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Covaxin 77.8 per cent efficient in Phase III trials||An expert panel of the country's central drugs authority has reviewed and accepted the phase-3 trial data of Bharat Biotech's COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, sources said on Tuesday. According to the data submitted by the Hyderabad-based firm, the indigenously developed vaccine has shown 77.8 per cent efficacy in the trial conducted on 25,800 subjects, they said. The firm had submitted the results of its phase-3 trial efficacy data of Covaxin to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) over the weekend, they added. The COVID-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Tuesday reviewed the data and accepted it. Their recommendations have been sent to the DCGI now, a source said. Bharat Biotech is also expected to attend a "pre-submission" meeting on July 23 with the World Health Organisation (WHO), which will take the vaccine-maker closer to a WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL). Though the meeting will not be a detailed review on the product, the vaccine-maker will have an opportunity to submit a summary on the overall quality of the jab, according to the WHO. The information was provided on the WHO website in the Status of COVID-19 Vaccines within WHO EUL-PQ evaluation process document. Covaxin is one of the three vaccines approved by the DGCI for emergency use and is being deployed in India's COVID-19 vaccination programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Mahant Deependra Giri deems Amarnath Yatra cancellation 'unpleasant but appropriate'||Mahant Deependra Giri, the custodian of the Charri Mubarak of Amarnath, the holy mace of Lord Shiva, on Tuesday said the decision to cancel the annual pilgrimage for the second consecutive year was "not pleasant" but an appropriate one, keeping in mind the COVID-19 pandemic and the safety of the pilgrims and the staff involved. "The annual Amarnath pilgrimage has been cancelled this year like last year. Though the decision is not pleasant, it is appropriate in view of the (Covid) pandemic and for the safety of the pilgrims and the staff involved in the yatra," Giri said in a statement. The Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board decided to cancel this year's pilgrimage on Monday in view of the pandemic. The board said the ritualistic aspects of the yatra will be conducted and the proceedings streamed live on certain platforms. Giri hoped that the countrymen would be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 before the next year's yatra and the pilgrimage would also resume. "I hope by this time next year, the citizens of our country will be fully vaccinated and we can have the usual and normal pilgrimage," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||J&K's Gupkar alliance to attend Centre's all-party meeting||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will attend the all-party meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Thursday, said alliance chairperson Farooq Abdullah. The announcement came after PAGD leaders met at Abdullah's Gupkar Road residence here on Tuesday to discuss the Centre's invitation to leaders from Jammu and Kashmir. "We have received the invitation from the prime minister and we are going to attend (the meeting)," Abdullah, who was flanked by other leaders of the alliance, told reporters after the meeting. The PAGD chairperson said the alliance was confident it would be able to put its stand before the prime minister and Union Home Minister Amit Shah during the meeting. "When the meeting ends, we will brief you here as well as in Delhi on what we did there, what we said and what was their response," the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference president said. Asked what would be the stand of the alliance, Abdullah said, "You all know our stand and there is no need to repeat it. Whatever our stand was, is still there and will be there." Various constituents of the PAGD have approached the Supreme Court with a petition asking for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and its statehood. Abdullah said all those invited will attend the meeting. "Mehbooba ji, me, Tarigami sahab and all those who have been invited from us (the alliance), will go," he said. As the invitation is to individual leaders of various parties they all will go and all will speak there , the NC leader added. Asked about the agenda of the meeting, Abdullah said no agenda has been pitched from their side (the Centre). "We can talk about any issue there," he added. Fourteen leaders from Jammu and Kashmir have been invited to the meeting to be chaired by the prime minister to discuss the future course of action for the union territory. The meeting is the first such exercise since the Centre announced the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and its bifurcation into union territories in August 2019. The PAGD is a six-party alliance of mainstream parties which came into existence after the Centre revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi releases White Paper on Covid management||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday urged the government to prepare for the third wave of coronavirus by improving medical infrastructure and vaccinate on a war footing to protect all Indians. He also released a white paper by the party on the Centre's Covid handling, saying, "It is pretty clear that the management of the first and second wave was disastrous." Gandhi also took a swipe at the prime minister for turning emotional while talking about Covid deaths in his address to the nation, and said the deaths have been needless and could have been avoided. "The prime minister's tears cannot wipe the tears of those who lost the lives of their kin. The PM's tears did not save the lives of those who died, but oxygen could have saved them," he said. He alleged the prime minister did not take the second wave seriously and was fighting elections in Bengal and his focus was elsewhere. The former Congress chief said there were some central reasons as to why the first and second waves were disastrous and added that the party has "tried to point out those reasons in our white paper". "This is a blue print on how to react to the third wave, which is going to come. It is our intention to provide the government with information and insights on what went wrong," he told reporters at a virtual press conference. The purpose of this white paper is not to finger point at the Government, but to help the nation prepare for the third wave that is going to come. "If the second wave was bad, the third wave would be worse," Gandhi said, noting that the virus is smart and is mutating fast. "The idea behind our white paper report on Covid-19 is to provide insights and information so that avoidable deaths can be prevented in the coming waves. GOI must work on our constructive inputs in the interest of the country," he later tweeted. Asserting that the central pillar to fight Covid is vaccination, Gandhi said it is important that "we aggressively do vaccinations and cross this bridge over 100 percent vaccination as soon as possible, because that is the only protection." "It is important that the government prepares itself for what is going to come," he said, adding that it needs to have the infrastructure ready, which was there in the first and second wave, and have oxygen supply and medicines required ready. Noting that vaccinating 50 percent population would not help, he said, "we have to vaccinate everybody as fast as possible.Vaccinations should be done fast on a war footing, as a mission". He also urged the government to treat all states equally for Covid-19 vaccinations, asserting that there should be no bias and they should not be viewed as BJP or opposition states. He also called for granting compensation to all victims of Covid and suggested the setting up of a compensation fund. "The government must treat all states equally. The Government must not view states as BJP states or opposition states. That bias should not come in," he said. The former Congress chief said the government must work towards vacccination with an open mind and not a closed one. Gandhi also said that this is not the time for claiming victory over Covid, as the virus has hurt the country so far and will continue to hurt in the third wave and the consequent ones. He also noted that the idea of Covid vaccination mission is "a good one", but the government has to make the process work as a continuous one and not a one-day event. Talking about the white paper, the Congress leader said it is the result of the discussion held within the Congress and with experts and they have come out with the concept of four pillars. Explaining further, he said, the first pillar is on what went wrong and that is the foundation of the white paper and our suggestions that look into some of the shortcomings and correcting them. The second pillar is preparation for the third wave, which includes developing the critical infrastructure like oxygen and the third one is the idea of an economic assistance package to assist the poorest and weakest people. The fourth element of the paper is to have a Covid compensation fund, where money is given to people who have lost loved ones and we commit to them and stand with them as the Indian nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload lowest in three months||India recorded less than 50,000 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 91 days, taking the total tally of cases to 2,99,77,861, while active cases fell below 7 lakh after 79 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 42,640 Covid infections were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 3,89,302 with 1,167 daily fatalities, the lowest in 68 days. According to the data published at 7 am, India administered 86.16 lakh vaccine doses, the highest ever single-day vaccination achieved in the world so far, the Health Ministry said. Cumulatively, 28.87 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide inoculation drive. The active cases have further declined to 6,62,521, comprising 2.21 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.49 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 40,366 cases has been recorded in the caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,64,360 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 39,40,72,142, while the daily positivity rate has declined to 2.56 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 15 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.21 per cent. Recoveries continued to outnumber daily new cases for 40 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,89,26,038, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.30 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Debt-ridden Tamil Nadu constitutes Economic Advisory Council||The debt-ridden Tamil Nadu government has constituted a five-member Economic Advisory Council to chief minister M.K. Stalin, which includes Nobel laureate Esther Duflo and former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan, to steer the southern state’s economic revival. Duflo, who won the Economics Nobel in 2019 along with husband Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee and Michael Kremer, will head the top-level team of advisers. The other advisers on the council are Arvind Subramanian, who was chief economic adviser to the Narendra Modi-led government in its first term; Jean Dreze, development economist and social scientist; and S. Narayan, former Union finance secretary and also a former economic adviser to Prime Minister Modi. The announcement was made by governor Banwarilal Purohit in his address to the Tamil Nadu Assembly, which opened in Chennai on Monday after the recent and emphatic victory of the secular progressive front led by Stalin. Later in the day, the state government issued an official order notifying the composition of the new team of economic advisers to the Tamil Nadu chief minister. The new council will coordinate with the state planning commission as well. “They (the government) have issued an order,” Narayan told The Telegraph on Monday evening. Dreze, who has co-authored books with Nobel laureate Amartya Sen and advised the UPA government on its flagship anti-poverty MGNREGA scheme, said in an email to this newspaper: “I accepted this assignment with some hesitation, because I am a little sceptical of unilateral policy advice disconnected from wider deliberation. But hopefully, some consultation processes will evolve.” Dreze, who is now in Bastar, Chhattisgarh, added: “In any case, I look forward to this learning experience and I shall do my best to make myself useful.” Some the economists on the council — especially Rajan and Subramanian — have been trenchant critics of the Modi government’s policies. It will be interesting to see what suggestions they come up with. State governments have been left with very little independent ammunition in their fiscal armoury after switching to a goods and services tax (GST) regime in 2017. They are also subject to very rigid regulations on borrowings. The decision to put together such a group of economists drew immediate praise from fellow economists. “This is such excellent news. Congratulations, M.K. Stalin. If these people also had a say in all-India policymaking, India’s economy would turn around from where it has reached," Kaushik Basu, chief economic adviser to the Manmohan Singh-led UPA government, tweeted. “This is perhaps the first time that any state has opted for a structured approach to economic policymaking through a council of advisers. However, there have been several instances when noted economists have served as economic advisers to chief ministers,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics. Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee heads a global advisory board that counsels Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on addressing the economic impact of the pandemic. (See Metro) In Chennai, governor Purohit said the council would bring out a white paper in July that would focus on the true state of Tamil Nadu’s finances. “The fiscal situation of Tamil Nadu is precarious with persistent high revenue and fiscal deficits, and a large overhang of debt. At the same time, expectations of people are very high...,” the state government said in its notification. Tamil Nadu had been governed by the AIADMK, now a BJP ally, for the past 10 years. Tamil Nadu — which has had a long reputation for populist schemes offering free rice and laptops to the poor — reported outstanding liabilities of Rs 5.12 lakh crore in its budget estimates for 2020-21, which works out to an increase of 124 per cent over the Rs 2.28 lakh crore in 2015-16, according to a RBI review of state budgets that was put out last October. The state had budgeted for a fiscal deficit of Rs 59,346.3 crore in its budget estimates for 2020-21 — the highest among the country’s states and Union Territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||Business as usual on Aatma Prashansa Asan Day||“Thank you PM Modi,” screamed the message, from Lucknow’s roadsides to the Delhi University campus and website. In the context of a pandemic where the Indian government’s failures have invited worldwide criticism. But this was Prime Minister Narendra Modi claiming credit for the “world’s largest free vaccination campaign” on a day the Centre started bearing the cost of free vaccination for all adults at government centres, sparing the states any expense. Lucknow, capital of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh where bodies floated down the Ganga at the peak of the Covid second wave, bristled with billboards thanking Modi. The billboards carried the national emblem and the words “Government of India”, seeking to associate themselves with the Centre. Delhi University, which has lost about 60 teachers and other employees to the pandemic, uploaded digital banners in English and Hindi on its website at the behest of the University Grants Commission and put up physical hoardings on the campus. More institutions are expected to follow the example with the higher education regulator having written to all the universities “to kindly display these hoardings/ banners in their institutions” and attaching to the letter a model banner. Several academics condemned the publicity blitz, calling it “shameful propaganda” to divert attention from the government’s Covid mismanagement and the people’s sufferings. Some resented the attempt to turn the universities into “cheerleaders”; others underlined that the government wasn’t doing citizens a favour by offering free vaccination — a policy adopted by many other countries right from the start. The development comes on the International Day of Yoga, an annual event the Centre habitually uses to build up fanfare around Modi. While Monday’s banners and billboards crowed “Vaccine for all, free for all”, they seemed to sacrifice accuracy for hype in one respect. “So far free vaccine was available for people above 45 years of age. From June 21, free vaccine available for everyone above 18 years in government centres,” they said. However, the jabs had been free for every adult at almost all government centres even before Monday although the Centre was supplying the states with free doses only for those aged 45 and above. While the states had to buy the vaccines to inoculate adults younger than 45, almost all of them including Uttar Pradesh and Delhi had absorbed the cost themselves. There were slight differences in the DU and Lucknow banners. While the DU banner carried images of Modi and four smiling citizens, Lucknow’s billboards showed the Prime Minister and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. An email that UGC secretary Rajnish Jain had sent on Sunday to all the universities said: “The government of India is starting free vaccination for 18 years and above age group from tomorrow i.e 21st June 2021. In this regard, universities and colleges are requested to kindly display these hoardings/ banners in their institutions.” It added: “The approved design (creatives) of hoardings/ banners in Hindi and English, as provided by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, are attached for your ready reference. Kindly note, these creatives are embargoed for social media till 7 am tomorrow, i.e 21st June 2021.” Manoj Sinha, principal of the DU-affiliated Aryabhatta College, said the university had forwarded the UGC email to him, and that his college too would put the banner up on its website. Sinha said the move would encourage campus communities to get themselves vaccinated and facilitate the gradual reopening of higher education institutions. Rajib Ray, president of the DU Teachers’ Association (DUTA), slammed the government. “This is shameful. Academic institutions should not be used to propagate the name of any person. Whether it’s Yoga Day or any other central government event, academic institutions are being used for propaganda,” he said. Former DU executive council member Rajesh Jha said teachers and students were “not cheerleaders of the government”. “On any government policy, there can be divergent opinions. It’s part of academics to see and analyse policies critically. The way DU has used its website and Twitter handle to spread this message is condemnable,” Jha said. Another former DU executive council member, Abha Dev Habib, said free vaccination was a right and not a favour. “There have been vaccination programmes for many ailments, but there never was such propaganda praising the Prime Minister,” she said. “Such propaganda is now happening amid a disaster in terms of deaths and suffering caused by the government’s failure to handle the situation.... Since 2014, we have been witnessing educational institutions being used for propaganda.” Habib chided Modi for addressing huge poll rallies when he should have been focusing on managing the Covid crisis. “DUTA had requested Covid care centres with oxygen facilities on the campus, but nothing was done. It was a nightmare for the staff who had to run from pillar to post to get treatment in April and May,” she said. DU registrar Vikash Gupta defended the university’s actions. “Today was International Yoga Day. We discussed how students and staff should remain safe with healthy food, yoga and vaccination,” he said. “It was our own decision to put up this banner to spread the message about vaccination.” He said some people always criticised whatever the university did. “Everybody has the right to cry, crib...” Gupta said. The Central Board of Secondary Education too has for sometime been exhibiting two banners showing Modi on its website. One urges people to register for vaccination, the other to follow the Covid protocols. Emails sent to the UGC and the Union education ministry, to which the regulator reports, brought no replies. To some in Uttar Pradesh, the hoardings in Lucknow seemed a sign that the Centre had taken direct charge of the BJP campaign for the Assembly elections, due next March, at a time the party high command seemed to have lost some of its confidence in Adityanath. The image-conscious Modi seems to feel let down by Adityanath’s Covid mismanagement, with the pictures of corpses floating down the Ganga or buried on the riverbanks earning the Prime Minister scathing criticism from the foreign media. Modi — roasted at home and abroad also for his own short-sighted Covid policy — and Union home minister Amit Shah had recently summoned Adityanath to Delhi and briefed him on what party sources claimed was “poll strategy”. A BJP insider said: “Modi had worked hard to burnish his international image. But the way the world criticised him for the dead bodies floating in the Ganga — this could be why the Centre has taken over the campaign in Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||US researchers mark birthday parties as Covid risk||US researchers have measured how birthdays might contribute to increases in Covid-19 infection through a study whose findings support the cautionary calls in India against unrestricted social gatherings and parties amid the fall in new infections. The researchers have found that in areas with high Covid-19 transmission, households with recent birthdays averaged about 86 more cases per 100,000 individuals than other households in the same areas without birthdays during the same time. Their study, based on a sample of nearly three million households across the US, did not count the birthday parties but used birth dates of household members through health insurance records as a proxy for social gatherings or in-person festivities. The findings were published on Monday in the JAMA Internal Medicine, a medical research journal. The study’s major contribution is “to not only show that close contact with people we know and trust can lead to disease, but that the risk is substantial”, said Anupam Jena, associate professor of medicine at the Harvard Medical School. “Many people probably believe that contact with people they don’t know — at a store or a restaurant — pose a risk and that contact with others they are familiar with would be safe,” Jena, the study’s senior author, told The Telegraph via email. Public health experts, relying on anecdotal accounts, have long believed that social gatherings such as birthdays, weddings and parties may have contributed to the spread of the novel coronavirus. But the risk from such events has not been measured or estimated yet. “It is a difficult question to study because one needs to know who’s attending a social gathering, whether they develop infection and whether those that gather differ in other ways such as mask-wearing, which may also be correlated with Covid-19 infections,” Jena said. In their study, Jena, his colleagues and collaborators at the RAND Corporation, a policy think tank, analysed Covid-19 incidence and transmission patterns across different counties across the US and found that the magnitude of the risk appeared linked to the age of the person with a birthday. In households where a child had a birthday, they observed an increase in Covid-19 cases of 158 per 100,000 persons in the two weeks after the birthday compared with Covid-19 cases in families without birthdays. And in households where an adult had a birthday, the increase was 58 per 100,000. The researchers have speculated that households with a child’s birthday are less likely to cancel birthday plans because of the epidemic or that social distancing is followed less strictly at children’s birthday parties. Senior Indian health officials, while flagging the country’s declining numbers of daily new infections, have asserted the need for the public to continue adhering to personal precautions such as wearing masks and avoiding crowds and social gatherings. “We were able to examine only a single kind of event that likely leads to social gatherings,” Christopher Whaley, a co-author from the RAND Corporation, said in a media release. “But given the magnitude of the increased risk associated with having a birthday in the household, it is clear that informal gatherings of all kinds played a significant role in the spread of Covid-19.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-45
22-06-2021||India||'Nazul' category land involved in deal with Ram temple trust||The Uttar Pradesh government said on Monday that the land involved in a lucrative deal between a nephew of the Ayodhya mayor and the Ram temple trust fell into the “nazul” category that cannot be sold without a notification. “It’s nazul land and cannot be sold without a notification from the government that it had been converted into a freehold. I didn’t know that this nazul land had been transferred. Nobody has the right to transfer a nazul land to anybody,” Anuj Kumar Jha, district magistrate of Ayodhya, told reporters. Nazul land is government-owned land leased out to someone. However, the official remained silent when asked whether the government would reverse the deal. The portal Newslaundry had first reported that Deep Narayan, a nephew of Rishikesh Upadhyay, Ayodhya mayor and BJP leader, had paid Rs 20 lakh to a mahant for a 890sqm plot on February 20 and then sold it to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust on May 11 for Rs 2.5 crore. The deal yields a cool profit of Rs 2.3 crore — a fresh instance of profiteering or “flipping” amid allegations that those who swear by Ram are milking the trust, entrusted with building the temple in Ayodhya, of funds collected from the government and from the public. Deep, who allegedly bought the land from Mahant Devendra Prasadacharya of the Dashrath Mahal Badasthan in Kotramchandra area of Ayodhya Sadar, told reporters: “I bought the land for Rs 20 lakh. Thereafter, it was my land and I developed it. Since the trust needed the same land, I sold it to them. Every norm has been followed.” The nature of the land development that Deep said he had undertaken between February, when he bought the land, and May, when he sold it, is not clear. He did not give specific answers to the question how he could have bought and sold nazul land. Upadhyay, the mayor, did not respond to phone calls or a text message from this newspaper. Prasadacharya said: “The nazul land had been in our temple management’s possession for the past many decades and we used to do farming there, but without much success. Deep Narayan told me he was buying the land to hand it over to the Ram temple trust. Since the land was of not much use to us, even Rs 20 lakh seemed enough and we accepted the deal.” Brij Mohan Das, mahant of the adjoining Chauburji temple, suggested it was not an isolated development and that officials were aware of such deals. “Government officials used to visit the area and ask us to sell the land to the trust. They knew that the plots were nazul but still wanted us to register them. Even I sold a piece of nazul land adjacent to the same plot to the same person. The officials knew about it,” he said. A trust official said land was being bought to accommodate those displaced by the temple project. “We are buying land to rehabilitate those who will be displaced from the Ram temple area in Ayodhya where construction is going on. People may level allegations against us but we are working in a transparent manner,” Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, said. Earlier, the trust had bought another plot of land in Bag Bijaisi of Ayodhya for Rs 18.5 crore from a person who had bought it for Rs 2 crore the same day. The trust said the land was bought at a rate that was less than the market rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Need to be ahead of Covid-19 third wave, not react after it hits: Experts||Multiple factors — some critically dependent on human behaviour — will determine whether India will face a third nationwide Covid-19 wave. Public health experts say the uncertainty around them makes it near-impossible at this point to forecast with scientific evidence the timing or size of the anticipated but still uncertain third wave. The determinants include the fraction of the population still susceptible to the infection, the fraction of the population that will adhere rigorously to personal precautions such as masks and crowd avoidance even after districts and states relax restrictions, and the fraction of the population protected through vaccination. The distribution of highly-transmissible coronavirus variants — such as the delta variant first detected in India — might also influence future surges. Amid those uncertainties, Dr Rahul Pandit, a senior critical care medicine specialist at the Fortis Hospital in Mumbai and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, spoke with The Telegraph about the imperative of continued preparation now when the epidemic is shrinking. It is not possible to say at this point that the next peak or surge will definitely happen at a particular time. Mathematical models have limitations — they rely on assumptions. The delta variant is a concern for us in the country and we have to be prepared for the worst-case scenario. It is important to prepare with an understanding that if and when the wave does come, we face it with our best possible levels of preparation. We need mathematical models that take into account vaccine penetration. We expect a continued increase in vaccine penetration in the coming weeks and this needs to be factored into models. If we are able to fully vaccinate a large fraction of the population in the next three months or so and we also have a large fraction of the population protected through natural infections, India might be able to push the wave forward as much as we can and reduce the severity. Infections and localised outbreaks might continue to occur but if they are addressed promptly and efficiently, a large wave could be averted. India needs a quick nationwide survey again. The last such survey in January had found roughly 21 per cent of the population had been infected. It is important that we also simultaneously do significant genome sequencing to understand if variants of concern are contributing to reinfections. Along with vaccination and natural infections, we should be able to reach that magic figure of herd immunity threshold. But for that to happen, we should have at least 60 to 70 per cent of our population protected through vaccination or natural infections and we seem to be at a distant point from that right now. While Maharashtra’s population is lower than that of Uttar Pradesh or Bihar, Maharashtra is an industrialised state. Mumbai and the surrounding region is the country’s financial capital, so there is a huge potential for person-to-person interactions that provide the virus opportunities to spread. Also, Mumbai has one of the country’s highest population densities. Fifteen million people live in Mumbai. The other reason is that there has been excellent awareness about Covid across the state. Data collection and reporting, whether on positive patients or deaths, have always been done on a priority basis. This adds to the completeness of data and to the numbers. The Mumbai model has been well appreciated. Mumbai was the first to decentralise the Covid-19 response. Mumbai had a number of wards divided with their own war rooms. We had a real-time understanding of oxygen requirements, or how much oxygen is required by which hospital. That helped us tackle the oxygen crisis. Also Mumbai prepared itself way ahead of time through beds and other infrastructure such as through jumbo hospitals. We expanded our bed capacity several-fold as the pandemic progressed. And even now we would be happy to expand it several-fold. In preparation for a possible third wave, we should take a holistic approach. Again. Which means to look at all requirements — beds, oxygen, medications, equipment required in each state to treat patients effectively. We need action plans in place for the third wave, in terms of how the surge capacity would be increased. This has been done in Maharashtra on a priority basis, and we are looking at preparing ourselves again. We need to be ahead of the problem and not react after it hits us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Covid: Govt defends ex-gratia decision with pandemic spending||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that the government has other commitments like providing free vaccines, buying anti-viral drugs and creating additional health infrastructure to overcome the pandemic and as such it would not be possible to pay Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia to the kin of each individual who died of Covid-19. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah that it was not the case that the Centre doesn’t have money to pay ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of Covid victims but would rather utilise funds to build health infrastructure, ensure food for all, vaccinate the entire population and provide financial stimulus to boost the economy. The court was dealing with a PIL filed by advocate G.K. Bansal seeking a direction to the Centre to ensure that the kin of each deceased person was paid Rs 4 lakh as ex-gratia in terms of a 2015 notification of the Union government under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The bench was also informed by some of the interveners that different states were paying different amounts of ex-gratia to the kin and sought a direction to the Centre to place before it data pertaining to the amount and criteria adopted by states/Union Territories in disbursing the money. The court also directed the Centre to ensure simplification of the death certificates given during the pandemic so that the kith and kin do not face any difficulties in getting the ex-gratia or compensation. It said there should be a mechanism to correct death certificates already issued or else the family members will be deprived of any ex-gratia being considered by the government. The court made the observation because there have been complaints that many hospitals are not declaring a death as Covid-related for various reasons. Mehta, however, said all victims diagnosed with Covid-19, irrespective of co-morbidities, will be classified as deaths due to the pandemic. During the arguments, senior advocate S.B. Upadhyay cited the Supreme Court’s ruling in the 2018 Swaraj Abhiyan case wherein it was held that financial constraints will not come in way of meeting constitutional obligations. The senior counsel complained that presently, insurance cover is being provided only to doctors on regular rolls and not to other paramedical staff and contractual doctors. Advocate Sumeer Sodhi appearing for family members of Covid-19 victims pointed out that different states were paying different ex-gratia amounts. While Madhya Pradesh is paying Rs 1 lakh, Bihar is giving Rs 4 lakh, but no information was forthcoming from where these funds were being disbursed. Sodhi pleaded that there must be a centralised mechanism for disbursing a uniform amount. Mehta, while arguing that the government had other priorities like vaccination and buying anti-viral drugs, said it also had to go by the recommendations made by the Finance Commission on disbursal of amounts under the National Disaster Response Fund.“If Parliament has allocated 15,000 crore for five years and a big pandemic like Covid has come, then is it your case that Centre or state cannot go beyond Rs 15,000 crore?” Justice Shah asked. Mehta responded in the affirmative and said that in such situations the government had no other option but to go to Parliament for ratification. “Finance Commission recommendations were accepted by Parliament and it is what guides us. We ensure that no one sleeps hungry. When we run special trains for migrants that expenditure is part of disaster management… Everyone is entitled to 2kg rice and 5kg pulses which is a part of food security… measures to enhance oxygen production levels is also (under) disaster management act. “This is an ongoing process and instead of one-time relief for death, its better we go for multi-pronged preparedness. Health insurance scheme applies to all health workers, whether government or private. Insurance premium which central government pays is under the DMA,” Mehta said. The court, after hearing the arguments, reserved its verdict, which is expected to be pronounced within a fortnight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Covid: India administers record eight million vaccine doses in a day||India on Monday administered a record over eight million Covid-19 vaccine doses, more than double the average in June so far, as the inoculation campaign shifted into new rules under which all adults may walk in for free vaccinations at all government sites. The Union health ministry’s digital platform that tracks the campaign in real-time had logged by 10.30pm a total of 8,407,420 doses, a sharp rise over the average 3.1 million daily inoculations from June 1 to 20, surprising sections of experts hitherto concerned about the campaign’s slow pace. The experts said India would be able to fully vaccinate nearly its entire estimated eligible population of over 950 million people if the pace of inoculations on Monday is sustained throughout the rest of the year and backed by steady vaccine supplies. “This is a big jump. I don’t think anybody expected this. It’ll be excellent if they can maintain this through supplies,” said R. Ramakumar, a health economist and professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. Prime Minister Narendra Modi described the record-breaking rise in vaccinations as “gladdening.” “The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight Covid-19,” Modi wrote on Twitter. “Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all frontline warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine. Well done India!” Health officials have attributed multiple reasons for the rise, including the new rules that allowed for the first time anyone to walk into any vaccination centre and seek on-site registration, a feature hitherto available only for those 45 years or older. “The walk-in registration is only one factor — I think we’re seeing the accumulated effects of many things,” said Samiran Panda, the chief of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research, who is among the technical experts guiding the government’s vaccination policy. “Vaccine supplies are increasing. We’ve taken painstaking efforts at communicating the need for vaccines to people across the country. We’ve urged districts to prioritise the vulnerable groups and vaccinate them as quickly as possible,” Panda said. Another health official said about 67,000 vaccination centres across the country were active on Monday with more than half of them in rural areas. “The walk-in feature would have made a big difference in rural areas,” said Narendra Arora, another senior adviser who has guided the Covid-19 vaccination policy. “But we have been preparing for this day through micro-planning and strong supply-chain management, and mobilising groups of 100 to 120 people in rural areas to visit vaccination centres.” Arora said the country has the capacity to increase the number of sites to 75,000. “Our target is to reach 10 million doses per day,” he told The Telegraph. The vaccination rules changed on Monday with the Centre now supplying doses to all states to vaccinate all adults 18 years or older for free in government centres, allowing people to opt for paid vaccinations in private hospitals. Health officials have said, under these rules, doses to private hospitals would also be channelled through state governments to ensure that they are evenly distributed and not overwhelmingly used up by a few networks of large hospitals. The campaign launched on January 16 has administered over 283 million doses, but only about five per cent of the eligible population is fully vaccinated with the required two doses, the pace of inoculations primarily constrained by slow vaccine supplies. Health experts have estimated India would need to administer an average 8.8 million doses daily to complete the estimated 1.9 billion doses during the remaining 183 days of the year to achieve its target of vaccinating all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||BJP combats rising cases of dissent in party-ruled states||The BJP central leadership has been combating rising cases of dissent in party-ruled states, betraying signs of loosening of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duopoly’s iron grip over the machinery. Over the past couple of weeks, party managers have been rushed to Uttar Pradesh in the north, Karnataka and Goa in the south, Gujarat in the west and Tripura in the east to douse growing voices of unrest in BJP units, seeking to defy the top leadership. The struggle to put its house in order in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh continues despite a visit by a central BJP team to Lucknow and chief minister Yogi Adityanath dashing to Delhi to hold talks with Prime Minister Modi and home minister Shah. General secretary in charge of organisation B.L. Santosh and party’s Uttar Pradesh minder Radha Mohan Singh were in Lucknow on Monday, their second visit in a month, to quell unrest against Adityanath’s leadership style and make the BJP poll-ready. The problem in Uttar Pradesh poses a direct threat to the authority of the top duo with Adityanath’s rise as a popular Hindutva icon, seeking to establish a Modi-like control over the most populous state. Many in the party believe Adityanath could emerge as a strong contender to succeed Modi in Delhi if he can retain Uttar Pradesh comfortably in the Assembly polls next year. The challenge before the party is to use the voices of dissent in Lucknow to rein in Adityanath, sources said. While Uttar Pradesh continues to simmer, party managers have been grappling with rebellion in Karnataka. Dissidents seeking to unseat 78-year-old chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa look determined. Karnataka’s BJP minder Arun Singh was rushed to Bangalore last week to fire-fight. The party for now has managed to buy an uneasy peace by threatening disciplinary action against the dissidents. Karnataka is the only state in the south where the BJP has managed to wrest power and the bickering, many leaders fear, could spoil the future. Despite not being happy with Yediyurappa, who again doesn’t seem to care much about the central leadership’s authority, party’s Delhi managers are wary that edging him out could anger the numerically strong Lingayat voters, the main support base of the BJP. Differences between young Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant and some of his ministers also surfaced and Santosh was rushed to the state. Though a tiny state, Goa holds significance for the BJP, scheduled to go to polls with Uttar Pradesh in February-March next year. The condition in Modi-Shah’s home state Gujarat is also threatening to go out of control. The internal tussle between chief minister Vijay Rupani and state BJP president C.R. Patil, seen as a favourite of Modi, spilled out in the open during the Covid crisis and continues to grow, sources said. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel too is apparently sulking and eyeing the hot seat before the Assembly polls scheduled for 2022. BJP’s state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav was rushed to calm the situation. Sources, however, said the problem remains unresolved amid speculation of a leadership change still rife. While the defeat in the recent Bengal polls has led to an all-out battle in the BJP’s state unit, internal bickering in Tripura, targeting chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, has surfaced again. While the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya faces attack from BJP leaders post the poll defeat, reports of him eyeing the chief minister’s chair in his home state Madhya Pradesh have also surfaced. The party has had to rule out any leadership change in the state, to end speculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Meeting at Pawar's residence breeds fictional third front notion ||A third front, excluding the Congress, to fight the RSS-BJP almost came into being on Monday, much like a political fairy tale creatively woven with imagination. The fictional political plot was hawked with such force that even the real characters involved got rattled, destabilising the objective of a dialogue between like-minded individuals. Yashwant Sinha, the architect of Tuesday’s meeting which is being projected as NCP veteran Sharad Pawar’s initiative, told The Telegraph: “This is not a meeting to form any third front or exclude the Congress. I cannot help if the media creates a false impression.” What accorded credibility to the impression that a third front of 12-13 parties was being unveiled is the venue of the meeting: Pawar’s residence. It was reported throughout the day that Pawar had invited leaders of non-Congress and non-BJP parties to float a separate front that will ultimately confront Narendra Modi’s dominance. Election strategist Prashant Kishor was portrayed as the mastermind of this grand idea. Kishor, however, has nothing to do with this event and his meeting with Pawar on Monday was unrelated, sources said. Although the venue is Pawar’s New Delhi residence, he is neither the host nor a part of the group holding the meeting. His party colleague Majid Menon, who is a member of the platform Rashtra Manch formed by like-minded individuals, fixed the venue as Pawar showed interest in meeting the leaders. This was enough for speculation to begin on an alleged Pawar conspiracy against the Congress. Kishor’s meeting with Pawar was interpreted as Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee’s blessings to the group. Initially, Trinamul’s Dinesh Trivedi was a member of this group but he has not been invited. Manish Tewari of the Congress too was a member but will not attend Tuesday’s meeting after the propaganda about its anti-Congress agenda. Another invitee, Kapil Sibal, has also declined to attend. The first invitation for this meeting was sent by Ghansyam Tewari, a spokesperson of the Samajwadi Party and a member of the Manch. As nobody responded favourably, Menon started talking to individual leaders and requesting them to attend “to discuss the current political scenario”. No senior leader — Mamata, Akhilesh Yadav, Tejashwi Yadav, M.K. Stalin, Uddhav Thackeray, Sitaram Yechury, D. Raja — will be present. The meeting might have attracted greater participation but for the propaganda on television. One senior Opposition leader, who initially consented to attend and later pulled out, told this newspaper: “Any inclusive politics should not begin with exclusion. What is this anti-Congress agenda? Is this how you plan to fight the RSS-BJP? We may be concerned about what the Congress is doing but the solution is not to jettison the main Opposition party.” Sinha said: “Rashtra Manch, formed three years ago, used to meet once in a while but couldn’t meet for the last 16 months due to Covid. We just thought we should meet now. The venue, decided by Majid Menon, incidentally happens to be Pawar’s residence. There is no agenda against the Congress. We are obviously against the policies of the Modi government. Any like-minded party can send their representatives for discussion. What shape this discussion will take in the future is not known. Nothing more, nothing less.” Those likely to attend the meeting are retired judge A.P. Singh, poet Javed Akhtar, lawyer K.T.S. Tulsi, former JDU leader Pawan Verma, journalists Karan Thapar, Ashutosh and Pritish Nandi and former Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Qureshi, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Bihar: Murder and violence in its aftermath leaves 3 persons dead||A murder and violence in its aftermath left three persons dead and several injured on Monday in Samastipur district in Bihar, around 90km from the state capital. The incident at Adharpur village under Muffasil police station began as a verbal altercation between resident Shrawan Kumar Rai and deputy mukhiya Muhammad Hasnain, but ended up claiming three lives. Rai was building a temporary conduit to drain out rainwater accumulated in front of his house, which was opposed by Hasnain. When Rai did not stop, Hasnain allegedly fired at him, killing him on the spot. Angered over the death, family members and supporters of Rai allegedly attacked and torched Hasnain’s house. Though he managed to flee, the mob thrashed Hasnain’s wife, son, daughter and nephew. A few vehicles parked outside the house were also damaged. Hasnain’s wife and nephew succumbed to their injuries, police said. Senior officials rushed to the village to control the situation, including Darbhanga zone inspector-general Ajitabh Kumar. “Three persons have lost their lives over a small issue. The deceased include Hasnain’s wife, who was thrashed and thrown into a water-filled ditch, and his nephew, who died while being taken to Darbhanga by the police for treatment,” Kumar told The Telegraph. He expressed relief that the incident did not disintegrate into a clash between two communities. “The area has no communal history and the people are aware that the incident was a fight between two families. The situation is under control and peaceful. There is no communal tension in the area,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Covid: Bihar govt to 're-verify' deaths following Patna HC rap ||The Bihar government has decided to “re-verify” Covid-19 deaths following a rap by Patna High Court for not making figures public and amid indications that the casualties could be huge after a news channel claimed there were around 75,000 deaths due to unexplained causes during the second wave of the pandemic. Asserting the need to immediately inform the State Health Society about pandemic-related deaths and showing desired sensitivity in the matter, the government has issued directions that “further information or applications about Covid-19 deaths prior to June 7 may come at the district level”, but has asked for stringent verification. “The district-level committees will have to review the received applications and documents provided with them to be sure that the death is due to Covid-19. “These committees will include the civil surgeon, assistant chief medical officer and a senior medical officer authorised by the civil surgeon,” says a letter issued by additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit on June 18 to all civil surgeons and district magistrates. The letter, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph, says that the report on the probable Covid-19 deaths by such committees will be forwarded to the State Health Society after being examined by the district magistrate. According to the letter, a three-member committee will review the forwarded reports at the state-level and provide the details about deaths back to the health society, where the list of Covid-19 deaths will be updated. Experts said that there was no harm in reviewing the applications of pandemic-related deaths, but it was not feasible or practical in a state where the health infrastructure is in a shambles, hospitals and doctors do not provide proper documents to patients, laboratory tests are not easily accessible, and a severe scarcity of doctors force people in rural areas to visit quacks. “It is for the government to decide whether its aim is to incorporate unaccounted Covid-19 deaths, or to reject the claims under the veil of verification. The latest directions seem aimed at the latter,” a civil surgeon told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity. “The letter talks about verifying documents, but quacks working in villages don’t even provide prescriptions. A majority of private hospitals do not provide a clear cause of death. They just write things like cardiac arrest, respiratory failure, cardio-respiratory or cardio-pulmonary failure or failure of other organs. So who will decide and ascertain the cause of death?” the civil surgeon asked. A senior doctor working with the state government pointed out that there were many instances in which rapid antigen tests and in a few cases even the RT-PCR test results came negative though the patient had all the symptoms of Covid-19. “Most of the Covid-19 tests done by the Bihar government have been rapid antigen ones in which 40 to 50 per cent erroneous reports come. This aspect should be considered while evaluating the suspected pandemic deaths. The government could also opt for exhuming bodies to find out whether they were wrapped as per the Covid-19 protocol. However, not much can be done with regard to bodies that have been cremated,” the senior doctor said. Bihar had revised the Covid-19 death figures from 5,478 to 9,429 on June 9 after Patna High Court had slammed the government over inconsistencies in death toll figures of Buxar district. The Nitish Kumar government had carried out a three-week audit that the high court had ordered amid allegations that the authorities were hiding the number of coronavirus infections and deaths. The high court again pulled up the state government in its order on June 18 in cases related to Covid-19 deaths. It asserted that the public had the right to know about the pandemic deaths and the state’s “reluctance to publish the number of deaths was uncalled for”, which could not be protected in any court of law. The letter by Amrit came in light of the June 18 high court order. On June 19, NDTV came out with a report indicating that nearly 75,000 people died of unexplained causes in Bihar from January to May 2021 during the second wave of Covid-19. The figures also showed a huge jump of 82,500 deaths in Bihar during this period in comparison to the same period in 2020. The figures indicate that coronavirus could be a probable cause behind the jump in the number of deaths in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Kannada row forces Centre to widen curriculum for online language-training course||The Centre was forced to widen the curriculum for an online language-training course for all its officials and all MPs on Monday evening after controversy erupted in Karnataka over the exclusion of Kannada from the original programme schedule. Janata Dal Secular leader and former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had accused the BJP, which rules the country and Karnataka, of being “against Kannada” and the state Congress had joined in along with pro-Kannada outfits. With the political temperature rising through the day, the Centre included in the programme, which was to begin on Tuesday, all the 22 Indian languages recognised in the Eight Schedule and tweaked the schedule. The course, organised by the Parliamentary Research and Training Institute for Democracies of the Lok Sabha secretariat and announced last week, originally included six Indian and six foreign languages. These were Bengali, Gujarati, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Odia, French, Portuguese, Japanese, Russian, Spanish and German. Narayan Gambhir, additional private secretary to parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, told The Telegraph in the evening that 16 languages had been added to the menu and additional sessions scheduled from July. On Tuesday, the programme will start with only the six foreign languages, he said. A second session will begin on July 5 covering the originally announced six Indian languages along with Kannada, Hindi, Sanskrit and Malayalam. A third session will start from July 12 and cover Assamese, Kashmiri, Sindhi, Urdu, Santhali, Nepali, Manipuri, Bodo, Dogri, Konkani, Maithili and Punjabi. “This course will help parliamentarians and officials learn any language they want,” Gambhir said. Asked why Kannada and several other Indian languages had been left out of the original programme, Gambhir said: “Perhaps there was some confusion.” Kumaraswamy congratulated all Kannadigas “who had sent out a warning”, tweeting: “This is the way we should remain united for Kannada.” Kumaraswamy had lit the fire by tweeting on Sunday night: “We must send out a clear message that they (the Centre) will be in trouble if they ignore Kannada. People should realise that the BJP is against Kannada since I have not seen a single BJP MP speak out against such neglect by the Centre.” He had added: “This is the result of sending 25 MPs (of the BJP) from our state who do not respect the Kannada language....” The controversy came at a time the Centre was intermittently facing charges of imposing Hindi on the states because of its increasing use of the language in communicating with them and its regular prods to state government departments to use more Hindi. Congress spokesperson V.S. Ugrappa too had accused the NDA government of “insulting” Kannadigas and “imposing Hindi and neglecting state languages”. Praveen Kumar, secretary of the pro-Kannada Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, had said a meeting of like-minded organisations would be held online and memorandums submitted to the deputy commissioners of all the districts. Cornered, BJP parliamentarians like Appachu Ranjan had declined comment, asking reporters to talk to Union minister Joshi, who is MP from Dharwad in Karnataka. Karnataka has over the decades witnessed several pro-Kannada agitations against perceived impositions of Hindi and, sometimes, English. Kumaraswamy was among politicians who had questioned the state-funded Hindi Divas held in September last year. “When will (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi celebrate Kannada day?” he had asked. Karnataka had seen widespread protests and roadblocks in September 2019 after Union home minister Amit Shah seemed to advocate a “one nation, one language” line, projecting Hindi as the only language that could unite the country. Several pro-Kannada organisations had got the Bangalore Metro to replace all its Hindi signboards after weeks of protests when they defaced everything written in Hindi. Since then, the boards have carried messages and signage only in Kannada and English. A senior academic who declined to be named said that elected representatives and officials would benefit by learning languages of other states and nations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Supreme Court of India to examine plea to hold board exams ||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine fresh pleas seeking restoration of Class XII examinations of the Central Board of Secondary Education and the ICSE council or an option to write the exams instead of relying on internal assessment, days after the top court granted in-principle approval to the formulas suggested by the two boards to award marks to this year’s outgoing students. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari asked attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, representing the CBSE, and a counsel appearing for the ICSE council to place their views by Tuesday on the plea, besides suggestions for uniform assessment criteria by the two boards in awarding the marks. The court, which is dealing with a fresh batch of petitions challenging the decisions of the two boards to cancel the exam, posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday 2pm. On June 17, the court had granted in-principle approval to the CBSE and ICSE council to declare this year’s Class XII results on the basis of internal assessment marks obtained by students of the respective boards for the last three and six years respectively in response to a PIL. On Monday, senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for students and parents challenging cancellation of the exams insisted that they should be conducted by asking students to wear “double masks”. “It is a very important exam. If this assessment (internal marks) is followed, there will be a lot of uncertainty and more litigation,” Singh said. “Our contention is that this isn’t a market place and teachers and students can come with double masks,” the senior counsel argued. The court took on record the following suggestions made by Singh: ⚫ The students should be given the option to choose between the two options, that is, either appearing for the physical exam or opting for the criteria adopted by CBSE/ICSE. ⚫ The option to improvise the result by writing the improvement exams must be given at the outset before declaration of results. In other words, the petitioners were of the view that the students cannot be allowed to first wait for the internal assessment results and thereafter opt for the exams. ⚫ There should be uniform criteria for assessment by the CBSE and ICSE. Justice Khanwilkar, heading the bench, while referring to the plea for uniform criteria for assessment by the two boards orally observed: “These are two different dispensations. Apple can’t be compared to orange.” However, the bench asked both the CBSE and ICSE to respond to the plea by Tuesday. Another advocate Abhishekh Chaudhary, appearing for some private and compartmental students, said the decision of the CBSE to conduct exams for them instead of adopting internal assessment like that for regular students was arbitrary and unconstitutional. The counsel argued that such a policy was discriminatory and violated Article 14 of the Constitution, which prohibited discrimination between two classes of citizens. The bench agreed to consider all these issues on Tuesday. The court will also hear the plea for cancellation of Class XII board exams by various states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-46
22-06-2021||India||Covid: CBSE to announce Class XII results on July 31||The Central Board of Secondary Education on Monday told the Supreme Court it would announce the Class XII results on July 31 and hold an in-person examination for aggrieved students between August 15 and September 15 if conditions are conducive. It said it had formed a committee to deal with complaints by students unhappy with the marks awarded to them. It also provided details and clarifications about the “standardisation” methodology it would adopt to ensure the schools were not overgenerous or too stingy in evaluating their students. The CBSE had on Thursday submitted an affidavit in the apex court outlining how, with the Class XII board exams cancelled because of the pandemic, its schools would award marks to the students on the basis of their Class X boards and internal Class XI and XII exams. The court had then asked the board to provide for a dispute resolution mechanism for students aggrieved with the marks awarded, and specify the dates for declaration of results and the conduct of the optional, in-person exam. On Monday, the board said the physical examination will be conducted “only in the main subjects as and when conditions are conducive” and the marks obtained “will be treated as final for those who opt to take this examination”. Any student looking to improve their marks can take the physical exam, and so can “private/patrachar (correspondence course)/2nd-chance compartment candidates”. Standardisation On Thursday, the CBSE had clarified that the students’ results in their Class X boards and Class XI and XII exams would respectively be awarded 30 per cent, 30 per cent and 40 per cent weightage while calculating the theory marks in each subject. The practical-cum-internal assessment component would reflect the exact marks awarded under this head in Class XII. However, since the Class XI and XII marks would have been awarded by the individual schools themselves, the board had suggested a “standardisation” formula to weed out any arbitrariness. This was to be done by taking as the “reference year” the particular year out of the previous three years in which the school had performed the best in the Class XII board exams. A result committee formed by the school would then ensure that: ⚫ The average marks awarded by the school in any subject for 2020-2021 are within 5 marks above or below the average score obtained by its students in that subject in the reference year. ⚫ The average marks the school awards its students in 2020-2021 across all the subjects should not exceed the overall average marks obtained by its students in the reference year by 2. On Monday, the CBSE sought to clarify any doubts about the process, saying: ⚫ If only two years’ data for a school is available, the best performance out of two years will be the reference. If just a year’s data is available, that year will be the reference year. ⚫ If a school’s students are clearing Class XII for the first time, the CBSE will provide the past three years’ district, state and national averages of schools from the same category — private, aided, KVS, Navodaya, and the like. Based on this, the reference-year figures will be worked out. ⚫ Schools that have switched over from other boards will use their past performance under their previous boards subject to approval by the CBSE. ⚫ If any school has 10 or fewer students in any subject, it need not take into account the subject average from the reference year but only the overall average of all the subjects taken together. ⚫ The CBSE will provide the schools with the broad distribution of marks obtained by their students in each subject each year — for instance, the proportion of the schools’ students obtaining an aggregate score above 90 per cent. Once the school result committee finalises the marks on the basis of exams, it must ensure the scores largely match the broad distribution provided by the board. To make it easy for the schools, the CBSE will prepare an online system in which the schools can enter the marks awarded and check whether these conform to the historical distribution. If there’s a mismatch, the result committee must revise the marks according to a consistent and objective criterion that should be spelt out. Built-in checks for marks distribution as well as subject-wise average marks will be available in the online system. Only if the marks awarded by a school are consistent with the board policy will the CBSE portal allow them to be uploaded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-47
