23-06-2021||India||J&K: Farooq Abdullah holds talks with National Conference leaders||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday held consultations with his party leaders from Jammu over the Centre's invite to mainstream political parties in the union territory for talks.  The NC leaders from the Jammu region said they stand for a single Jammu and Kashmir by maintaining its unity and integrity and by respecting the wishes and aspirations of its people.  The delegation was led by NC's provincial president for Jammu Devender Singh Rana.  Speaking to reporters outside Abdullah's residence, Rana said, "Our only stand is a single J-K, to maintain its unity and integrity and respecting the wishes and aspirations of the people of J-K."  He said dialogue and inclusiveness is an important and vital essence of democracy.  "Any dialogue that can take us out of this morass and which will lead to the welfare of the state of J-K and its people, we are all for it," he said.  Fourteen leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, including Abdullah, have been invited to the meeting on Thursday to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the future course of action for the union territory.  The meeting is the first such exercise since the Centre announced the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 of the Constitution and its bifurcation into union territories on August 5, 2019.  Rana said the party leaders from Jammu have reposed faith in Abdullah as he is not only the president of the NC but also the tallest leader of J-K.  "He (Abdullah) has assured us that he will represent us and the people of J-K with his wisdom and he alone and alone can take this dialogue forward for welfare of the people of J-K and anything that is for the welfare of the people of J-K, he said.  Rana said as far as the pluralistic Jammu is concerned, it has its own aspirations and its own desires.  "We are for singular J-K, have always stood for the unity of J-K and equitable justice to all regions and sub-regions of J-K and we will always hold the aspirations of all the people of J-K as much as for Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, he said.  Asked if the leader from Jammu region want dialogue with Pakistan as was pitched by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday, Rana said he will not get into the intricacies .  "Abdullah is going for a dialogue, it is a dialogue with the PM of India and it is an inclusive dialogue and we are very hopeful that it will lead to the betterment of the state of J-K, peace, progress and prosperity of J-K.  "We are for J-K, for the people of J-K. We are not here for any power politics, we are here for the people of J-K and we will always stand for the people of J-K, for their welfare, their growth, their development, he said.  Asked if they expected the PM's meeting will pave the way for holding Assembly elections in the Union Territory, Rana said everything is not about elections.  "Right now, we are at the crossroads of history in J-K and dialogue is the only way forward. There is no reason to sabotage the dialogue. We are going with an open mind. Abdullah is the tallest of the tall leaders of J-K...whether somebody likes it or not, he is the best person suited to represent J-K and represent the aspirations of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, he said.  He added that the NC president has assured them that all three regions will be represented by him equitably and properly.  Rana also said the people want that the aspirations of Jammu and Kashmir as well as Ladakh should be respected.  Asked if he wanted the restoration of statehood with special status, he said, Who does not want the state and of course, our own identity, our job protections and land protections."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
23-06-2021||India||ADR releases report on electoral trusts 2019-20||The BJP received Rs 276.45 crore or 76.17 per cent of total donations given to all political parties from electoral trusts in 2019-20, according to a report by poll rights group ADR (Association for Democratic Reforms). The BJP was followed by the Congress which received Rs 58 crore or 15.98 per cent of total donations received by all parties from all seven electoral trusts, it said.  The report that analysed contribution reports of electoral trusts for financial year 2019-20 said top donors to the electoral trusts included JSW, Apollo Tyres, Indiabulls, Delhi International Airport and DLF groups.  JSW Steel Ltd. contributed the highest amount worth Rs 39.10 crore among all donors of electoral trusts, followed by Apollo Tyres Ltd. with Rs 30 crore and Indiabulls Infraestate Ltd which contributed Rs 25 crore to various trusts.  Eighteen individuals contributed to electoral trusts in 2019-20. Ten individuals contributed Rs 2.87 crore to Prudent Electoral Trust, four individuals contributed Rs 5.50 lakhs to Small Donations Electoral Trust and four individuals gave a total of Rs 1 lakh to Swadeshi Electoral Trust, the report said.  "BJP received Rs 276.45 crore or 76.17 per cent of the total donations received by all political parties from electoral trusts followed by Congress which received Rs 58 crore or 15.98 per cent of the total donations received by all parties from all seven electoral Trusts. Other 12 political parties including AAP, SHS, SP, Yuva Jan Jagriti Party, Jannayak Party, JDU, JMM, LJP, SAD, INLD, JKNC and RLD received a total of Rs 25.4652 crore collectively," the report said. The Election Commission had circulated guidelines for submission of contribution reports of electoral trusts to submit an annual report containing details of contributions received by the electoral trusts and disbursed by them to political parties in the interest of transparency. These guidelines were issued to seven electoral trusts formed after January 2013 -- Satya Electoral Trust, Pratinidhi Electoral Trust, People's Electoral Trust, Progressive Electoral Trust, Janhit Electoral Trust, Bajaj Electoral Trust and Janpragati Electoral Trust. Fourteen out of the 21 electoral trusts, registered with the Central Board of Direct Taxes, submitted their contribution details in 2019-20 to the EC of which only seven declared to have received any donations during that year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Air India to resume India-UAE flights from June 24 onwards||India's national carrier Air India will resume its flight operations from UAE Thursday onwards, weeks after the nation had suspended incoming flights from India due to the surge in coronavirus cases, an official statement said on Wednesday.  Effective June 24, 2021 (10:00am) all Air India flights will operate from Terminal-1 of Dubai International Airport (DXB). All passengers booked to travel on or after June 24 are requested to report at Dubai Terminal-1, Air India said in a statement here.  All passengers booked to travel on or after June 24 are requested to report at Dubai Terminal-1.  Meanwhile Air India Express flights scheduled to depart from Dubai will continue to operate from Dubai Terminal-2.  On April 24, the UAE's General Authority of Civil Aviation and the National Emergency, Crisis and Disaster Management Authority (NCEMA) announced that entry from India will be suspended for all incoming flights on national and foreign carriers due to the surge in the cases of coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Vaccine: High drama during parliamentary panel, BJP MPs walk out||A parliamentary panel meeting on the issue of vaccine development witnessed high drama on Wednesday as several BJP MPs walked out of it asserting that this is not the appropriate time to discuss the vaccine policy, sources said. Scientific Advisor to the government K Vijaya Raghavan, ICMR DG VK Bhargava and Secretary in the Department of Biotechnology Renu Swarup were among those who deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology. The meeting was chaired by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh on the agenda of vaccine development for Covid-19 and genetic sequencing of coronavirus and its variants. When several opposition MPs expressed their desire to ask questions about the Centre's vaccination policy such as increasing the gap between two doses, the BJP MPs strongly opposed it and few of them even demanded postponement of the meeting and walked out, the sources said. The BJP MPs were of the opinion that as the vaccine drive is going on in the country, this is not the appropriate time to raise such issues which may hamper the vaccination process, the sources said. Panel chairman Ramesh underlined that the meeting should be held according to its agenda, they said. When a BJP MP stuck to the demand for postponement of the meeting, and wanted a vote on it, Ramesh categorically refused it saying that standing committee meetings are conducted through consensus. Ramesh was of the view that there would be no voting, even if it would be his last meeting as chairman, according to the sources. The Opposition MPs asserted that they also have the right to question as they are answerable to people as parliamentarians, they said. The sources said the drama lasted for about an hour after which top officials were called to depose before the meeting. During the meeting, all members applauded the scientific community for their role amid the pandemic, the sources said. Later, Ramesh in a tweet termed all the reports claiming that PM-CARES was mentioned in the meeting as false and said it was not mentioned even once in 150 minutes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Amarinder meets 3-member AICC panel, discusses poll promises in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh Tuesday met a three-member AICC panel set up to end factionalism and strengthen the party in the state ahead of next year's assembly elections and discussed the progress made on poll promises. Singh met the panel's chairman Mallikarjun Kharge at his Parliament House office of the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha. AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal, who are the other members of the panel, were also present during the over three-hour meeting. Singh is learnt to have discussed how to strengthen the party in Punjab and present a united Congress ahead of the assembly polls. Sources said the panel also worked out a schedule for fulfilling the remaining poll promises made in Punjab and discussed the plan with the chief minister. The panel has been entrusted with the task of readying the Congress for the next year's assembly elections in Punjab. Singh is also learnt to have discussed the latest public utterances made by his former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is at loggerheads with him. This is the second occasion in recent times that Singh has met the panel. He had earlier met its members at the AICC headquarters, before submission of the panel report. Meanwhile, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is also learnt to have stepped in and is meeting some key leaders of the Congress from Punjab, including some sitting MPs, legislators and ministers. Gandhi will be meeting some other leaders from Punjab on Wednesday, including PCC chief Sunil Jakhar. Kharge has also said that all issues will be resolved amicably and the Congress will fight next year's assembly polls under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. The panel members have taken note of Sidhu's recent interviews and have expressed "displeasure" over his outbursts. They are of the view that all party matters should be discussed in the party forum and not in public. Rawat is learnt to have apprised the party leadership about the recent outbursts of Sidhu, the sources said. The panel was formed to resolve issues of factionalism in the Punjab Congress and present a united face of the party. Among the issues pending include revamping the party and cabinet, besides rehabilitation of former Punjab minister Sidhu. Sidhu, who is eyeing the PCC chief post, is not willing to join Singh's cabinet again, which he quit it in 2019 following differences with the chief minister after his portfolio was changed. The panel in its report to party chief Sonia Gandhi has suggested that elections should be held under the charge of Singh and Sidhu may be suitably accommodated. Meanwhile, chief minister Amarinder Singh also met senior party leader Ambika Soni at her residence here. Soni has been unwell for some time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Covid: Spike in Maharashtra as cases rise to 10,066||After a gap of seven days, Maharashtra on Wednesday crossed the 10,000 single-day case mark and reported 10,066 Covid-19 infections, taking its tally to 59,97,587, said the state health department. The state on June 16 had reported 10,107 cases and since then, the daily count has remained below 10,000. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday expressed concern over statewide daily cases not remaining below 7,000-8,000 on a consistent basis. With 163 more deaths, the fatality count increased to 1,19,303, the health department said. Out of them, 109 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and 54 in the last week. Deaths that took place more than a week's ago are being added in the cumulative tally as part of a data reconciliation exercise. Under the exercise, 345 previously unreported deaths were added to the overall toll figure, the department said in a report. The state's COVID-19 recovery rate is 95.93 per cent, while the case fatality rate is 1.99 per cent, the report said. As many as 11,032 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recovered cases to 57,53,290 and leaving the state with 1,21,859 active cases, the department said. There are 5,92,108 people in home quarantine and 4,223 in institutional quarantine, the report said. With 2,41,801 more tests in the last 24 hours, the cumulative figure of samples examined for coronavirus reached 4,01,28,355, it said. According to the statement, Mumbai city reported 864 new cases and 23 deaths, taking its infection tally to 7,21,963 and the toll to 15,338. In the Mumbai division, comprising the city and its satellite towns, there were 2,515 new cases and 36 deaths. This took the cumulative caseload in the region to 15,81,638 and the deaths to 31,503, it said. The Nashik division reported 703 cases and six deaths, the health department said. The Pune division recorded 2,423 cases and 34 deaths, of which 17 came from Satara district alone, the statement said. The Kolhapur division reported 3,617 cases and 68 deaths, of which rural parts of Kolhapur and Sangli registered 20 and 23, respectively. Kolhapur city added 14 deaths. The Aurangabad division registered 160 new infections and one death, while the Latur division added 332 cases and eight fatalities, the statement said. The Akola division reported 178 cases and two deaths, while the Nagpur division registered 138 cases and eight deaths, the statement said. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 59,97,587; new cases 10,066; deaths 1,19,303; recoveries 57,53,290; active cases 1,21,859; total tests so far 4,01,28,355.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||High drama at Parliamentary Panel over vaccine policy ||A parliamentary panel meeting on the issue of vaccine development witnessed high drama on Wednesday as several BJP MPs walked out of it asserting that this is not the appropriate time to discuss the vaccine policy, sources said. Scientific Advisor to the government K Vijaya Raghavan, ICMR DG VK Bhargava and Secretary in the Department of Biotechnology Renu Swarup were among those who deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology. The meeting was chaired by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh on the agenda of vaccine development for COVID-19 and genetic sequencing of coronavirus and its variants. When several opposition MPs expressed their desire to ask questions about the Centre's vaccination policy such as increasing the gap between two doses, the BJP MPs strongly opposed it and few of them even demanded postponement of the meeting and walked out, the sources said. The BJP MPs were of the opinion that as the vaccine drive is going on in the country, this is not the appropriate time to raise such issues which may hamper the vaccination process, the sources said. Panel chairman Ramesh underlined that the meeting should be held according to its agenda, they said. When a BJP MP stuck to the demand for postponement of the meeting, and wanted a vote on it, Ramesh categorically refused it saying that standing committee meetings are conducted through consensus. Ramesh was of the view that there would be no voting, even if it would be his last meeting as chairman, according to the sources. The Opposition MPs asserted that they also have the right to question as they are answerable to people as parliamentarians, they said. The sources said the drama lasted for about an hour after which top officials were called to depose before the meeting. During the meeting, all members applauded the scientific community for their role amid the pandemic, the sources said. Later, Ramesh in a tweet termed all the reports claiming that PM-CARES was mentioned in the meeting as false and said it was not mentioned even once in 150 minutes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi 'captain' of Congress in Uttar Pradesh: Salman Khurshid||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid has said it is up to AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to decide the manner in which she will present herself to the voters in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, but asserted that she is a "great face" and the "captain" leading the party's charge in the state. He also asserted that the Congress will emerge as the principal challenger to the BJP before the Assembly elections and Priyanka Gandhi is determined to ensure that the party fights the polls with all its might. In an interview with PTI, Khurshid said the Congress would not keep waiting for alliances but was determined to fight the polls hard with everything "we have got". Asked if Priyanka Gandhi was the party's best bet to be the chief ministerial face, the former Union minister said, "I am not going to answer that till such time as she does not give us an indication. But she is a wonderful, great face." "All you have to do is to put the picture of (UP Chief Minister) Yogi (Adityanath) in front of you and Priyanka Gandhi's picture and you won't need to ask any more questions," said Khurshid, who is the chief of the party's manifesto committee for the state. But the manner in which she will present herself, offer herself to the voters in UP will be her decision, he stressed. "I hope that she will take a decision and let us know. As far as we are concerned she is the captain and she is leading us," Khurshid said of the Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh. On the Congress still not being the principal challenger in UP despite efforts by Priyanka Gandhi, Khurshid admitted that the party was not the principal challenger as of now but expressed confidence that it would be before the polls in 2022. He asserted that the party is going to fight the assembly elections "real hard", highlighting that Priyanka Gandhi is determined to ensure that the party fights with all its might in the polls. On whether the Congress has the capacity to go it alone, Khurshid asked if there is any alliance on the cards, and added that "nobody has specifically talked to us about an alliance as I understand". There is no point in hypotheticals being discussed, the 68-year-old leader said. Pressed further on whether the party has the bandwidth to go it alone in the assembly polls, Khurshid said the party would have to fight on its own but added a caveat on alliances -- if something happens and leadership takes a call then it may be different. "But let us not forget the last time we fought in an alliance we did not do well. I am not even sure if the two who got into the alliance -- the Congress and the Samajwadi Party -- have figured out why they did not do well. We did not spend any time on that at all," Khurshid said. He said that for any alliance to happen with anybody, its ground rules must be known as to what might or might not work. "So if someone wants to talk about alliances, I think we will have to first figure this out. Do alliances work in UP, can they work in UP? What was lacking in the last alliance and what we need to do?" he said. Khurshid, however, added that all this will not hold the party back on preparing itself for the polls. "So we are preparing ourselves for the job (elections), we are not going to keep waiting, we are not going to be expecting, we are not going to have any excuses. Everyday we have to work towards the elections and we will work towards the election," he said. "We are determined to fight it hard, we are determined to fight it with everything we have got," the senior Congress leader asserted. The Congress won just seven seats while its alliance partner Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats in the 403-member assembly in the 2017 Assembly polls. The BJP won a thumping mandate with 312 seats and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) bagged 19 seats. SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav, during an interview last week, had said his party will not enter into any alliance with big parties and will go together in the election with smaller parties. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||UK High Court rejects Nirav Modi's extradition plea||Wanted diamond merchant Nirav Modi, whose extradition to India was ordered in April by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, has lost the first stage of his extradition appeal in the High Court here. The appeal was before a High Court judge for a decision on the papers submitted for the appeal to determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the Home Secretary's decision or the Westminster Magistrates Court February ruling in favour of Nirav Modi's extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering. A High Court official confirmed that the permission to appeal was "rejected on paper" on Tuesday, which leaves the 50-year-old jeweller with a chance to make his case at a brief oral hearing in the High Court with a renewed leave to appeal application for a judge to determine if it can proceed to a full appeal hearing. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Prashant Kishor and Sharad Pawar meet again||Political strategist Prashant Kishor met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar in New Delhi on Wednesday, a day after leaders of eight opposition parties gathered at Pawar's residence and discussed various issues facing the country. According to sources, the closed-door discussions between Kishor and Pawar, held at the latter's residence in Delhi, lasted for about an hour. This was their third meeting within a fortnight. Kishor, who was instrumental in the thumping victory of the Trinamool Congress in the West Bengal Assembly polls, had met Pawar over lunch at his residence in Mumbai on June 11. He again called on the NCP chief at his residence in Delhi on Monday. These meetings with Pawar has fuelled speculations about the possibility of opposition parties coming together to form a third front against the BJP. Pawar on Tuesday hosted a meeting of the leaders of eight Opposition parties including the Trinamool Congress, the Samajwadi Party, the Aam Aadmi Party, the Rashtriya Lok Dal and the Left at his residence in Delhi. However, leaders who took part in that discussions asserted that it was a "non-political" meeting of like-minded individuals by Rashtriya Manch that was floated by former finance minister and TMC vice-president Yashwant Sinha along with others. Before the opposition leaders' meeting on Tuesday, Pawar also chaired NCP's national executive meeting the same day and had "a detailed discussion" with his party leaders on its "future policies", its role in the next Lok Sabha polls and current national issues." The opposition party leaders' meet at Pawar's residence was attended by National Conference's leader Omar Abdullah, SP's Ghanshyam Tiwari, RLD president Jayant Chaudhary, Sushil Gupta from the AAP, Binoy Viswam from the CPI, Nilotpal Basu from CPI-M and TMC vice-president Yashwant Sinha among others. Former Congress leader Sanjay Jha and Janata Dal-United's (JD-U) ex-leader Pavan Verma also participated in the meeting. Besides politicians, several eminent personalities such as Javed Akhtar, former ambassador KC Singh and Justice (retd) A P Shah were also present at Tuesday's meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||Ramdev challenges FIRs over his remarks on allopathy at SC||Yoga televangelist Ramdev has moved the Supreme Court to appeal for a stay on the police cases against him for his comments on allopathy and sought to club the FIRs across the country together and transfer them to Delhi. Ramdev’s comments on the efficacy of allopathic medicines gained a controversial spotlight in May, drawing the ire of the medical fraternity, when the country was battling the second wave of Covid-19. A controversy had erupted after he was heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19". "Lakhs of people have died because of allopathic medicines, far more than those who died because they did not get treatment or oxygen," he was heard saying in a widely shared video. He even called allopathic medicines stupid, which angered doctors all over the country. The remarks were met with vociferous protests, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement. The next day, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement. However, several doctors' associations across the country filed complaints against him with the police, based on which multiple cases were lodged. In a U-turn, however, the yoga guru earlier this month called doctors the "envoys of God" and vowed to get vaccinated, while urging others to do the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-41
23-06-2021||India||India reports around 40 cases of Delta plus variant: Centre||Around 40 cases of the Delta plus variant, classified as a variant of concern (VOC), have been detected sporadically in Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Delta variant as well as all Delta sub-lineages including Delta plus are classified as VOC, it said. "As of now among the samples sequenced (45000+) in India, Delta plus variant -- AY.1 --has been observed sporadically in Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, with around 40 cases identified so far and no significant increase in prevalence," the ministry said in its statement. These three states have been advised to strengthen surveillance and take appropriate public health measures. “After the report of AY.1 by the Public Health England (PHE) on June 11, retrospective analysis of samples revealed the first occurrence of this lineage from a sample collected from Maharashtra. The sample was collected on April 5. “As of June 18, 205 sequences of AY.1 lineage were detected worldwide, with the USA and the UK having over half of the known cases,” the statement said. INSACOG had recently identified a viral variant (delta, B.1.617.2). This viral variant has also been seen in nine other countries of the world. INSACOG is an Indian consortium of 28 labs, established by the Government of India to carry out genome sequencing of the virus causing the Covid-19 pandemic. “The World Health Organisation has introduced a classification as VOC (variant of concern) and VOI (variant of interest), with the evolution of several variants around the globe. “Delta variant as well as all Delta sub-lineages including Delta Plus are classified as VOC,” the statement said. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG)reported the evolution of Delta plus variant (B.1.617.2) + K417N lineage of SARS-CoV2 called B.1.617.2.1/ AY.1. “The Delta plus variant B.1.617.2.1/ (AY.1) is characterized by the K417N mutation in spike protein,” the statement said. “The spike protein aids the virus to gain receptor-mediated entry into human cells. K417N corresponds to the change of amino acid lysine (K) to asparagine (N) at the 417th position of spike protein. There are other Delta plus variants with other mutations. “The AY.1 is the most well-known, but these are not identical. A second clade found in sequences uploaded to GISAID from the USA, is now designated AY.2, but is not seen in India yet,” the statement said. "All Delta sub-lineages are treated as a variant of concern VOC, although properties of AY.1 are still being investigated. Currently, the variant frequency of AY.1 is low in India. Cases with AY.1 have been mostly reported from nine countries of Europe, Asia and America," the ministry statement stated. The SARS-CoV-2 virus causing Covid-19 disease is mutating continuously with an increase in the number of infections both across the world and in India. Mutations help the virus to become either more transmissible or more virulent or both. With time these mutations known as Variants of Interest (VOI) increase in frequency in the selected population and are considered then as VOC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||BJP will lose Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday expressed confidence that the BJP will lose the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. In an interview with ndtv.com, he also revealed that his party will not contest the polls with major parties, and instead would go for like-minded smaller parties for alliance. "My experience with big parties is not good, I will not get into any alliance with them," Akhilesh told ndtv.com, without naming Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress. The Samajwadi Party is targeting 300 of the 403 Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, he further said. "The BJP is going to lose the upcoming UP elections... they failed the people of UP in the biggest test of their leadership. The government is still hiding the true Covid deaths," he SP chief said in the interview. On being asked about the controversial comments he made on Covid-19 vaccines, the leader vowed to take his jab only after the poor of the state were fully inoculated free of cost. "I had only refused to take the vaccine initially because it had not completed all the trials," Akhilesh said on concerns that he had initially fuelled vaccine hesitancy by refusing to take it and labelling Bharat Biotech's Covaxin as the "BJP vaccine". The leader also refuted claims that the SP was not visible on the ground ahead of the state's Assembly polls. "We have held training camps across UP. When the farmer's protest began our karyakartas showed support. I myself wanted to go to Kannauj but was not allowed to leave my house... you can't just show what the BJP wants to project," the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||40 per cent loss in Mallya, PNB fraud cases realised, informs ED||About 40 per cent of the money lost by banks in alleged frauds perpetrated by fugitive businessmen Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya has been recovered so far, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said after the sale of attached shares worth over Rs 5,800 crore on Wednesday. According to the agency, the latest sale proceeds take the total value of recovery to Rs 9,041.5 crore, or 40 per cent of the over Rs 22,000 crore allegedly defrauded by the trio. Commenting on the development, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted, "Fugitives & economic offenders will be actively pursued; their properties attached & dues recovered." The three, who fled overseas as probe against them gathered pace, are being investigated by central investigative agencies such as the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after they were alleged to have cheated banks, and these frauds have been categorised as among the country's biggest criminal loan heist till date. The central agency gave the low-down on these two cases -- the estimated Rs 13,000 crore fraud allegedly carried out by diamond trader Nirav Modi, his uncle Mehul Choksi and others in the Brady House branch of PNB in Mumbai and the about Rs 9,000 crore Kingfisher Airlines fraud triggered by Mallya -- in a statement issued here. It said the three "defrauded" public sector banks by siphoning off the funds through their companies which resulted in total loss of over Rs 22,000 crore (Rs 22,585.83 crore in definite numbers) to a clutch of banks. The ED, empowered to probe such cases under criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), went on to attach and seize total assets worth Rs 18,170.02 crore in these two cases that included Rs 969 crore worth of properties "located" abroad. "The quantum of the attached and seized assets represent 80.45 per cent of the total bank loss of Rs 22,585.83 crore," the ED said. On Wednesday, out of these attached assets, the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) on behalf of an SBI-led consortium that lent money to Mallya sold fresh shares worth Rs 5,824.50 crore of United Breweries Limited (UBL), the agency said. The DRT action came after the ED transferred the shares worth about Rs 6,624 crore of UBL attached by it to the SBI-led consortium on the directions of a special PMLA court that is hearing these cases in Mumbai. "Further realisation of Rs 800 crore by sale of these shares is expected by June 25," it added. The banks have earlier "recovered" Rs 1,357 crore by a similar sale of shares in the case against Mallya and his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines, the ED said. Another Rs 1,060 crore worth of assets were "restituted" to the banks earlier in the probe against Nirav Modi, they said. As of date, the ED said, assets worth Rs 9,041.5 crore, "representing 40 per cent of the total loss to the banks, have been handed over to public sector banks." "Thus, the banks shall be realising total amount of Rs 9,041.5 crore through sale of a part of assets attached/seized by ED under the PMLA," it said. In addition, official sources said, Rs 329.67 crore has been realised in the government exchequer after Modi's assets were confiscated in July last year after the 50-year-old diamantaire was declared a fugitive economic offender by a special court in Mumbai. The ED said the probe has "irrevocably proved" that the three used dummy entities controlled by them for rotation and siphoning off the funds provided by the banks. "The investigators had to pierce through the multi-layered corporate veil to find these assets that were held in exclusive possession." "It was a myriad web of domestic and international transactions and stashing of assets abroad," a senior officer said. The ED also got repatriated to the country assets like gold and diamond jewellery (of Modi and Choksi firms) from abroad to ensure they are not disposed of and are available to the banks and the government exchequer for seizure. The agency said "a substantial part of these assets were held in the names of dummy entities, trusts, third persons, relatives of these accused and these entities were proxy of the three accused to hold these assets." It said the extradition of Mallya (65) "has been ordered by the Westminster Magistrates Court and confirmed by the UK High Court." "Since Mallya has been denied permission to file an appeal in the UK Supreme Court, his extradition to India has become final," it added. It said Modi too has lost his extradition plea and has been in a London jail for the last 2.3 years. Choksi (62) had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen, and later surfaced in neighbouring Dominica from where India is trying to get him deported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||Privacy policy: HC refuses to stay CCI notice to Facebook, WhatsApp||The Delhi High Court has refused to stay the Competition Commission of India (CCI) notice asking Facebook and WhatsApp to furnish certain information in relation to a probe ordered by it into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. A vacation bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh said an application seeking stay of further steps in the investigation already stands filed in which notice was issued to the Director General of CCI in which no interim relief was given by the division bench on May 6 and is listed for consideration on July 9. "We also find that there is substantial overlap, in fact near identity, as between the prayers made in (earlier application) and those made in the present application. For the foregoing reason, we do not consider it appropriate to stay the operation of impugned notice dated June 8, at this stage," the bench said in its order passed on June 21 and made available on Wednesday. The case relates to the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe CCI ordered into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. The high court had earlier issued notices on the appeals and asked the Centre to respond to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||India's total Covid tally crosses 3 crore mark||India's total tally of COVID-19 cases crossed the three crore mark with one crore infections being added in 50 days. The total tally mounted to 3,00,28,709 with 50,848 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 3,90,660 with 1,358 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. India' total COVID-19 infections had surpassed the one crore mark on December 19 after which it took around 136 days to cross the two crore mark on May 4. According to the data published at 7 am, India administered 54.24 lakh vaccine doses in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative doses to 29.46 crore. The active cases further declined to 6,43,194 comprising 2.14 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.56 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 19,327 cases has been recorded in the COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 19,01,056 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 39,59,73,198. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.67 per cent . It has been less than five per cent for 16 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.12 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 41st consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,89,94,855, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.30 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 1,358 new fatalities include 482 from Maharashtra, 194 from Tamil Nadu, 141 from Kerala and 139 from Karnataka. A total of 3,90,660 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,18,795 from Maharashtra, 34,164 from Karnataka, 31,580 from Tamil Nadu, 24,933 from Delhi, 22,282 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,437 from West Bengal, 15,888 from Punjab and 13,402 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||BJP-ruled states accused of holding back vaccines to make Monday record possible||A political row has erupted over whether the national record set by the Centre in administering 8.6 million Covid-19 shots in a single day on Monday was a publicity stunt aimed at boosting the image of the government’s controversy-ridden vaccine drive that has been plagued by shortages. Critics charge that BJP-ruled states went slow in giving jabs in the days beforehand to allow for the massive surge in the number of jabs delivered. The shots were the most given in a single day since the Covid immunisation programme began in January. The Centre has said the stellar vaccination performance was due to regaining control of vaccine procurement from the states and Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Monday, “Well done India!” Madhya Pradesh was the most glaring example of the alleged holding back of vaccine doses by BJP-governed states in order to create the one-day record, Opposition politicians say. They point to data on the Union government’s CoWin vaccination site that they say is clear evidence. “Clearly, yesterday (Monday) was a pre-planned image-booster. Today (Tue Jun insday) we have not sustained that level (of vaccinations). We simply have to sustain at least 80 lakhs a day for the next four-five months,” said senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh. Some experts say that the country needs to administer as many as one crore doses a day to shield people from new Covid-19 outbreaks. Madhya Pradesh administered 16.9 lakh jabs on Monday, the most in the country. The next day, though, on Tuesday, health authorities in the state administered a record low of just 4,536 shots, according to the CoWin portal. Before administering the 16.9 lakh vaccines on Monday, Madhya Pradesh gave just 692 inoculations on Sunday. In fact, the number of shots being delivered by Madhya Pradesh had been declining precipitously in the state for several days before the record tally. Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health, told reporters on Tuesday that Monday’s numbers are sustainable but added a crucial rider “when vaccines and capacity is available.” He said Monday’s performance was thanks to “coordinated planning between the states and the Centre” and that it was “expected to continue.” On Tuesday, health authorities nationwide administered 51 lakh doses, considerably above its average so far this month of 35 lakh doses. Speaking Monday to Doordarshan, government adviser Vinod Kumar Paul said India has the capacity to administer 12.5 million doses a day and intends to give jabs to at least 10 million people daily. He said vaccine supply shortages were a thing of the past as the government anticipated having between 200 to 220 million doses in July. Paul’s projected number of vaccines is considerably higher than previous government statements. India has around 120 million doses available this month, an increase from 75 million in May, and had said it expected that some 135 million doses would be available in July. After the devastating second Covid-19 wave, experts see a fast vaccine rollout as vital to averting even worse coronavirus outbreaks. The record number of vaccine doses administered Monday came on the first day of the government’s new inoculation strategy in which the Central Government provided free vaccines against Covid to adults across states. Another BJP-ruled state Karnataka administered the second-biggest number of vaccinations on Monday -- 11.21 lakh doses. It had given just 68,172 jabs on Sunday. The day following Monday’s big number of jabs it delivered 3.8 lakh shots. High numbers of vaccinations administered were reported by BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana. Uttar Pradesh administered 7.25 lakh doses on Monday, following up with 7.41 lakh doses on Tuesday -- well above its average daily administration of around 4 lakh doses. But the number of vaccinations in opposition-ruled states like Punjab, Jharkhand and Delhi were far lower Monday.  On Tuesday, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri slammed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for low vaccination numbers in the national capital the previous day. “On a day when India vaccinated more than 84 lakh people, Delhi administered only 76,259 out of more than 11 lakh doses available. Why?" The Delhi government has accused the Centre of not making available a sufficient number of vaccines. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had claimed Monday that the 86.16 lakh vaccine doses administered was the “highest single day coverage” across the globe. But according to a report in Nature which appeared on June 9, China had been vaccinating two crore (20 million) people daily for more than a week. Maharashtra, meanwhile, gave 383,495 vaccine doses Monday and followed that number by administering 5.48 lakh doses Tuesday. India has given around 290 million doses of vaccines so far. Around 3.8 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated, while less than 20 per cent of people have received at least one dose. If one takes the adult population of those aged 18 and above, though, the full vaccine coverage would represent 5.5 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||India, US air combat exercise in the Indian Ocean region||India will take pa­rt in a two-day air combat exercise with the US in the Indian Ocean region from Wednesday amid China’s aggressive military behaviour in the In­do-Pacific, South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Sources in the defence mi­nistry said the exercise was an indication of the growing congruence in defence and military partnership between the two countries. “As a strategic outreach exe­rcise with the defence forc­es of friendly foreign countries in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), Indian Air Force will participate in operational engagements with the US Navy in an exercise to be carried out wi­th Ronald Reagan Carrier Str­i­ke Group (CSG) on June 23 and 24, 2021,” said a media statement of the defence ministry. The CSG is currently deployed in the Indian Ocean. The exercise will see the IAF forces operate from bases under four operational comm­a­­nds and will include Jag­uars and Su-30 MKI fighters, AWACS (airborne warning and control system), AEW&C (airborne early warning and control) system and air-to-air refueller aircraft. The CSG is expected to field F-18 fighters and E-2C Hawkeye AEW&C aircraft. The exercise will be carried out south of Thiruvananthapuram, on the western seaboard, over the two days. This engagement with the US CSG offers one more opportunity to undertake joint operations in the maritime domain with a friendly foreign power, the statement said. “The exercise with the US CSG will focus on multiple areas including enhancing aspects of interoperability, nuances of international integrated maritime SAR (search and rescue) operations and exchange of best practices in the maritime airpower domain,” it said. In March, the navies of India and the US had participated in a two-day exercise in the eastern Indian Ocean region, reflecting the growing congruence in their defence and military partnership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi releases white paper on Centre’s Covid management||Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday that 90 per cent of those who died during the Covid-19 second wave could have been saved had the Narendra Modi government acted on reports warning of an oxygen crisis. The Congress MP demanded adequate compensation to the families of victims. Responding to a question about the government’s submission in the Supreme Court that cited shortage of funds, Rahul told a virtual media conference:  “I think the Centre is making Rs 4 lakh crore from taxes on diesel and petrol every year. It is taking money out of the pockets of people who have lost family members. So, I don’t understand why the government can’t put some money back into their pockets. It is not a question of some free gift that the government is giving; these families require this money, India requires these families to have money.” Rahul added: “If they have lost a family member who used to be an earning member, what are they supposed to do? So, I am 100 per cent for a Covid compensation fund. I feel that there is no shortage of money because the government is taking money from people every day from petrol and diesel — Rs 4 lakh crore they have taken.” He recalled the Congress’s demand for financial assistance, contending that Covid-19 was not merely a health crisis but also an economic and social phenomenon. The Congress released a white paper on Tuesday on the government’s Covid management, which too insisted on compensation to the families who lost their members to the virus. The white paper said: “Provide ex-gratia relief of at least Rs 4 lakh for all Covid-19 related deaths under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Implement relief measures, including a minimum income support scheme for the poor and most vulnerable, continue free food supplies to the poor, reduce excise taxes on petrol and diesel, grant wage subsidies to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), increase budgetary support to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and provide relief for the urban poor.” Although Rahul insisted that the purpose of the white paper was not finger-pointing, he said the government must understand what went wrong and learn from the mistakes, and this document would act as a valuable input. Underscoring that the government didn’t take preventive steps before the second wave for which millions of people suffered, he said the third wave was inevitable and the country should be prepared for it. He said vaccination was the only solution and it should not be taken as a one-day event or a publicity gimmick. In response to a question about the good work done by the government and the Prime Minister appearing to choke on tears while talking about Covid deaths that demonstrated his sincerity, the Congress leader said: “The needless deaths could have been prevented. The doctors and the experts believe most people died because of oxygen crisis. The Prime Minister’s tears cannot wipe the tears of the families who faced death. They know the Prime Minister didn’t help when they were struggling. The Prime Minister didn’t take oxygen supply seriously. His focus was different, he was busy fighting the election in Bengal.” On a question about an instruction from the government to institutions to display messages thanking Modi for free vaccines through banners and posters, Rahul recalled the futile taali-thaali (clapping and beating utensils) exercise and said: “The Prime Minister was into marketing since the beginning. He claimed to have vanquished Covid and went for vaccine diplomacy when the country was suffering.” The white paper offered exhaustive details of the government’s failures since the beginning, arguing that the pandemic could have been managed better. Alleging that the mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic has been independent India’s gravest governance failure, the white paper pointed out that the Modi government ignored early warnings from experts and Opposition leaders and failed to learn from the lessons and response models of other countries which had been hit by the epidemic. Contending that “hubris” and “political avarice” led the government to a disastrous path, the document said: “The government should have communicated better, acted on warnings of epidemiologists and virologists, decentralised resources, and empowered local authorities to arrest the spread of the virus.” The white paper demanded: “Ensure that all Indians receive free vaccination in the shortest possible time frame. Collaborate with vaccine manufacturers, raw material suppliers, and foreign governments to ensure a steady supply of raw materials and vaccines for India. Invoke compulsory licence provisions under the Patents Act, 1970, to ramp up domestic vaccine production. Allocate vaccines to states based on a transparent, justifiable formula, centred on evidence, equity and particular local requirements. Make accurate vaccine-related and Covid-19 related data publicly available in a transparent manner.” It added: “Implement political and administrative measures including a national level, all-party committee to review measures to contain the pandemic, to improve coordination with state governments, and to collaborate with civil society. Decentralise decision-making, management of critical resources and transfer funds to the district level to organise essential health services, from primary to tertiary care, and address regional imbalances. Prepare for possible third and future waves by heeding expert advice, scaling up testing significantly (especially in rural areas), and pooling human resources at the state and district levels.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||Vaccine: Petition in Supreme Court assailing Centre's policy to allocate 25% jabs to private hospitals||Two citizens on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court assailing the Centre’s policy to allocate 25 per cent vaccines out of the total procurement to private hospitals and said, if not withdrawn, this would render the present vaccination campaign “incomplete, inequitable, inefficient and opaque” and create a wide chasm between the rich and the poor. The joint petition filed by John Brittas, Rajya Sabha MP and journalist from Kerala who was media adviser to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in his first term when the state’s Covid management had made headlines worldwide, and R. Ramakumar, professor at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, cited extensive data and submitted that vaccine prices in the country are higher than even in the US. The petition, in the form of an intervention application in the ongoing suo motu monitoring of the Covid situation by the top court, also raised questions about the government’s ostensible objective of vaccinating the entire country’s population by December 31, 2021, pointing out that only 3.5 per cent had been fully immunised according to the data in mid-June. In a stinging rebuke on June 2, the apex court had described as “prima facie arbitrary and irrational” the Centre’s policy of limiting free Covid vaccination only to those aged 45 and above. Subsequently, on June 8, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a change in the policy. Under the new policy, the Centre will procure 75 per cent of the vaccines for free immunisation of all adults at government centres while the remaining 25 per cent has been set aside for private hospitals for paid doses. The petitioners, seeking a directive to the Centre to take over 100 per cent procurement of the vaccines, have raised the following contentions through their advocate Resmitha R. Chandran: Selling 25 per cent of the total monthly production of vaccines to the private sector will in effect create reservation for the rich and urban population because, according to the 2011 Indian Census Data and National Household Surveys (DHS/NFHS 2005-06 and UNICEF CES 2009), the private sector’s contribution to overall vaccination coverage has been only 4.7 per cent for tuberculosis (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG)), 3.5 per cent for measles, 2.3 per cent for diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus (DPT3) and 7.6 per cent for polio (OPV3). Also, the private sector’s role has been limited primarily to the high-income states. Therefore, the opportunity to the vaccine manufacturers to sell 25 per cent of the total monthly production of vaccines to private sector hospitals will, in effect, result in a reservation of doses for the rich and urban population, and is perverse in design. This is in gross violation of the principles of social and economic justice and equality of status and opportunity embedded in the Constitution of India. According to the health ministry’s data on June 4, the Centre provided 1.29 crore doses to private hospitals in May but only 22 lakh doses or 17.05 per cent were used. “High predatory prices at private hospitals in comparison to government-run hospitals and vaccine hesitancy will continue to cause low vaccination at private healthcare institutes. Until the last person in the country is vaccinated, there is a continuing risk of the coronavirus, with all possible mutations, looming upon each person of this country like the sword of Damocles and violating the most important fundamental right to life guaranteed by the Constitution of India,” the petition said. The petition said the Centre had issued an Office Memorandum dated June 6 fixing the price caps at Rs 1200 + 60 (GST) + 150 (service taxes) for Covaxin; Rs 600 + 30 (GST) + 150 (service taxes) for Covishield; and Rs 948 + 47 (GST) + 150 (service taxes) for Sputnik V. The memorandum said the price of vaccine doses can be modified in future if the manufacturer declares a changed price. “Therefore a person availing two doses has to pay Rs 2,820 for Covaxin, Rs 1,560 if he avails Covishield and Rs 2,290 for Sputnik. This is in clear disadvantage to the people of India and to the excessive advantage for the vaccine manufacturers to create excessive profits,” the petition said. A vaccine developed in India by Indian scientists and sponsored by the government and manufactured by an Indian company is now more expensive than most of the American vaccines, the petition said. Covid-19 being a pandemic and a national disaster, the Government of India can regulate the pricing and availability of the vaccines under Sections 92 & 100 of the Patents Act and Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, read with Section 188 of Indian Penal Code, the petition said. The petitioner expressed scepticism over the Centre’s stated objective of vaccinating 100 crore persons above the age of 18 years, requiring about 200 crore doses, by December 2021. “Even though the Government has expressed its intention to vaccinate the entire population with two doses by December 2021... the guidelines of the Press Information Bureau dated 14/06/2021 reveals that as on that date there are only 4.91 crores of people in the country who have received both the doses of vaccine. “With hardly 6.5 months remaining to reach the targeted deadline of 31st December, 2021, only 3.51% of the population got both doses of vaccines and the revised guidelines do not speak about any action plan to expedite the process,” the petitioners contended. It was pointed out that the revised guidelines do not speak about vaccines for children and the preparedness of the government in the event of a third wave of Covid-19. According to the petitioners, unless the Centre takes over 100 per cent procurement and makes doses available to all through private and public hospitals through a proper regulatory authority under the top court’s monitoring, the Covid vaccination policy would “continue to remain incomplete, inequitable, inefficient and opaque”. “Therefore the immediate intervention of this Hon’ble Court is inevitable in making the vaccines accessible & available for all the people in India through a transparent procedure and thereby to enhance the trust of the people in their safety in the system,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||Supreme Court approves plans for issuing Class XII results||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted its final stamp of approval to the CBSE and the CISCE for announcing this year’s results of Class XII students on the basis of their internal assessments. The court also recorded an  undertaking from attorney-general K.K. Venugopal that the University Grants Commission (UGC) would issue a directive to ensure entrance exams and counselling for competitive courses would commence only after declaration of the two boards’ results. On June 17, the top court had granted in-principle approval to the boards’ formulas. But the court wanted to hear a batch of petitioners, who advocated exams in the physical mode, before ratifying the processes proposed by the CBSE and the CISCE (which conducts ISC board exams) to declare this year’s Class XII board results without the final board exams because of the pandemic. On  Tuesday, a bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari declined to entertain the batch of separate petitioners that contended any evaluation without exams would be  arbitrary and irrational. The apex court said the two councils, being independent and autonomous boards, had taken a decision to cancel the exam this year on the recommendation made by experts. It will  not interfere with the conscious decision taken on the academic front, the bench said. The bench said the two boards had also decided to give an option to the students to take physical exams later if they were not satisfied with the marks awarded internally. The bench rejected arguments of senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for some aggrieved students, an individual teacher Anshul Gupta and others that when several other exams related to the IITs, the National Defence Academy and certain state boards had been held, there was no reason for the CBSE and the CISCE to cancel their exams. While the CBSE had said it would declare the final results by July 31, the ICSE said it would do so by July 20. The apex court  rejected a plea of the petitioners that results of the internal assessments and the optional improvement exams be declared on the same day. “We are of the considered view that it would result in denial of options to the students and delay the declaration of results indefinitely. There would be uncertainty till the exams are actually conducted and results declared. On the other hand, if the students are allowed to accept internal assessment… and despite declaration of results they can still appear for improvisation. Suffice it would be to say it would not be possible to accept Mr Singh’s suggestion,” said Justice Khanwilkar, heading the bench. The attorney-general, who was assisting the court in the matter, and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the CBSE, assured the court that the “results committee” of the court would ensure that individual schools do not manipulate the internal marks to favour their pupils. Venugopal said the respective result committees had been entrusted with the job of closely monitoring the schools, including the registers maintained by them relating to the internal marks, so as to prevent any manipulation. “In view of the above, we find no reasons to interfere with the schemes announced by the CBSE and CISCE as there are other sets of students who are supporting it and do not want to interfere with the fair and reasonable scheme that takes into account concerns of all sets of students and their interests,” the bench said. The bench, while dealing with another set of petitions seeking cancellation of board exams by various states, warned Andhra Pradesh that the state would be held responsible if even one student  got infected with Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-42
23-06-2021||India||J&K: 24-year-old man lynched by Cow vigilantes in Rajouri||The 24-year-old sole breadwinner of a family headed by a paralytic was allegedly lynched by suspected cow vigilantes in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Monday night. Cow vigilantes have been striking at will in the Jammu region and are mostly targeting members of the minority nomadic Gujjar and Bakarwal communities who rear cattle, goats and sheep. It was the first death in the attacks by cow vigilantes in Jammu this year. Residents said Asif Ahmad Dar of Rajdhani Thanamandi in Rajouri was attacked with stones while he was on his way home in a vehicle. “The vehicle was stopped by cow vigilantes at Muradpur village.  Asif was hit with stones and he later died at the hospital,” Rajdhani sarpanch Abdul Gafoor Dar told The Telegraph. Gafoor Dar said the driver was also thrashed but he survived. “Based on the report of the driver, the assailants have been identified and a case has been registered against them,” Gafoor Dar said. A purported video showing Asif battling for his life in a hospital has been shared widely on social media. The video showed his face with multiple injuries and his eye bulging out. “Ajaz Dar… was brutally beaten to death by communal murderers while he was taking a buffalo to his home. Another family lost its only beloved son to this new norm in India,” tweeted Jammu activist Saima Choudhary. Gafoor Dar said Asif’s parents are ailing. “He has three sisters and was the sole breadwinner. His father is paralytic and his mother has kidney ailment,” he said. Police said they have registered a case and started investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Health officials point at attempted orchestration of ‘record’ vaccine count||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign on Tuesday logged 5.34 million doses, a 39 per cent decline from Monday’s record 8.8 million that senior health officials have described as an orchestrated feat made possible through advance dose data, state support and public participation. Health experts said they are not surprised at Tuesday’s number —  5,340,550 doses administered up to 11pm — as a target of over 8 million daily doses would require a much higher vaccine production capacity than the current estimated 4 to 5 million. Health officials and vaccination policy advisers have said the 8.8 million doses recorded on Monday was not a “sudden episode” but the outcome of a planned exercise intended to demonstrate India’s capacity to administer a large quantum of daily doses. “The response was well beyond our expectations — it was a demonstration of our capacity to conduct a synchronised orchestrated programme,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert panel guiding the country’s Covid-19 vaccination policy. An analysis by the Union health ministry has shown that 5.6 million (64 per cent) of the 8.8 million doses administered on Monday were given to people in rural areas. More than 90 per cent of the doses went through government vaccination centres, Paul said. “We’ve established we can deliver vaccines across rural areas through the public health system, although we do expect the private sector to continue expanding its own role in the programme.” Paul said India has conducted massive vaccination drives in the past. “During our efforts to eradicate polio, we used to vaccinate over 70 million children in a single day, then reach another 100 million in mop-up rounds over a week,” he said. Vaccination advisers have said that Monday’s record was a milestone towards the goal of delivering 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses daily. The sharp rise on Monday — after an average of 3.2 million daily doses from June 1 to 20 — has triggered speculation in some circles whether the government had timed the feat to occur on the first day of new vaccination rules where the Centre offered free vaccines to all those aged 18 years or older. A dip in daily doses observed in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka among other states has prompted some to ask whether the Centre had organised the record on Monday by intentionally slowing the pace of inoculations in BJP-ruled states in the preceding days. But independent health experts observing the vaccination campaign for weeks have said there does not appear to be a clear pattern — for instance, Andhra Pradesh and Punjab also showed dips in preceding days while Uttar Pradesh had shown a slow rise through June. An observed pattern does not necessarily establish cause and effect, said Rijo John, a health economist at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences in Kochi. “But this would have required an inventory build-up and people willing to be vaccinated.” “At this point in time, I don’t see administering 8 million daily doses sustainable over a long period. Our vaccine production capacity is currently between 4 and 5 million doses per day although this has been projected to rise in July or August and beyond,” John said. The Centre had told the Supreme Court last month that the Serum Institute produces 65 million doses of Covishield per month and Bharat Biotech produces monthly 20 million doses of Covaxin, although both companies are ramping up production capacities. Health officials have said that they expect higher production and the entry of new vaccines between August and December to facilitate an accelerated vaccination campaign that would enable India to inoculate nearly its entire eligible population by the year-end or early 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Covid: Top health official caution against reopening schools||Decisions about reopening schools need to be taken with great caution and only with the confidence that a large fraction of the population is protected either through vaccinations or natural infections, a top health official said on Tuesday. Schools provide opportunities for the coronavirus to spread through medium or large gatherings and could contribute to growth of infections, said Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician, member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank and a key adviser to the Centre on Covid-19. “We should take that risk only when we are better protected, the virus is suppressed, and we are able to sit at a distance,” Paul said, underscoring that India’s second Covid-19 wave is shrinking only through the restrictions and discipline imposed by states across the country. “It is not easy to take a decision to open schools at this point,” Paul said, while calling for continued precautions and vigilance by health authorities, governments and the public across the country amid speculation about a possible third wave. Paul said a third wave is “not inevitable” and whether and where a future surge occurs would hinge on the actions and responses of people and the system. “There are countries where even the second wave has not occurred. If we do what is required and do not indulge in irresponsible behaviour, outbreaks should not occur.” India’s number of active Covid-19 cases has gone down from a peak of over 3.7 million in early May to about 645,000 patients on Tuesday after a near steady decline. The epidemic has shrunk and is under control in 553 districts where the fraction testing positive among those tested has fallen to an ideal below 5 per cent. Paul said in such circumstances, there are responsibilities for the system and for individuals. The system, he said, should focus on making available diagnostic tests, isolating patients and providing treatment to those who require it, and tracing contacts, while people need to adopt personal precautions and avoid crowds and seek out vaccinations. Infectious disease specialists have estimated that when about 70 per cent of the population is protected through vaccinations or natural infections, the virus will be unable to cause outbreaks, although a trickle of cases will continue. Sections of public health experts believe such cautionary messages should have been iterated in much stronger tones during January and early February ahead of the planned election rallies and the Kumbh Mela that many experts suspect contributed to the spread of the virus. While Paul and other health officials during those months did issue calls for caution and the Union health ministry had on March 21 warned that the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar (Uttarakhand) could contribute to a surge in cases, experts believe those messages remained largely unheeded. Paul said the elderly who have been fully vaccinated may venture out with caution for outdoor walks but need to, like all other people, continue to avoid crowds. “In a calibrated manner, yes, they could go out into open spaces,” he said. The health ministry had last year issued guidelines urging the elderly to confine themselves at home except for essential work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Punjab: AAP keen on welcoming dissident Navjot Singh Sidhu||The Aam Aadmi Party is keen on welcoming dissident Punjab Congressman Navjot Singh Sidhu to its fold. But the party, which leads the Opposition in the state, is also content with merely watching the motormouth former cricketer damage prospects of the ruling Congress. AAP’s national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday visited Punjab and declared that the party’s chief ministerial candidate would be a Sikh, while evading a question on Sidhu joining the AAP. He also inducted a former IPS officer into the party and met dissident Akali and BJP leaders. A Twitter handle seen as a party mouthpiece tweeted a screenshot of Sidhu following Kejriwal’s online media conference. An AAP source told The Telegraph: “We hope to attract Sidhu by next year, just before the polls. After (AAP rebel MLA Sukhpal) Khaira returned to the Congress (earlier this month), Sidhu has competition within the Congress. We hope to be a catalyst to their fight, which would encourage Sidhu to leave the Congress. Even if he forms his own party, we will support him.” Sidhu and chief minister Amarinder Singh were in Delhi on Tuesday for mediation by the Congress high command. Amarinder has alleged that Sidhu is joining the AAP — a charge he has denied. The AAP has never attacked Sidhu even after failed talks with him to join the party after he quit the BJP in 2016. Former AAP leader and senior journalist Ashutosh dismissed speculation of Sidhu joining the AAP. “I don’t think it is a possibility as Arvind can’t handle Sidhu. He (Arvind) will not do an experiment like this.… One can’t predict what Sidhu will say or do,” he told this newspaper. “He left the 1996 England tour, saying the team management did not treat him well. After quitting the BJP, he once held talks till 5am with the AAP before the 2017 polls but eventually joined the Congress. Had he remained within the Congress without these outbursts, he would have been an ideal chief ministerial candidate the next time. “If he joins the AAP he may well take away the entire state unit with him if he splits. Arvind’s warm responses to queries on Sidhu are probably an attempt to create confusion for the Congress,” he said. In the 2017 Assembly polls, the Shiromani Akali Dal faced anti-incumbency of a decade and got 25.24 per cent of the total vote share and 15 out of 117 seats. The AAP got 23.72 per cent and 20 seats. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Akalis got 27.45 per cent votes in the state and won two out of 13 seats. The AAP polled 7.38 per cent and won a single seat. The Akalis were aligned with the BJP in both elections. This time it has tied up with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) instead and said it will make a Dalit deputy chief minister if it wins. “At their worst anti-incumbency, the Akalis did better than the AAP. The AAP has only lost votes. They don’t have a social bloc, a chief ministerial candidate or party structure and they are faction-ridden. They can’t convert the sympathy they had to votes.… AAP needs to find a leader,” the former AAP leader and journalist added.Veteran columnist and professor of political science at Panjab University, Ashutosh Kumar, explained that Sidhu is the AAP’s necessity and the party could bear his quirks for its own survival. “This crisis in the Congress is a godsend for the AAP... which seeks to gain the disgruntled Akali vote bank of landed Jat Sikhs (a community that Sidhu also belongs to), that is leading the farm agitation and is looking for an alternative,” he said. “Kejriwal shunned Sidhu in 2017 because of his tendency for autonomy. But right now, he could be a trump card for the AAP that has suffered many splits, here. Remember, Yogendra Yadav and Prashant Bhushan were removed from the AAP only after the 2015 Delhi assembly polls. The party can manage Sidhu too,” Kumar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Gehlot's defiance in including Pilot loyalists breeds headache for Cong||The irreconcilable differences between Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu have created much noise but what has emerged as a bigger headache for the Congress central leadership is the defiance of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot against the efforts to accommodate Sachin Pilot loyalists. Insiders revealed that Gehlot has stopped paying heed to the suggestions of the central leadership on this and doesn’t even respond to general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken. This has happened despite party president Sonia Gandhi taking it upon herself to resolve the crisis in Rajasthan as it was threatening to slip out of control yet again. A formula to accommodate Pilot supporters has already been worked out but the central leadership has not been able to execute it because of Gehlot’s defiance. As discontent started manifesting again because the Pilot camp felt betrayed, arguing that the promises made last year when they revolted were not fulfilled, the central leadership swung into action to resolve the issue. Pilot was offered the post of national general secretary but he refused to accept any assignment till his supporters were suitably adjusted. Sources said Priyanka Gandhi, general secretary in-charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal and Maken prepared a compromise formula and asked Gehlot to accommodate some of the Pilot supporters in the ministry and the organisation. But Gehlot, unhappy with the proposal, declared that he will not meet anybody for a month. The excuse was doctor’s advice as some 40 people in his office and security had been infected with Covid. Gehlot has been since then holding meetings through videoconference, delaying any possibility of a cabinet expansion. Sources said both Sonia and Rahul Gandhi have interpreted this as defiance and asked Maken to get the compromise formula implemented as soon as possible. Party leaders pointed out that Amarinder has appeared before the committee set up by Sonia to resolve the differences in Punjab twice within a fortnight and also demonstrated readiness to accommodate Sidhu but Gehlot has not shown any interest in resolving the crisis. Amarinder has also shown the maturity of not responding to Sidhu’s repeated attacks, keeping the party’s larger interest in mind. Sidhu has refused to relent, insisting that he won’t give up till the issues he raised were addressed satisfactorily. His main charge is that the chief minister is soft on the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Badal family. While the turmoil in party-ruled states is doubtless a reflection on the weak central leadership and an effective crisis management system in the Congress, Rajasthan is certain to erupt again if issues aren’t resolved soon. The bitterness has increased so much that one MLA told The Telegraph over the phone from Jaipur: “The gossip in Rajasthan is that Gehlot listens more to Vasundhara Raje than Sonia Gandhi. The axis is troubling the BJP as well. The chief minister branded us as defectors and BJP stooges when we rebelled last year but he has himself been sending negative vibes to the high command.” He added: “The wife of poet Kumar Vishwash who abused Rahul and even contested from Amethi has been made a Rajasthan Public Service Commission member with a minister of state rank. The daughter of Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar has been made the information commissioner. But Congress MLAs cannot be made ministers. What message is Gehlot sending?” Focus on these petty details suggests the differences are both personal as well as political and cannot be resolved amicably. But Gehlot’s seniority and stature is not allowing any tough action, intensifying unease within the Pilot camp. While the leadership crisis at the top has certainly emboldened state leaders to behave irresponsibly, the inability of veterans to accommodate the aspirations of younger leaders has also created a major problem for the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Kashmir: Gupkar alliance to attend Modi's all-party meeting||The five-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on Tuesday agreed to join an all-party meeting on Kashmir that Prime Minister Narendra Modi plans to hold in Delhi on Thursday. The alliance decided it will tell the Centre that the August 5, 2019, move was wrong, illegal and unconstitutional, and nothing short of Jammu and Kashmir’s restoration was acceptable to them. On August 5, 2019, the Modi government had diluted Article 370 and bifurcated the state into the two Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The Centre has followed it up with laws, like allowing outsiders to own property here, which are seen aimed at changing the Muslim majority character of the erstwhile state. For the first time after the move, the central government last week extended an invitation for talks to 14 leaders from key parties across Jammu and Kashmir, including three former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah. They are part of the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). The invitation is seen as an admission of failure of the Centre’s jackboot tactics that vilified the same leaders as members of the “Gupkar Gang”, corrupt, dynasts and anti-national. The parties have since held consultations to discuss the invite. The leaders of the alliance met on Tuesday to announce the decision. “The invitation has come from the Prime Minister and we are participating in the meet. We hope to put forward our stand before the Prime Minister and the home minister,” Farooq, who heads the alliance, told reporters after the meet. “You know our stand and there is no need to repeat it. Whatever the stand was, is still there and will remain,” he said. People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba appeared more belligerent while narrating what they will tell the Prime Minister. “We will talk on what was snatched from us and (will tell them) that it was wrong, illegal and unconstitutional. Without it, the Jammu and Kashmir issue, the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and peace in the whole region cannot be restored,” she said. Speculation is rife that the Centre wants to offer restoration of statehood and discuss the redrawing of constituencies and an Assembly election. Some reports claim that even statehood is off the table and the leaders will simply be asked to ratify its future decisions, including redrawing of constituencies, that the Centre wants should tilt the balance in favour of Hindu majority areas of Jammu. Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami of the CPM, which is part of the alliance, said they are not aware of the Centre’s agenda as no agenda was fixed. “We have no information whether they have an agenda, but we will reiterate the stand of the PAGD in that big forum and before the big leadership,” Tarigami, the spokesperson for the alliance, said. “We have got the opportunity. We have to go there as advocates of people. We will plead the case of people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, the guarantees (about Article 370) we had under the Constitution, we will go with an appeal for their protection. “We are not going to lend our signatures to their agenda. We will go to see what is the suggestion of the Prime Minister of India. If it is in our interests, in the interests of people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, we will say yes. If it is not in our interests, we will unhesitatingly say no. Let there be no misunderstanding….,” he said. “We will not ask for stars but will ask for what was ours and should remain ours,” he added. Awami National Conference senior vice-president Muzaffar Shah, also a part of the alliance, said there could be no compromise on Articles 370 and 35A. Mehbooba regretted that the invitation was not followed by confidence-building measures such as releasing Kashmiris who are languishing in jails. She said the non-Kashmiri detainees were released during the pandemic. “If they really wanted to reach out to people of J&K and us, those they humiliated for two long years, they should have done it, but that does not mean that we are against dialogue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Adityanath visits deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya for the first time||Yogi Adityanath visited the residence of deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Tuesday for the first time since taking over as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh in March 2017. Observers believe that Adityanath is trying to buy peace with Maurya, who had said last week that the central leadership of the BJP would choose the next chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. “It is the central leadership of the BJP which takes decisions on such issues. They will decide the chief minister after the 2022 Assembly election results are announced,” Maurya had told reporters, when asked whether Adityanath would be the chief minister again. Maurya is considered a rival of Adityanath. He was the state BJP president when the party won in 2017. The central leadership had chosen Adityanath for the post of chief minister. “The residence of Maurya is barely 20 metres from the gate of Adityanath’s official residence. But the chief minister didn’t go there ever, not even during the wedding ceremony of Maurya’s son last month. As we all know, Maurya wanted to become chief minister in 2017 but Amit Shah, the then national president of the BJP, had chosen Adityanath. Obviously, Maurya is still not happy,” said a BJP leader who didn’t want to be named. Samajwadi Party spokesperson Sunil Sajan said: “There is a war going on between the chief minister and deputy chief minister and the people of the state are suffering. While the people were dying during the second wave of Covid-19, these two leaders were busy in fighting with each other for the post of the chief minister.” The BJP leader added: “We have been asked to say that the chief minister had gone there to bless the newly wed couple. The chief minister was there for about 35 minutes and took some snacks. We have heard from our sources that some senior organisational leaders had asked the chief minister to meet Maurya at his residence and resolve the contentious issues between them before it is too late for 2022 Assembly elections.” RSS leaders Krishna Gopal and Dattatreya Hosabale were also seen coming out of the residence of the deputy chief minister after Adityanath. B.L. Santhosh, BJP national general secretary, and Radha Mohan Singh, the party’s national vice-president, are in Lucknow since Monday and are holding meetings with the organisational leaders of different wings of the RSS and the BJP to chalk out their strategy for the Assembly polls. Labour and employment minister Swam Prasad Maurya had said on Monday: “The central leadership of the BJP will decide the next chief minister. It may be Adityanath but it may also happen that somebody else would be chosen for the job.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Kerala High Court restores meat to midday meal||Kerala High Court on Tuesday ordered the Lakshadweep administration to restore the old midday meal menu in schools which had beef and chicken and stayed the auction of cows from the dairy farms that were shut down recently. The division bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly issued the order on Tuesday on a PIL filed by lawyer Ajmal Ahmed, a native of Lakshadweep. “The division bench ordered the administration to continue with the old menu which had beef and chicken. The stay on auctioning of cows will be in force until further orders,” Ahmed told The Telegraph. In one of his controversial moves after taking over as the administrator of Lakshadweep, Praful Khoda Patel had replaced beef and chicken from the midday meal menu for schoolchildren with fish and eggs. In another contentious move, the administration had ordered the auction of 76 heads of cattle, including 44 milch cows, eight bulls and rest of them calves and heifers. But the plan had failed with the islanders boycotting the auction leaving the administration to look after the cattle. The new administrator also decided to shut down the diary farms on Lakshadweep and pave the way for Gujarat-based Amul to distribute its products in the isles. While the appellate jurisdiction of Lakshadweep has always been with Kerala High Court, recent reports suggested there was a plan to move it to Karnataka High Court. But Lakshadweep collector S. Asker Ali has denied that there was any move to shift the jurisdiction to Karnataka. Apart from Malayalam being a main language other than Mahal and Jeseri in Lakshadweep, the islanders have strong cultural and familial ties with Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
23-06-2021||India||Covid: Bihar campaign to vaccinate 6 crore people in 6 months||The Bihar government launched a programme on Monday aiming to vaccinate six crore people in six months in a bid to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. The scheme will become fully operational from July 1. “We are launching a plan to vaccinate six crore people in six months. Vaccination does not mean giving a single dose. It means giving both doses to the people. “Vaccinating six crore people in six months is not a small task. We have started today and we have to achieve the aim in any condition,” chief minister Nitish Kumar said after inaugurating the programme. Bihar has a population of over 12 crore, but the pace of vaccination has been very slow. Of late, the drive has been facing resistance from people in the rural areas. Around 89 per cent of the population in the state resides in villages. The latest figures provided by the government reveals that 1.16 crore people in the state have received the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, while 22.05 lakh have taken both the doses so far. “Experts are talking about the arrival of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Some say it will come in six to eight weeks, some say it will arrive in November or earlier. We need to take vaccines and be ready to face it, even if it comes. I pray with folded hands to the people to be alert and ready. The government, on its part, is doing everything possible,” Nitish said. He also said that all efforts are being made to ensure that people who have taken the first dose, also take the second one. He directed the senior officials to publicise the need for taking both doses. Nitish asserted that he has asked the officials to conduct 1.5 lakh Covid-19 tests daily, but the figure has gone up to a maximum of 1.4 lakh. Pointing out how so many people suddenly fell ill during the second wave of the pandemic and there was a shortage of oxygen across the country unlike the first wave, the chief minister thanked the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing vaccines, as well as alerting about the future possibilities. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, health minister Mangal Pandey and senior officials were present at the launch. “We will take the help of boat ambulances, mobile hospitals, ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) sisters and all other facilities to achieve our aim of vaccinating six crore people in six months. “Altogether 839 ‘tika express’ (a mobile van which carries healthcare workers to far-flung areas to administer vaccines) are already functioning across the state,” Pandey said. Meanwhile, Nitish also chaired a meeting of the crisis management group and decided to further relax the restrictions imposed in the wake of the pandemic. Parks and gardens across the state have been allowed to open from 6am to noon from Tuesday. They were closed in April when Covid-19 infections shot up. Government and private offices can also function with 100 per cent attendance from Tuesday instead of 50 per cent allowed so far. Shops and business establishments can now open till 7pm instead of 6pm, while night curfew will be begin from 9pm instead of 7pm and continue till 5am. According to government data, Bihar has registered 7.2 crore Covid-19 infections and 9,550 deaths. There are presently 3,188 active cases in the state. The positivity rate has now dropped to 0.3 per cent while the recovery rate stands at 98.23 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-43
