24-06-2021||India||Maharashtra's Covid-19 infection tally crosses 60 lakh with 9,844 new cases||With the addition of 9,844 new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra on Thursday, the state's cumulative infection count crossed the grim milestone of 60 lakh, while 197 patients succumbed to the infection, the health department said. The state's total caseload now stands at 60,07,431, said the health department in a statement. With 197 more deaths, the fatality count reached 1,19,859 (which included 359 'old' deaths), it report said. Out of it, 149 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and 48 in the last week, the department said. Deaths that took place more than a week's ago are being added to the toll as part of a data reconciliation exercise. Under this exercise, 359 previously unreported deaths were added to the toll figure, the statement said. Maharashtra has taken 11 days to add one lakh cases to its tally - which is the slowest pace after the second coronavirus wave hit the state in March. The state had crossed the 59-lakh case mark on June 13. The state's COVID-19 recovery rate is now at 95.93 per cent, while the case fatality rate has increased and reached 2 per cent, the statement said. The state saw the discharge of 9,371 patients in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recoveries to 57,62,661, it said. The number of active cases stands at 1,21,767, the health department said. There are 5,32,453 people in home quarantine and 4,166 in institutional quarantine, the statement said. With 2,32,578 coronavirus tests in the last 24 hours, the cumulative figure of samples examined so far reached 4,03,60,931, it said. According to the statement, Mumbai city reported 773 new cases and 10 deaths, taking its infection tally to 7,22,736 and the toll to 15,348. In the Mumbai division, comprising the city and its satellite towns, there were 2,312 cases and 47 deaths, of which 31 were added by Raigad district alone. This took the cumulative caseload in the region to 15,83,950 and the death toll to 31,581, it said. The Nashik division reported 748 cases and 12 deaths, the health department said. The Pune division recorded 2,465 infections and 40 fatalities, of which 26 came from Satara district alone, the statement said. The Kolhapur division reported 3,516 new cases and 74 deaths, of which rural parts of Kolhapur accounted for 22 fatalities followed by 16 from Ratnagiri. Kolhapur city added 14 fresh deaths. The Aurangabad division registered 232 new infections and 11 deaths, while the Latur division added 302 cases and six fatalities, the statement said. The Akola division reported 168 cases and five deaths, while the Nagpur division registered 101 infections and two fatalities, it said. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 60,07,431; new cases 9,844; deaths 1,19,859; recoveries 57,62,661; active cases 1,21,767; total tests so far 4,03,60,931.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
24-06-2021||India||Twitter chief gets relief from Karnataka HC in Ghaziabad case||In a relief to Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari, the Karnataka High Court on Thursday restrained Ghaziabad police, which has summoned him in connection with a probe related to the assault of an elderly Muslim man there, from initiating coercive action against him. The single bench of Justice G Narender said the police can examine Maheshwari through virtual mode. "If the police desire to examine the petitioner (Manish Maheshwari), they may do so through virtual mode," the court said. "If the matter requires consideration, we list it on June 29.In the meanwhile restraining the respondents from initiating any coercive action against the petitioner," the court maintained. "It is case of petitioner that he has replied to notice under section 160 of CrPC to join through virtual mode.The respondent (Ghaziabad police) taking objection to the request has turned around and issued notice under section 41(A) virtually putting him in shoes of accused," it observed. Appearing on behalf of Maheshwari, advocate C V Nagesh said someone had posted a video on the Twitter platform alleging that a Muslim was forced to chant 'Jai Sri Ram' and 'Vande Mataram'. When he refused, his beard was cut. Subsequently a notice under section 161 of the CrPC was issued to Maheshwari by email and responding to it, he said he would be ready to appear virtually. Soon the police issued a notice under section 41(A) asking him to appear in person within 24 hours to travel from Bengaluru to Ghaziabad, which was not possible for Maheshwhari, Nagesh told the court. The court maintained that the petitioner is an employee of Twitter Communication India Private Limited handling marketing and sales and not a member of board of directors to be responsible for uploading of the alleged video based on which the FIR was registered. The Twitter India Managing Director, who lives in Bengaluru in Karnataka, was issued notice by the Ghaziabad Police on June 21 and asked to report at its Loni Border police station at 10.30 am on Thursday to get his statement recorded in the case, officials at Ghaziabad said. "He (Maheshwari) is not coming today," Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak earlier told PTI. Pathak said the Ghaziabad Police has learnt that the Twitter India MD has given a representation in Karnataka High Court in connection with the case and a decision on that is pending. The Ghaziabad Police had on June 15 booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. They were booked over the circulation of a video in which the elderly man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, claims he was allegedly thrashed by some young men who also asked him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on June 5. The police claim the video was shared to cause communal unrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||PM's J&K outreach: promise of Assembly polls after delimitation exercise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday told a group of leaders from Jammu and Kashmir that assembly elections there will be held after the completion of the ongoing delimitation exercise, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig said after a crucial meeting to chalk out the future course of action in the union territory. During the three-and-a-half-hour-long meeting, almost all the 14 leaders from Jammu and Kashmir demanded that its statehood, which was removed in August 2019, should be restored, he said. According to official sources, the main focus of the meeting was to strengthen the democratic process and the prime minister said that the government was fully committed to it. This is the first interaction between the central leadership and the mainstream parties since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcated it into union territories, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Modi stressed that holding Assembly elections, just like the successful conduct of the District Development Council polls, is a priority and that the polls can happen soon after the delimitation exercise, the sources said, adding that by and large, most participants expressed willingness for it. The prime minister stressed that an atmosphere of safety and security needs to be ensured for all sections of society in Jammu and Kashmir and he wanted to remove Dilli ki Duri as well as Dil Ki Duri (distance from Delhi as well as the distance of heart), according to the sources. "The meeting was very cordial and very positive, very dignified. We all agreed that we must work for democracy. The prime minister has assured that he will do everything to make Jammu and Kashmir a zone of peace rather than a zone of conflict," Baig told reporters after the meeting. Baig said the government side conveyed that the assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir will be held after the completion of the ongoing delimitation process. "We were conveyed that the delimitation process will be completed first and thereafter a call will be taken on holding the Assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir," he said. However, he said, no time frame has been given on holding the polls. "Almost everyone at the meeting raised the demand for restoration of the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir," he said, adding the prime minister carefully listened to every issue raised by the political leaders. Almost after an hour of the meeting being over, Modi said that Thursday's meeting was an important step towards making Jammu and Kashmir progressive. "Today’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir is an important step in the ongoing efforts towards a developed and progressive J&K, where all-round growth is furthered," Modi tweeted. "Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected Government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory," he said in another tweet. The prime minister added, "Our democracy’s biggest strength is the ability to sit across a table and exchange views. I told the leaders of J&K that it is the people, specially the youth who have to provide political leadership to J&K, and ensure their aspirations are duly fulfilled." Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the delimitation exercise and holding of peaceful elections in Jammu and Kashmir are important milestones in restoring statehood as promised in Parliament. "We are committed to ensure all round development of J&K. The future of Jammu and Kashmir was discussed and the delimitation exercise and peaceful elections are important milestones in restoring statehood as promised in Parliament," Shah said in a tweet. He said Thursday's meeting on Jammu and Kashmir was held in a very cordial environment. "Everyone expressed their commitment to democracy and the Constitution. It was stressed to strengthen the democratic process in Jammu and Kashmir," Shah said in another tweet. The four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state who participated in the discussions were Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah of the National Conference, Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti. Four former deputy chief ministers were in attendance too - Congress' Tara Chand, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig and BJP's Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta. CPI-M leader Mohammed Yusuf Tarigami, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) chief Altaf Bukhari, Sajjad Lone of the People's Conference, J-K Congress head G A Mir, BJP's Ravinder Raina and Panthers Party leader Bhim Singh also formed part of the delegation. Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, and Minister of State in PMO Jitendra Singh were in attendance too. Today's dialogue came seven months after the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Board exams: Education minister to answer students' queries on June 25 through social media||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhiryal 'Nishank' will interact with students through social media on Friday and answer queries related to class 10 and 12 board exams, which were cancelled in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Nishank, who is in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) undergoing treatment for post-Covid complications, said students have been sending him messages with their queries and apprehensions. "Dear students, I am constantly receiving a lot of your messages and information. Also, you have expressed concern about my health. For this, I would like to express my thanks to all of you and say that I am feeling healthy now. "Some of your apprehensions have also been expressed in your messages. But was unable to communicate with you due to this ongoing treatment in the hospital. If you have any other query related to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams then you can send me on Twitter, Facebook, or also by mail," he said in a series of tweets. The Union minister informed that he will answer the queries of students on June 25 at 4 pm through social media. The exams for both class 10 and 12 were cancelled by the CBSE in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The board has announced its alternative assessment policy for both the classes. While schools have been asked to submit class 10 marks till June 30, the deadline for schools to compile class 12 marks is July 15. According to the policy for class 12 results, decided by a 13-member panel set up by the board, the theory paper evaluation formula of 30 per cent weightage will be given to class 10 marks, 30 per cent to class 11 marks and 40 per cent weightage to class 12 marks obtained in unit test/mid-term/pre-board examinations. The CBSE scheme further elaborated that for class 10, the 30 per cent marks based on average theory component of best three performing subjects out of main five subjects will be taken. According to the evaluation criteria announced for class 10 students, while 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks will be calculated on basis of the students' performance in various tests or exams throughout the year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Ayesha Sulthana let off by Lakshadweep Police over sedition charges||Filmmaker Ayesha Sulthana, facing allegations of sedition in Lakshadweep, was let off by the Lakshadweep police on Thursday after interrogation. Sulthana was interrogated by the Kavaratti police on Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday in connection with the case registered on the basis of a complaint filed by a BJP leader in the Islands. Emerging from the police station, Kavaratti, after nearly a three-hour long interrogation, Sulthana said, "Everything is over. I am told that I can go back to Kochi. I will reach Kochi tomorrow or a day after." The allegation is that the filmmaker, while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7, had said the Centre used biological weapons against the people of Lakshadweep. Ahead of appearing for Thursday's probe, Sulthana said during the nearly eight-hour long questioning on Wednesday, the police had asked whether she had any contacts abroad. "They checked my WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook accounts. They were searching whether I have any links with foreign countries," she said in a video circulated to the media. Earlier on Sunday, she was questioned for three hours. She appeared before the police after the Kerala High Court granted her interim anticipatory bail for a week, while reserving orders on her advance bail plea. It had directed her to comply with the notice issued by the Kavaratti police to appear before them for interrogation on June 20 in connection with the sedition case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||HC to hear Goa govt's appeal against Tarun Tejpal's acquittal on July 29||The Goa bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday adjourned till July 29 an appeal filed by the Goa government against the acquittal of journalist Tarun Tejpal in a 2013 rape case. A division bench of Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar allowed the government to amend their appeal and serve a copy of the same along with all related documents to Tejpal. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Tejpal, told the bench they would require some time to prepare. The bench then said it would hear the appeal on July 29. It directed the government to amend their petition within one week and serve a copy of the same in one week thereafter. On May 21, Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. The trial court had in its judgement questioned the victim's conduct, holding that she did not exhibit any kind of normative behaviour such as trauma and shock, which a victim of sexual assault might plausibly show.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Single dose of Pfizer, AstraZeneca jab offers 60 per cent protection, finds Lancet study||A single dose of Pfizer or AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine offers around 60 per cent protection against infection from SARS-CoV-2 in adults aged 65 years and above, according to a study published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases. To obtain real-world data on the effectiveness of these vaccines in care homes, the researchers from the University College London (UCL) in the UK used data from the VIVALDI study. That research investigated SARS-CoV-2 transmission, infection outcomes, and immunity in residents and staff in long-term care facilities in England for adults aged 65 years and older since June 2020. This analysis included long-term care facility residents undergoing routine asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 testing between December 8, 2020 -- the date the first vaccine was administered in the study cohort -- and March 15, 2021 using national testing data linked within the COVID-19 Datastore. This study was completed before the emergence of the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 now dominating in the UK. The researchers estimated the reduced risk of PCR-positive infection at 0-6 days, 7-13 days, 14-20 days, 21-27 days, 28-34 days, 35-48 days, and 49 days and beyond after vaccination. This was compared with unvaccinated residents, adjusting for age, sex, previous infection, local SARS-CoV-2 incidence, long-term care facility bed capacity, and clustering by long-term care facility. The analysis included 10,412 care home residents aged 65 years and older from 310 facilities, with a median age of 86 years, of whom 70 per cent were female and 1,155 residents (11 per cent) had evidence of previous SARS-CoV-2 infection. A total of 9,160 (88 per cent) residents received at least one vaccine dose during the study period, of whom 6,138 (67 per cent) received AstraZeneca and 3,022 (33 per cent) received Pfizer. Between December 8, 2020, and March 15, this year, there were 36,352 PCR tests carried out, with 1,335 PCR-positive infections detected -- 713 in unvaccinated residents and 612 in vaccinated residents. The risk of infection was 56 per cent lower in vaccinated residents after 28 to 34 days, and 62 per cent lower at 35-48 days. Similar effect sizes at 35-48 days were seen for the AstraZeneca vaccine (68 per cent reduced risk of infection) and the Pfizer vaccine (65 per cent reduced risk). "Single-dose vaccination with either the AstraZeneca or the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine reduces the risk of SARS-CoV-2 in older residents in long-term care facilities, the researchers said. "Our findings suggest that vaccination also has an effect on SARS-CoV-2 transmissibility by reducing the total number of infections in residents, as well as their infectivity," they said. The protective effect of a single dose of vaccination is evident from 4 weeks to at least 7 weeks after vaccination, which provides some evidence to support extension of the interval between doses beyond three weeks, the researchers said. However, even beyond four weeks, a single vaccine dose does not eliminate infection risk, highlighting the continued importance of non-pharmaceutical measures to control transmission within long-term care facilities. "Further work is required to evaluate the effectiveness of the second dose of the vaccine, and the effect of vaccination on transmission," the researchers said. "This knowledge will be critical to inform policy decisions regarding revaccination schedules in this vulnerable population and the disease control measures needed in the short, medium, and long term to protect long-term care facilities from future waves of SARS-CoV-2 infection," they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Sonia asks Congress workers to ensure increase in vaccination pace||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said the party must play an active role in ensuring full COVID-19 vaccination coverage and address vaccine hesitancy wherever evident. She also said that the country needs to prepare for the possible third wave and take proactive measures so that children are spared this calamity. Addressing a meeting of party general secretaries and in-charges of AICC in various states, she called upon party leaders and workers to continue to put pressure on the union government to ensure that the daily rate of vaccination trebles so that 75 per cent of the population gets fully vaccinated by end of this year. Her comments come in the wake of the BJP accusing the Congress of aiding vaccine hesitancy. "On the pandemic, let me say that it is absolutely essential that our party plays an active role in ensuring full vaccination coverage. At the national level, the daily rate of vaccination has to treble so that 75 per cent of our population gets fully vaccinated by end of this year," she said. "No doubt, this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply.We must continue to put pressure on the Union government which has, at our Party's insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this. At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, that vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimised," she said addressing the party leaders virtually. Quoting experts, she said they are talking of a possible third wave in a few months from now and some have pointed to the vulnerability of children in the coming months. "This too requires our urgent attention and we must take proactive measures so that they are spared this calamity.We have to take steps to be better prepared if and when this strikes," she said. Gandhi said the second wave of coronavirus in the past four months has been devastating for lakhs of families and we must learn from this traumatic experience so that we do not have to experience it yet again. Talking about the white paper on Covid management brought out by the Congress, she said it is being translated in other languages. It is very detailed and needs to be disseminated widely. I hope this gets done urgently, she told the leaders. Referring to the rise in fuel prices, the Congress chief said it is causing an intolerable burden on people and agitations have been organised to highlight how it is hurting farmers and millions of families. Apart from fuel, the prices of many other essential commodities like pulses and edible oils too have skyrocketed causing widespread distress, she noted. "This price rise is taking place at a time when livelihoods are being lost in unprecedented numbers, when there is mounting unemployment and when economic recovery is not a reality," she said. Appreciating the relief work carried out by party workers cross the country during the pandemic, she said that this has been done in the Congress Party's finest traditions of community service. "We must continue our effort. The control rooms will continue to function. The helplines too. Emergency services like ambulances and essential medicines should continue to be provided," Gandhi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Supreme Court directs states to ready Class 12 assessment scheme within 10 days||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the state boards to declare internal assessment results of Class 12 examination by July 31, making it clear that there can't be a "fit-all" scheme and each board was autonomous and free to formulate its own evaluation method for students. Stating that it will not pass any direction for having a uniform scheme for assessment across the country, the apex court directed the state boards to ensure that scheme be formulated at the earliest and not later than 10 days from Thursday. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari observed that each board will have to evolve their own scheme. "We direct the boards to ensure that the scheme be formulated at the earliest and not later than 10 days from today and also declare the internal assessment results by July 31, 2021, like the timeline specified for CBSE and CISCE," the bench said in its order. The top court was hearing a plea, which has sought directions to states to not hold board examinations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. "We make it clear that each board may formulate their own scheme. However, we further make it clear that we are not endorsing the correctness and validity of scheme that will be formulated by the concerned board..," the bench said. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the bench was told by an advocate appearing in the matter that state boards that have cancelled the class 12 examinations amid the pandemic may be asked to have a uniform scheme for assessing students. "That may not be acceptable because every state board has their own scheme. It cannot be uniform. We are not going to direct for uniform scheme. Each board will have to evolve their own scheme," the bench said, adding that each board is different and autonomous. It said each state boards have experts to advise them and there cannot be a uniform all India scheme for this. "There cannot be a fit-all scheme," the bench observed, adding, "We have made it clear that each board is autonomous and they will have their own scheme ." The counsel appearing for Haryana school education board told the bench that the petitioner is seeking a uniform formula for assessment. "That we have already made it clear that each board can have their own scheme," the bench said. The apex court noted in its order that state of Assam has filed an affidavit stating that examinations for class 10 and 12 have been cancelled and scheme is being formulated by the board for internal assessment of marks. "That be done expeditiously. In addition, the scheme must provide for a mechanism for redressal of grievance of students after the declaration of results as done by the CBSE and CISCE," the bench said. The top court also noted that National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) has cancelled the board examinations and is in the process of formulating the scheme for assessment. The apex court was earlier informed by the Assam and Tripura governments that they have cancelled their state boards of Class 12 exam due to the pandemic. On June 17, the top court was informed that out of 28 states, six states have already conducted the board exams, 18 states have cancelled them, but four states (Assam, Punjab, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh) have not cancelled them as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Patient bitten by rat in civic hospital dies in Mumbai||A 24-year-old patient, who was bitten by a rat near his eye at a civic-run hospital in suburban Ghatkopar, has died at the medical facility, BMC officials said. The patient was suffering from alcohol-related liver disease and was in a very critical condition since the day of his admission in the Rajawadi Hospital, they said, adding that he died on Wednesday. On Tuesday, a relative of the patient alleged that a rat had bitten near his eye, when he was admitted to the ICU of the hospital, prompting Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar to order a probe into the matter. The hospital management had confirmed the rat bite incident, but said injuries were "superficial" and the patient's eye was not affected. According to the officials, the patient was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state. On Tuesday, reacting to the rat bite incident, the hospital's Dean Dr Vidya Thakur had said they have taken some rodent repellent measures and will take utmost care to avoid such incidents. BJP Lok Sabha member from Mumbai North East Manoj Kotak on Tuesday hit out at the Shiv Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) over the rat bite incident. "The BMC is said to be Asia's largest civic corporation, but it does not have enough measures to protect patients from mice. The family at the receiving end is in shock," said Kotak, whose constituency covers Ghatkopar, where the hospital is located.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Two forest officers suspended over elephant death in Chhattisgarh||Two forest department employees were suspended and three officials shifted out of Surajpur in connection with the death of a wild elephant in the Chhattisgarh district, an official said on Thursday. State Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF) Rakesh Chaturvedi took the action against the five forest personnel on Wednesday for their alleged negligence in discharging their duties and not taking immediate and effective steps in the case of the jumbo's death, the public relations department official here said. On June 11, an elephant was found dead in a forest near Darhora village under Pratappur forest range of Surajpur. A preliminary probe into the incident indicated the animal had been struck by lightning. As per forest officials, the decomposed carcass of the elephant kept lying at the spot for seven-eight days. Chhattisgarh Forest and Climate Change Minister Mohammad Akbar had directed officials to take stern action into the incident. According to the official, forest guard Vijay Kumar Kujur and beat guard Maan Singh were suspended. Besides, Surajpur's Divisional Forest Officer Duleshwar Prasad Sahu was shunted out and attached to the PCCF's office in Atalnagar Nava Raipur, while sub-divisional forest officer (Pratappur) B K Lakra and forest ranger (Pratappur) Premchand Mishra were attached to the office of Ambikapur's chief conservator of forest. Surajpur, located over 300 km away from the capital Raipur, falls under the Surguja forest circle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-38
24-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi appears before Surat court in defamation case||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appeared before a magistrate's court in Surat on Thursday to record his final statement in a criminal defamation suit filed by a Gujarat MLA over the former's remark on the "Modi surname". BJP legislator from Surat Purnesh Modi had filed a complaint against Gandhi in April 2019 under IPC Sections 499 and 500, that deal with defamation. A week back, Surat's Chief Judicial Magistrate A N Dave directed Gandhi to remain present in the court on June 24 to record his final statement in the case. In his complaint, the MLA had alleged that Gandhi defamed the entire Modi community by saying "How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?" while addressing a poll rally in 2019. During the election rally held at Kolar in Karnataka on April 13, 2019, Gandhi had reportedly asked, "Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi, Narendra Modi...how come they all have Modi as the common surname. How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?" Rahul Gandhi was the Congress president when he had made this remark. Gandhi earlier appeared before the court in October 2019 and pleaded not guilty for his comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||J&K political leaders' meeting with PM Modi underway||In the government's first outreach to Jammu and Kashmir's political leadership in almost two years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a crucial meeting with 14 leaders, including four former chief ministers, to chalk out the future course of action in the union territory. The prime minister, accompanied by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, received the leaders from eight parties, including the National Conference, the PDP, the BJP and the Congress, at his residence. This is the first interaction between the Central leadership and the mainstream parties since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 and bifurcated it into two union territories, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Minister of State in PMO Jitendra Singh, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister P K Mishra and Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla were among those who attended the meeting. The four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state who participated in the discussions were Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah of the National Conference, Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti. Four former deputy chief ministers were in attendance too Congress' Tara Chand, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig and BJP's Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta. CPI-M leader Mohammed Yusuf Tarigami, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) chief Altaf Bukhari, Sajjad Lone of the People's Conference, J-K Congress head G A Mir, BJP's Ravinder Raina and Panthers Party leader Bhim Singh also formed part of the delegation. "I will keep my agenda in the meeting and then talk to you," Farooq Abdullah said before the meeting started. Asked about PDP chief Mehbooba's comments that India should initiate dialogue with Pakistan, the NC leader said, "Mehbooba ji is the president of her party. She has the right to speak. I have my own. I don't want to bring in Pakistan. I am going to talk to our own prime minister." "If India can talk to the Taliban in Doha (Qatar), why not Pakistan," Mehbooba had said earlier. With no agenda announced for the meeting, the leaders from Jammu and Kashmir said they have come with an open mind. "We have not been given an agenda. We will be attending the meeting to know what the Centre is offering," said Tarigami, who is also spokesperson of the six-party People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) that was formed in the aftermath of the August 2019 decisions. Officials said the Centre is keen on holding assembly elections in the union territory as early as possible, maybe in December this year or March 2022 after the Delimitation Commission headed by Justice (retd) Ranjana Desai completes its task of redrawing constituencies in the next few months. The Commission was granted one year's extension in March this year. BJP's Jammu and Kashmir unit president Raina said Thursday's interaction convened by the prime minister is in accordance with the wishes of heads of various political parties who have been seeking time from him for a long time. The meeting seems to be the result of the back-channel talks held with all the parties from the union territory to chart out a roadmap. The Union Home Minister, while tabling the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill 2019 in Parliament, had given an assurance that the Centre would grant full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir at an appropriate time. Today's dialogue comes seven months after the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir. The PAGD had surged ahead of the BJP and its allies, including the JKAP, by bagging 110 seats out of 280 with the National Conference emerging stronger with 67 seats within the alliance. The BJP was the single largest party with 75 seats. Jammu and Kashmir's political mainstream, especially those with a strong base in the Valley, has been critical of successive administrations of the union territory for allegedly neglecting the demands of the people. It has raised questions on development initiatives since August 2019. Several leaders, including the Abdullahs and Mehbooba, were detained after the August 2019 decisions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||India records 54,069 fresh Covid cases, 1,321 casualties in a day||India reported 54,069 new cases of COVID-19 in a day which took the infection tally to 3,00,82,778 while 1,321 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 3,91,981, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Thursday. The number of active cases has declined to 6,27,057 and is 2.08 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has also improved to 96.61 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 16,137 cases in the COVID-19 caseload has been recorded in a day. According to the inoculation data published at 7 am, India administered 64.89 lakh vaccine doses in a day taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far to 30.16 crore. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.91 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 17 days in a row. The weekly positivity rate has also declined to 3.04 per cent, the ministry said. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 42nd consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from COVID-19 surged to 2,90,63,740, while the case fatality rate was at 1.30 per cent, it said. On Wednesday, 18,59,469 tests were conducted in the country for the detection of COVID-19, taking the total number of tests carried out so far to 39,78,32,667. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore total COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and 3 crore on June 23. The 1,321 fatalities include 508 from Maharashtra, 166 from Tamil Nadu, 150 from Kerala and 123 from Karnataka. Of the total 3,91,981 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounted for 1,19,303, Karnataka 34,287, Tamil Nadu 31,746, Delhi 24,940, Uttar Pradesh 22,336, West Bengal 17,475, Punjab 15,923 and Chhattisgarh 13,407. The health ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths reported so far have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Kunal Kamra's video essay leaves uncomfortable blanks for Modi||Kunal Kamra, who has made mincemeat of those in power with his devastating jokes, has stopped laughing. But that’s no cause for comfort for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The following are excerpts from a video guest essay in The New York Times in which Kamra articulates his opinion. The essay appeared in the Opinion Video section, whose director and executive producer is Adam B. Ellick, who has produced  Pulitzer-  and Emmy-winning video journalism. Kamra’s words are interspersed with heart-rending images that marked the Covid second wave in India and snatches of speeches by Modi. ⚫ Prime Minister Narendra Damodardas Modi, blatantly lying (on Modi declaring victory over the coronavirus in January 2021) ⚫ My name is Kunal Kamra, I am a stand-up comedian from India, and this is where even I stop laughing. ⚫ My people are needlessly dying. Our government has blood on its hands. ⚫ No world leader can compete with Modi…. And Boy, he can act! ⚫ So when Modi declared Covid was over in January, there was a small problem, Covid forgot to follow his instructions. ⚫ In May, Modi gleefully attended super-spreader election rallies in West Bengal. ⚫ Denialism is everywhere, particularly at the top. ⚫ Now to top it all, Modi botched up our vaccine rollout, which is ironic because guess who produces 60 per cent of the world’s vaccines…. ⚫ We live in an out-and-out lie, but our government is a master of one domain — attacking its critics. ⚫ Even I, as a comedian, am struggling to satirise this absurdity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Delhi riots: Justice Lokur castigates cops for mishandling of activists||The former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, has castigated Delhi police for “violating every canon of natural justice and fair play” in dealing with student anti-CAA activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were recently freed on bail. Justice Lokur told The Telegraph on Wednesday that the manner in which multiple FIRs were lodged against the accused, and the way Devangana was arrested from a virtual courtroom on May 24 last year, were unheard of in Indian judicial history. “Except as witnessed in the Amitabh Bachchan starrer Shahenshah (where the villain gets ‘accidentally’ hanged to death inside a courtroom),” he added, drawing on Bollywood to emphasise the absurdity of the situation. Devangana, arrested on May 23 last year, had been granted bail during an online hearing on May 24 when she was immediately arrested in another case. Justice Lokur also highlighted how the prosecution had given the accused copies of the 19,000-page chargesheet in pen drives even though they could not access computers in jail. “Clearly and obviously, the dice was heavily loaded against the three accused.... They had to fight the bail application with their hands virtually tied behind their back against an ‘armed’ prosecution,” said Justice Lokur, who had written an opinion article on the issue in the news portal The Wire on Tuesday. The retired judge, known for his liberal views on constitutional rights, had last September openly spoken out at a webinar against the State’s crackdown on dissent. He had deplored how free speech was being tackled with an “iron hand” and thousands, including young students, who had spoken out against the government were being jailed and accused of sedition — a charge once invoked against freedom fighters. On Wednesday, Justice Lokur criticised the Delhi police for adding case after case against the three students to keep them in jail. All three had been arrested in May last year and charged with inciting the February 2020 Delhi riots through their participation in protests against the new citizen regime. But every time the police suspected they might receive bail, they implicated the students in fresh cases, including one under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, which makes bail tough to secure. Eventually, they received bail from Delhi High Court on June 15 but were freed only on June 17 evening after the police stalled their release citing technicalities. “In our Constitution, a peaceful protest is called a peaceable assembly and without arms. It’s a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(b) of our Constitution,” Justice Lokur said. “Except Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), there is no law that places any reasonable restriction or prohibits, in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public order, peaceable assembly without arms.” Justice Lokur underlined that on September 17 last year, the trial judge had passed the first order for the three students to be given a copy of the chargesheet each — a statutory right for every accused under Section 207 of the CrPC. But, he noted, the prosecution gave the trio pen drives although they could not access computers in jail. He wondered whether it was possible for any accused to read such a massive document over the computer, anyway. On September 19, while explaining why a physical copy was not provided to them, the prosecution told the trial court the chargesheet had thousands of pages and there were 15 accused in the case in all. Printing copies for the accused would therefore be costly and would need a few approvals — including a financial sanction — it argued. The prosecution did not explain why the sanction had not been taken despite the defendants’ right to life and liberty being involved. Besides, the court order applied only to Devangana, Natasha and Asif, not all 15 accused. The trial court rejected the police contention and passed a fresh direction for a physical copy of the chargesheet to be given to the accused. Yet the police kept stalling, Justice Lokur said. “On October 21, 2020, the prosecution submitted before the trial judge that it needed government sanction of funds for supplying hard copies of the chargesheet to the accused. This submission was made one month after the trial judge had passed an order for supply of the chargesheet,” Justice Lokur said. He said the prosecution’s contention was “absurd”. Justice Lokur complimented the trial judge for having rightly rejected the prosecution’s plea by holding that “once the chargesheet has been filed by the investigating agency, as voluminous as it is... a copy of it has to be provided in hard copy to every accused....” “They may require sanction of funds for the said purpose; however, they were supposed to act promptly,” the trial judge had said. The trial judge had then directed, for the third time, that a physical copy of the chargesheet be provided to every accused before the next date of hearing “without fail”. Justice Lokur said with a tinge of sarcasm: “Photocopying 17,000 or 19,000 pages and getting financial sanction may be a hassle for the prosecution, but depriving a citizen of his or her constitutional right to liberty does not seem to be a problem.” Justice Lokur recalled how Delhi police had brought environment activist Disha Ravi — arrested in connection with a toolkit document linked to the farmers’ protest — from Bangalore to Delhi by a special chartered plane. “Did the police have the financial sanction for the train or plane journey? Then why raise such a bogey in the case of these three accused?” Justice Lokur asked. He said the supply of a physical copy of the chargesheet had become a “prestige issue”. But, “as a continuation of its caprice”, the prosecution challenged the orders of the trial judge by filing a petition in Delhi High Court. The high court entertained the plea on November 4 and passed an order on November 10 staying trial in the case. After several adjournments, the prosecution told the high court on March 23 this year that hard copies of the chargesheet were ready and the accused were at liberty to collect them from the trial court on March 25. So, a chargesheet filed on September 16, 2020, was made available to the accused only on March 25, 2021, after a gap of six months. All the while the accused were clueless on the actual charges against them, Justice Lokur said. By then, the police had filed two supplementary chargesheets — on November 22, 2020, and on March 1, 2021 — to try and keep the accused in jail. The police tactic was to hold on to the trio indefinitely by arguing their custody was necessary till all the suspects in the case had been arrested and all the evidence collected, Justice Lokur said. As is routinely done, the three students could have been allowed bail by segregating their case from that of the absconding accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Kerala: 25 lakh payoff allegation in the garb of temple prasadam on BJP||First, it was the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Now, it is the “prasadam” elsewhere. The BJP that has lived off motifs associated with organised Hinduism is running into a fresh accusation of biting that holy hand that had been feeding the party. A sum of Rs 25 lakh allegedly disguised as temple prasadam and delivered in a cloth bag with “a banana peeking out of it” is the latest poll payoffs charge against Kerala BJP president K. Surendran, with an RSS leader’s name too thrown in. Surendran already faces investigation in two other Assembly election-related bribery cases, while the state BJP has also been dragged into a money-laundering case suspected to be linked to the April 6 polls. The new controversy comes amid allegations that at least one person related to a BJP leader had made a killing by buying and selling land within a few months to the trust entrusted with the task of building the Ram temple in Ayodhya. In Kerala, Praseetha Azhikode, treasurer of the aggrieved BJP ally Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party, told a TV channel on Wednesday that Wayanad district BJP general secretary Prashanth Malavayal had on March 26 delivered Rs 25 lakh to the now suspended JRP chief C.K. Janu. Janu had weeks earlier dumped the Left and joined the NDA. An audiotape of an alleged phone conversation between Praseetha and Surendran, leaked on Tuesday night, had earlier shown the male voice saying he had “arranged... to give 25 for your party’s needs”. The male voice suggested RSS functionary and state BJP organising secretary M. Ganesh would organise the delivery. Praseetha has said the tape and the conversation are genuine but Surendran has denied the bribery allegation while remaining silent whether the voice on the tape was his. Ganesh forms a triumvirate in the state BJP along with Surendran and junior foreign minister V. Muraleedharan. Praseetha said the money was paid at a homestay in Wayanad where she, Janu and a few other JRP leaders had put up. “He (Malavayal) came to our room on seeing media people in Janu’s room, which was directly opposite. He had a cloth bag with a banana peeking out of it,” Praseetha told the Mathrubhumi TV channel. “When I asked him, he said it was from a puja conducted for the candidate (Janu, who was the NDA nominee from Sultan Bathery, Wayanad).” Praseetha said Malavayal had refused to give the banana to a JRP leader who had asked for it, saying it was to be handed over to Janu since the ritual had been conducted in her name. “Janu came into our room within five minutes. He (Malavayal) spoke to her for two minutes, handed over the bag and left. Janu took it and gave it to Vineetha (her aide) who then took the bag to her (Janu’s) room,” Praseetha said. Surendran dismissed the allegation. “What disclosure are you talking about? Don’t you have any other news to give? It’s as if something adhbhudham (strange) has happened,” he told reporters. “What’s going on is false propaganda. The police are (anyway) investigating,” he added, alluding to the two other cases against him. An audiotape of another alleged phone conversation between Praseetha and Surendran had earlier been leaked on June 2, in which the male voice agreed to pay Janu Rs 10 lakh to join the NDA. Praseetha had acknowledged the veracity of that tape too and said the money had been paid in the first week of March at a Thiruvananthapuram hotel during a visit to the city by Union home minister Amit Shah. Surendran has said that tape was edited. An FIR was lodged on the Rs 10-lakh bribery charge and the JRP suspended Janu. Another FIR accuses Surendran of paying Rs 2.5 lakh to his Bahujan Samaj Parity rival K. Sundara to withdraw his nomination papers from Manjeshwar, Kasaragod. In the audio clip leaked on Tuesday night, the male voice asks why Janu hadn’t returned Ganesh’s call. “Yes, I had arranged for it yesterday. Ganeshji may have called after figuring out how and where it should be delivered. You got it? I have told (him) to give 25 (lakh) for your party’s needs,” it says. “The local unit will decide everything else. I have told them to give 25. Please tell C.K. Janu to return the call.” The female voice replies she doesn’t know whether Janu has spoken to Ganesh. The male voice asks whether Janu doesn’t know who Ganesh is. “When Ganeshji called she said she would call back. Didn’t she know who Ganeshji is? Not only that, I cannot handle such things,” the man says, apparently alluding to the purported money handover. In her TV interview, Praseetha said the Ganesh referred to was indeed the state BJP organising secretary. “He (a reference to Surendran) is clearly saying (in the audio clip) that it is organising secretary Ganesh. He is making it clear that Janu perhaps didn’t know Ganesh,” Praseetha said. “Ganesh called C.K. Janu but (she) perhaps didn’t answer the call, being busy with election work. Otherwise, she didn’t know Ganesh’s number. That’s why Surendran called me to ask Janu to answer calls since the 25 (lakh) for the party was ready.” Several BJP leaders have been questioned in a money-laundering case registered in Kodakara, Thrissur, after a probe into a highway robbery led the police to believe the BJP-RSS was ferrying Rs 3.5 crore in cash three days before the election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||J&K: Tell-all criteria for govt job aspirants in the valley||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may be meeting Jammu and Kashmir’s top politicians in Delhi on Thursday in a political overture, but any association with these leaders might well ruin educated Kashmiri youths’ chances of landing any government job here. Government job aspirants in Jammu and Kashmir will now be required to submit even the minutest details about their lives, including their and their families’ past or present involvement with any political organisation or participation in political activity. Although the order does not clarify whether the candidates can be denied jobs because of their or their families’ past activities, a veteran bureaucrat said getting jobs will be tougher now. A senior lawyer called the amendment unconstitutional. Job seekers must also mention their membership of any charity or cultural organisation, past mobile numbers, car numbers and social media accounts, and even provide details of their in-laws and their children if they are studying abroad. All this information is to be provided by candidates who have been selected, and will be verified by the CID. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s administration has amended the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Verification of Character and Antecedents) Instructions, 1997, under which appointment orders are issued. The amendment was published on the government website on Tuesday. The order is unambiguous that any “wrong” information provided by the candidate, and any “adverse report” from the verifiers, will lead to the appointment being terminated. Earlier, the job seekers had to reveal any association with militants or separatists. Now they must disclose details of their — or their close relatives’ — membership of any political organisation (including pro-India parties) or participation in any political activity. They must also fill in details of their membership of, or association with, any banned outfit like the Jamaat-e-Islami, if any, and even their membership of any club, society, association, trust, charity or similar organisation. Job seekers who have stayed for at least a year in any foreign country, including Pakistan, or in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir after turning 18 must give particulars of all the places they have visited there. The candidates must also give details of all their foreign trips in the past five years, the purposes of the visits and details of the hosts they had stayed with. They must provide details of their education from the age of 15, mobile numbers used in the past five years, registration number of vehicles owned or used, their email and social media or web-based portal accounts, and information about their in-laws. “They have to give details of children studying/living/working abroad along with the details of (the) course being pursued with details of college/university, employer details and residential address,” the order reads. Advocate-general D.C. Raina and the commissioner secretary-general, administration department, Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, did not respond to calls and text messages from this newspaper. Additional advocate-general Bashir Ahmad Dar said he had no information about the service rules. A former IAS officer who has held senior positions in the government said the order was “unprecedented” and a “360-degree kind of verification” that would make it extremely difficult for people to get government jobs. “Political activity is not a crime. It (the conditions) will be unfair on anybody who, suppose, engaged in any activity 10 years back and has since reformed,” the former bureaucrat, who requested anonymity, said. “I don’t know whether such activities will be held against him and whether any safeguards are available. I think they (job aspirants) will be extremely demoralised.” High court Bar association spokesperson G.N. Shaheen said the government, police and the CID would be free to deny jobs to anybody because of their or their families’ associations even if the order left the matter unclear. “Earlier, they would deny jobs because of people’s association with the Hurriyat. Now, any association with even the National Conference or the People’s Democratic Party can cost them a job,” he said. “This order is unconstitutional and violates the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Suppose I’m not associated with any political party but my father is. Should I be punished for that? It’s not permissible.” The order says the verification must not take more than two months but if there’s an “adverse report”, the “appointment shall automatically stand cancelled without any notice”. “The furnishing of false information or suppression of any factual information in the attestation form would entail disqualification, and is likely to render the candidate unfit for employment under the government,” it further reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||ADR releases study on electoral trusts in 2019-20||The BJP had received over 76 per cent of all donations made through electoral trusts in 2019-20, a study by poll watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms has found. These trusts are non-profits through which companies and individuals can contribute to political parties indirectly and lobby as a collective of contributors. The Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party are a distant second and third, respectively. Of the 21 registered trusts, only seven have declared receiving contributions during 2019-20, totalling almost Rs 363.52 crore. “The BJP received Rs 276.45 crore or 76.17 per cent of the total donations received by all political parties from electoral trusts followed by the INC (Congress) which received Rs 58 crore or 15.98 per cent,” the NGO’s report said. The AAP received Rs 11.27 crore. The ADR report added: “JSW Steel Ltd contributed the highest amount worth Rs 39.10 crore amongst all donors of the electoral trusts, followed by Apollo Tyres Ltd with Rs 30 crore and Delhi International Airport Ltd which contributed Rs 25 crore, to various trusts…. Prudent Electoral Trust donated Rs 217.75 crore to the BJP, in contrast to Rs 67.25 crore contributed in FY 2018-19, while Jankalyan Electoral Trust donated Rs 45.95 crore of its total income to the BJP,” the report says. Prudent’s major stakeholders are the GMR Group, Bharti Airtel, DLF and Apollo Tyres. JSW backs Jankalyan. The AAP received funds only from Prudent. The Calcutta-based MP Birla Group-controlled “Paribartan Electoral Trust declared a donation of Rs 3 crore to a party/parties through electoral bonds. This is the first time that an electoral trust has declared giving donation to a political party/parties using the mode of electoral bonds and the party name(s) is not declared. This practice is against the spirit of the Electoral Trusts Scheme, 2013, and Rule 17CA of the Income Tax Rules, 1962, which make it mandatory for trusts to furnish each and every detail about the donor contributing to the trust,” the ADR report observes. The report said the “details of donors to these 6 electoral trusts remain unknown, thereby leading to speculation on whether donations to these trusts were only a means of getting tax exemption or a way to convert black money stashed in tax havens to white money in India”. “Therefore, details of donors to these electoral trusts, which were formed before the CBDT rules came into existence, should also be disclosed. Also, the same rules which apply to those trusts formed after 31st January, 2013, should also apply to the above mentioned trusts so as to improve transparency,” the report said. The NGO added: “All corporates should make details of their political contributions available in the public domain through their websites (in annual reports or in a dedicated page) for increasing transparency in political financing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Bihar: Lalu Prasad's return plan buoys Opposition Grand Alliance||Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad, who is currently in New Delhi, will return to Bihar soon, his younger son Tejashwi said on Wednesday, spreading cheer in the Opposition Grand Alliance. “At present there is a need to take much care of Laluji’s health. This is also the time of Covid. He is currently under the supervision of doctors and we are in touch with them. He could return to Patna very soon… after a few days,” Tejashwi, RJD leader and former deputy chief minister, told mediapersons at Patna airport after arriving from New Delhi on Wednesday. Tejashwi had been in the national capital for the last two months, having gone there soon after his father was released on bail while being treated at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) under incarceration. “Neta ke saath hum beta bhi hain (I am a leader as well as a son),” Tejashwi said, when asked about his absence from the political scene during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Lalu served close to four years in prison in Ranchi before getting bail in the fodder scam cases and has been away from Bihar for over three years. The last time he was here was on parole to attend his eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav’s wedding in May 2018. Leaders of the Grand Alliance said that the return of the RJD chief would boost their enthusiasm and rock the boat of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). “Laluji’s return to Bihar will change the condition and direction of politics in the state. The NDA government is not comfortable numerically in the Legislative Assembly. Moreover, its constituent parties — the BJP, chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JDU (Janata Dal United), HAMS (Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular) and Vikassheel Insan Party — are constantly bickering with each other,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary told The Telegraph. The Congress expressed happiness and said that Lalu’s arrival in Bihar will give impetus to the Opposition. “Laluji is the tallest leader of Bihar. His party has more MLAs than any other party in the Assembly. His return to the state will make the RJD more active, give momentum to the Opposition and widen its role. We are happy that he is coming back,” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra told this newspaper. Mishra asserted that the NDA was going to implode in the state due to its internal conflicts and dissatisfaction among the constituent parties. “We are going to see a new political equation in the state within a couple of months. Only 12 MLAs are needed to dispose of the present ruling dispensation. Some are even in touch with our Grand Alliance,” Mishra said. The NDA scraped through in the 2020 Assembly elections with a thin majority. At present it has 126 MLAs and a support of an independent MLA taking the tally up to 127 in the 243-member House. The BJP has 74 MLAs, JDU 44, while the HAMS and VIP have four legislators each in the Assembly. On the other hand, the Opposition Grand Alliance has 110 MLAs. The RJD leads with 75 MLAs, the Congress has 19, the CPI-ML 12, while the CPI and CPM have two each. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has five MLAs and is not attached to any of the alliances in the state. One seat in the House is vacant. Numerically, any party or alliance having 122 legislators can form the government. However, in reality, even a shift of five or six MLAs from the NDA could lead to turmoil in the Nitish-led government. Tejashwi attacked Nitish for turning a blind eye towards inflation and unemployment in Bihar. He also blamed the chief minister for engineering a revolt in the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). Asked about LJP founder and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s son Chirag, Tejashwi said: “Laluji once made Ram Vilas Paswan a member of the Rajya Sabha when he had no MLA or MP with him. My brother Chirag has to decide whether he wants to stay with M.S. Golwalkar of the RSS and his book Bunch of Thoughts, or with Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar who gave us the Constitution of India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Cong blames govt of being obsessed with Modi’s image-building ||The Congress believes the government is still obsessed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image-building instead of taking the vaccination drive seriously as manifested in the exceptional hype created around the decision to give free shots and the over 80 lakh doses administered on Monday. Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Wednesday: “Our country is not secured unless big vaccination drive is carried out in a sustained manner. It is sad that the central government hasn’t been able to go beyond a PR event.” The Modi government is in overdrive on a “thank-you Prime Minister” mission, trying to present the accomplishment of giving 80 lakh (8 million) doses in a day as an unparalleled event. Big hoardings and banners have been put across the national capital thanking the Prime Minister for announcing free vaccines for all and conducting the special drive on June 21. Huge amounts of money were spent by the BJP-ruled states in putting up advertisements thanking the Prime Minister. While China has been constantly vaccinating over 17 million people daily, India is placed at 93rd rank in the world in terms of the fully vaccinated percentage of population. This is not very encouraging as India is the biggest manufacturer of vaccines in the world. The government has promised to complete the exercise by the year-end but the number of daily doses dipped sharply after the June 21 figure. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra highlighted this in a tweet: “Delta plus variant has already arrived. Only 3.6 per cent population has been fully vaccinated so far. But the Prime Minister is playing the role of event manager. After patting their back for high doses, vaccination fell by over 40 per cent the very next day. The formula for propaganda of record vaccination: In Madhya Pradesh, doses on June 20 — 692; on June 21 — 16.91 lakh; June 22 — 4,825. High dose given one day for event and then a huge fall. At least 80 to 90 lakh doses will be required to be given everyday to complete the target by December.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram also tweeted: “Look at the numbers for MP (Madhya Pradesh), Karnataka and Haryana on Sunday to Tuesday. BJP governments pulling a rabbit out of a hat! Pure magic for a day! Watch UP (Uttar Pradesh) and Gujarat numbers for a few more days. I am appalled that eminent doctors attribute Monday’s record to ‘planning’. The plan was to ‘doctor’ the numbers on Monday.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh also recalled how BJP veteran and Modi’s mentor L.K. Advani described the Prime Minister as the “best event manager”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-39
24-06-2021||India||Covid: India detects 40 cases of the Delta variant ||India has detected 40 cases of a coronavirus variant called Delta plus that possesses multiple worrisome mutations linked to high transmissibility and immune evasion, triggering an alert to three states and efforts to determine whether it has impacted disease severity. The cases in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala — although in limited numbers — have prompted the Union health ministry to ask the three states to enhance public health measures to curb any further spread of the variant. Scientists sequencing coronavirus genomes have spotted the Delta plus samples in Ratnagiri and Jalgaon in Maharashtra, Palakkad and Pathanamthitta in Kerala, and Bhopal and Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh, the health ministry said. The Delta plus variant has additional mutations to those in the so-called Delta variant — also designated as B.1.617.2 — a highly transmissible variant that was first detected in India and has spread to nearly 80 countries. The Delta variant is replacing other circulating variants in parts of the UK and the US. “The Delta plus should be watched carefully — there are too few sequences to say anything about its public health implications at this time,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. “The coming together of a key mutation from another variant of concern in the Delta variant should be a cause for concern but not panic,” Jameel said. “We need to understand whether the effects of the mutations are neutral, additive, or bigger than the sum of the parts.” A national scientific consortium sequencing the coronavirus has told the health ministry that the Delta plus variant appears to have increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and resistance to monoclonal antibodies — designer proteins used to treat Covid-19. But what those mutations mean for the epidemic and disease is still unclear. “There is no clinical, epidemiological, or laboratory data yet on the Delta plus,” said Gagandeep Kang, a professor of clinical microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. The Delta plus variant has also been found among sequences sampled in China, Japan, Nepal, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Switzerland, the UK and the US. As on June 18, 205 cases have been documented, more than half of them in the UK and the US, the health ministry said. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in letters to chief secretaries in the three states, has urged “containment measures, enhanced testing, tracking and vaccination in districts and clusters where the Delta plus is found”. Bhushan has also asked the states to send adequate samples of positive people to designated sequencing laboratories to enable researchers to probe the patterns of infection spread and try to correlate them with the clinical outcome of patients. Public health experts say the containment measures remain the same irrespective of the variant, but the urgency is enhanced when highly transmissible variants are in circulation as they can spread and trigger large outbreaks within days to weeks. While microbiologists in Pune, examining samples from central Maharashtra, had recognised the Delta variant as a possible source of concern by mid-February, some public health experts have said, those early alerts had not generated the intensity of response they should have from the Centre. It was only after India’s second Covid-19 wave was well underway that the National Centre for Disease Control said the Delta variant had played a primary role in the surge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
24-06-2021||India||Covid: Battle over mass vaccination programme escalates in Odisha||The war between the BJP and the Biju Janata Dal over the mass vaccination programme launched by the Centre since Monday has intensified in Odisha with both the parties accusing each other of trying to extract political mileage out of the drive. While the BJP has alleged that the BJD was trying to appropriate undue credit for the programme by putting up chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s exclusive posters at the vaccination centres, some of which were torn by its workers, the BJD has attacked the saffron party for indulging in “cheap politics” over the issue. Even BJD’s national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sasmit Patra and BJP national spokesperson Aparajita Sarangi, who is the BJP MP from Bhubaneswar, on Wednesday entered into a twitter war on the issue. “Central Government, whether its polio, BCG, measles, DPT, Hepatitis, Vitamin A. When did it become a State program, except now that it was forced upon the States & subsequently withdrawn. Hon’ble CM’s message has been put out across state calling for using Masks and COVID appropriate behaviour, it is nothing about vaccination. It is petty and shameful to do politics out of this. I am afraid you may be insecure about your political relevance and doing this narrow minded politics. However, thanks for wearing masks off late,” tweeted Patra. Equally caustic was Sarangi’s tweet that said, “Odisha failed to procure vaccines, it sought Central Government’s support. Our PM Narendra Modi has come to the rescue of @CMO_Odisha. Basic courtesy demands that PM Modi’s photos with CM’s photo are put up at all vaccination points by state government. Height of insecurity and narrow mindedness!” The BJD has hit back saying that success of the vaccination programme and rise in the popularity of the chief minister had unnerved the BJP, which was behaving in a vengeful manner. The party said that the Centre was not doing any favour to the state by sending vaccines. It was only doing what it was supposed to do. The BJP workers for the last consecutive two days had created ruckus at various vaccination centres in Balasore, Dhenkanal, Berhampur and Angul protesting against the absence of posters of Modi and presence of only Naveen’s poster. There were reports of party activists tearing up posters of the chief minister at vaccination centres. A BJP worker had torn off the inaugural ribbon at a vaccination centre just before the inauguration of the programme at the Gandhi Smruti Bhavan in Balasore. “The Odisha government is in the habit of taking the credit by hijacking the different welfare schemes of the Central government,” Union minister Pratap Sarangi tweeted. He further tweeted, “Projecting the COVID vaccination programme of the central government as its own and hijacking the same by putting only the photograph of the chief minister pointing to cheap politics.” Ganjam district BJD president Ramesh Chandra Chyaupatnaik told The Telegraph, “Under the federal principle, the Centre collects taxes from the states and it’s their job to provide vaccines to the state. It is unfortunate that the BJP is indulging in this kind of behaviour. They should remember that the Prime Minister had himself praised Naveen Babu over the successful vaccination programme.  They are getting jealous and want to create a controversy out of nothing to get political mileage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-40
