25-06-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra records 9,677 cases, 156 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday reported 9,677 new COVID-19 cases and 156 deaths, taking its infection tally to 60,17,035, and death toll to 1,20,370, the state health department said in a release. Of 156 deaths, 117 occurred in the last 48 hours and 39 in the last one week. Also, 355 deaths which had taken place earlier were added to cumulative tally on Friday. The reconciliation of cases in Mumbai was complete with removal of duplication which brought down the caseload in the state capital by 4,467. The state's caseload too decreased by 73 after reconciliation of figures, the release said. As many as 10,138 patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday, taking the total of recoveries to 57,72,799. There are 1,20,715 active cases in the state now. The recovery rate is 95.94 per cent while case fatality rate is two per cent. There are 6,33,748 people in home quarantine while 4,248 are in institutional quarantine. With 2,36,034 tests conducted on Friday, tally of samples tested for coronavirus reached 4,05,96,965. Mumbai city reported 693 new cases taking its case tally to 7,18,962. The city also added 20 deaths, taking its fatality count to 15,368. The larger Mumbai division reported 2,076 cases of infection and 34 deaths, taking its caseload to 15,85,717 and death toll to 31,671. Nashik division added 659 cases and 16 deaths, of which 10 deaths were reported from rural parts of Ahmednagar district. Pune division's caseload increased by 2,210. Out of 20 deaths in the division, 14 were reported in Satara district. Kolhapur division continued to report the highest number of cases among divisions with 3,854 infections coming to light on Friday. Of these, 1,672 cases were found in rural parts of Kolhapur district. Out of 55 deaths in the division, 24 were reported in rural parts of Kolhapur. Aurangabad division's caseload went up by 197 and it also added ten deaths. Latur division reported 323 cases and 18 deaths. Akola division reported 217 new cases of COVID-19 and three deaths, while Nagpur division added 141 cases. There was no COVID-19 death in the entire Nagpur division on Friday, the release said. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 60,17,035; New cases 9,677; Death toll 1,20,370; Recoveries 57,72,799; Active cases 1,20,715; Total tests 4,05,96,965.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
25-06-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor faces temporary Twitter ban after IT Minister||After Twitter briefly blocked IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from accessing his account for alleged copyrights violation, chairman of the parliamentary panel on information technology Shashi Tharoor on Friday said the same thing happened with him and the standing committee will be seeking an explanation from the social media firm over the temporary locking of their accounts and the rules it follows while operating in India. Confronting Twitter, Prasad said it was apparent that his statements calling out the high handedness and arbitrary actions of the micro-blogging platform, particularly sharing clips of interviews to TV channels and the powerful impact had "clearly ruffled its feathers". "Friends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account," Prasad said in a tweet. Tagging Prasad's tweet, Tharoor said, "Raviji, the same thing just happened to me. Clearly DMCA is getting hyperactive." He said one of his tweets has been deleted by Twitter because its video included the copyrighted BoneyM song "Rasputin". After a process, the account was unlocked, the Congress leader said. Indians creatively make videos using short snippets of foreign music and most people would consider that "fair use", Tharoor argued in a series of tweets. Instead of letting the clip enhance the popularity of their song, the copyright holders have issued a notice, the Lok Sabha MP said, adding that though he had just retweeted it, he was not about to contest their act. In this case the complainant was the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry which is zealously defending the rights of Sony Music to "Rasputin", he said. Ironically, Tharoor said, at their last conference in India, he was a keynote speaker. "So I won't blame @Twitter for this action or attribute the motives to them that @rsprasad does, though it wasn't pleasant finding my account locked. Clearly they had no choice but to honour a DMCA takedown notice, however stupid & pointless the request was," he said in another tweet. But getting a notice from a UK-based organisation, citing Twitter's role as a service provider under a US law, points to the challenges of Twitter India's operations in India, Tharoor said. The minister has pointed to possible violations of Indian regulations while conforming to foreign rules, he said. "As Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, I can state that we will be seeking an explanation from @TwitterIndia for the locking of @rsprasad's & my accounts & the rules & procedures they follow while operating in India," Tharoor said. A couple of hours after his series of tweets, Tharoor tweeted that Twitter had locked him out again because to explain the problem, the first tweet in his thread of tweets included the offending copyrighted video. "Locking is a foolish response to a DCMA notice; disabling the video (which they've now done) should be enough. @Twitter has a lot to learn," he said. Weighing into the issue, Rajya Sabha MP and Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said this has happened to her verified Facebook page as well with respect to television debates. "I had also raised this copyright issue in the department related Committee meeting. Unfortunately, it only pinches when it hits home. No conspiracy sir, it is something that has gone unaddressed & is less understood," Chaturvedi said, tagging Prasad's tweet. "I had in a committee meeting on copyright and Intellectual Property Rights asked this specific question: how can a TV channel flag a segment as copyright violation for a debate in which I was a part & is shared on my page? The page was allowed access only when post was taken down," she tweeted. However, there was no answer then and not even taken up as a larger issue that needs clarity, she said in her series of tweets on the issue. "Today it happened to the IT Minister and he blames the platform! The issue is not you, your position or the platform, it is the lack of clarity. But then we live in the times of narrative setting," Chaturvedi said. The temporary locking of the IT Minister's Twitter account comes at a time when the US-based digital giant has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules, which has led to the microblogging platform losing its legal shield as an intermediary in India and becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content. Lashing out at Twitter, Prasad -- in a series of posts on rival social media platform Koo -- said it was apparent that his statements calling out the "high handedness and arbitrary actions" of Twitter had ruffled feathers. He also tweeted on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||Pregnant women can be vaccinated, says health ministry||ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bharagava on Friday said that pregnant women can be vaccinated against COVID-19, amid concern over expansion of vaccine beneficiaries ahead of a possible third wave of coronavirus infections. "The health ministry has given guidelines that they (anti-Covid vaccine) can be given to pregnant women. We have also demonstrated from our ICMR PregCovid registry that vaccination is useful in pregnant women and it should be given," he said during a press conference. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief was asked a question on vaccination of children and pregnant women. However, Dr Bhargava advised caution in rushing to vaccinate children. According to a NDTV report, vaccination for pregnant women was one of the topics discussed by the NTAGI, or National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, last month. Doubts were raised about possible risks to the mother and/or child - including that of clotting (or thrombosis) with the Covishield jab, but the committee decided "benefit far outweighs the risk". "Considering current situation of pandemic, NTAGI-STSC recommends pregnant women should not be excluded from vaccination because exposure probability is very high and therefore the benefit far outweighs the risk," the committee said in its report. "... before vaccination, pregnant women should be fully informed that long-term adverse reactions and safety of vaccine for fetus and child (has) not yet (been) established," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||India, China agree to hold next round of military talks soon||India and China on Friday agreed to hold the next round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh amid fresh sparring between the two sides on the prolonged LAC standoff. At a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the two sides had a "frank exchange" of views and decided to maintain dialogue to reach a mutually acceptable solution for withdrawal of troops in all friction points to enable progress in the overall ties, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) here. In a statement at the end of the talks, the MEA said both sides agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The talks took place in the backdrop of a fresh round of sparring between the two sides over the standoff as well as deadlock in further movement in the disengagement process after the withdrawal of troops by both sides from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. "Both sides agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh keeping in view the agreement reached between the two foreign ministers in September 2020," the MEA statement said. "In this regard, the two sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through the diplomatic and military mechanisms to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points so as to ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity to enable progress in the bilateral relations," it added. The MEA said both sides also agreed that in the interim, the two sides will continue to ensure stability on the ground and prevent any untoward incident. "The two sides agreed to hold the next round of the senior commanders meeting at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC in the western sector in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols," it said. India refers to the eastern Ladakh region as the western sector. The previous round of military talks(11th round) was held on April 9. "The two sides had a frank exchange of views on the situation along the LAC in the western sector of the India-China border areas," the MEA said. A war of words broke out between India and China on the border standoff this week. India on Thursday blamed China for the standoff saying its amassing of a large number of troops close to the border and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC last year were responsible for seriously disturbing peace and tranquillity in the region. India's response came after China said its military deployment in the region is a normal defence arrangement aimed at "preventing and responding" to alleged "encroachment and threat" on Chinese territory by India. The WMCC meet was co-chaired by MEA's additional secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava and the director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China's foreign ministry. India and China had reached a five-point agreement to resolve the border standoff during talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. According to military officials, each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive high altitude sector. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach to this issue at the 11th round of military talks. Last month, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane said there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. Gen Naravane also said that India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||Congress is needed in coalition to take on BJP, says Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said the Congress cannot be left out of any alternative front to take on the BJP, days after a meeting at his residence gave rise to speculation about Third Front moves for the 2024 elections. "An alliance was not discussed in the (Rashtra Manch) meeting but if an alternative force is to be raised, it will be done only by taking Congress together. We need power like that and I had said this in that meeting," the senior politician was quoted as saying by news agency ANI, as reported by ndtv.com. He also called for "collective leadership" if any front is considered. Asked if he would lead the new front, he quipped: "Sharad Pawar has tried this many times before." Pawar’s meetings with poll strategist Prashant Kishor has also given rise to speculations over the past few weeks, but a meeting at his home on Tuesday was watched and dissected with interest. The meeting was called by Yashwant Sinha, not Sharad Pawar, Majeed Memon, a leader of Pawar's NCP. The meeting lasted over two hours. Notably, the Congress was missing though three leaders were invited. There was no discussion of a political front at the Tuesday meeting, Pawar said, according to the report by ndtv.com. On a leadership role for him in any Third Front to take on the BJP in the next general election in 2024, he said: "We haven't discussed but I think we'll have to go ahead by taking a role of collective leadership. I did this for years but right now I'll work for keeping everyone together, guiding and strengthening them."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||ICMR chief: More data needed on whether children can take jabs||ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bharagava on Friday said that pregnant women can be vaccinated against COVID-19, but more data needs to be available to decide whether children can be inoculated against the disease. "The health ministry has given guidelines that they (anti-Covid vaccine) can be given to pregnant women. We have also demonstrated from our ICMR PregCovid registry that vaccination is useful in pregnant women and it should be given," he said during a press conference. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief was asked a question on vaccination of children and pregnant women. On whether COVID-19 shots can be administered to children is still a debatable question, until enough data is available, Bhargava said, adding that there is only one country in the world, the US, which is administering vaccines to children at the moment. Whether very small children will ever need a vaccine is still a question, he said. "Till such time we have more data available on vaccination of children we will not be in a position to vaccinate children at large. However, we have started a study on children between 2-18 years and we should have the results of that by September- October so that we can make some decision," Bharagava said. However, international literature and experts are still debating on whether children need to be inoculated, he said. "In the US we have seen some complications with vaccines among children," Bharagava said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||Where can I ride a 50cc Moped?||of the best things about 50cc Moped is that they can be drove anywhere. It is convenient for you to ride them almost anywhere. If you want to avoid heavy traffic, it is one of the safe and convenient options you can get. However, there are some requirements you need to check before riding a 50cc Moped in any area. If the requirements do not match the speed limit of a 50cc Moped, it is recommended to look for another route according to the rules and regulations. Convenient places for riding 50cc Moped It is no doubt that you can ride 50cc Moped almost everywhere. However, there are some traffic rules you need to know before going for it. 50cc Moped can be safer for people of all ages, and it can be the best alternative to high-speed vehicles that can be dangerous for kids and adults. 1. Any route if your speed is limited: Before taking out your 50cc Moped on any route, you should check the speed limit. If the speed limit is below 30 mph or Equal to it, you are good to ride your 50cc Moped on the route. 2. Alternative routes for increased speed However, if the speed limit is above 30 mph, it is recommended to go for an alternate route even at the minimum level because you can be charged for speeding slow on a route where it is not allowed. It is highly recommended to check the speed limit issued by the traffic rules and regulations. It will keep you safe, and you will not come across any inconvenient situation. 3. Road condition to ride Moped 50cc The road type should also be convenient for you to ride the 50cc Moped. It is important to check the road condition because you can face trouble while driving your 50cc Moped if the road is not good enough. It should be smooth to provide you with a stable ride; however, 50cc Moped can also take extreme conditions. You should be aware of the road status before driving a 50cc moped; it will keep you safe from many inconveniences. Things you should consider before riding 50cc Moped You can take your 50cc Moped out on the roads; however, you should drive it according to the terms of your license. 1. You should have a specific license for the 50cc Moped, which will allow you to drive it on any highway.
2. Always make sure you have insurance. You can find scooter insurance online.
3. It is recommended not to take it out on the roads where it is always busy, and traffic is fast.
4. You can take an alternative route to keep yourself safe and serve the purpose of driving a 50cc moped.
5. You should gather all the information about rules and regulations that applies to a 50cc moped.
6. It will keep you safe from the trouble that can be faced during riding the 50cc Moped. Conclusion 50cc Moped is one of the best options because of its structure and the convenience and can provide you. You can drive it almost everywhere however you have to give some of the things in mind discussed above.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||Which Affordable Smartphones Should You Consider In 2021?||Meta: With so many new smartphones released every year, finding an affordable option can be tricky. Check out some of our suggestions for the right device here. If you are on the hunt for a new smartphone, you might be a bit overwhelmed by all of the interesting options that are currently available for Indian consumers. Smartphones have become very advanced over the years, and they can now do a lot more than just allow you to take photos and scroll your Facebook news feed. Of course, with more features comes a higher price tag so how do you find an affordable model? Below, we’ll look at some of the more affordable smartphones that you should consider in 2021. Redmi Note 10 Pro Max For those interested in finding an affordable smartphone with an excellent camera, the Redmi Note 10 Pro Max is a good option. This model comes with a 108MP quad rear camera setup and a 6.67-inch display. That’s not all, it also has some stereo speakers to make listening to your favourite songs on your Spotify app easier, regardless of where you are. Samsung Galaxy F41 Battery life is a key consideration for many smartphone owners, especially those who enjoy playing mobile games or slots at an online casino on their device. For this reason, we believe that the Samsung Galaxy F41 is a great option for those looking for an affordable device with a good battery life. You’ll find that this device not only comes with a 64MP triple rear camera but also a 6,000mAh battery. Realme Narzo 20 Pro Next on our list is the Realme Narzo 20 Pro. This device was first launched back in 2020 and has since gone on to become one of the best affordable options for customers in India. Security was clearly a design priority with this device as you’ll find a side-mounted fingerprint scanner which offers biometric authentication. This makes this device perfect for using online banking, securely depositing at a sports betting site or keeping emails private thereby maintaining online data security. Realme X7 If you are on the hunt for a smartphone with excellent processing power, we can recommend the Realme X7 device. This phone is powered by an 800U 5G processor and so you can expect it to run all of your applications pretty well. In addition to that, you’ll find a 64MP quad rear camera and a 16MP selfie camera for taking shots on the go. Charging this device is quite simple as the 4,310mAH battery will support 50W fast charging. According to the experts, the Super AMOLED display makes this one of the best smartphones on the market right now. Consider These Options Finding a smartphone that fits both your budget and your technical expectations isn’t always easy but if you take a closer look at some of these options, you should find something that suits you. These smartphones have great displays, cameras and processing power, all at an affordable price. Make sure to test out all of the features and determine which is the best device for you going forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||Dr. Himanshu Dwivedi- Keeping local journalism alive||Journalism is all about communication and intention. And Newspapers bridge the gap between government and society, raising relevant issues of our times and sets the agenda of the day. We come across the life of one such exemplary journalist, Dr. Himanshu Dwivedi who is the Editor in Chief Of Haribhoomi, a daily Hindi newspaper published in North and Central India. Hari Bhoomi Newspaper is a media production company based in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India. Established on 5 September 1996 as a weekly Hindi language newspaper, today Haribhoomi is one of the leading daily Hindi newspaper. It hugely covers states of Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Chattisgarh, as well as parts of Orissa. Their Delhi Edition covers regions of Delhi, Faridabad and Gurgaon. Along with the News they provide their reader's different kinds of weekly magazines with a daily newspaper like Saheli for women, Balbhoomi for children, Manzil for youth, Ravivar Bharti for families, Rangarang for entertainment and Choupal, a cultural magazine. They even offer value-added products to their readers from time to time by publishing calendars, directories, road maps, etc. The senior editor and brave journalist Dr Himanshu Dwivedi also runs the INH news channel. INH News is a fast paced vibrant and dynamic Hindi News TV Channel considered as one of the best and most trusted place for news. INH News delivers breaking news, headlines and top stories from business, politics, entertainment, fashion and lifestyle, sports and more from India and the world. It is recognised in Northern and Central parts of India for its extensive home news coverage, foreign news and team of experienced presenters, editors, correspondents and reporters. It is true to its slogan, 'Badhte Bharat Ki Aawaz,' INH News Channel is committed to broadcasting stories that reveal and inspire and is innovatively produced. The Editor-in-Chief of the daily newspaper Haribhoomi, Mr. Himanshu Dwivedi is a skilled speaker, expert in political affairs and a strong editor, who has an inspirational life journey. He has seen many ups and downs in life but with his strong conviction and intelligence, he faced all challenges and came out as a winner. However, one thing worth mentioning here is that even after reaching such a high level of success, this brave journalist is still attached to his roots. Coming from a middle-class Indian family, his father was a government official in Gwalior. To fulfil his father's wishes, the young Himanshu took admission in engineering, but later left it halfway, which angered his father who decided not to give his son any money for further studies. Himanshu took up the responsibility of his career solely on his shoulder. He later took admission in arts and started working as an intern in a daily newspaper Aaj. While working that time, he got an opportunity to go to Ayodhya and report on the demolition of Babri Masjid. It was here that he met senior journalists from across the country and learned a lot during field reporting on a very sensitive issue. After this he got an opportunity to work in Dainik Bhaskar, Gwalior. Mr. RL was the local editor at that time, from whom he learned many things and considered him as his Guru. It was while staying in Bhaskar that he got the opportunity to cover the 1993 election, and interviewed some prominent politicians that time. Gradually he started enjoying Journalism and learned both editorial and management and its importance in the media world. While closely working with the marketing team, he got to understand the specifics of the work from newspaper news, advertising, printing to circulation. At a young age of 22 years, he was made the local editor of Satna for the Swadesh newspaper. After Swadesh (Satna) he also worked for Navbharat, Chhindwara edition. In the year 2000, Himanshu got an opportunity to meet Captain Abhimanyu, the owner of Haribhoomi, and subsequently joined Haribhoomi in Rohtak (Haryana). After living in Rohtak for four years, he came to Raipur to launch Raipur edition of Haribhoomi and then stayed here since then. The rest as they say is history. Dr Himanshu Dwivedi with his vision and able leadership was able to bring significant changes in the organization and achieved many milestones, raising the benchmark of Haribhoomi as a Hindi daily all over the northern parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||Serum Institute manufacturing first batch of Covovax, says Poonawalla||The first batch of Covovax, a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Novavax Inc, is being manufactured at the Serum Institute of India's Pune facility, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Friday. "Excited to witness the first batch of Covovax (developed by @Novavax) being manufactured this week at our facility in Pune. The vaccine has great potential to protect our future generations below the age of 18. Trials are ongoing. Well done team @seruminstindia," Poonawalla said in a tweet. In March this year, he had said that the clinical trials of Covovax vaccine have begun in India and the company hopes to launch it by September this year. In August 2020, American vaccine company Novavax Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. In January this year, the Serum Institute had rolled out Covishield vaccine in the country. It had entered into a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine. In that month itself, Poonawalla had said SII expected to launch Covovax by June 2021. "Our partnership for a COVID-19 vaccine with @Novavax has also published excellent efficacy results. We have also applied to start trials in India. Hope to launch #COVOVAX by June 2021!", Poonawalla had said in a tweet. SII is already supplying AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, in India and to other countries across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||Modi meeting J&K leaders praiseworthy, says Tomar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's talks with leaders of various political parties in Jammu and Kashmir is "praiseworthy" and it will establish peace, harmony and bring about development in place of terrorism there, Union Agriculture and Panchayati Raj Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday. The prime minister had, on Thursday, met leaders of a coalition of mainstream parties of J&K in the national capital. Replying to a query on the meeting, Tomar said, "The leaders present in the meeting are very hopeful and I feel the initiative and vision of the PM is praiseworthy. It will lead to establishment of peace, harmony and development in place of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir." He said peace and harmony was now prevailing in the UT post the scrapping of provisions of Article 370, adding that local bodies and panchayat polls were held there recently in a peaceful environment. Speaking about his department, Tomar said the Union Panchayati Raj ministry had given substantial development funds to J&K, with focus on areas like agriculture and agri marketing. Replying to a query on the farmers' protests underway against three new laws, Tomar said the Union government had spoken to one of the leaders of the stir 10-11 times in a 50-hour period. He added that the Centre was always ready for talks with farmers so that problems the latter are facing can be resolved. Tomar was speaking here on the sidelines of a MP BJP SC/ST Cell meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
25-06-2021||India||India reports 51 cases of Delta plus variant of coronavirus||Fifty-one cases of Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus have been detected across 12 states in the country, with Maharashtra reporting the highest number of 22, the Centre said on Friday, stressing that there are still very limited cases of this mutation and it cannot be inferred that it is showing an upward trend.
These 51 cases were detected from over 45,000 samples sequenced so far in the country.
Sujeet Singh, Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said 22 cases of Delta Plus variant have been found in Maharashtra, followed by nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in Madhya Pradesh, three in Kerala, two each in Punjab and Gujarat, and one case each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Karnataka.
"There are very limited number of cases of this mutation (Delta Plus). In India, there are very limited cases (of Delta Plus). There are nearly 50 cases that are found in 12 districts and this has happened in the last three months. It cannot be said that in any district, state it is showing an increasing trend. Till the time we don't correlate this we will not say this is a rising trend because its mutations are the same as Delta variant," Singh told a media briefing of the health ministry.
There was some variance in the figures in the slides presented at the briefing but officials confirmed later that the total cases of the Delta Plus variant detected so far stands at 51 across 12 states. Of these cases, at least 14 cases (29.1%) have been traced back to southern India in states like - Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. So the transmission potential in the Delta variant can also found in the Delta Plus variant, he added.
The NCDC is among the 10 institutes involved in genome sequencing of the coronavirus in the country.
Singh said the Delta Plus variant signifies the Delta variant with an additional mutation -- B.1.617.2.1. This specifically refers to acquisition of K417N genetic variant in the background of Variant of Concern (VoC) Delta (B.1.617.2).
He said K417N is of public significance as this mutation is also present in the Variant of Concern Beta (B.1.351).
He said the Delta Plus variant is denoted by a plus sign. "This does not mean...that severity of transmission is more or lead to more severe disease. If scientific evidence does (suggest) that then we will definitely let you know," he said.
Singh added that since the Delta variant is already a VoC, its sub-lineage can also be called a VoC.
Talking about Delta Plus variant, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balaram Bhargava said it is present now in 12 countries, and in India, it has been found in 12 states, but they are very localised.
"Delta Plus variant has also been isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV and laboratory tests to check vaccine effect on Delta Plus variant. We should have these results in 7-10 days' time whether the vaccine is working against the Delta plus," he added.
Singh said Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Telangana and West Bengal have Delta variant in more than 50 per cent of the samples sequenced.
"After that, we came to a conclusion that exponential surge during the second wave was to a large extent driven by this variant. Ninety per cent of the cases (of the samples sequenced) are being driven by B.1.617.2 (Delta) variant of SARS-CoV2," he said.
He said coronavirus variants of concern have been found in 174 districts in 35 states and union territories with the highest number of such cases seen in Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat.
The proportion of COVID-19 cases with variants of concern rose from 10.31 per cent in May, 2021 to 51 per cent on June 20, 2021, he added.
Bharghav also asserted that both the COVID-19 vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- work against SARS-CoV-2 variants like Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta.
He added that the second wave of COVID-19 is not yet over in the country as 75 districts still have more than 10 per cent prevalence and 92 districts have 5-10 per cent prevalence of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Ravi Shankar Prasad claims Twitter denied him access to his account ||In the first instance of a Union Minister being blocked, Twitter on Friday briefly blocked IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from accessing his account, ratcheting up tensions with the government as it came under renewed attack for not following local laws. Twitter denied Prasad access to his account '@rsprasad' for almost an hour on the grounds that he violated the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, but the minister said the microblogging platform violated new IT rules that require intermediary or a host of user content to give prior notice before locking access. The IT Minister called out Twitter over the brazen arbitrariness and running its "own agenda". It was not immediately clear which of Prasad's posts violated the US copyright law. Twitter said it has restored the access, but withheld the tweet in reference. Soon after Prasad flagged the issue, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted that he too had faced something similar. "Raviji, the same thing just happened to me. Clearly DMCA is getting hyperactive. This tweet has been deleted by @Twitter because its video includes the copyrighted BoneyM song `Rasputin'," Tharoor tweeted. Tharoor further said: "As Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, I can state that we will be seeking an explanation from @TwitterIndia for the locking of @rsprasad's & my accounts & the rules & procedures they follow while operating in India". Prasad lashed out at Twitter, and in a series of posts on rival social media platform Koo said it was apparent that his statements calling out the "high handedness and arbitrary actions" of Twitter, had ruffled feathers. "Friends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account," Prasad wrote. He also tweeted on the issue. The temporary locking of the IT Minister's Twitter account comes at a time when the US digital giant has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules, which has led to the microblogging platform losing its legal shield as an intermediary in India and becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content. "It is apparent that my statements calling out the high handedness and arbitrary actions of Twitter, particularly sharing the clips of my interviews to TV channels and its powerful impact, have clearly ruffled its feathers," the minister said. He went on to say that it is now obvious why Twitter is refusing to comply with the intermediary guidelines and added "because if Twitter does comply, it would be unable to arbitrarily deny access to an individual's account which does not suit their agenda". Twitter's actions are in gross violation of the IT rules, where they failed to provide any prior notice before denying access to the account, the minister pointed out. "Twitter's actions indicate that they are not the harbinger of free speech that they claim to be but are only interested in running their own agenda, with the threat that if you do not toe the line they draw, they will arbitrarily remove you from their platform," Prasad said. The minister made it clear that platforms will have to abide by the new IT rules fully and warned that there will be no compromise whatsoever. In a statement, Twitter spokesperson, said, We can confirm that the Honourable Minister's account access was temporarily restricted due to a DMCA notice only and the referenced Tweet has been withheld. Per our copyright policy, we respond to valid copyright complaints sent to us by a copyright owner or their authorised representatives". But IT Ministry sources claimed that it was obvious that Twitter was not comfortable with the minister's posts, criticising the platform for non-compliance with the IT Rules and hence it threatened the IT Minister by denying access to his account for about an hour for alleged violation of copyright law of the US. The issue that further needs to be deliberated in this context is whether India should be guided by the US copyright laws or its own copyright laws, they argued. The sources questioned how a multinational platform like Twitter, which proclaims itself as the flag bearer of free speech, can invoke American laws in India to curtail the free speech of a senior minister of the government. Recounting the incident of Friday morning, the sources said that though the Twitter account of the Minister was visible for public viewing, Twitter did not permit anyone authorised to access this account to log in or make any post. When the minister and his team tried to log in to the Twitter account @rsprasad, it displayed a message Your account has been locked because Twitter received a compliant Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Notice for content posted to your Twitter account". Under the DMCA copyright, owners can notify Twitter claiming that a user has infringed their copyrighted works, the message read. "Upon receipt of a valid notice, Twitter will remove the identified material. Twitter maintains a repeat copyright infringer policy under which repeat infringer accounts will be suspended. Accruing multiple DMCA strikes may lead to suspension of your account," the message said. About an hour later, Twitter unlocked access to the account by posting a warning message to the minister's account stating, Your account is now available for use. Please be aware that any additional notices against your account may result in your account being locked again and potentially suspended". It further said, "In order to avoid this, do not post additional material in violation of our Copyright Policy and immediately remove any material from your account for which you are not authorised to post . The sources said Twitter neither gave any prior intimation before blocking access to the account nor specified any content that was found violating the US laws on copyright. It is pertinent to mention here that Twitter has not fully complied with the new rules, called intermediary Guidelines, that mandate setting up a grievance redressal mechanism and appointing officers to coordinate with law enforcement. The rules became effective from May 26 and Twitter, even after the expiry of the additional time, had not appointed the requisite officers, leading to it losing the 'safe harbour' immunity. Twitter and the government have been at loggerheads over multiple instances in the past months, including during the farmers' protest and later when the microblogging platform tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP as "manipulated media", triggering a sharp rebuke from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Ayesha Sulthana gets anticipatory bail from Kerala HC in sedition case||The Kerala High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Ayesha Sulthana in a sedition case registered against her by the Kavaratti police. A case was registered on June 9 under section 124-A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of IPC on the basis of a petition lodged by a political leader hailing from Kavaratti. Granting bail, Justice Ashok Menon said there was no apparent indication in her statement, which amounts to imputations or assertions prejudicial to the national interest, nor does it propagate any class of persons against another group of persons. The court said in the event of her arrest, she shall be released on bail on execution of bond for Rs 50,000 with two solvent sureties each for like amount to the satisfaction of the officer arresting her. Following the registration of the FIR in Lakshadweep, Sulthana had approached the Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail. Last week, the high court had granted her interim anticipatory bail for a week, while reserving orders on her anticipatory bail application. The court had directed her to comply with the notice given by Kavaratti police to appear before them for interrogation on June 20 in connection with the case. The court had ordered that she be granted interim anticipatory bail if she is arrested. The allegation is that the filmmaker, while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7, had said the Centre used biological weapons against the people of Lakshadweep. When the anticipatory bail plea came up, her counsel had submitted that Sulthana had clarified her remarks later and tendered an apology for making the statement. Sulthana submitted that she never realised that usage of the word bio-weapon is an offence and the remark was made not intending to create hatred in the minds of the people. She said she was ready to appear before police for questioning but sought protection from arrest. Opposing her anticipatory bail plea, Lakshadweep administration had said Sulthana promoted separatism and communalism even in the minds of school children by making such a statement. Sulthana was interrogated by the Kavaratti police on Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday in connection with the case. Emerging from the police station at Kavaratti, after nearly a three-hour long interrogation on Thursday, Sulthana had claimed, "Everything is over.I am told that I can go back to Kochi.I will reach Kochi tomorrow or a day after."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||BJP, AAP engage in war of words over oxygen demand exaggeration report||The BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party on Friday exchanged barbs over a Supreme Court panel report that the Delhi government "inflated" its oxygen requirement during the second wave of Covid-19 by four times. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet slammed the BJP and said that his only crime was that he fought for the lives of two crore people when the saffron party was busy campaigning in poll-bound states like Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. "My crime was that I fought for the lives of the two crore people of Delhi. When you were doing election rallies, I was awake all night arranging for oxygen. I fought, pleaded to get people the oxygen they needed. People have lost their loved ones due to a lack of oxygen. Don't call them liars, they will feel bad," Kejriwal said in an attack to the BJP, which accused his government of "heinous crime" and "criminal negligence". Earlier in the day, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra in a press conference cited the report to note that the Delhi government had demanded 1,140 MT of the life-saving gas during the peak of the second wave even though it could utilise 209 MT. The requirement was 351 MT even if the panel went by the Delhi government's formula while it was 289 MT according to the central government's estimate, he said, adding that only 209 MT was expended while Kejriwal projected an requirement of 1,140 MT. "Imagine the amount of criminality. This is a heinous crime by Arvind Kejriwal. This is criminal negligence as the panel says he sought four times more oxygen than required. The report has exposed the politics he did to shift blame from his incompetence and failure to deal with Covid-19," Patra claimed. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, however, accused the BJP of lying about the existence of such a report. "There is no such report. We have spoken to the members of the Oxygen Audit Committee formed by the Supreme Court. They said they have not signed or approved any such report," he said. Patra noted that many lives were lost in Delhi due to lack of oxygen and expressed hope that Kejriwal will be held accountable and punished by the Supreme Court. Due to Kejriwal's lies, he alleged, 12 states were affected as oxygen supply was diverted from them to meet the needs of the national capital. Patra said many lives could have been saved if the Delhi government had not inflated its needs, and states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had to suffer. "You were proving incompetent and a failure. You had to shift blame and for that, you pressed false alarms and spread panic across the country," he said, attacking the Delhi chief minister for targeting the Modi government than for shortage in oxygen supply and meting out "step-motherly" treatment to Delhi. Patra said Mumbai and Delhi had 92,000 and 95,000 Covid cases respectively on May 3, and while the western city required 275 MT of oxygen, Delhi sought 900 MT. The Delhi chief minister works with the formula of "100 per cent advertisement and zero per cent Covid management", and spent over Rs 1,000 crore on advertisements, he said, alleging that Kejriwal has been doing similar politics on vaccination and ration programmes in the capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Why is there a need for waterproofing your terrace and roof?||Since the early days, immediately after food, man started finding shelter and they tried out means for protection from natural elements especially water. Since then, after technological evolution, man built roof over the heads to protect themselves from outside natural threats. But still water creates a serious issue. We all know that roof is the most exposed part of your house. Normally we expect the roof of our homes to be watertight and strong enough to withstand all the challenges nature throws in its way. But in reality because of the constant exposure to extreme weather, roofs gradually get damaged. If we don’t prevent this damage the entire building could suffer from water leakage, seepage and cracks. Benefits of waterproofing terraces, roofs & exteriors of your home Following are the noteworthy benefits of roof waterproofing. Improves structure durability Moisture eats up the strength of your structure if left untreated. Getting an effective roof or terrace waterproofing solution will increase its durability. Reduces cost of repairs Effective roof and terrace waterproofing solutions helps save a good amount of money in the long term by reducing the cost of frequent repairs. Maintains visual appeal of the home The home that you build with love can quickly turn ugly with stains and black spots caused by constant water seepage. Unwanted water leakage from the roof eventually seeps through the walls causing the growth of mold and mildew, which are quite the eyesore. Waterproofing of a roof before it becomes susceptible to leakage can prevent this disfigurement. Safeguard against health issues When moisture seeps into the house through a leaky roof, it can lead to the build-up of a lot of health issues in the form of breathing problems and allergies. Mold and mildew too can harm your health. It's advisable to have roof waterproofing done at the right time to safeguard you and your family against such avoidable health problems. Asian Paints SmartCare for watertight roof leakage solutions: For the above reasons, roof waterproofing is a necessary safeguard for you and your loved ones. Instead of worrying about terrace waterproofing costs, the question that you need to consider is whether the home you build with so much love is safe and durable? Damp Proof and Damp Proof Ultra from SmartCare range by Asian Paints are designed to take care of all your terrace waterproofing requirements. In combination with Roof Tape and Crack Seal, the thick, seamless, and durable membrane formed by Damp Proof and Damp Proof Ultra, offer the ultimate waterproofing solution for your terrace. It also gives comprehensive 360-degree protection for the monsoon rains. High-quality performance against heavy rainfall. Additional benefits! Application of Asian Paints SmartCare Damp Proof or Damp Proof Ultra offers a lot of additional benefits too. From protecting the exterior covering via terrace waterproofing, Damp Proof and Damp Proof Ultra also reduces surface temperature and gives you a long-lasting solution with an 8 and 10-year warranty. 1. DampProof: Comes with 8 Years Warranty* and help to reduce the surface temperature up to 10-degree 2. DampProof Ultra: Comes with 10 Years Warranty* and help to reduce the surface temperature up to 12-degree* Then what are you waiting for? Click here and the experts at SmartCare will provide you a 360-degree solution for all your waterproofing needs. This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Court extends judicial custody of wrestler Sushil Kumar till July 9||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar till July 9 in connection with the alleged murder of a young wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium here. Kumar was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Mayank Aggarwal at the end of the 14-day judicial custody. He is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide, and kidnapping. According to the counsel of the accused, he has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail, where he was earlier lodged. Kumar, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to the injuries later. The police have claimed that Sushil Kumar is the main culprit and mastermind of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar. Sushil Kumar was nabbed on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat. Till now, he has undergone police and judicial custody of 10 and 23 days, respectively. A total of 10 people, including Sushil Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||First indegenous aircraft carrier to be ready by next year, says Rajnath||India's first Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC)will be commissioned next year and its combat capability, reach and versatility will add formidable capabilities in the country's defence, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Friday. In a statement to the media after visiting the IAC at Ernakulam wharf of the Cochin port to review its construction progress, Singh described it as India's pride and a shining example of Atmanirbhar Bharat. "The project was originally approved by the NDA government and has made significant progress in the recent past despite Covid. "Commissioning of the IAC next year will be a befitting tribute to 75 years of India's independence", Singh said in the statement read out to the media. "The combat capability, reach and versatility of the aircraft carrier will add formidable capabilities in the defence of our country and help secure India's interests in the maritime domain," the Defence Minister said. The minister said it was a pleasure to review first- hand, the work being done on the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier. Singh, who reviewed Project Seabird at Karwar, which will be the largest naval base of the Indian Navy in future, and will provide the facilities and infrastructure to support the Navy's operations in the Indian Ocean Region and beyond, said the government is fully committed to a strong navy and these two projects are examples of our unwavering focus. "Our impetus to modernisation, harnessing India's indigenous industry and know-how, is a key priority. Forty-two of the 44 warships on order being built at Indian shipyards is a testimony to this", he said. He said the IAC boasts of nearly 75 per cent indigenous content, from design, to steel used in construction, to key weapons and sensors. The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) has also recently accorded approval for RFP of Project 75-I under the Strategic Partnership model, which will give further fillip to indigenous development of niche manufacturing technologies, the Minister said. "These measures will help enhance the Indian Navy's operational reach and prowess to protect India's maritime interests," he said. Singh said the Indian Navy remains poised and combat ready to tackle any challenge. "Navy's proactive forward deployment during the Galwan standoff signalled our intent that we seek peace but are ready for any eventuality," the minister added. He said the Navy has also made significant contributions in the fight against COVID, bringing back Indian citizens from overseas during Op Samudra Setu-I, and much needed Liquid Medical Oxygen during Samudra Setu-lI, despite dangers of COVID spread onboard warships. SAR efforts by the Navy during Cyclone Tauktae showcased the spirit of daring and courage among our men and women in whites, he said. "Our efforts are in alignment with the Prime Minister's Vision of SAGAR, or Security and Growth for All in the Region, and the wider goal of a Free, Open and Inclusive Indo-Pacific, to ensure peace and stability in the region," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Why no large-scale testing to prevent spread of Delta plus variant, asks Rahul ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked the government why "large-scale testing is not being done" to check and prevent the spread of the Delta plus variant of coronavirus, and how effective are the vaccines against it. Many experts feel that the Delta plus variant, which has been declared as a 'variant of concern' by the Union health ministry, may trigger the third wave of Covid-19 infections in the country. "Questions to the Modi government on Delta plus variant: Why is testing not being done on a large scale to check and prevent it? How effective are the vaccines against it and when will complete information be available? What is the plan to control it in the third wave of the virus," he posed in a tweet in Hindi. Rahul's comments come just a day after Congress interim resident Sonia Gandhi asked party office-bearers to launch a massive public outreach programme to create awareness about the shocking failures of the Narendra Modi government in Covid management. Lamenting that the Covid-induced restrictions didn’t allow political activities for a long time, she said a detailed action plan was being prepared to expose the government that had caused unbearable miseries to the people. She laid special emphasis on vaccination to save people from a third wave of Covid-19, arguing that the daily coverage rate had to be dramatically expanded to meet the year-end target. Addressing the office-bearers through videoconference, Sonia said: “At the national level, the daily rate of vaccination has to treble so that 75 per cent of our population gets fully vaccinated by the end of this year. No doubt this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply. We must continue to put pressure on the Union government, which has, at our party’s insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this. At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimised.” Pointing out that adequate steps need to be taken to meet the challenges of the third wave, Sonia said: “The second wave has been devastating for lakhs and lakhs of families all over the country. We must learn from this traumatic experience so that we do not have to experience it yet again.” India was hit severely by a brutal second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April and May, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with a shortage in oxygen supply at various hospitals adding to the woes. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. From a daily case count of over 4 lakh, the number of new Covid-19 cases has been hovering around 50,000 in the last couple of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||Dark days of Emergency can never be forgotten, says Modi on 46th anniversary||On the 46th anniversary of the imposition of Emergency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said those "dark days" can never be forgotten and called for taking a pledge to strengthen India's democratic spirit and live up to the values enshrined in the Constitution. "This is how Congress trampled over our democratic ethos. We remember all those greats who resisted the Emergency and protected Indian democracy," he tweeted, while sharing a link about several draconian measures taken by the then Congress government. "The dark days of Emergency can never be forgotten. The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions.Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India's democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution." he said. Other senior BJP leaders also hit out at the Congress with Home Minister Amit Shah saying the Congress "murdered" democracy on this day in 1975 for its lust and arrogance of power. Emergency was imposed to trample on voices that were raised against a family, he said, calling it a dark chapter in India's democracy. BJP president J P Nadda paid tributes to those who fought against Emergency while suffering numerous atrocities. The Emergency was imposed by then prime minister Indira Gandhi for a 21-month period from 1975 to 1977, when curbs were imposed on the fundamental rights of people. Gandhi lifted Emergency in 1977 and called for Lok Sabha elections in which the Congress was handed a crushing defeat, its first ever since the country's Independence in 1947, by the combined opposition of Janata Party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||ED raids ex-Maharashtra Home Minister Deshmukh's premises in Nagpur, Mumbai||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday conducted searches at the premises of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in Nagpur and Mumbai as part of a money laundering probe against him, officials said. They said the raids are being carried out under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the locations include Deshmukh's residence in Nagpur. The central probe agency had registered a criminal case under the anti-money laundering law against Deshmukh, 71, and others last month after studying a recent CBI FIR. The ED case came about after the CBI first carried out a preliminary enquiry followed by filing a regular case on the orders of the Bombay High Court that asked it to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-35
25-06-2021||India||India records over 51,000 fresh Covid cases, 1,329 deaths in a day||A single-day rise of 51,667 COVID-19 infections took India's case tally to 3,01,34,445 while the weekly positivity rate declined to 3 per cent, according to Union Health Ministry data on Friday. The death toll climbed to 3,93,310 with 1,329 more people succumbing to the viral disease in a day. The number of active cases has further declined to 6,12,868 and now comprises 2.03 per cent of the total infections. A net decline of 14,189 active cases has been recorded in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases of COVID-19 for the 43rd consecutive day with the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surging to 2,91,28,267. The case fatality rate stood at 1.31 per cent. While the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.66 per cent, the weekly case positivity rate has come down to 3 per cent. According to the Health Ministry data, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.98 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 18 consecutive days. India administered 60.73 lakh vaccine doses in a day taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far under the nationwide inoculation drive to 30.79 crore, according to immunisation data published at 7 am. Also, 17,35,781 tests were conducted on Wednesday for the detection of COVID-19, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 39,95,68,448. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore total COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and 3 crore on June 23. Of the total 3,93,310 deaths reported so far in the country include 1,19,859 in Maharashtra, 34,425 in Karnataka, 31,901 in Tamil Nadu, 24,948 in Delhi, 22,366 in Uttar Pradesh, 17,516 in West Bengal, 15,944 in Punjab and 13,415 in Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths reported so far have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Delhi govt exaggerated oxygen requirement by four times, claims SC panel||The sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court to audit Oxygen consumption in hospitals in national capital during the second wave of COVID-19 said that the Delhi government exaggerated" the consumption of oxygen and made a claim of 1140 MT, four times higher than the formula for bed capacity requirement of 289 MT. The five-member panel headed by AIIMS Director Randep Gulleria said the Delhi government had made the claims for allocation of 700 MT oxygen on April 30 of medical-grade Oxygen using a wrong formula. The top court had on May 6 named a sub-group for carrying out the audit exercise for Delhi's health infrastructure and allocation of oxygen and said that it shall consist of Randeep Guleria of AIIMS, Sandeep Budhiraja of Max Healthcare and two IAS officers not below the rank of Joint Secretary -- one each from the Centre and the Delhi government. The panel in its report pointed out that four model hospitals in Delhi --Singhal Hospital, Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, ESIC Model Hospital and Liferay Hospital -- have claimed extremely high Oxygen consumption with very few beds and the claims appeared to be clearly erroneous, leading to extremely skewed information and significantly higher Oxygen requirement for the entire state of Delhi. The panel, which submitted its interim report to the top court, said that during the meetings of the sub-group, it was repeatedly noted that there was a gross discrepancy in the data recorded from proformas. Additional secretary, Department of Promotion of Indian Industry and Internal Trade, Government of India, expressed anguish over the way the data was collated by the Government of NCT Delhi, as it still has a lot of errors which have been pointed out. It is still not clear on what basis had an allocation of 700 MT been sought by the government of Delhi in the Supreme Court of India when collated data had so many errors and it took an Oxygen audit to point out the same, the 23-page interim report said. The interim report, which is part of the 163-page report of the National Task Force, said It also appears that the government of India used a wrong formula and made exaggerated claims on April 30. It was also evident that some hospitals could not differentiate between KL (Kilo Litre) and MT (Metric Tonne) and the same was not examined while projecting 700 MTs. The report said that the Controller of Explosives, PESO has informed that Oxygen supply to Delhi and Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) tankers level is being monitored on daily basis and as per 8 reports on May 13, most of the LMO tanks were filled with more than 75 per cent, while few tanks are completely filled. It is obvious that there is excess oxygen supply in NCT Delhi, which is further substantiated by the fact that NCT Delhi has picked up only 11 MT LMO from the Air Liquide plant at Panipat by 11 am on May 13. It was also pointed out that Delhi was unable to store all the LMO allotted to it and had asked the suppliers to hold Oxygen reserves at their own plants, the report said. The panel further said in its report that tankers in Delhi are not able to off-load oxygen and lying idle as Oxygen tanks in various hospitals are completely filled. A complaint has been received from M/s Goel Gases that their tankers have been parked at LNJP hospital and could not offload oxygen for many hours, leading to the breakdown of the supply chain. Similar instances have been observed at AIIMS, New Delhi, it said. The panel on May 13, among many suggestions, said that a fixed quota should be made available of NCT of Delhi on an assured basis and an additional quota should be available for Delhi to lift from plants by  maximum 4 pm of the day, after which the unutilized additional quota should be made available for other States to utilize as to ensure the available oxygen, capacity does not go un-utilised. After detailed discussions, the sub-group arrived at the conclusion that the current oxygen requirement of NCT Delhi ranges from 290-400 MT of LMO. Accordingly, it is recommended that 300 MT of quota should be available for NCT of Delhi on an assured basis, the report said. The panel said that an additional 100 MT of quota should be available for Delhi to lift from plants by 4pm of the day, after which the unutilised quota from this 100 MT should be made available for other states so that available oxygen capacity does not go unutilised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Covid: Instances of vaccination mistakes surface in Bihar||Azhar Hussain was given a “Covid vaccine shot” with an empty syringe in Saran district. Sunita Devi was given a Covishield shot by a nurse and a Covaxin shot by another — all within five minutes — in Patna district. Manoj Kumar — and 25 others in Bhagalpur district — received certificates on their mobile phones “confirming” they had taken the first dose of Covishield when they had not taken any shots at all. A series of fiascos has raised concern about the arrangements, monitoring, efficiency, safety and accountability of the Covid vaccination process in Bihar, which has launched a campaign to inoculate six crore people in six months. Azhar, who had gone to a vaccination camp at the government Urdu middle school at Brahmapur Imambara, around 70km northeast of Patna city, realised he had been given an “empty shot” only because a friend had videotaped the incident. “I took the shot on June 21. Later that day I saw a video filmed by my friend Aman Khan who had accompanied me to the vaccination camp,” Azhar, who is in his early 20s, told reporters. “I was shocked to see that the nurse just tore open the plastic packaging of a disposable syringe and injected me without filling it with the vaccine.” It appears that the friend had not cottoned on to what was happening while filming the event, either. The video shows a nurse engrossed in conversation with somebody as she strips off the packaging of a disposable syringe and straightaway “injects” Azhar. The clip has been widely circulated on social media. “We have investigated it. The youth is well but is being monitored. The nurse, Chanda Kumari, was busy talking to others. She has been suspended and served with a showcause notice,” Saran additional district magistrate Gagan, who uses only one name, told The Telegraph. Sunita Devi had been administered a Covishield shot at Belarchak village, Punpun block, on June 16 and had begun her mandatory 30-minute observation period when another nurse approached her and gave her a Covaxin shot. Sunita, who is in her early 50s, says she had told the nurse she had already taken the jab but she ignored her. Sunita developed fever after the shots but recovered in a couple of days. Health department officials, who monitored her condition for a few days, have issued showcause notices to the two nurses, Chanchala Devi and Sunita Devi. Patna civil surgeon Vibha Kumari Singh told this newspaper that Sunita would undergo tests to find out whether coronavirus antibodies had formed in her body. “If yes, she can take either Covaxin or Covishield as the second dose,” she said. Manoj, an elected ward member of the Maheshpur Ghanshyamchak panchayat, told this newspaper he had visited a vaccination camp in his panchayat area on June 16 with his friends to take the vaccine. “Those operating the camp entered our details and checked our Aadhaar cards,” he said. “Just a handful of people had arrived. We were asked to wait till at least 10 people came because only then a vial of vaccine containing 10 shots would be opened.” As Manoj and his friends waited, a sudden rush of vaccine seekers turned the place crowded. “Around 150 people had assembled, of whom 103 got themselves registered for the shot. However, only 60 were vaccinated and the rest, including myself, were turned away,” Manoj said. “The camp organisers said their stock of vaccines had got exhausted and asked us to come the next day. We returned home but the certificates arrived on our mobiles.” The camp officials did not explain why they had registered 103 people despite having only 60 doses, or why Manoj and his friends were not vaccinated despite being among the first to arrive. Manoj said he and the 25 others who had received such false certificates visited the vaccination camp the next day but were turned away again. “This time the camp officials said we had already taken the (Covishield) vaccine and should now come between September 8 and October 6 (84 days and 112 days, respectively, from June 16) to take the second dose,” Manoj said. He said he and the rest tried to have the issue resolved but nobody at the local government hospital or the block office was willing to listen. Manoj and some of the other aggrieved vaccine seekers, who are members of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United, then began raising the issue at every platform. All 26 eventually received a call from health department officials asking them to come and take the jabs on June 21. “All of us took the shots. But when we asked for the certificates, we were asked to make do with the certificates we had received earlier,” Manoj said. This means Manoj and the rest can take the second shot on any day starting September 8 although, going by the Centre’s norms, they should become eligible only on September 13. Sources said Bhagalpur civil surgeon Umesh Sharma had conducted an inquiry. “It’s possible that something like this happened at Maheshpur Ghanshyamchak,” Sharma told this newspaper on Wednesday. He said such problems happened when a large number of people suddenly turned up to take the shots and the supplies were low. “This happened while we were trying to increase the vaccination rate. Around 62,000 people turned up at the various centres but only 52,000 could be given the jab because of a shortage of vaccines,” Sharma said. Altogether 1.5 crore of Bihar’s 12 crore people have been vaccinated so far, of whom 23 lakh have received both doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Immunised patients hospitalised for Covid discharged two days earlier than others: Study ||People vaccinated against Covid-19 and yet hospitalised with the infection are likely to require shorter hospital stays, face significantly reduced need for intensive care unit support and run up lower hospital bills, a nationwide study of health insurance claims has suggested. The study has found that vaccinated patients hospitalised for Covid-19 were discharged two days earlier than others, and that the fully vaccinated among them had a 66 per cent lower risk of needing ICU support. Also, the average hospital bill of the vaccinated patients was Rs 60,000 lower than that of unvaccinated patients. “Our findings bolster the evidence for how vaccination benefits individuals,” said Prakash Subbarayan, MD of Star Health Insurance, a Chennai-based company that has handled over 300,000 Covid-related claims over the past year. The Star Health study is the first in India to compare Covid-19 infection outcomes, including hospital bills, in unvaccinated and vaccinated people. It has drawn on data from hundreds of hospitals, in contrast with earlier studies from single or far fewer hospitals. Prakash and his colleague Madhumathi Ramakrishnan — both doctors themselves — analysed the health outcomes and the insurance claims of 3,301 unvaccinated and 519 vaccinated Covid-19 patients admitted to 1,104 hospitals across the country during April and May this year. They found that the vaccinated patients had a lower average hospital stay of 4.9 days, compared with seven days for unvaccinated patients. And 31 (6 per cent) of the 519 patients who had received at least one vaccine dose needed ICU support compared with 291 (8.8 per cent) of the 3,301 unvaccinated patients. Only one (3 per cent) among the 33 patients who had taken two doses before they developed the infection required ICU support, implying a 66 per cent reduced risk of the need for ICU care as a result of vaccination. Sixteen (0.5 per cent) of the 3,301 unvaccinated patients died compared with none among the 519 vaccinated. “We see the protective effect against the need for ICU support even after one dose, but the effect is much stronger two weeks after completion of both doses,” Madhumathi said. The average hospital bill for the vaccinated patients was Rs 217,850 compared with an average bill of Rs 277,850 for the unvaccinated patients. While the difference of Rs 60,000 per patient is significant for health insurance companies, the difference in expenses was not in proportion to the significant reductions observed in the need for ICU care or durations of hospital stay. “Our study covered a diverse set of hospitals, large and small. India does not have standardised hospital costs and in such circumstances, it is essential to address this,” Prakash said. The relatively meagre decline in hospital bills despite shorter stays or a reduced need for ICU care may be the result either of the absence of standardised costs or of hospitals trying to charge as much as they can from insured patients, an issue India’s health insurance industry had flagged last year. The General Insurance Council, a body of public and private insurance companies, had in an application to the Supreme Court last year said that private hospitals were charging “exorbitant amounts of money from insured patients”. The GIC had cited instances where hospitals had initially sought payments two to five times the amounts they accepted after insurance companies raised objections. “We have observed that privately insured patients are generally not getting benefits of the government’s Covid-19 rates,” said Malini Aisola, a coordinator with the All India Drug Action Network, a group of physicians and health activists tracking the country’s healthcare landscape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi signals end to Covid ceasefire||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday asked party office-bearers to launch a massive public outreach programme to create awareness about the shocking failures of the Narendra Modi government in Covid management apart from other issues such as abnormally high prices of essential commodities and petroleum products. Lamenting that the Covid-induced restrictions didn’t allow political activities for a long time, she said a detailed action plan was being prepared to expose the government that had caused unbearable miseries to the people. She laid special emphasis on vaccination to save people from a third wave of Covid-19, arguing that the daily coverage rate had to be dramatically expanded to meet the year-end target. Addressing the office-bearers through videoconference, Sonia said: “At the national level, the daily rate of vaccination has to treble so that 75 per cent of our population gets fully vaccinated by the end of this year. No doubt this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply. We must continue to put pressure on the Union government, which has, at our party’s insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this. At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimised.” Pointing out that adequate steps need to be taken to meet the challenges of the third wave, Sonia said: “The second wave has been devastating for lakhs and lakhs of families all over the country. We must learn from this traumatic experience so that we do not have to experience it yet again.” Referring to the price rise, Sonia said it was taking place “at a time when livelihoods are being lost in unprecedented numbers, when there is mounting unemployment and when economic recovery is not a reality”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Narendra Modi's all-party meet underlines importance of leaders jailed, vilified as 'anti-nationals'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday seemed to retrace his steps on Kashmir’s mainstream politicians as he spoke and posed with them, underlining the political importance of people jailed, vilified as “anti-national” and dismissed as irrelevant by members of his own administration. In contrast to the symbolism of the outreach, though, Modi’s Delhi meeting with 14 Jammu and Kashmir politicians yielded little of substance apart from an assurance to restore statehood if they supported and participated in the ongoing delimitation exercise, political sources said. Still, sources among those who attended the meeting appeared happy at the change of their status, emphasising how they were able to say before the Prime Minister things “for which people are jailed every day here”. For instance, Mehbooba Mufti told Modi that Article 370 had been “illegally and unconstitutionally scrapped” and asked him to talk more to Pakistan. “The Prime Minister’s picture with the leaders explains it all. They had been pushed to the political margins, jailed, but today they were in the same row with the Prime Minister,” a senior leader from the five-party alliance that is fighting for full restoration of Article 370 told The Telegraph. “There were no red lines and leaders were free to tell the Prime Minister things for which people are jailed every day here. Also, it’s part of a larger peace process with Pakistan and we hope more engagements will follow.” A tweet from Modi later acknowledged as “leaders of J&K” people his administration had sought to marginalise in Kashmir politics and replace with others. “Our democracy’s biggest strength is the ability to sit across a table and exchange views. I told the leaders of J&K that it is the people, specially the youth who have to provide political leadership to J&K, and ensure their aspirations are duly fulfilled,” the tweet said. Politically, the Prime Minister offered no concessions at the talks and focused on the delimitation and development. The delimitation remains one of the BJP’s last remaining agendas in Jammu and Kashmir, through which it apparently wants to tilt the balance in favour of Jammu’s Hindu-majority areas. The Valley, which roughly accounts for 60 per cent of the Union Territory’s population, has 46 of the 83 Assembly seats while Jammu has 37. A breakthrough was never expected at a meeting with politicians opposed to the scrapping of the special status, nor did the Centre indicate any willingness to strive for a middle ground. Among those who met Modi were former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba, whom the government had jailed along with thousands of others when the then state’s special status was revoked on August 5, 2019. The atmosphere was therefore bound to be electric. The meeting lasted well over three hours and emotions ran high as Mehbooba, in particular, complained about the way Valley politicians had been humiliated and hounded and Articles 370 and 35A, which formed the bedrock of Kashmir’s relations with Delhi, amended or scrapped. Sources said the focus of Modi’s outreach was to make his guests lend their support to the delimitation to give it credibility. A source said: “He and home minister (Amit Shah) also spoke about development activities that they claim have taken place. That said, he (Modi) wanted the delimitation to be undertaken so that Assembly elections are held.” “He said they (the government) were committed to restoring statehood but made no immediate promise of restoring it.” While Hindu-majority Jammu is getting increasingly impatient for Assembly polls to be held after three years of central rule, the Centre is reportedly under pressure from the US, too, to restore the democratic process in Jammu and Kashmir. The National Conference and some other Valley parties appear likely to cooperate on the delimitation but any focus on granting more seats to Jammu’s Hindu-majority areas is likely to inflame the situation. These parties have, however, not decided yet whether to participate in any elections held later. Omar said the National Conference had decided to review its previous decision to not participate in the exercise and would consider a fresh invite from the delimitation commission. He, however, said there was no need to single out Jammu and Kashmir for delimitation when such an exercise for the whole country was scheduled in 2026. Of the 14 invited, 10 were from the BJP or friendly parties, the Congress included, since it has toned down its rhetoric on Article 370 and limited its demand to full restoration of statehood. Two were from Sajad Lone’s People’s Conference and one from the Apni Party, who want to leave the issue of Article 370 to the Supreme Court, which is hearing petitions on it. All they want is restoration of statehood. The problem area for Modi was the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, four of whose leaders — Farooq, Mehbooba, Omar and CPM veteran Yousuf Tarigami — were at the meeting. That the leaders chose to address the media separately after the meeting mirrors the differences within the alliance. For instance, Mehbooba took a more hard-line position on special status and Pakistan. “The meeting took place in a cordial way. I spoke of how the people of Jammu and Kashmir are suffering. People are angry and furious, emotionally broke. They feel humiliated,” Mehbooba said. “I told him (Modi) that the way Article 370 was illegally and unconstitutionally scrapped on August 5, 2019, is not acceptable to the people. The way the BJP struggled for 70 years to remove Article 370 — we will struggle constitutionally, peacefully to restore it, whether it takes us months or years. We did not get it (Article 370) from Pakistan. We got it from our country.” Mehbooba also risked touching a raw nerve by pressing Modi to talk more with Pakistan if it brought peace to Kashmir, referring to a host of initiatives he had already taken, such as a ceasefire. Omar said it appeared that talks with Pakistan were under way and, if so, he welcomed the development. “We should use back channels to improve the tensions,” he said, appearing to differ with his father who had said ahead of the meeting that he was not interesting in seeking Pakistan’s involvement in the talks. Omar said his party too sought restoration of Article 370, but appeared to suggest the National Conference would rather fight the battle in the courts. “We don’t believe in the August 5, 2019 (measures) that include the division of (the erstwhile) state. We want (that), when the issue comes up in the Supreme Court, we will present our view,” he told reporters after the meeting. Apparently dissatisfied with the outcome, Omar said one meeting would not bring hearts together. It appeared an allusion to Modi’s reported comment at the meeting that he wished to bridge “Dilli ki doori” (the distance with Delhi) as well as “Dil ki doori” (the distance between hearts). An official spokesperson said the Prime Minister appreciated the cordial atmosphere at the talks and the frank exchange of views. “He stressed that our priority was to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. He added that the delimitation had to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K get an elected government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory,” he said. In the Valley, people had little expectations from the meeting. Many here believe that Modi is releasing pressure on the international front at a time China is holding on to territory it has occupied in Ladakh — at Kashmir’s doorstep — and back-channel negotiations with Pakistan have become important.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||UN World Food Programme and Odisha sign agreement to work on food security||The United Nations World Food Programme and the Odisha government have signed an agreement to work on improving food and nutritional security of households in the state by strengthening livelihood initiatives by involving thousands of women’s self-help groups. “This is a significant partnership for achieving nutritional security in Odisha focused on empowerment, livelihood and incomes of women,” said WFP country director Bishow Parajuli. “Such focused initiatives are important to address and reduce vulnerabilities around food security as highlighted by the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. The agreement was signed on Wednesday between Parajuli and Sujata R. Karthikeyan, commissioner-cum-secretary, department of Mission Shakti, at a virtual ceremony. “Sustainable livelihoods lead to improved household food and nutritional security and ultimately result in holistic empowerment of women. This collaboration will support women’s self-help groups by providing technical assistance and capacity development, directly contributing to long-term food security and developing a replicable model,” said Karthikeyan. “Working with self-help groups to create livelihood opportunities, improving household nutritional security and increasing women’s participation in decision-making are some of the core objectives for the department of Mission Shakti,” she said. The partnership, effective till December 2023, will also be focusing on improving the linkage of women’s groups with government procurement systems, increasing awareness on entitlements, building the capacity of the groups, developing monitoring tools and undertaking evaluations to improve the function of these groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Odisha govt mulls use of drones to deliver Covid vaccines to remote areas||The Odisha government is mulling the use of a special drone to take Covid-19 vaccines to the remotest parts of the state. The special drone has been developed by the students of Industrial Training Institute (ITI), Cuttack, with the support of IG Drones. The Centre had earlier given its nod to the Telangana government’s “Medicine from the sky project” to use drones for experimental delivery of Covid-19 vaccines. ITI principal Dr Hrushikesh Mohanty told The Telegraph: “We have signed an MoU with IG Drones for research and development. Earlier, we had developed the drones, which are being used in mining areas by the OMC (Odisha Mining Corporation). The newly developed drone is capable of carrying vaccines to the remotest areas. We have set up a centre of excellence in the institute for development of drones with the support of IG Drones. This is a part of the Skill Odisha project. The drone was developed within two months.” Technical head, IG Drones, Sambit Parida said: “The indigenously developed Delta 400 drone can be airborne for long endurance operations and can be used for surveying and mapping with accuracy of sub-centimetre level. It has the capability to connect with NavIC, a navigational satellite system developed by Isro, for autonomous navigation.” The drone, which has a 48MP high-res camera with infrared (IR) capabilities, can carry a payload of 1kg additionally which is now repurposed to cater to the needs of vaccine delivery by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) in the remote areas. “The autonomous navigation and geo-fencing features makes it a class ahead of other drones with an ability to fly more than three hours,” Parida said. During three hours of being airborne, it will cover a radial distance of 50km and travel 35km per hour. “A parachute is connected to the 4kg drone which can smoothly drop the vaccine without any problem,” an official said. Though it has not been produced on a commercial basis, the cost of a single drone would be around Rs 9 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. Official sources said the Odisha government is planning to use the drone to send the vaccines to the remotest areas particularly in Kalahandi, Malkangiri, Koraput districts. Last year, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation used drones extensively to disinfect markets in the state capital during the Covid-19 outbreak. CEO and co-founder of IG Drones, Bodhisattwa Sanghapriya, said: “We have collaborated with state’s premier industrial technical institute so that we can transfer our technology and take advantage of their huge experience in the field of hardware. Besides, we will be able to develop some indigenous talents. It would have been a bit difficult to develop the drone without the support of the ITI.” The technologically advanced, well-equipped drones offer a plethora of services, including railways, road services, infrastructure, engineering, security and surveillance, river mapping services, forest services, forest and wild surveys. “Because of its high-res camera with IR capabilities, it can be used for border security and surveillance and can also locate Maoist hideouts in forest areas,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Covid: Ganjam shops told to display vaccination certificates||The Ganjam district administration in Odisha has made it compulsory for shopkeepers and owners of business establishments to display their vaccination certificates to encourage customers to take the Covid-19 vaccine. They will not be allowed to carry out business transactions if they fail to display these certificates. “We request all the shopkeepers, vendors and other professionals to display Covid vaccination certificates (single/final dose) in front of the shop. It will create confidence among customers and help to stop the spread of infections,” tweeted Ganjam district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. Kulange told The Telegraph: “We have issued the appeal with the aim to create public awareness. The business associations have come forward and supported the decision. Those traders who fail to comply with the order will not be allowed to open their shops. The move will help in reducing the transmission of the virus.” According to the order, shopkeepers, vendors and other retailers will have to vaccinate themselves and their staff. They need to display the vaccination certificates at the front of their shops. “A special squad will move around and ensure that the order of the administration is carried out,” said the collector. Meanwhile, the number of daily Covid cases registered on Tuesday went below 3,000. A total of 2,957 positive cases were recorded in Odisha on Tuesday. The daily positivity rate for Covid-19 remained below five per cent for the second consecutive day on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||BJP sees a tactical step back to build a ‘Naya Kashmir’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday shed the BJP’s iron-fist approach and chose to soothe emotional differences during his meeting with Valley politicians that was seen in party circles as an effort to “stoop to conquer” to achieve the saffron establishment’s long-term goal of building a “Naya (new) Kashmir”. During the first such outreach effort after his government in one fell swoop stripped Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and turned it into a Union Territory in August 2019, Modi was learnt to have put his politest foot forward. “Hum Dilli ki doori bhi mitana chahte hain aur dil ki doori bhi (We want to reduce the distance with Delhi and also the distance between hearts),” the Prime Minister was quoted as telling the leaders by sources. According to the sources, Modi stressed that he was always available for the people of Kashmir. In BJP circles, Modi’s overture was viewed as a tactical step back to achieve the long-term goal of “political integration” of Jammu and Kashmir and the saffron establishment’s aim of building a “new Kashmir”. Modi, however, obliquely told the leaders that the Centre’s decision to annul Article 370 provisions to end Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was cast in stone and instead focussed on moving ahead to complete the process of redrawing Assembly constituencies and hold elections. Convening the meeting with the five-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, including Mehbooba Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party and Farooq Abdullah’s National Conference, was seen as an admission of failure of the Modi government at a time its strongarm tactics had created massive resentment in the region and triggered worldwide criticism. “Sometimes you have to stoop to conquer,” a BJP leader said when asked about the government’s move to host the very leaders it had put under house arrest and doggedly tried to discredit earlier. BJP leaders said the government’s priority now was to secure the support and participation of all political parties to complete the delimitation process to redraw constituencies and hold elections to exhibit to the world its commitment for democratic process. The government and the BJP apparently want to redraw the Assembly and Lok Sabha constituencies in a way that favours the ruling party and the aim now is to achieve the goal without much opposition. In his address at the meeting, both Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah promised to hold elections once the delimitation exercise is over and also restore statehood to Jammu and Kashmir, but no clear timeline was promised. “Our goal of scrapping Article 370 (provisions) without much turmoil has been achieved. The next step is to move slowly and make the people and the political parties accept this irreversible reality peacefully and move forward,” a BJP general secretary said. The sources said the leaders of the five-party Gupkar alliance were allowed to speak freely at the meeting and even make a case for their main demand of restoration of special status. “They (the alliance leaders) have the right to present their demand but they also know that it can’t be accepted and the only option is to leave the past behind and move forward,” a BJP leader said. This leader added that the meeting was to give an opportunity to the Valley leaders to vent their frustration and move on. The five parties that make up the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration had earlier been vilified as the “Gupkar gang” by none less than Union home minister Shah and its leaders termed dynasts, corrupt and anti-national. After ending Kashmir’s special status, which the BJP believes had alienated the region from the rest of the country, the party is now working tactically to get a political foothold to push its “nationalist agenda”. In BJP circles, leaders often talk about building a “Naya Kashmir” without clarifying what it exactly means. Initially, the BJP had hoped to discredit and edge out the traditional leadership of Jammu and Kashmir and build an alternative leadership. However, with those efforts faltering, the party appears to have chosen to engage with them. “The Prime Minister’s move to convene an all-party meeting is a welcome step. It shows the central government’s commitment to take the democratic process forward after holding the panchayat and district development council elections,” the BJP general secretary in charge of Jammu and Kashmir, Tarun Chugh, had said over the phone on Wednesday. Chugh, however, disconnected the line when this correspondent asked about the Prime Minister meeting leaders of what the BJP had dubbed the “Gupkar gang”, baring the unease in the party over the compulsions of engaging with those it had tried to decimate. Some BJP leaders are also viewing the Kashmir overture as another diversion from the “negativity” being spread against the government over the Covid mismanagement and economic woes. BJP leaders, however, pointed to the date of the meeting called by the Prime Minister to rule out any leniency over the ideological firmness with regard to Article 370. “Today (June 23), all our top leaders marked the ‘Punya Tithi’ (death anniversary) of (party ideologue) Syama Prasad Mookerjee and the meeting is scheduled for tomorrow,” a leader had said on Wednesday. The scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status has been termed as the fulfilment of the “dream” of Mookerjee, one of the founders of the Jana Sangh that is the BJP’s predecessor. “Remembering Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Punya Tithi.… His efforts towards national integration will never be forgotten,” Modi tweeted on Wednesday. BJP chief J.P. Nadda wrote a newspaper article to remember Mookerjee and hailed Modi and Shah’s “iron will” on removing Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, and the fulfilment of Mookerjee’s dream of “One Vidhan (One Constitution), One Pradhan (One Prime Minister) and One Nishan (One emblem)”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-36
25-06-2021||India||Save coral islands from disaster, say scientists||A scientists’ collective has sought the intervention of President Ram Nath Kovind in withdrawing a controversial draft law on land acquisition and construction-based “development” proposed by the Lakshadweep administration, fearing it would have a catastrophic effect on the coral islands. The Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR), 2021, envisages constructions of buildings, including high-rises and tourist resorts, widening of roads and refurbishing the airport. The scientists believe the LDAR, one of the many overbearing reforms of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel, would require the use of a large amount of land that would endanger the ecology of the islands that sits on coral reefs, and also affect the livelihood and culture of residents. Sixty scientists who are part of the Lakshadweep Research Collective have in their letter to the President highlighted the dangers of allowing the LDAR, which was pushed through by keeping the locals out of the decision-making process. The scientists further requested the President to “restore and reinvigorate” the Justice Raveendran Commission that had made several recommendations to protect the islands. The collective also sought a committee of scientists, policy-makers and local elected representatives to re-evaluate the development plans in the context of the archipelago’s “unique culture, ecological fragility and climate vulnerability”. “Lakshadweep needs careful development, but this development needs to be calibrated against the realities of climate change, existing population pressures, cultural sensitivities and basic human rights. Any development in Lakshadweep should aim to strengthen, not weaken existing ecological and social infrastructure that currently work to protect the island and its people,” the collective pointed out in the letter. The collective noted that the LDAR “ignores a scientific understanding of Lakshadweep’s unique geography, ecology and culture, which place clear limits on the developmental possibilities on island, lagoon and reef, already constrained by climate change”. The statement quoted Rohan Arthur, senior scientist at the Nature Conservation Foundation, as saying: “Surrounded by ocean, barely a few metres above sea level, and with only the reef to protect it, it is clear that all development on these islands needs to be very carefully managed. Over the last two decades we have personally witnessed the reefs being battered by repeated bleaching events and intense storms. How long it will take for these ecosystems to recover is anyone’s guess. “Given how linked land, lagoon and reef are in Lakshadweep, the development envisioned in the draft LDAR would be nothing short of disastrous.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||‘Indebted’ CJI Ramana salutes home states with open letter||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana has penned an emotional open letter to the people of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in a role reversal as it is the top judge of the country who usually receives such correspondence from the people. In his letter, Justice Ramana has expressed his gratitude for the rousing reception he received when he visited the two states last week. This was the first visit by Justice Ramana, born in an agricultural family on August 27, 1957, at Ponnavaram village in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district, to his home state after taking over as the CJI on April 24. Justice Ramana is also the first judge from the erstwhile undivided southern state to helm the country’s judiciary. According to sources, despite repeated requests from the CJI’s office that his visit should be a low-key affair in view of the pandemic, hundreds of legal fraternity members of the two states, Telangana chief minister K. Chandrashekar Rao, other politicians from across the spectrum and students gathered wherever Justice Ramana went, right from the airport. An emotional Justice Ramana, who returned to New Delhi this week, penned the open letter in Telugu. Upon a request from this correspondent, the CJI’s office has shared a copy of the English translation of the letter. Salutes to Telugu people — Indebted forever. It is natural for parents to aspire for success of the offspring. The desire on the part of the offspring to see the parents rejoicing at their success is equally natural. I am no exception to this. The fact that my parents are not with me today to bless me and feel proud of my achievement when I reached the pinnacle of Indian judiciary has made me feel a void. During my first visit this past week as the Chief Justice of India, the Telugu people have filled that void. Billion salutes to the pristine and progressive society of Telangana which, like my parents, hugged me like a baby and showered me with unbound love and affection and blessings. This visit was one of those rare occasions when I am overcome with emotions. Sincere thanks to each one of those countless elders, brothers and sisters, who, in spite of Covid fears and even after being dissuaded, turned up in large numbers, owned me up, congratulated me, blessed me and encouraged me. Lawyers, students, teachers, youth, workers, women, farmers, people from all walks of life irrespective of caste, creed and religion have, without expecting anything in return, turned up just to enquire about my well being and to bless me. None of them asked for any personal favour. All that they wanted was further strengthening of the judiciary. They symbolise the selfless nature and maturity of Telangana society. I am deeply touched by the kind gesture of my mentors and retired Judges, who, in spite of their advanced age, have stepped out of their homes for the first time since the onset of Covid, to bless me in person. My deep respects to each one of them. Right from the Chief Minister to common persons, people took trouble to welcome me in these extraordinary times. They mirror the ‘everyone is our own’ attitude of Telangana and the renowned hospitality of Hyderabad. My sincere thanks to the Government of Telangana, Hon’ble Governor, Hon’ble Chief Minister, Hon’ble Chief Justice and Hon’ble Judges of Telangana High Court, Hon’ble Ministers, people’s representatives, leaders of various political parties and officials for according the unexpected welcome. I and my wife Sivamala shall remain indebted to the governing bodies of Tirumala Tirupati, Yadadri and Srisailam temple trusts, Government representatives and the local officials for facilitating the holy darshan and blessings at a very short notice. The efforts of the Telangana Government in developing the Yadadri shrine into one of the most important pilgrimage centres in the country is praiseworthy. Thanks also are due to the officials of the Telangana Government, staff of Raj Bhawan, High Court and police personnel for taking great care of me and my staff from the time we landed here over a week ago. Thank you to media persons for the co-operation extended. Please continue to adhere to Covid protocols till the time the Scientists and the Government formally declare the end of the pandemic. There is no room for negligence on this count. With the strength of blessings received from Telugu people, I am returning to Delhi with the confidence that I will be able to discharge my constitutional duties efficiently. Goodbye. Namaste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||Teacher commits suicide over non-payment of salary dues by private school ||A 46-year-old man committed suicide at his Delhi home allegedly over non-payment of salary dues by a private school where he worked earlier as a Taekwondo coach and also because the pandemic restrictions had stifled his income avenues, police said on Thursday. The deceased, identified as Tanoop Johar, used to work in Rohini but had been unemployed for over a year now. He was found hanging at his house in outer Delhi’s Mangolapuri area by his family members on Tuesday, they said. In a purported suicide note, Johar has mentioned two school management officials and accused the authorities of non-payment of salary dues. He also wrote that he was “disturbed” because the school had not given him salary and he had no work recently. The police said Johar had filed a case in the labour court against the school management last year over non-payment of salary. One of his former colleagues said Johar had been taking online classes since March last year during the lockdown but had to discontinue later over a dispute with the school management over salary. “After two months of taking online classes last year, Johar had questioned the school authorities over non-payment of salary. They gave the excuse that they were waiting for students to pay fees and kept assuring us that we would be given our salaries. But after four months, when we asked them again, the school management told us to resign,” a former colleague of Johar alleged. “During the lockdown last year, we had also written to the school authorities about the issue but still our salaries have not yet been paid. We had also moved court against the management,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said Johar had not been working at the school for more than a year now. “All the allegations are being looked into. The matter is under inquiry and no case has been registered yet,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||July 31 result deadline for state education boards||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed that Class XII results of all state education boards must be declared by July 31 and their respective methodologies for awarding marks completed in the next 10 days. Many state boards, as also the national boards CBSE and CISCE, have cancelled the Classes X and XII exams in view of the pandemic. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari grilled the Andhra Pradesh government that has planned to go ahead with the exams “tentatively”. The court expressed reservations about the state’s decision and posted Andhra Pradesh’s case for a special hearing on Friday, declining to adjourn the matter till Monday on the ground that students’ future cannot be kept in uncertainty. The bench indicated that even if there was one Covid-related death on account of the planned exams, Andhra would be compelled to pay an exemplary compensation. The court had on Wednesday approved the declaration of Class XII results of CBSE and ISC students on the basis of marks obtained in the past three and six years, respectively. Some of the petitioners before the apex court want a similar formula to be followed by the state boards. The court agreed with the request of Monika Gosain, the counsel appearing for the Haryana government, that a clarification be issued to the effect that the respective boards are free to formulate their own formulas for award of internal marks as all boards are autonomous and independent bodies. “We have no difficulty in acceding to this submission. In other words, we make it clear that each board may formulate its own scheme. However, we further make it clear that we are not endorsing the correctness and validity of the proposed schemes, to be so formulated by the concerned boards,” Justice Khanwilkar said while dictating the order. “That will be considered on its own merits, if and when the occasion arises….” “We direct all the state boards to ensure that the schemes are formulated and notified at the earliest and not later than 10 days from today and also declare the results of internal assessment by 31.07.2021, which is the timeline specified for the CBSE and the CISCE in terms of our order dated 22.06.2021…,” the court added. The bench disapproved of the Andhra government’s decision to conduct the exams in July. The bench cautioned Andhra that it cannot expect the University Grants Commission to withhold the college admission process merely because the state had not declared the results on time. “You have to understand that just because you have not conducted the exam cannot be a ground for not starting college admissions,” the bench said, adding that “CBSE and ISC students will get admissions and your students will be deprived”. The court was of the view that with an estimated 5.20 lakh students being asked to write the exams and another 50,000 support staff entrusted with the task of conducting the tests, the pandemic situation in Andhra could only worsen. “Have you worked out the formula to follow the protocol? How are you going to arrange for the requisite rooms? How are you going to divide the students in 34,634 rooms? On what basis have you said that not more than 15 students per room? If you don’t have the arrangements, are you going to conduct it in the open?” the bench asked. Justice Khanwilkar observed: “We’re not very convinced…. How can we permit you to put the lives of students at risk? If we agree, you will have to put before us a proper firm decision… You’ll have to explain to us everything to ensure a well-defined formulated plan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India|| India seeks to corner Pakistan on terrorism at Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting||India sought to corner Pakistan on terrorism at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting of national security advisers this week by suggesting that the group adopt an action plan against Pakistan-based terror groups. This was the key thrust of NSA Ajit Doval’s intervention at the meeting in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe where he shared the table with his Pakistani counterpart Moeed Yusuf. Sources said Doval proposed an action plan against the Laskhar-e-Toiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) as part of the SCO framework and called for targeted sanctions against UN-designated terrorist individuals and entities. Whether his suggestion has been taken on board was unclear as the outcome document of the meeting had not been released till late Thursday evening. Condemning terrorism in all forms and manifestations, Doval is said to have argued that the perpetrators, including those involved in cross-border terror attacks, should be expeditiously brought to justice. Both LeT and JeM, based in Pakistan, are UN-designated terrorist groups. LeT chief Hafiz Saeed is a UN-designated terrorist. Doval also stressed the need to monitor new technologies used by terrorists, including drones for smuggling weapons and misuse of the dark web, artificial intelligence, blockchain and social media. With the US-Nato pullout from Afghanistan drawing near, it is a subject of concern for the SCO — many of the member countries share boundaries with the war-ravaged country. On Afghanistan, Doval is said to have iterated India’s position on the need to preserve the gains made in the last two decades. While batting for greater connectivity, Doval underscored that such projects should respect sovereignty and territorial integrity in an oblique reference to New Delhi’s concerns regarding China’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative that runs through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. New Delhi has refused to join the BRI on the ground that it violates India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Compared to last year’s meeting, this edition appears to have gone off without much of a flare-up between India and Pakistan. Doval had walked out of the virtual meeting last year to protest against Yusuf using the new map of Pakistan as his backdrop. India had declared the new map — issued by Pakistan on August 5, 2020, to mark the first anniversary of the removal of Article 370 provisions in Jammu and Kashmir — as fictitious. The new map shows Gilgit-Baltistan and Kashmir as one territory that has been described as “Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir’”. Earlier, Pakistan used to describe Jammu and Kashmir as “Indian-occupied Kashmir”. The new map also states that the region is disputed territory, whose “final status is to be decided in line with relevant UNSC resolutions”. Further, the international boundary on the eastern side has been extended up to the undefined frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||Covid: Over 2,000 people get fake vaccines in Mumbai||More than 2,000 people have been administered fake Covid vaccines at camps in Mumbai so far, the Maharashtra government told Bombay High Court on Thursday. The state government’s counsel, chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare, told the court that at least nine such camps had been held. The state government also submitted before a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni a status report on the ongoing probe. The government said police had recorded the statements of 400 witnesses and the investigators were in the process of finding the whereabouts of a doctor. The doctor had allegedly been present at a fake vaccine camp at a housing society in Kandivali. “At least 2,053 people fell victim to these fake vaccination camps. Four FIRs have been registered in relation to these camps. While some accused persons have been identified, several unknown persons, too, have been booked in these FIRs,” Thakare said. The court said the government must take measures to get the victims tested for any ill-effects caused by the fake vaccines. “Our anxiety is, what happens to these people who were vaccinated? What were they administered and what is the effect of these fake vaccines?” the court asked. The bench also took exception to the fact that the state government was yet to come up with specific guidelines for vaccination camps organised by private housing societies, offices, etc, despite a court order earlier this month. “This is very very urgent. We had expected the state would come up with SOPs immediately. Time is of essence here, you (state) can’t delay,” the court said. The bench also asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to inform the court about the steps it proposes to take to check the possible adverse effects on the health of the people administered the fake vaccines. The BMC counsel, senior advocate Anil Sakhre, said the civic body was also conducting its own probe into the incidents. “We have realised that vaccination certificates were not given to the victims on the same day that they were administered the fake jabs. Later, certificates were issued using the names of three different hospitals. That is how people realised something was wrong,” Sakhre said. “These hospitals, however, said they had not provided the vials used in these camps. We have also written to the Serum Institute of India,” he said. The high court directed the BMC and the state government to file affidavits responding to the bench’s queries and directions by June 29, the next date of hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||In court, Rahul Gandhi denies ‘Modi’ defamation||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appeared before a magistrate’s court in Surat on Thursday to record his statement in a criminal defamation suit filed by a Gujarat MLA, and denied making any defamatory remarks on people with the “Modi” surname. The suit had been filed by Surat BJP MLA Purnesh Modi over Rahul’s alleged remark on the Modi surname. In his statement before Surat’s chief judicial magistrate A.N. Dave, Rahul denied making any defamatory remarks on people with the Modi surname during a poll rally in Karnataka in 2019. When the magistrate asked Rahul if he had said Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave Rs 30 crore to an industrialist, Rahul told the court that being a national leader, he kept raising issues of corruption and unemployment in his addresses in the interest of the nation, and it was his right to do so. When the court asked if he had said all people with the Modi surname were thieves, Rahul said he had never made such a comment. To most of the remaining questions related to the evidence and statements of witnesses in the case, Rahul said: “I don’t know”. After recording the statement, the magistrate said the case would be heard again on July 12. Earlier, Rahul had appeared before the court in October 2019 and pleaded not guilty for his comment. Legislator Purnesh Modi had filed a complaint against Rahul in April 2019 under Indian Penal Code Sections 499 and 500 that deal with defamation. A week ago, CJM Dave had directed Rahul to remain present on June 24 to record his statement. In his complaint, the MLA had alleged that Rahul had defamed the entire Modi community by saying at a poll rally in 2019: “How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?” During an election rally held at Kolar in Karnataka on April 13, 2019, Rahul had reportedly asked: “Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi, Narendra Modi... how come they all have Modi as the common surname? How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?” Rahul was the Congress president when he had made this alleged remark. Purnesh Modi has also moved Gujarat High Court, seeking to call the Kolar district collector and a videographer who had recorded the speech as witnesses. The high court is expected to hear the matter on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||Unnao rape victim to Prime Minister: Drop BJP candidate||The Unnao rape victim has written to the President, Prime Minister and the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, demanding that the BJP change its candidate for the post of the zilla panchayat chairman here as he is “very close” to jailed former MLA and her tormentor Kuldeep Singh Sengar. The rape victim also claimed a threat to her life if the BJP gave the ticket to Arun Singh, the Nawabganj block panchayat chief. The poll for the zilla panchayat chairman’s post is scheduled for July 3. The BJP has denied the charge, with its district president Raj Kishore Rawat saying the allegations may be part of a “conspiracy” by the Opposition. Sengar, a former BJP MLA from Unnao’s Bangarmau, was accused of rape by the victim in 2017. A Delhi court sentenced Sengar to life imprisonment in December 2019. The rape victim told PTI over phone that said though the BJP talked of strict action against criminals, it had declared the man who was “involved” in the murder of her father as its candidate for zilla panchayat chairman’s post.” She alleged: “The BJP government is still supporting Kuldeep Singh Sengar. Arun Singh is very close to Sengar. My entire family has been destroyed by Sengar. If Arun Singh gets the ticket, it will increase the danger to my life. It is my demand from the party and the government to withdraw Arun Singh’s name and declare someone else as its candidate.” She said she had written to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on the issue. She also alleged that her uncle was seeking parole from police custody but it was not being allowed because of Sengar. Her sister’s marriage has been stalled in the absence of any male member in her family, she said. Rawat, denied the allegations, saying Arun Singh is “a man of clean image”. “The allegations against him are baseless. It may be part of the Opposition’s conspiracy. Arun Singh has got a clean chit in many cases,” Rawat added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
25-06-2021||India||CBI names 18 retired police officers in Isro  ‘spy’ case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has named 18 retired police officers in a fresh FIR registered in accordance with the Supreme Court directive to probe the conspiracy behind the alleged framing of Indian Space Research Organisation scientist Nambi Narayanan in an espionage case dating back to 1994. The FIR registered at a court in Thiruvananthapuram names then circle inspector at Pettah police station S. Vijayan, sub-inspector Thampi Durgadutt, city police commissioner V.R. Rajeev, deputy inspector-general Siby Mathew, deputy superintendent of police K.K. Joshua and deputy director of Intelligence Bureau, R.B. Sreekumar, among the accused. The CBI filed the FIR based on the Supreme Court order in April. The apex court had considered a report by a three-member panel about the role of police officers who allegedly implicated Narayanan in the case. Narayanan, his colleague D. Sasikumaran, labour contractor S.K. Sharma and Maldivian women Mariam Rasheeda and Fauzia Hassan were arrested in the case and allegedly tortured by the police. Kerala police had arrested Narayanan and others under the Officials Secrets Act for “selling” classified information on the space agency’s rocket programme to the two Maldivian “spies” who in turn passed them on to Pakistan’s ISI. The IB, which stepped in considering the national security angle, even claimed to have seized several kilos of classified information from Narayanan’s home. The Malayalam print media lapped up the spy scandal and ran juicy stories about the involvement of the accused, including the two Maldivian women. However, the CBI that investigated the case in 1996 dropped the charges for want of evidence. The Supreme Court in 1998 acquitted the accused and allowed the scientists to return to work. The women who eventually returned to Maldives were found to be low-level informers tasked with keeping an eye on India-based Maldivian students campaigning against their President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom. The 18 named in the new FIR have been booked under IPC Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 167 (a public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 195 (fabricating false evidence), 218 (public servant framing incorrect record), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to extort confession), 348 (wrongful confinement to extort confession) and 506 (criminal intimidation). The spy scandal had a political fall guy in then chief minister K. Karunakaran. With faction feud in the Congress at its zenith, his rivals A.K. Antony and Oomen Chandy used the scandal to the hilt by accusing Karunarakan of shielding his trusted lieutenant and deputy inspector-general of police Raman Srivastava whose name figured in the case. In a major political coup, the duo got Karunakaran to step down in 1995. The apex court later acquitted Srivastava who then went on to become the security adviser to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan during his previous term. P.C. Chacko, former Congress functionary who recently joined the Nationalist Congress Party, on Thursday said the CBI should question Antony and Chandy in a clear indication that the political angle in the spy scandal had not died down. “We all know that it was a conspiracy created by factional leaders of the Congress to crucify K. Karunakaran… I feel that these leaders (Antony and Chandy) should be interrogated,” Chacko said. Sources said a CBI team from Delhi would soon travel to Thiruvananthapuram to collect evidence and record the statements of Narayanan and all the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-37
