26-06-2021||India||Banquets to host 50 guests for wedding, gyms to open from Monday||Banquet halls for marriages with 50 people attending, gyms allowed to open in Delhi from Monday The Delhi government on Saturday allowed weddings at banquet, marriage halls and hotels with 50 people in attendance, and reopening of gyms and Yoga centres at 50 per cent capacity under the phased unlock process initiated with an improvement in the city's Covid-19 situation. The relaxations will come into force from Monday. The Delhi Diaster Management Authority(DDMA) in its order said the prohibited and restricted activities will continue till 5 am on July 5. Gyms and banquet halls were closed on April 19 when Delhi was facing the brutal second wave of Covid-19. In second week of May, weddings were permitted at home and in courts with not more than 20 people in attendance. According to NDTV report Delhi, recorded its lowest daily rise in Covid cases today with only 85 new infections in 24 hours, has been easing Covid restrictions over the past few days. Last week, the Delhi government allowed shops to remain open through the week, while markets were allowed to function with a reduced workforce. Bars, had also been permitted to operate till 10 pm, while the timings for restaurants were extended from June 20. However, with the relaxations also came warning by doctors and public health experts concerning rapid unlocking and Covid protocols being not followed. Delhi has witnessed one of the worst Covid-19 outbreaks during the pandemic’s second wave(April and May) and witnessed huge number of cases on a daily basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Vaccine: Zydus Cadila shot for 12-18 soon, says Centre||A new coronavirus vaccine developed by Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila will be available soon for the young between 12-18, the central government said in an affidavit to the Supreme Court on Friday. According to NDTV, filed in response to the Supreme Court's pointed questions about the vaccination drive, the centre also briefed the court about its plans to vaccinate all adults in the country by the end of the year. It said that 186.6 crore doses are needed for vaccinating people above 18 years who number 93-94 crore. Walk in vaccinations have been allowed all ages and digital divide is not a constraint for access to vaccines anymore, it added. Calling its vaccination policy dynamic and not static, the centre said Covid-19 shots are now free for all above 18 years under the new policy in effect since Monday. Vaccination figures are put out in the public domain on a daily basis, it said, underscoring its efforts at transparency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||J&K: Omar seeks reinstatement of statehood followed by Assembly elections||The National Conference, a key partner of the alliance fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, on Saturday favoured reinstatement of statehood to be followed by Assembly elections and said it would not “fool” people with assurances of a return of the undiluted Article 370. The comments of NC vice-president Omar Abdullah suggest the party is warming up for business with the Centre that is firmly against any rethink on Article 370. Restoration of statehood is the cornerstone of the agenda of the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, of which the NC’s Farooq Abdullah is the head. PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti, another partner of the alliance, has made it clear in the aftermath of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reach-out meeting with Valley politicians on Thursday that there would be no compromise on this primary demand and that she would not participate in any election until special status was restored. Appearing to justify his stand, NC vice-president and former chief minister Omar said people across the region badly needed a “breather” and that his party wanted to pull them out of trouble. Omar and his father Farooq addressed the media in Srinagar on Saturday after returning from the all-party meeting with Modi in New Delhi. “Azad sahab (Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad) spoke on behalf of us (before the Prime Minister) and said the (Centre’s) timeline of delimitation-election-statehood was not acceptable to us and that it should be delimitation-statehood-election. If elections are to be held, restore statehood first and then only we will talk about elections,” Omar said. “Azad sahab put forth this view on our behalf at the meeting. Whenever we get an opportunity, we will keep stressing on it,” he added. The Prime Minister is reported to have sought the Jammu and Kashmir leadership’s support in completing the delimitation and suggested that statehood could be restored after Assembly elections. Omar said on Saturday that his party would not fool people by saying it expected the current regime to restore the special status but that the Valley leadership would continue to strive for it legally, politically, constitutionally and peacefully. “It took the BJP 70 years to fulfil its political agenda on (Article) 370. Our struggle has just started. We don’t want to fool people by telling them we will get 370 back in these talks,” Omar said. “They snatched it from us. We can’t fool people (by saying) they will return it.” Farooq, the NC president, did not object to Omar’s views. When the Gupkar alliance was floated in August 2019, it had stated without any ambiguity that restoration of the undiluted Article 370 was its utmost priority. “We want to assure the people that all our political activities will be subservient to the sacred goal of reverting to the status of J&K as it existed on 4th August, 2019,” the second declaration of the alliance had said in August last year. The declaration was issued after the Valley’s key leaders were released from jail. In July last year, weeks after his release, Omar had kicked up a political storm by favouring the restoration of statehood as a condition for participation in elections. NC chief spokesman Ruhullah Medhi had resigned in protest. Omar backed off after an outcry and allegations of sell-out, claiming he “never placed statehood above the restoration of Article 370”. On Saturday, Omar took care to point out that he would not personally contest elections “at the moment” but they could not wait for the Supreme Court’s decision on Article 370 endlessly. “We have challenged everything (the August 5, 2019, decision to scrap special status) but that does not mean we will stop. Let us talk to people here. If the people of Jammu and Kashmir tell us that until we have the Supreme Court decision, it makes no difference to us that hospitals are not functioning; some DCs (deputy commissioners) arrest a common Kashmiri only for saying that he can talk to a local officer but outsiders do not understand him; if people are suffering and getting arrested time and again; there is a bureaucratic unchecked administration — if people of Jammu and Kashmir like it… we will raise our hands (and give up),” Omar said. “But people want a breather here. If people want there should be officers who listen to them, understand them, are concerned about their children’s education and health, then the vehicle can move on both tracks. We will not leave that fight (for Article 370) but wherever we can take people out of tribulations, that should be done,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Enforcement Directorate summons Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has been asked to appear before the Enforcement Directorate or ED for questioning early next week after he sought a fresh date for appearance in a money laundering case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-and-extortion racket that led to his resignation in April, officials said. The 71-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was asked to depose before the investigating officer at the agency office in Ballard Estate in Mumbai by 11 am. However, he did not turn up and instead sent his lawyers to the ED office seeking case documents and a fresh date for appearance. Deshmukh has now been asked to appear next week by Tuesday, news agency PTI reported quoting sources. Earlier, lawyers of Deshmukh handed over a letter written by the politician to the investigators. "He (Deshmukh) will not appear today. We have not been given documents related to this case and we have given a letter to ED demanding these documents and case details in which he is to be questioned. We will furnish our reply accordingly," lawyer Jayvant Patil told reporters outside the ED office. The central agency early on Saturday arrested his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande, 51, and personal assistant Kundan Shinde, 45, after it carried out raids against them and Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur on Friday. The aides were brought to the ED office for questioning following the searches and arrested subsequently. They were sent to the agency's custody till July 1 by a special court here. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI first carried out a preliminary inquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who had resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing. Singh, a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, was forced out of his post after investigators revealed the role of assistant police inspector Sachin Waze in the stationing of an explosive-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's Mumbai residence that triggered a terror scare. Waze has since been dismissed from service. In his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over ₹ 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. According to the ED, about 10 bar owners in Mumbai recorded statements before it alleging that they had paid about ₹ 4.7 crore "bribe" in cash in a three-month period to be handed over to Deshmukh through police officials. Deshmukh was the home minister in the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra headed by Uddhav Thackeray. In his letter, Param Bir Singh also alleged that Palande was present when Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort money. The CBI named Mr Deshmukh and others under criminal conspiracy charges and "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Congress demands immediate release of dearness allowance||The Congress on Saturday demanded immediate release of dearness allowance (DA) to 115 lakh government employees, including armed forces personnel, that was suspended last year in view of the Covid pandemic. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the government should not be insensitive towards its employees and armed forces, and not play jokes with them at a time when salaries are decreasing and inflation is rising. Hitting out at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said it is a crime to "loot" Rs 37,500 crore from soldiers, government employees and pensioners. "Even in the Covid epidemic, instead of increasing the morale of 113 lakh employees engaged in the service of the country, the central government is trying to snatch their hard-earned money," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "It is a crime to loot Rs 37,500 crore from soldiers, government employees and pensioners," Gandhi added. Singhvi said the government should pay the actual arrears of DA to employees as per 7th Pay Commission and not play jugglery or pull wool into the eyes of the common man. "This frequent shadow boxing by the central government, in respect of dearness allowance can only highlight and underline the mischievous, the malevolent and the Machiavellian approach of the government towards lakhs and crores of central government employees and lakhs of Army-related employees and pensioners within that category," he said at an online press conference. "This non-payment highlights and underlines the clear hypocrisy, the clear double standard of the government, which speaks in two voices, forked tongues about nationalism. We demand an immediate restoration of the DA that was suspended last year," he added. Singhvi said on April 23, 2020, the "government hit people's stomach with a kick by cutting Rs 37,500 crore", which was payable as dearness allowance by the 7th Pay commission to 115 lakh government employees. He said these include 41 lakh people either serving or retired pensioners within the armed forces, the balance 65-70 lakh are central government employees. The Congress leader demanded that the government pay them three instalments of DA due on January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021. "Please, don't do your usual jugglery and pull in the wool over the Aam Aadmi's eyes. Make sure that what you give back by way of arrears is actual real arrears," he said, adding that the government makes sure the rate increase fully covers and compensates them. He said from July 1 this year everything should be restored on parity as intended and envisaged by the 7th pay commission. "These are cruel jokes, insensitive government, as I said a mischievous, malevolent and Machiavellian approach, which needs to be immediately rectified, at least from July 1 forthwith," Singhvi said. The Congress leader said the cut made retrospectively in April last year citing Covid was "a very weird irony and paradox", as one cannot think of a more "absurd reason" that the government slapped its employees with a cut of Rs 37,500 crore instead of helping them. He alleged that the government did not stop the Central Vista project which is over half this money. "Not a penny was cut there because somebody's ego is paramount," Singhvi said. "This is a strangest, weirdest approach and definition, where you are attacking your own armed forces. You are doing a surgical strike on your own armed forces. You are speaking on a forked tongue of nationalism, in the same breath," Singhvi claimed. The Congress spokesperson said while the inflation is touching new highs, the government has not even given a direct fiscal incentive to boost the economy in Covid times, whereas some countries have given a direct boost to their economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Modi reviews Covid-19 situation, expresses satisfaction at vaccination pace||Expressing satisfaction at an increased speed of Covid-19 vaccination this week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said it is important to carry this momentum forward and also underlined a need to involve NGOs and other organisations in efforts to expand the drive. Over 3.77 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the last six days, the government said in a statement after a high-level review meeting held by Modi with top officials on the progress of the vaccination drive. It was noted that 128 districts in the country have vaccinated more than 50 per cent of over 45 years of population and 16 districts have vaccinated more than 90 per cent of this age group. "PM was informed that 3.77 crore doses have been administered in the last 6 days which is more than the entire population of countries like Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and Canada," the Prime Minister's Office said. Modi also directed officials to work with states to ensure that the pace of testing does not go down as testing remains a very important weapon to track and contain rising infections in any region Modi underlined the need to involve NGOs and other organisations in the vaccination drive, with officials stating that they are in touch with state governments to explore and implement innovative methods to reach people for vaccination, the PMO said. Modi was also informed about the rising interest in Cowin platform globally, his office noted, adding that he said that efforts should be made to help all countries, who have expressed interest, with India's rich tech expertise in the form of Cowin platform. Officials gave a detailed presentation to Modi on the progress of inoculation in the country and was briefed about the age-wise vaccination coverage. He was also briefed about the vaccine coverage among healthcare workers, frontline workers and the general population in various states, the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||A career in Cyber security can give 100% financial growth early on in your career, says Mr. Kaushik Ray||Q1. Cyber security training is quickly replacing coding as a career choice within technology. What the last decade was to coding perhaps this decade will do the same for cyber security. How and why did this tectonic shift come by?  A. Covid19 led to massive digital adoption starting 2020. This led to an explosion in cybercrime and cyber-attack. Cyber security thus became an absolute necessity for any enterprise, private or Govt, in protecting their digital infrastructure. This has led to huge demand-supply gap in cyber security experts leading to unprecedented salary growth and freelancing opportunities unlike coding which has experienced regular growth in largely IT companies.  Q2. What are the major gaps in cyber security training segment in India? What sets WhizHack Technologies apart?  A. We realized there is hardly any standardization in cyber security trainings and hundreds of mom-and-pop training centers have sprung up to cater to the rising demand. Problem is gullible students subscribe to these courses with little or no employment prospects as these courses are largely theoretical with no industry connect. Most courses are taught using open-source tools whereas employers seek hands on skills of commercial tools with standardised certifications that are valued in India & abroad  Coming to the next part of your question, we are 3 co-founders who collectively have over 90 years of collective experience building technologies, complex trainings and running new age technologies at large scale. We realized that for a developing country like India to overcome menace of rising cyber-crimes and organized attacks, the most important thing is to build a complete ecosystem to manage cyber security. WhizHack is India’s 1st vertically integrated cyber security organization developing advance surveillance systems, managing security services and training next generation of workforce for a secured cyber ecosystem.   Q3. What sort of job profiles do you prepare your students for and what kind of average compensation can they expect in the market?  A. We prepare our students for a variety of positions that are in-demand and meet their new skillset. These budding Cyber Security professionals can look at positions that include Cyber Forensics Analyst, Network Operations Specialist, Cyber Analyst, Cyber Incident Responder, and Cyber Infrastructure Support Specialist. Average starting salaries are Rs. 5 lakhs per annum for freshers and Rs. 8 lakhs and above with experience. Most importantly, they get into core cyber security jobs which propel them to grow their professional and financial growth by over 100% in the next few years.  Q4. How can budding cyber security experts equip themselves to fight competition and thrive in a dynamic industry as this?  A. As per Michael Page, India is expected to have over 1.5 million unfulfilled job vacancies in cybersecurity by 2025, the second highest in the APAC Region after China. According to Indeed, the average annual salary for the position of a security specialist in India is ₹889,265. Job seekers in the age group of 25 to 29 accounted for most searches for roles in cybersecurity, followed by those in the age group of 20 to 24 and 30 to 34.  Cyber security thus offers huge possibilities for professional success. However, this is a field where knowledge needs to be constantly upgraded, religiously track the latest technology developments used by cyber criminals in India and abroad, actively participate and contribute in cyber defense communities and leverage strong mentors (knowledge+industry) who can easily give you a head start of several years.  Q5. How does a dual certification programme at WhizHack help students seeking a career in Cyber defense?  A. The IIT Jodhpur TISC WhizHack, powered by Cybint, Israel is India’s first and only Dual Certificate program in Advanced Cyber Defense. The programme is unprecedented in its scale and depth of knowledge development and empowerment. This a 6-month part time course and prepares students to enter the cyber security industry as a specialist. It has the advantages of blended training- live mentoring by IIT Jodhpur faculty and 50% hands on training in personalized cloud based Israeli labs with latest cyber defense techniques.  This course is aligned with National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE), the Cybersecurity Workforce Framework in the US and CompTIA Security+ Course that helps graduates work in different parts of the World. The icing on the cake is access to commercial projects during training and a one-year extended access to Israeli labs with latest commercial tools for easy hiring by top employers. Course information on:- iitj@whizhack.com or 8447223249||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Stuck in traffic due to Kovind’s visit, Uttar Pradesh woman dies ||A woman in Kanpur lost her life on Friday night as she and her family were reportedly stuck in the traffic and got delayed due to restrictions during President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to the city. According to a report by ndtv.com, Vandana Mishra, the 50-year-old woman who died, was the head of the women's wing of the Kanpur chapter of the Indian Association of Industries. Her family had rushed her to a private hospital last night after she fell seriously ill.Mishra had recovered from Covid-19 recently, the report says. Mishra’s emergency visit to the hospital coincided with the time when Kovind was visiting Kanpur and police stopped traffic along the route she was travelling. Reports quoted by ndtv.com say the situation led to a traffic pile-up and an inordinate delay, and Mishra was pronounced dead on reaching the hospital. Taking note of the incident, the Kanpur Police apologised on Saturday. "On behalf of Kanpur Police and myself, I am deeply sorry about the demise of Vandana Mishra. This is a big lesson for the future. We pledge our 'route' system will be such that citizens are held up for the shortest possible time so such incidents are not repeated," Kanpur Police Commissioner Asim Arun tweeted. In another tweet, the Commissionarate of Kanpur said that Kovind was disturbed by the incident. “The President called the police commissioner and the district magistrate and enquired about the incident. He asked officials to personally convey his condolences to the family,” they said. A senior police official has been asked to carry out an inquiry, and sub-inspector Sushil Kumar and three constables have been suspended over the incident for holding traffic for longer than needed. The president is on a three-day visit to his birthplace, Kanpur, and reached there on Friday by train.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Delhi registers 85 fresh Covid cases in a day, lowest of the year||The national capital recorded 85 fresh cases of coronavirus, the lowest daily count this year, and nine more deaths on Saturday, according to data shared by the Health Department here. The positivity rate dipped to 0.12 per cent, it said. The nine new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 24,961. On Monday, Delhi had reported 89 coronavirus cases with a positivity rate of 0.16 per cent, while 11 people had died, the data showed. Ninety-four people had been diagnosed Covid positive on February 16 while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. Delhi had recorded 111 cases and seven deaths on Wednesday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.15 per cent. On Thursday, 109 COVID-19 cases and eight deaths were recorded while on Friday, 115 cases and four deaths, lowest since March 21, were reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-31
26-06-2021||India||Tomar urges farmers to end seven-month long protest||As farmers' protest against the new farm laws entered eighth month, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday appealed to protesting farmers to end their agitation while saying that the government is ready to resume talks on the provisions of three legislations. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for seven months now in protest against the three laws that they say will end state procurement of crops at MSP. The Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and has set up a committee to find solutions. The committee has submitted its report. "I want to convey through your (media) that farmers should end their agitation. ....Many are in favour of these new laws across the country. Still, some farmers have any issue with provisions of the laws, Government of India is ready to listen and discuss with them," Tomar tweeted. He said the government held 11 rounds of consultations with protesting farmer unions. The government has increased the minimum support price (MSP) and is procuring more quantity at MSP. Farmers' protest had started on November 26 last year and has now completed seven months notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic. Three union ministers, including Tomar and Food Minister Piyush Goyal, have held 11 rounds of talks with the protesting farmer unions. In the last meeting on January 22, the government's negotiations with 41 farmer groups hit a roadblock as the unions squarely rejected the Centre's proposal of putting the laws on suspension. During the 10th round of talks held on January 20, the Centre had offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions, in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi's borders. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by the Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union President Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) President Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other members on the panel. They have completed the consultation process with stakeholders and submitted the report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah, son Omar want statehood for Jammu and Kashmir before elections||National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah Saturday said there was "a level of mistrust" in Jammu and Kashmir and it was for the Centre to remove it, even as his son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah demanded restoring Jammu and Kashmir's statehood before holding Assembly polls. Speaking to reporters upon their return from Delhi after attending an all-party meet convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on J&K, Farooq said he would hold discussions with his party leaders and PAGD constituents before making any further statement on the meeting. He said the country's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru promised plebiscite to the people of J&K but went back on it. He also said that before the 1996 elections, the then prime minister P V Narasimha Rao had promised autonomy to J&K from the floor of the house. "Narasimha Raoji before elections promised us autonomy and said the sky is the limit, but not independence. We said we never asked (for) independence, we have asked for autonomy. He promised us from the floor of the house. Where is that?" Farooq asked. "There is a level of mistrust...We should wait and see what they (the Centre) do... Whether they will remove the mistrust or let it continue," he added. Farooq said even senior Congress leader Karan Singh has called for the restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir before holding elections. He said that at the prime minister's meeting, all invited persons put forth their views. "This was the first step from their side that somehow the situation is improved in Jammu and Kashmir and a political process is restarted." he said, adding he would speak more on the meeting after consulting party members and PAGD leaders. The Srinagar Lok Sabha MP dismissed suggestions that the June 24 meeting with the Prime Minister signalled the end of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- a Six-party amalgam of mainstream parties formed after the Centre abrogated Article 370 and split Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories in August 2019. "Why should it be the end of the alliance?" Omar, meanwhile, told reporters it was made clear to the Centre during the PM's meeting that the statehood should be restored to J&K before holding Assembly polls. "(Ghulam Nabi) Azad sahib spoke on behalf of all of us that we do not accept this timeline. We do not accept delimitation, election, statehood. We want delimitation, statehood and then the election. If you want to hold polls, you will have to restore statehood first," he told reporters after his return from Delhi. On the process of delimitation, he said the National Conference had authorised its president Farooq Abdullah to take a view as and when the party is approached by the delimitation commission again. He also dismissed suggestions that the PAGD was weakened after the all-party meeting, saying alliance members said nothing against the spirit of the grouping. "We maintain that we do not accept the August 2019 decisions and we will continue to fight them legally, democratically and peacefully," he said. Referring to some leaders refusing to talk about the restoration of Article 370 as the matter was subjudice, Omar said it should not come in the way of discussing the issue. "Firstly, only two persons said the matter is subjudice -- Azad and Muzaffar Hussain Baig -- and they both are not part of the PAGD. The matter is before the Supreme Court does not mean we cannot talk about it. The Babri Masjid case was before the Supreme Court but the BJP raised the Ram Temple issue all along," he said. He said the leaders were invited to the all-party meet at the party level and not as an alliance representative. "Had we been invited as an alliance, then only one person would have been invited," he added. The National Conference vice president said they would continue to strive for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, irrespective of how long it takes. "It took 70 years for the BJP to succeed in their agenda of abrogation of Article 370. We won't back off from our mission, even if it takes us 70 weeks or 70 months or more time," he said. He said the leadership should take steps that provide some respite to the people from "harassment". "If people are fine with no development till the Supreme Court decides on the petition, we will also raise our hands. A man was jailed for just saying that he was more comfortable with local officers as outside officers do not understand him... We want that we should provide relief to people on these accounts. The two things (providing relief to people and legal process) can go on simultaneously, " he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||CJI Ramana prods law minister on poor digital connectivity in rural areas||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has written to Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad seeking steps to resolve the poor digital connectivity in rural, tribal, remote and hilly areas that is "adversely impacting the pace of justice delivery". The CJI referred to the digital divide and said that "a whole generation of lawyers is being pushed out of the system" due to the technological inequality. He was speaking during the release of a book, 'Anomalies in Law and Justice', authored by former Supreme Court Judge Justice R V Raveendran in a virtual function here. During the course of the panel discussion that followed the launch of the book, he informed that the matter of connectivity figured prominently in the two-day conference of chief justices of high courts that he had held recently. "The poor connectivity in rural, tribal, remote and hilly areas is adversely impacting the pace of justice delivery and is also depriving thousands of young lawyers across the country of their livelihood. "A whole generation of lawyers is being pushed out of the system due to digital divide," the CJI said. Justice Ramana also said that he recently wrote to the minister of Law, Communications and IT highlighting these issues and requested him to initiate steps on priority to bridge the digital divide and also to evolve a mechanism to help the advocates who have lost livelihood due to the Covid pandemic and who are in dire need of financial assistance. The CJI also highlighted the need to declare the legal professionals and associated functionaries as frontline workers and the need to vaccinate them all on priority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Coronavirus will win if we keep fighting, says Kejriwal after oxygen controversy||Seeking to move on from the controversy over a Supreme Court-appointed panel report on Delhi's oxygen demand, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday called for everyone to work together to ensure there is no shortage of oxygen in the next Covid wave. The virus will win if there is a fight among stakeholders, Kejriwal tweeted, a day after his Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP hit out at each each other over the report that said Delhi's oxygen needs were exaggerated four times over during the second Covid wave. "May we work now if your fight over oxygen is finished? Let us together make a system so no one faces shortage of oxygen in third wave," Kejriwal said in his tweet in Hindi. "There was an acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave. It should not be so in the third wave. Corona will win if we fight with each other. The nation will win if we fight together," he added. While AAP leaders accused the BJP of "cooking up" the report from the Supreme Court appointed committee, the saffron party charged the Delhi government with "criminal negligence". Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged that the "bogus" and "misleading" report was "cooked up" at BJP's office and submitted by the Centre in the apex court. The sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court to audit oxygen consumption in hospitals in the national capital during the second wave said the Delhi government "exaggerated" the consumption of oxygen and made a claim of 1,140 MT, four times higher than the formula for bed capacity requirement of 289 MT. The five-member panel, headed by AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, said the Delhi government had made the claims for allocation of 700 MT oxygen on April 30 of medical grade oxygen using a "wrong formula". Two members, B S Bhalla, Delhi government's principal home secretary, home, and Max Healthcare's Clinical Director Sandeep Budhiraja, questioned the conclusions. Bhalla gave his objections and comments on the 23-page interim report shared with him on May 30. The report has an annexure of communication sent by Bhalla on May 31 in which he said a reading of the draft interim report makes it painfully apparent that the sub-group, instead of focussing on the task, delineated from the terms of order of the Supreme Court dated May 6. As controversy spiralled on Friday, Kejriwal reacted to developments saying his only "crime" was that he "fought for the breath of two crore people" of Delhi. "...When you were doing an election rally, I was awake all night arranging for oxygen. I fought, pleaded to get oxygen for people." "People have lost their loved ones due to lack of oxygen. Don't call them liars, they are feeling so bad," Kejriwal said on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Delta Plus: 21 new cases prompt Maharashtra to tighten curbs  ||The Maharashtra Government has tightened lockdown curbs in an effort to head off the spread of the new Delta Plus variant and avert a lethal third wave. The government took the step after some 21 cases of the new Delta Plus variant emerged and infection numbers and deaths have been nudging higher in the state. So far, one death has been attributed to the new Delta Plus variant involving an 80-year-old woman with comorbidities in the Ratnagiri district. The new lineage has been labelled a “variant of concern” by both the state and central governments. The tighter level-three restrictions out of a five-level unlock plan have been imposed until further notice under the state government’s “break the chain” guidelines. The government said it will use positivity test results from RT-PCR tests, not less accurate rapid antigen tests, to determine the future lockdown restrictions. Authorities have warned that a third Covid-19 wave could strike the state in the coming weeks if people fail to abide by “Covid-appropriate” behaviour. The state government decided it could not afford to take any chances and has tightened the lockdown even though little is known about whether the new variant is more virulent. “We are being a little cautious. We know from past experience that these things have a way of being an unpleasant surprise,” a state government official said. Ordinary shops and establishments can stay open until 4 pm on weekdays. The tighter restrictions still allow restaurants to remain open with 50 per cent capacity until 4 pm on weekdays and provide takeaways and home deliveries outside those hours. The Maharashtra Government said it has conducted extensive testing in different districts and has sent the results of the tests for genomic sequencing to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. Until Friday, Maharashtra had been proceeding with a careful five-level lockdown plan that it had announced June 5. The new variant has emerged as the number of Covid-19 cases and also deaths in states like Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have stubbornly remained at relatively high levels, even as cases in cities like Delhi have fallen sharply. “We have learned lessons from the first and second waves,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said this week. The state had 19 lakh cases in the first wave and close to 40 lakh in the second. The Centre reported 51 cases of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 spread across 11 states, with the maximum number of cases in Maharashtra. The government called the cases “very localised”. Delta Plus cases have been detected in the UK, the US, Portugal, China and Russia, among other countries. Senior virologist Shahid Jameel points out that, “places have opened and now everyone is out.” He adds: “The graph of cases coming down will never be very symmetrical. The tail is always going to wag the dog. This has been the experience in other countries too.” Scientists fear Delta Plus (B.1.617.2.1) could be a variant that’s much more infectious and severe than the aggressive Delta strain which was first detected in India and is believed to be largely responsible for the devastating second wave. There are worries that Delta Plus could be able to escape the protection from existing Covid-19 vaccines and be immune to certain drugs. Jameel says vaccination still remains the “safest bet” to end the pandemic. “We have to vaccinate, wear masks. It comes down to individual choice and public policy.” Jameel adds there is one genomic mutation every 11 days. “The new Delta Plus lineage could be minor,” he said. But he added that in Maharashtra’s case, it was clearly a case of “once bitten, twice shy. While India’s immunisation rollout has surged, experts say it may not be enough to avert a third wave nationwide with many more vaccine doses needed and delivery hurdles. After vaccinating a record more than 8 million people Monday, the country vaccinated 6.5 million people Friday, including 364,322 in Bengal. Says Health Economist Rijo M. John: “Kerala definitely seems to have entered into a higher plateau with the cases staying pretty constant around 12,000 for the past several days and the situation in Maharashtra is not much different.” He adds: “It could be also a matter of better reporting. No-one is quite sure.” India reported 51,225 fresh Covid cases Friday of which Maharashtra contributed 9,844. The Maharashtra case figure is up from 7,652 nine days ago. New cases in Tamil Nadu stood at 6,162 and 12,078 in Kerala. New deaths stood at 1,324 out of which 556 were in Maharashtra,155 in Tamil Nadu and 136 in Kerala. Covid claimed 41 lives in Bengal Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Ayodhya should manifest finest of our traditions, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the Ayodhya development plan and asserted that the temple town in Uttar Pradesh should manifest the "finest of our traditions and the best of our developmental transformations", according to government sources. Speaking at a virtual meeting, which was also attended by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Modi described Ayodhya as a city that is etched in the cultural consciousness of every Indian. "Ayodhya should manifest the finest of our traditions and the best of our developmental transformations," the prime minister was quoted by a government source as saying at the meeting. Noting that Ayodhya is both spiritual and sublime, Modi said the human ethos of the city must be matched by futuristic infrastructure, which is beneficial for everyone including tourists and pilgrims, according to the sources. The coming generations should feel the desire to visit Ayodhya at least once in their lifetime, Modi was quoted as saying. The prime minister said that the way Lord Ram had the ability to bring people together, the development works of Ayodhya should be guided by a spirit of healthy public participation, especially the youth. He also called for the skills of talented youngsters to be leveraged in this development of the city, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Top BJP leaders discuss preparations for Assembly polls in 5 states in 2022||Preparation for the assembly polls in five states early next year was the main agenda of a meeting of senior BJP leaders, including several Union ministers, on Saturday as they deliberated on political and governance issues linked to these states. Party president J P Nadda and Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Smriti Irani, and Kiren Rijiju were among those who attended the meeting, party leaders said. "Preparation for the assembly polls in five states were the main agenda of the meeting," a party leader said after the meeting. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa are slated for early next year. The BJP is in power in all these states except Punjab, and has been holding a series of meetings of its senior leaders as it works to put up an impressive show in the next round of elections. Uttar Pradesh is especially crucial to the BJP's political fortunes as the party has been the dominant power in the country's largest state since Prime Minister Narendra Modi led it to power in 2014. The ruling party leaders have been holding deliberations for some time over a number of political and governance issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra report first deaths due to Delta Plus variant of coronavirus||Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra reported their first deaths due to the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 on Saturday and Friday respectively, according to officials. In Tamil Nadu, a patient from Madurai succumbed to the infection, according to the state health department. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare MA Subramanian said three positive cases of the new 'Delta Plus' variant were identified of which two have recovered. Those tested positive for the Delta Plus variant include a 32 year old nurse from Chennai and another individual from Kancheepuram district. "After the death of the Madurai patient, the samples were collected, which confirmed that it was 'Delta Plus' variant," he said. However, the patient's contacts have tested negative. In Maharashtra, an elderly woman died in Ratnagiri civil hospital, a senior official said Friday. The woman hails from Sangameswar and was admitted to the hospital, over 330 kilometres from Mumbai, a few days ago, Ratnagiri district official Sanjay Shinde told PTI. He said the woman's death was being audited to see if she suffered from comorbidities. Shinde said district officials have been told to increase awareness as well as sensitise people about appropriate Covid-19 behavior. According to the Union health ministry, after Maharashtra with the maximum of 20 cases of 'Delta Plus', nine people in Tamil Nadu have tested positive for the new variant as of Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Money laundering: Anil Deshmukh fails to appear before ED||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has sought a fresh date for appearance before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) which had summoned him for questioning on Saturday in a money laundering case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to his resignation in April, officials said. The 71-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was asked to depose before the investigating officer at the agency office in Ballard Estate here by 11 am, they said. A team of Deshmukh's lawyers visited the ED office and sought a fresh date for appearance, officials said, adding that the agency is expected to accept his request. The central agency had arrested his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde late last night after it carried out raids against them and Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur. The aides were brought to the ED office for questioning following the searches and arrested subsequently. They will be produced before a special court for cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in Mumbai on Saturday where the ED will seek their remand for custodial interrogation, officials said. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made after the CBI first carried out a preliminary inquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who had resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing. Senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Singh was shunted out from his post after investigators revealed the role of assistant police inspector Sachin Waze in the stationing of an explosive-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's Mumbai residence that triggered a terror scare. Waze has since been dismissed from service. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. According to the ED, about 10 bar owners in Mumbai recorded statements before it alleging that they had paid about Rs 4 crore "bribe" in cash in a three-month period to be handed over to Deshmukh through police officials. Deshmukh was the home minister in the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra headed by Thackeray. In his letter, Singh also alleged that Palande was present when Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort money. Palande and Shinde had been questioned by the CBI in the past. The role of the two in the operation of certain shell firms is being looked into by the ED. The CBI booked Deshmukh and others under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and the section of the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Delhi’s oxygen requirement exaggeration report not final, says SC panel head||AIIMS chief Dr. Randeep Guleria on Saturday said it would not be correct to say that Delhi "exaggerated" its oxygen needs by four times during the second wave of Covid-19 as the report by the Supreme Court-appointed sub-group, which he incidentally heads, is an interim report. "Delhi oxygen audit is an interim report. We should wait for the final report," Dr Guleria told  ndtv.com on Saturday morning. Asked whether the report was exaggerated four times, Guleria replied, "I don't think we could do that". "The matter is in the Supreme Court. We need to wait and see what the top court says about it. Undercounting of active cases and other factors need to be considered," he added. The sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court to audit oxygen consumption in hospitals in the national capital during the second wave of Covid-19 said that the Delhi government exaggerated" the consumption of oxygen and made a claim of 1140 MT, four times higher than the formula for bed capacity requirement of 289 MT. The panel in its report pointed out that four model hospitals in Delhi --Singhal Hospital, Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, ESIC Model Hospital and Liferay Hospital -- have claimed extremely high Oxygen consumption with very few beds and the claims appeared to be clearly erroneous, leading to extremely skewed information and significantly higher oxygen requirement for the entire state of Delhi. The panel, which submitted its interim report to the top court, said that during the meetings of the sub-group, it was repeatedly noted that there was a gross discrepancy in the data recorded from proformas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-32
26-06-2021||India||Top BJP leaders hold meeting at party headquarters||Senior BJP leaders, including Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh and party president J P Nadda, held a meeting here on Saturday. The meeting, held at the party headquarters, was attended by several other senior leaders, including those handling organisational charges, sources said. The ruling party leaders have been holding deliberations for some time over a number of issues, ranging from the COVID-19 vaccination exercise to various governance and political matters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also attended many meetings, which were held at his residence and attended by several Union ministers besides Nadda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Addiction neither cool nor a style statement, says Modi on International Day against Drug Abuse||On the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for realising the vision of a drugs-free India, noting that they bring darkness, destruction and devastation. He tweeted, "Today, on International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, I laud all those working at the grassroots to eliminate the menace of drugs from our society. Every such effort to save lives is vital. After all, drugs bring with it darkness, destruction and devastation." He added, "Let us reiterate our commitment to share facts on drugs and realise our vision of a drugs free India. Remember- addiction is neither cool nor a style statement." The prime minister also shared an old Mann Ki Baat episode which contained many aspects of overcoming the drugs menace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||India logs over 48,000 fresh Covid cases, 1,183 casualties in a day||A single-day rise of 48,698 COVID-19 infections took India's case tally to 3,01,83,143 while the weekly positivity rate declined to 2.97 per cent, according to Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 3,94,493 with 1,183 more people succumbing to the viral disease in a day. The number of active cases has further declined to 5,95,565 and now accounts for 1.97 per cent of the total infections, the data updated at 8 am showed. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases of COVID-19 for the 44th consecutive day with the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surging to 2,91,93,085. The case fatality rate stood at 1.31 per cent. While the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.72 per cent, the weekly case positivity rate has come down to 2.97 per cent. According to the Health Ministry data, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.79 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 19 consecutive days. India administered 61.19 lakh vaccine doses in a day taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far under the nationwide inoculation drive to 31.50 crore, according to immunisation data published at 7 am. Also, 17,35,781 tests were conducted on Friday for the detection of COVID-19, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 39,95,68,448. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore total COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23. The total 3,94,493 deaths reported so far in the country include 1,20,370 in Maharashtra, 34,539 in Karnataka, 32,051 in Tamil Nadu, 24,952 in Delhi, 22,381 in Uttar Pradesh, 17,551 in West Bengal, 15,956 in Punjab, and 13,423 in Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths reported so far have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||ED summons Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has summoned former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to appear before it on Saturday for questioning in a money laundering case related to charges of bribery of Rs 100 crore, officials said. They said the 71-year-old NCP politician has been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case at the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office in Ballard Estate area here. The summons have been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and state that he should depose by 11 am, they said. The central agency had on Friday night arrested his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde after it carried out raids against them and Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur. The two were brought to the ED office following the searches. They will be produced before a special PMLA court in Mumbai on Saturday where the ED will seek their remand for custodial interrogation, officials said. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI first carried out a preliminary inquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the agency to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who had resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing. Singh was shunted out from the post after the role of assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, who has since been dismissed from service, surfaced during investigation into an explosive-laden SUV that was found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh, a leader of the NCP, was the home minister of the state in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government headed by Thackeray. The CBI booked Deshmukh and others under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and section of the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Rahul meets Punjab leaders to end state unit dissension||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday continued his discussions with senior party members from Punjab on the festering issue of factionalism in the state unit and met ministers and MLAs throughout the day. The Punjab ministers who met the former Congress chief included Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Sham Sunder Arora and Balbir Singh Sidhu. Former minister Rana Gurjeet also met Mr Gandhi. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo discussed with Mr Gandhi ways to strengthen the party in Punjab ahead of the assembly elections in the state. Mr Dullo later told reporters that while the country saw lockdowns since the outbreak of Covid last year, "the Punjab government has been in lockdown since the last four years". He alleged that Congress workers were being ignored in the government and "paratroopers" were ruling the roost. Mr Dullo has been a strong detractor of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. The Punjab Congress is likely to be revamped soon and some changes may be brought in the government too to accomodate all sections and groups, sources close to PTI said. Rahul Gandhi is holding deliberations with all party leaders and has been meeting almost all prominent leaders from the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Prime minister tweets 'Dark Days of Emergency can never be forgotten'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Friday, the 46th anniversary of the proclamation suspending civil liberties across India: “The Dark Days of Emergency can never be forgotten.” Few will disagree — Modi and his government are serving up reminder after reminder without pause to keep the memories fresh. Hitting out at the Congress for trampling on the democratic ethos, Modi tweeted: “The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions. Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India’s democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution.” This is how Modi has been doing “everything possible” to accomplish his avowed mission: ⚫  Journalist Siddique Kappan has been kept in detention for the past 263 days. He was arrested last October while he was travelling in Uttar Pradesh to do a follow-up report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen that had embarrassed the Yogi Adityanath government. Earlier this month, a sub-divisional magistrate dropped the charge of breach of peace against Kappan who is lodged in a jail in Mathura. Sedition and other charges are pending against him. ⚫ Two days ago, the former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, accused the central government-controlled Delhi police of “violating every canon of natural justice and fair play” in dealing with three student activists and anti-CAA protesters who were granted bail only last week. Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha were in jail since May last year, booked under a host of charges including the anti-terror law UAPA. ⚫ Nine months ago, Justice Lokur had deplored how free speech was being tackled with an “iron hand” and thousands were being jailed and accused of sedition for speaking out against the government. ⚫ For 320 days, amid an “iron hand” treatment and vilification, farmers have been protesting on Delhi’s borders against three laws railroaded through Parliament. Last winter, the protest had been described as the largest in history. ⚫ A year and a half ago, the government did little to address the concerns of protests — led largely by poor Muslim women — against a new citizenship law that is accused of discriminating between people on the ground of religion, and therefore violating the Constitution. ⚫ Two-and-a-half years ago, four Supreme Court judges publicly accused the then Chief Justice of assigning sensitive cases to favoured benches. ⚫ Social activists — some of them aged and severely disabled or ailing — are in detention, some students are being hounded under sedition and anti-terror laws, investigating agencies are being unleashed on critics and political opponents, and attempts are being made to browbeat conventional and social media organisations. ⚫ When climate activist Disha Ravi was picked up on the sedition charge, a Delhi court, which granted her bail, had said: “There is not even an iota of evidence brought to my notice connecting the perpetrators of the violence on January 26, 2021, with the said PJF (Poetic Justice Foundation) or the applicant/ accused (Ravi).” The upshot: The world’s largest democracy has turned into an electoral autocracy, the V-Dem Institute based in Sweden said in March. Footnote: Indira Gandhi had publicly apologised for the Emergency, and her grandson Rahul Gandhi had said last March: “I think that was a mistake. Absolutely, that was a mistake. And my grandmother said as much.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Twitter blocks account of IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad announced on Twitter on Friday: “Friends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account.” Twitter said it had received a complaint against a tweet that Prasad had posted on December 16, 2017, on Vijay Diwas. Others suggested the action was not as “highly peculiar” as the minister proclaimed although not everyone agreed with what Twitter did. “Raviji, the same thing just happened to me,” tweeted Congress MP Shashi Tharoor. “Clearly DMCA is getting hyperactive.” Journalist Rohini Singh sought to put matters in perspective through multiple tweets: “Calm down. I received a similar notice some days back because of a video I tweeted of doctors dancing. The song was copyrighted and in the West it is a big deal. Happens all the time. Read up a bit on laws and check your email. You will get to know who complained.” She added: “DMCA doesn’t differentiate a VIP and an ‘honourable minister’ from an ordinary citizen. For it, everyone is equal before the law. Pity Twitter doesn’t have a lal batti on accounts of India’s cabinet ministers.” Prasad’s account was blocked at a time the Narendra Modi government and Twitter are locked in a spat over the information technology intermediary guidelines. Twitter said in a statement: “We can confirm that the Honourable Minister’s account access was temporarily restricted due to a DMCA notice only and the referenced tweet has been withheld.” It added: “Per our copyright policy, we respond to valid copyright complaints sent to us by a copyright owner or their authorised representatives.” Sources indicated that a copyright violation had arisen because Prasad’s tweet had carried a video with a background score linked to music director A.R. Rahman’s song Maa Tujhe Salaam, for which Sony Music holds the rights. In the tweet, Prasad had reportedly saluted the martyrs and heroes of the 1971 war with Pakistan. It could not be ascertained who had complained or why the complaint had been lodged three years and a half after the tweet was posted. The minister was livid after the latest run-in with Twitter and accused it of “gross violation of Rule 4(8) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 where they failed to provide me any prior notice before denying me access to my account”. “No matter what any platform does, they will have to abide by the IT Rules fully and there shall be no compromise on that,” Prasad said. The contentious intermediary rules have been a red rag for social media giants like Twitter and WhatsApp, which have accused the Modi government of trying to curb free speech in India. Prasad said in a series of posts on Koo, a rival social media platform created by local entrepreneurs, that Twitter’s latest action showed that his recent statements calling out the US micro-blogging platform for its high-handed and arbitrary actions had “clearly ruffled its feathers”. Tharoor said a tweet he had posted attaching a video that included pop group BoneyM’s famous song Rasputin had triggered similar action against him, which was later sorted out. The Congress MP said that Indians “creatively make videos” using short snippets of foreign music, and most people would deem that “fair use”. Tharoor said the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), which zealously defends Sony Music’s rights to Rasputin, was the complainant in his case. However, Tharoor said that as chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology, he would be “seeking an explanation” from Twitter India for blocking Prasad’s and his access to their accounts. Efforts would also be made to ascertain the rules that Twitter follows in India. Twitter’s latest transparency report says it received 174,000 DMCA takedown notices between January and June 2020, with a compliance rate of 57 per cent. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act was passed in the US in 1998 and blends provisions outlined in two treaties of the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO). The DMCA slaps penalties for copyright infringement on the Internet. N.S. Nappinai, Supreme Court advocate and founder of Cyber Saathi, said: “Twitter’s actions do not really further their case. That a law has extraterritorial jurisdiction by itself does not allow it to overrule local laws of the land. Extraterritorial jurisdiction is built into laws to allow for remedies to victims within the said territory. Hence for India, it’s the Indian Copyright Act that prevails. By their actions in effect Twitter is cocking a snook not at an individual or a Union minister but at Indian laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Covid: 'Compulsory' oxygen plants proposed by National Task Force||A task force constituted at the Supreme Court’s behest has recommended “compulsory” oxygen plants in every hospital in the country and efforts to turn every big city self-sufficient in oxygen by enhancing local manufacture and storage. The apex court had on May 5 directed the formation of the National Task Force (NTF) — with experts and bureaucrats — amid a severe oxygen shortage that was claiming hundreds of lives every day during the second wave of Covid. Its mandate was to audit the oxygen demand, manufacturing capacity and system of supply and recommend ways of avoiding future shortages even during crises. A report submitted by the task force on June 22, which was made public on Friday, has made several recommendations such as the establishment of a crisis “war room”. The matter is expected to be heard in the first week of July. The task force, headed by the cabinet secretary, has lavished praise on the Centre whose handling of the Covid emergency has evoked condemnation at home and abroad. Some of the recommendations in the task force’s 38-page report, submitted through Nipun Vinayak, joint secretary in the ministry of health and family welfare, are: ⚫ Make oxygen pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants — which separate oxygen from compressed air — compulsory at every hospital. All district hospitals should have PSA plants with compressors so they can manage their own demand and also fill cylinders for the health centres and ambulances. ⚫ Each hospital with 100 or more beds should be encouraged to have a liquid medical oxygen (LMO) storage tank. A cryogenic LMO storage tank should be insisted on at every hospital in a metropolitan area. ⚫ There should be a strategy to manufacture oxygen locally or in the neighbourhood for big cities to meet at least half their LMO demand. This may be taken up in Delhi and Mumbai on priority because of their population densities. ⚫ All 18 metros must be made self-sufficient in oxygen, with at least 100 tonnes’ storage within the city itself. ⚫ There should be a buffer of at least six oxygen cylinders at each rural health centre to offset supply delays and infection surges. ⚫ Facilities with oxygen concentrators must have a backup power plan, or enough oxygen cylinders for safe transport of patients elsewhere in case of a power cut. ⚫ Non-rebreather masks and non-invasive ventilation should be preferred over high-flow nasal oxygen, Bain circuits or indigenous CPAP machines to optimise oxygen use. ⚫ Once oxygen tankers are allocated to a state, the state should manage the filling and distribution of oxygen to urban and rural areas. ⚫ In a shifting pandemic, some of the states need to shed their allocations as new allocations are made to other states. It must be ensured that the states do not continue to request supplies greater than their need. ⚫ During a pandemic, the war room should monitor the movement of oxygen tankers and manage the oxygen demand, consumption and distribution in real time and in a transparent manner. The report lauded the Centre’s “hard work and efforts” in the management of the pandemic. “The members of the NTF appreciate that many of their recommendations were already under implementation and work on others has also already commenced,” it said. It added that the production of liquid oxygen in the country had been increased by about 3,000 tonnes in April, and that the average daily production jumped from 5,700 tonnes in August last year to 9,690 tonnes on May 13 this year. “The NTF recognised the enormity of the challenge and appreciated the steps taken by the Government of India,” the report said. It said that despite the enhanced daily production of LMO, there were challenges in allocations to the states because oxygen production was concentrated in a few states, mostly in eastern India. The report said that during the beginning of the second wave, there was simultaneous demand from the high-burden states that were mostly concentrated in western, northern and central India. Not all of them manufactured LMO. “This was followed by increased demand in southern states of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh without appreciable decrease in allocations of other major states,” the report said. It highlighted that the air force and railways had been enlisted in the transport of cryogenic oxygen tankers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Ayodhya: Sadhus ask PM to clarify dubious land deals||Ayodhya’s sadhus have demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi clarify the dubious land deals struck by the Ram temple trust when he addresses a virtual meeting on Saturday with trust members and district officials. “Several plots bought by individuals a few hours or weeks earlier were sold to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for much higher rates. In at least two instances, the beneficiaries were associated with the BJP,” said Mahant Dharam Das of Nirvani Akhara, who was a plaintiff in the Ayodhya title suit. “Modi is the Prime Minister and the BJP’s senior-most leader. He must explain why such a scam took place.” Deep Narayan, nephew of Ayodhya’s BJP mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay, bought 890sqm of nazul land (government land leased to someone) for Rs 20 lakh in February and sold it to the temple trust in May for Rs 2.5 crore. The local administration has accepted that any transaction of nazul land is illegal. Sultan Ansari, a property dealer in Ayodhya, bought a 12,080sqm plot in the Bag Bijaisi area on May 18 for Rs 2 crore and sold it to the trust for Rs 18.5 crore the same day. Ansari has said his business partner Ravi Mohan Tiwari is a relative of Upadhyay. These deals have led to allegations that those who swear by Ram are robbing the trust — assigned by the Supreme Court to build the Ram temple — of funds collected from the government and the public. “We are sure that Modi would, as usual, keep mum on this issue and discuss peripheral matters,” Dharam Das said. “However, the sadhus held a meeting in Ayodhya on Friday, demanding Modi speak on this subject and dissolve the trust. He is expected to form a new trust to oversee the temple construction and related issues.” The sadhus’ meeting was convened by Mahant Gyan Das of the Hanuman Garhi temple, located near the Ram temple site, at his ashram. “The 150 sadhus at the meeting were unanimous that the Prime Minister must clarify his stand on the land controversies and dissolve the trust,” Gyan Das told reporters. Mahant Dilip Das, head of the trust that runs the Raghuvansh Sankalp Seva Temple in Ayodhya, said “some people are doing scam after scam in his (Ram’s) name, but we will speak for Ram”. It’s not clear whether Modi’s virtual meeting would be aired over the Internet or whether there would only be an official media release. Ayodhya municipal commissioner Vishal Singh confirmed that Modi would address the virtual meeting on Saturday. R.P. Singh, secretary of the Ayodhya Development Authority, said the meeting would start at 11am. Champat Rai, general secretary of the temple trust, has denied any corruption and claimed the plots have been bought to rehabilitate people who will be displaced during the temple construction. He has not explained the price gaps. Rai, trust treasurer Govind Dev Giri and trustee Anil Mishra attended an RSS meeting in Mumbai on Thursday. Sources said the RSS believes the land deals should be explained or a defamation suit filed against those alleging corruption. The temple trust’s members include sadhus, RSS and VHP functionaries, and senior government officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Kerala HC grants anticipatory bail to Aisha Sultana||Kerala High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana in a sedition case for her reference to a “bioweapon”, observing that there was “not even a suggestion that the applicant did anything as such against the government of India”. Justice Ashok Menon pointed out that Aisha “did not have malicious motive to subvert the government” when she referred to a “bioweapon” while speaking on the proliferation of Covid cases in Lakshadweep and that “words cannot be taken in isolation to suggest a motive”. Participating in a TV debate, Aisha had said a “bioweapon” had been unleashed on the islanders, referring to the Covid outbreak in Lakshadweep after restrictions were eased by administrator Praful Khoda Patel. The complainant, Lakshadweep BJP president C. Abdul Khader Haji, has claimed that Aisha had referred to the central government while mentioning the “bioweapon”. Aisha had later clarified that she had meant Patel and his decision to lift the standard operating procedures (SOPs) that had helped Lakshadweep keep the coronavirus at bay for a year. The case had been filed at Kavaratti, the capital of Lakshadweep. Kavaratti police had booked Aisha under IPC Sections 124A (sedition) and 153B (assertions against national integration). The court pointed out on Friday that the applicant had no criminal antecedents and was not a flight risk. “Prima facie, the offences alleged by the prosecution are not attracted. The applicant has no criminal antecedents. She is not likely to flee from justice…. The prosecution has also not expressed any fear of her fleeing from justice or not cooperating with the investigation,” the court said. It pointed out that the “decisive ingredient for establishing the offence of sedition… is the doing of certain acts which would bring the government established by law in India into hatred or contempt, etc. In this case, there is not even a suggestion that the applicant did anything as such against the government of India.” The court said in its order: “The statement made by the applicant in the discussion will have to be taken in its entirety and words cannot be taken in isolation to suggest a motive. After having considered the submissions made on both sides, and also the transcript of the (TV) discussion, it would suffice to say that prima facie, the applicant did not have malicious motive to subvert the government by merely using the strong word ‘bioweapon’ to express her vehemence in disapproval of the subject under discussion.” “Her intention is explicitly in criticism of the modification of the SOP, introduced by the administrator, forgoing the mandatory provision of subjecting the persons entering the islands to quarantine,” the court added. Senior lawyer P. Vijayabhanu, who represented Aisha, had argued that his client had made the remark since the decision of administrator Patel in December to lift the protocols that included a mandatory quarantine period for everyone entering the islands had led to the outbreak of Covid in January after almost a year when Lakshadweep had zero cases. The court expressed doubt whether even Section 153A would be applicable in the case. “There is no apparent indication in her statement which amounts to imputations or assertions prejudicial to the national interest, nor does it propagate any class of persons against another group of persons. It is therefore doubtful whether the penal provisions of Section 153A would be attracted in this case.”The court noted that the plea was not for quashing the charges, nor was it going into the merits of the case. “This is an application for anticipatory bail and not a petition for quashing the proceedings under 482 CrPC. Neither is this court finally deciding the prosecution case on its merits.” The court said custodial interrogation was also not desirable due to the pandemic. “Custodial interrogation of the applicant and her incarceration in prison, particularly in these pandemic times, may not be required.” The anticipatory bail order came exactly a week after the high court granted interim anticipatory bail to Aisha before she headed to Kavaratti to appear before the police that questioned her for several hours over Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday. Aisha is expected to return to Kochi, where she works, on Saturday. Aisha’s prompt appearance before Kavaratti police for interrogation was also taken into consideration while allowing her plea. “Consequent to granting interim anticipatory bail, the applicant was directed to appear before the investigating officer for interrogation, and there is no report she has not complied with the direction of this court,” Kerala High Court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-33
26-06-2021||India||Covid: Third wave surge likely to remain lower than second wave||Coronavirus mutations, waning population immunity, or unrestricted person-to-person interactions could drive a third nationwide Covid-19 wave in India, but it is unlikely to be as severe as the second wave, health researchers have said. A study by researchers in India and the UK has suggested that the timing and pattern of a third wave would hinge on such factors, but the size of the surge is likely to remain substantially lower than the second wave in May 2021. The researchers at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Imperial College, London, have cautioned that their study is not intended to predict a third wave, but only illustrate possible scenarios under which a wave could occur. For instance, if there is no change in the characteristics of the virus but the population’s immunity wanes on an average in 12 months, the scenario-building exercise suggests that a third wave’s peak could occur around August 2022 — and the size of the surge will then be roughly midway between the 97,000 new infections per day on September 16 and around 400,000 infections on May 6. If the immunity wanes in four months, the surge could start in November 21. “What we set out to do is to look at scenarios — we don’t have information now to make a scientific prediction,” said Nimalan Arinaminpathy, a study team member and mathematical epidemiologist at the School of Public Health at Imperial College. Arinaminpathy and his ICMR collaborators Samiran Panda, Balram Bhargava and Sandeep Mandal also analysed how a surge might occur due to coronavirus variants that are either highly transmissible or can evade immune responses or from unrestricted public interactions under relaxed lockdown conditions. In one scenario, they simulated a highly transmissible variant that also makes 25 per cent of previously infected people susceptible again. These conditions could lead to a third wave that starts in November 2021 and peaks in February 2022. Health officials have asserted that a third wave is not inevitable. For a nationwide wave to occur, public health experts say, multiple states across the country would need to simultaneously experience large surges — a trend that could be suppressed through rapid local containment measures. “A third wave is not inevitable,” said Panda, chief of epidemiology at the ICMR. Any surge in infections would depend on opportunities the virus gets to spread, the proportion of susceptible people in a given population, and the proportion of people protected by vaccinations or by natural infections. Scientists say a prediction is currently impossible because how the virus might evolve in the coming months remains unknown. “We’re now in the same position we were in around December 2020 — no one could have predicted the size of the surge at the time,” Arinaminpathy said. Public health specialists have attributed India’s second wave to a combination of factors — lack of personal precautions by large sections of the public, potential super-spreader events such as the Kumbh Mela in Hardwar, election rallies, and the emergence of a highly transmissible Delta variant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||India||Congress counters Narendra Modi's Emergency diatribe||The Congress on Friday sought to show the mirror to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to counter his ritualistic diatribe on the Emergency declared on this day 46 years ago, reminding him of the many instances of repression and trampling of democratic principles under him. As Modi led other BJP leaders in recalling the Emergency, saying the dark days could never be forgotten, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala retorted on Twitter: “Says a Prime Minister who is synonymous with three S — Suppress, Stifle & Subjugate. A PM who has undermined Parliament, a PM who has disdain for the Constitution, a PM who has eroded Institutions, a PM who has trampled democracy shouldn’t preach, for India is under ‘Modi-gency’ for seven years.” The Congress was responding to Modi’s tweet in which he had said “the dark days of Emergency can never be forgotten. The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions. Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India’s democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution”. BJP leaders dutifully remember the Emergency every year on June 25, hail constitutional values and shed tears over the curbs on freedom of expression during those two years. The Congress, which has formally expressed remorse for imposing the Emergency and held internal debates on that bleak chapter of Indian democracy, now feels emboldened to lock horns with the BJP on the question of assault on democracy post-2014, citing Modi’s own track record on the constitutional values of freedom, equality and justice. The Opposition party has recalled BJP veteran L.K. Advani’s grim caution after Modi became Prime Minister that an Emergency could still be imposed despite amendments to the Constitution to strengthen the legal safeguards. Many Congress leaders on Friday pointed to the atmosphere of fear prevailing in the country and how institutional autonomy had been severely undermined over the past seven years. Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Indira Gandhi herself corrected the mistake and even Rahul Gandhi has admitted the Emergency was wrong. But what is this Modiji — the terror in people’s minds today, when FIRs are registered for speaking the truth, anybody questioning the government is branded anti-national? You have surpassed the British regime in repression of the people. This is your sole legacy.” Leaders of other parties who had fought the Congress during the Emergency also joined the debate. RJD Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha, whose leader Lalu Prasad had been jailed during the Emergency, tweeted: “If the Government 46 years ago had any idea about the wondrous work culture of the Government that came four decades later, they would not have invoked the constitutional provision of Emergency. Today’s rulers don’t even need the cover of the Constitution to create a republic of fear and terror. The snake is dead and the stick is also unused. This is the real emergency.” Jha also retweeted a comment by stand-up comedian and government critic Kunal Kamra who said: “Every year BJP talking about Indira Gandhi’s imposed emergency being an attack on Indian democracy sounds like a snake giving a Ted talk on how poisonous its own venom is…” Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut told journalists: “Emergency should be forgotten. It is over four decades now. We are over with it. That was a direct emergency. But now people are facing an indirect emergency.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, without getting sucked into the Emergency debate, posted a tweet to point at the diminishing democratic space in India: “In the Modi Government’s second term, India has slipped from 94 to 111 on the Human Freedom Index (we were at 75 under UPA), from 79 to 105 in the Global Economic Freedom Index & from 129 to 131 in UNDP’s Human Development Report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||India||Legacy media in Madras High Court against Centre's new digital code||The country’s legacy media has joined the chorus against the government’s new digital media ethics code, petitioning Madras High Court to strike it down as it “opens the door to suppressing freedom of speech and independence of news media in the country”. A bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Wednesday issued notice to the Union government, tagged the case along with the one filed by classical vocalist T.M. Krishna against the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, and allowed the petitioners to approach it if any coercive action is taken against them under the provisions of the new regime. The petition was filed by the Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA), a collective of traditional media houses in both print and electronic format with an online footprint. The DNPA seeks to distinguish itself from media entities that operate only in the digital format to make a case that the legacy media does not fall within the ambit of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and that bringing them under its realm will amount to over-regulation. According to the petition, legacy media houses involved in television and print media have been “wrongfully and arbitrarily classified” as part of digital media in the rules. Stating that the rules “impose arbitrary, unjustified, undue and unfair oversight into acts” of the media houses represented in the DNPA, the petitioners argued that it would confer “arbitrary and untrammelled” powers to the State in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. The ethics code — which is part of the rules — mandates a three-tier structure to deal with consumer complaints. While the first two tiers from the bottom are self-regulatory in nature, the third provides for an oversight mechanism through which the government can exercise control over the media. The petitioners contend that the question of whether a law has been contravened lies solely with the judiciary and not the executive. “Thus the executive has assumed powers which are not vested in the executive as per law,” the petition stated. About the emergency power vested in the information and broadcasting ministry secretary to pass interim orders blocking any content published by a publisher without providing an opportunity to explain, the petition said this was against the fundamental and inalienable principles of natural justice that is a part and parcel of Article 14 of the Constitution. Listing the 13 laws and codes already in place to regulate the content produced by legacy media, the petition pointed out that the mandatory requirement to comply with the IT Rules, 2021, “will lead to a situation of over-regulation and unnecessary complication of a sector that is already well-regulated and compliant”. The DNPA had in March urged the I&B minister to keep digital news platforms linked to print and electronic media houses out of the purview of the new code but it was turned down on the plea of creating a level-playing field. The solely digital entities were not too pleased with the DNPA for seeking exemption for themselves, seeing it as an attempt to throw the standalone websites — fledglings in comparison — under the bus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||India||Covid: DU faculty opposes proposed common entrance test||Delhi University (DU) teachers have joined students to oppose the proposed common entrance test for central varsities on the ground that centralised admission will deprive the poor and socially backward as they don’t have access to coaching for competitive exams. DU admits students to most of its undergraduate courses on the basis of Class XII results. The new National Education Policy has proposed a Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for all 45 central varsities. A committee set up by the University Grants Commission has given a report endorsing the CUCET. The UGC has recommended equal weightage to CUCET and board marks for selection to undergraduate courses in colleges. The education ministry is expected to soon take the final call. Officials have said the government was likely to allow conduct of CUCET in August-September. The central universities are waiting for the final decision to start their process. The Academics for Actions and Development (AAD), a DU faculty group, on Friday held a webinar on “CUCET and its perils”. Former Delhi University Teachers Association president Aditya Narayan Misra said a centralised entrance exam would undermine the autonomy of universities. The meeting highlighted concerns such as lack of information on question patterns and the syllabus for the planned test. There is no clarity on criteria of evaluation either. Science students might not be well-equipped for a general knowledge section while humanities and commerce students might need time to prepare for logical reasoning and quantitative ability, more so if there is negative marking, the teachers said. “There will be hardship for poor students and marginalised sections because they do not have access to coaching,” Misra said. The CUCET will also spawn coaching centres, he said. “Coaching centres will mushroom with time and poor students will lose the chance to get admission to DU. Only the best-coached students will get admission, depriving talented students coming from socially and economically weaker backgrounds. Higher education in India has to be inclusive and social justice-based,” Misra said. Other faculty members also expressed their concerns. Former DU Executive Council member Abha Dev Habib said any change in admission policy should be discussed with all stakeholders and the decision taken well in advance. “This last-minute change will increase the hardships of students and undo the relief that the scrapping of board exams have brought. DU has been admitting students through a merit-based policy. Shifting to a common entrance test at the last moment is unfair to students,” she said.Former DU Academic Council member and ex-DUTA executive member Prof. Vijaya Venkatraman said the CUCET might affect admissions in some central universities. “The CUCET will lead to over-centralisation of admission. The admission policies of universities are based on their specific conditions and currently each of the universities has its own policy based on faculty strength and local issues,” she said. “Over-centralisation will lead to vacant seats in many universities as students may want to take admission in institutions in their own region. However, those wanting to go to other states to study have the option even now without the centralised admission test. Centralised entrance will increase demand for admission in specific universities that may be outside their regions and lead to increase in vacant seats,” Venkatraman said. One test based on multiple-choice questions, the preferred format for entrance exams, cannot be considered superior to the holistic evaluation done by the CBSE and other school boards, she said. Last week, students had written to DU vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi against switching from Class XII marks-based selection criteria to entrance exam-based admission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||India||Covid: UN bid to curb rumours and misinformation in Bihar||The United Nations, in collaboration with civil society organisations, has initiated a movement called “Verified” in Bihar aimed at ending the Covid-19 pandemic by empowering people with science-based information and helping them counter misinformation and rumours to build a momentum for a globally coordinated response. The initiative will also target vaccine hesitancy in the state. Vaccination in Bihar has lagged so far, especially in the rural areas, owing to rumours about the jabs causing infertility, blindness, death, black fungus, disfigured babies, and being unsafe for menstruating women. There are also rumours that certain people and castes do not need to take vaccines and eating various herbs and plant-based concoctions will make people immune to the coronavirus. The UN initiative has asserted that the vaccination campaign needs to engage with women and empower them to seek the right information, health services and make a decision with regard to vaccines. Apart from Bihar, the initiative has also been rolled out in Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Various e-commerce, fact-checking, media and communication platforms have been roped in for the purpose. Collaborations have been made with organisations such as the Bihar Youth for Child Rights, Teachers of Bihar, Chanakya National Law University, National Alliance Group for Denotified and Notified Tribes to engage 400 youths, 10,000 teachers, doctors and experts from different fields. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has termed the widespread misinformation during the pandemic as an infodemic and has insisted on measures to address the situation. “People think of the menstrual or lactation period of women as a time when Covid-19 vaccines should not be taken. These are two entirely different dimensions with no connection. They need to understand clearly that the vaccine is concerned with the stimulation of the immune system to produce antibodies. Vaccination during menstruation or lactation is safe,” said Setu Sinha, a doctor and assistant professor (community medicine) at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna. The initiative also aims to address the significant digital divide between men and women in Bihar. The latest figures from the National Family Health Survey revealed that four out of five women or 80 per cent of the total female population in the state have never used the Internet. This puts them at a disadvantage with regard to accessing healthcare and vaccination information and services. “There is much confusion and mistrust about Covid-19 vaccines in the rural areas. The lack of proper information needs to be urgently addressed across the state,” said Namrata Mishra, a member of Teachers of Bihar. There had been several instances in which vaccine volunteers were not allowed to talk and convince women in different parts of Bihar. “Its not a woman’s decision to take the vaccine. Their family decides for them. Families often do not allow the volunteers to talk to women to give the correct information about vaccination,” said Juhi Kalam, a research fellow at the National Alliance Group — Denotified and Nomadic Tribes, and a Covid-19 vaccine volunteer at Forbesganj in Araria district. The UN Verified initiative will also provide access to healthcare professionals through sessions and tele-consultation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
26-06-2021||India||Kerala Women’s Commission chief forced to resign||The chairperson of the Kerala Women’s Commission, M.C. Josephine, resigned on Friday after her insensitivity towards a victim of domestic abuse seeking succour on a television programme created an uproar and landed her party, the ruling CPM, in a spot. The decision to step down came at a CPM state secretariat meeting in Thiruvananthapuram where Josephine, a central committee member of the party, was asked to explain her comments. A huge majority of the secretariat members urged her to quit. Josephine’s remarks that sparked a massive outcry came on Wednesday while she was participating in a programme called “Enthinu Sahikkanam (Why Suffer?)” organised by a Malayalam TV channel. The live phone-in programme was held in light of the spate of suicides in Kerala by newly married women over dowry harassment and domestic violence. When a woman called and narrated her ordeal at the hands of her abusive husband and mother-in-law, Josephine appeared irritated and asked her if she had lodged a police complaint. When the woman replied in the negative, Josephine said: “Then you continue to suffer.” Such a comment, that too at a time when suspected dowry deaths were being reported in the state, immediately triggered a furore against the CPM and its allies. With the Opposition leveraging on Josephine’s remarks, the party was left with no option but to force her to quit, a CPM source said. With protests mounting against her even within the CPM, Josephine, who was appointed to the women’s commission in 2017 and had nine months of service left, had on Thursday apologised after trying to justify what she had said. “It is true I spoke to that woman with the kind of freedom mothers take. It was the outrage on being told she had not lodged a police complaint that made me say so, which I later realised I shouldn’t have. I apologise if my words had hurt anyone,” Josephine had said. But her apology didn’t cut ice, with even her party colleagues objecting to her remarks. Only DYFI state secretary A.A. Rahim defended her, saying she didn’t need to resign since she had apologised. Rahim, too, faced criticism since the DFYI has been running a campaign against dowry. CPM central committee member P.K. Sreemathy told reporters after the party secretariat meeting that anyone who approaches people’s representatives and officials must be treated with love and care. “We have been taught to handle people, especially those having some complaint, with love and care. There will be protests if one departs from that principle, and naturally the party discussed it,” Sreemathy said. “There are thousands of sisters with no door to knock on (to air their grievances and complaints). So they always prefer to approach the women’s commission. Ideally they should get some relief when they talk to the chairperson,” she added. The leader of the Opposition, V.D. Satheesan of the Congress, said Josephine’s remarks “would affect the basic character of the organisation she was heading”. He slammed the DYFI’s Rahim for trying to justify her comments. “Youth organisations are supposed to support women. But the DYFI (secretary) justified her remarks. The CPM forced her out after realising such a position (of the DYFI) would not work in Kerala,” Satheesan said. Left-leaning intellectuals and artistes had also come out against Josephine. Mahila Congress workers protested outside the CPM office when she arrived to attend the meeting. In 2018, Josephine had courted controversy when she had said the CPM was “court and police”. She had said the commission would not be able to register a suo motu case against a CPM legislator accused of harassment by a DYFI member as the complaint had been forwarded to the party. The commission under Josephine had been accused of going soft on complaints against CPM members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-34
