27-06-2021||India||Police arrest terror suspect in Jammu, seizes 5.5-kg IED from him||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday arrested an alleged terrorist belonging to the Resistance Resistance, a frontal group of Lashkar-e-Taiba and seized a 5.5-kg-IED from his possession. Jammu's Senior Superintendent of Police Chandan Kohli identified the arrested accused as Nadeem-ul-Haq, a resident of Zainhal-Banihal in Ramban and said with his arrest, a major tragedy has been averted. Haq was in contact with his handlers in Pakistan and south Kashmir Shopian, the SSP said. The SSP said Haq was given the task to trigger the blast by the Resistance Force, a frontal group of Lashkar-e-Taiba, by planting the IED at some crowded place. Haq was nabbed by a police team during a routine checking by it at Barmini road where he was spotted carrying a yellow bag and heading towards Bathindi, the SSP said. On seeing the police party, he tried to run away, raising suspicion and was swiftly chased and intercepted, he said. The search of his bag led to the recovery of the IED and he was arrested and booked under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Explosive Substances Act, Kohli said. Terming the arrest as a major success , the SSP said the investigation is still at a nascent stage and more arrests are likely as the probe progresses. He said the success was achieved due to the heightened security and alertness and manual surveillance by police teams through strong checkpoints and intensified foot patrolling at several places for the past several days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
27-06-2021||India||Parliamentary Panel summons Facebook and Google officers on Tuesday ||Officials of Facebook and Google have been summoned by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology Tuesday to discuss the issue of safeguarding citizens' rights and preventing the misuse of online platforms, reports NDTV.com. An official agenda was circulated among the members of the panel, which is headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor. It said, "To hear the views of representatives of Facebook India and Google India on the subject 'Safeguarding citizens' rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space." Earlier, representatives of Facebook had informed the Parliamentary committee that their company's policies do not allow officials to appear in person due to the Covid-19 protocols. But the panel's chairman Tharoor told Facebook that its officials will have to appear in person since the Parliament Secretariat does not allow virtual meetings. The committee in the coming days would also summon representatives from YouTube and other social media platforms to hold discussions on the same issues. Earlier this month, representatives from microblogging site Twitter appeared before the panel. The meeting took place against the backdrop of the US-based social media giant's run-ins with the government on a series of issues. Twitter had tagged tweets by BJP leaders on an alleged "Congress toolkit" as "manipulated media". The government had asked Twitter to remove the label and Delhi Police had travelled to Bengaluru to question Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari. Also, government sources said Twitter "has lost its legal shield" as it failed to comply with the new IT rules that require it to appoint key officers in India. When Twitter officials appeared before the panel on June 18, they faced tough questions and were told bluntly that "Indian laws are supreme and the company has to abide by the laws of India in India", according to sources. A Twitter spokesperson later said that the company was prepared to work with the committee on "safeguarding citizens' rights online in line with our principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy". "We will also continue working alongside the Indian government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation," the spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
27-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections 2022: AIMIM to contest 100 seats ||After showing 'good performance' in the Bihar Assembly elections, the AIMIM party on Sunday announced that it would contest 100 seats in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in 2022.

All India Majils-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi said they will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and Bhaagidaari Sankalp Morcha, a front of smaller parties.

The Hyderabad MP, by tweeting in Hindi, announced that his party will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. He usually sends out his message on the social media platform in English.
"Regarding Uttar Pradesh elections we have decided to field our candidates in 100 seats. The party has started the process of selecting the candidates and has also released the candidate/aspirants application forms," Owaisi tweeted.
In another tweet, the AIMIM chief said"We are with OP Rajbhar Sahab 'Bhaagidaari Sankalp Morcha'. We did not have any talks with any other party regarding elections or tie-up". Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are slated for early next year.
In last year's Bihar assembly elections, the AIMIM won five seats (it contested 20) in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region on the border of West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
27-06-2021||India||Tejashwi Yadav reaches out to Chirag Paswan||Amid signs of chill in LJP leader Chirag Paswan’s ties with the BJP-led NDA, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday reached out to him for aligning with the Opposition, saying he can carry forward his father Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy only by joining the “existential fight” against RSS ideologue M S Golwalkar's thoughts. In an interview with PTI, Yadav also said his party has decided to celebrate “Dalit messiah” Ram Vilas Paswan's birth anniversary to honour his contribution to the state. With Chirag having already gone public with his disappointment with the BJP's silence over his bitter feud with his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras for control of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), Tejashwi Yadav alleged the BJP has "disposed of" and "abandoned" most of its old allies after coming to power and gaining maximum from them. Yadav said his party has always stood by Ram Vilas Paswan and recounted that when the LJP did not even have a single MLA and Paswan lost the election in 2009, it was Lalu Prasad Yadav who sent him to Rajya Sabha from the Rashtriya Janata Dal quota. Has anybody done or sacrificed so much for any other leader or party in the country, he asked. "Our party has decided to celebrate Dalit messiah, Ram Vilas Ji's birth anniversary to commemorate his contribution to the state, I think this itself is self-explanatory," Yadav said. Significantly, Chirag has also announced an “aashirvaad yatra” from July 5, the birth anniversary of his father and party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, from Hajipur in Bihar. Asked about his call last week urging Chirag to quit the NDA, Yadav said the country is at a juncture where pro-Constitution, pro-democracy, pro-farmers and pro-people forces are on one side and those antithetical to this ideology are on the other side. "Late Ram Vilas Paswan Ji was a socialist and a firm believer in the idea of social justice throughout his life. He fought caste supremacy, poverty and inequality during his political journey," the 31-year-old leader said. Ram Vilas Paswan passed away on October 8 last year. "The real tribute to him would be carrying forward his values and legacy and that is possible only when Chirag ji joins this existential fight against Golwalkar's 'bunch of thoughts'," the former Bihar deputy chief minister said, in a play on the title of one of RSS ideologue Golwalkar's books. On Chirag's remarks in an apparent reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that it was not right for 'Ram' to remain silent when 'Hanuman' is being killed, Yadav alleged that the BJP "lures" parties and leaders by promising them "the moon but the moment their system' realises they are no longer of utility, they are dumped in a similar manner as a fly is thrown out of milk". Asked about the political tussle between the LJP factions of Chirag and his paternal uncle Paras, the RJD leader threw his weight behind Chirag and took a dig at Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, saying those who have engineered this split were vengeful against Chirag Paswan as he fought against them in last assembly elections. "Late Ram Vilas Ji made Chirag Ji his heir apparent by appointing him as the party's national president and the parliamentary leader in Lok Sabha and it is up to him now as to how he carries forward his father's legacy," Yadav said. Those who are questioning him now, why they didn't do so when he was made national president of LJP, he said in an apparent reference to Paras. On Chirag holding the JD(U) responsible for the turmoil in the LJP, the Leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly said Chirag has made it quite clear through his letters that this was staged and the "perpetrators are known to everyone now". "Those who worked to split the party (LJP) way back in 2005 and 2010 have in a sinister manner planned this as well. Nitish ji has a track record of living on borrowed mandate and has always played his game with support of borrowed players," Yadav said in a scathing attack on the chief minister. Nitish Kumar has "spared none and betrayed everyone", he alleged. "Nitish ji conveniently follows the policy of grabbing power by hook or crook by mortgaging principles and ideology," Yadav said. Last week also, Yadav had reached out to Chirag, saying the LJP leader must reconsider his continuance in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). A tussle has been on within the LJP after Chirag's uncle Paras was elected as the party's leader in Lok Sabha by the five of party's six MPs in place of Chirag. Both the factions have now moved to control the party and project their group as the real LJP, founded by Chirag's father Ram Vilas Paswan. While the wing led by Chirag Paswan has expelled the five MPs from the party, the rival group has removed him as its president. A meeting of the LJP national executive last Sunday endorsed Chirag's leadership and hit out at the faction headed by his paternal uncle for working against the party's constitution. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
27-06-2021||India||Ashok Gehlot urges PM to ensure adequate supply of vaccines to Rajasthan||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Sunday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal intervention to ensure adequate supply of coronavirus vaccines to the state to prevent a possible third wave. In a letter to the prime minister, he said the state has created a capacity to vaccinate over 15 lakh people a day, but the pace of inoculation drive is limited to the extent of supplies received from the Centre. “The daily average of vaccine doses received since the start of vaccination drive for 18 years plus has been 3 to 4 lakh only,” Gehlot said. He said that following Covid-appropriate behavior and vaccination are the only ways to effectively counter the threat of coronavirus. “For ensuring 100 per cent vaccination to prevent the Covid third wave and to ensure that people are able to resume their livelihood related activities, I urge you to intervene personally and direct the concerned to ensure adequate supply of vaccines for the state,” Gehlot said in his letter. The chief minister said the current Covid situation in the state is relatively better with cases coming down sharply, but also mentioned the second wave had a far greater impact in the state. He said the state has done exemplary Covid management during both first and second wave, and added that it is equally or even more important to take steps to prevent the occurrence of a third wave. He also said Rajasthan is among the best performer in the vaccination drive. Over 2.36 crore people have already been vaccinated in the state and it has achieved negative (less than 0 %) vaccine wastage, he added. More than 70 lakh people would be due for their second dose by the end of July, he said, requesting supply of more doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Maha: ‘Level 3’ restrictions in Pune municipal areas from Monday||All malls and auditoriums will remain closed beginning June 28 in Pune in Maharashtra with the municipal corporation imposing fresh restrictions under the level-3 category. As per the order issued by the Pune civic body on Saturday, shops selling essential items will remain open till 4 pm on all days while shops under the non-essential category will operate from Monday to Friday till 4 pm. Restaurants, bars, and food courts will operate from Monday to Friday till 4 pm with a 50 per cent seating capacity. Home delivery of the food is allowed till 11 pm. Gyms, salons, beauty parlours will also operate with a 50 per cent seating capacity from Monday to Friday till 4 pm, the order said. All the public places such as gardens, playgrounds will remain open for people from 5 am to 9 am. Social, religious and entertainment programs are allowed to be held from Monday to Friday till 4 pm in the presence of 50 people. "The duration of such a programme cannot be extended beyond three hours where Covid-19 appropriate behaviour must be followed," it said. Bracing itself against the anticipated third wave of the pandemic, the Maharashtra government recently tightened the unlocking process in the state and announced that restrictions will not be relaxed beyond 'level 3'. The government has effectively done away with level 1 and level 2 which allowed maximum relaxations under the initial five-level unlocking plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Rahul asks Modi to make Covid-19 jab available to every Indian citizen||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should end the "shortage" of COVID-19 vaccines, which should be available to every citizen, and not make excuses to distract from this important issue. He said this after the prime minister in his “Mann Ki Baat” monthly radio address talked about ending vaccine hesitancy. “The only thing to do is to end the shortage of vaccines. The rest are all excuses for diverting attention,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag ‘Mann ki Baat’. “Just make the vaccine available to all fellow citizens. Then you can also say your ‘mann ki baat’,” he said in another tweet with hashtag ‘VaccinateIndia’. Hitting back at the Congress leader, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan accused him of spreading "misconceptions, confusion and lies" about Covid-19 vaccines due to which many people were "putting their lives in danger" by refusing to take the doses. "Shame on you Rahul Baba, it is prime minister Narendra Modi who is getting people vaccinated and not you. "The prime minister is providing free vaccines to all the citizens of the country, and you are only spreading confusion. "Due to your lies, many people refused to get vaccines," Chouhan said on Twitter. Urging people to shed their reservations about vaccines against coronavirus, Modi spoke to residents of Dulariya village in MP's Betul district, and the chat was aired on 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast on Sunday. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji today spoke to the villagers in Dulariya village of Betul district who were not getting vaccinated due to confusion. Explained it to them in simple words and the villagers started taking the vaccine," Chouhan said. While the PM had removed the clouds of confusion about vaccination, the chief minister said Gandhi was "putting people's lives in danger by lying and spreading misconceptions". Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh accused the prime minister of doing politics over Covid-19 vaccination. "So much politics in vaccine supply to states to make non-BJP ruled states look bad. Typical of this PM. Says one thing and does exactly the opposite," he said on Twitter. He tagged a tweet of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot that claimed that Rajasthan has been leading among the states in vaccination. "So far over 2.36 crore people have been vaccinated in the state. The state has developed the capacity to vaccinate up to 15 lakh people per day, but on an average, we are getting 3 to 4 lakh vaccine doses per day," Gehlot said on Twitter. "I request the prime minister that an adequate number of vaccines should be provided to Rajasthan for all those, whose second dose has been due so that we can prevent the possible third wave of Corona," he also said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Twitter India’s interim grievance officer quits||Twitter's interim resident grievance officer for India has stepped down, leaving the micro-blogging site without a grievance official as mandated by the new IT rules to address complaints from Indian subscribers, according to a source. The source said that Dharmendra Chatur, who was recently appointed as interim resident grievance officer for India by Twitter, has quit from the post. The social media company's website no longer displays his name, as required under Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021. Twitter declined to comment on the development. The development comes at a time when the micro-blogging platform has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules. The new rules which came into effect from May 25 mandate social media companies to establish a grievance redressal mechanism for resolving complaints from the users or victims. All significant social media companies, with over 50 lakh user base shall appoint a grievance officer to deal with such complaints and share the name and contact details of such officers. The big social media companies are mandated to appoint a chief compliance officer, a Nodal Contact Person and a resident grievance officer. All of them should be resident in India. Twitter in response to the final notice issued by the government on June 5 had said that it intends to comply with the new IT rules and will share details of the chief compliance officer. In the meantime, the microblogging platform had appointed Chatur as interim resident grievance officer for India. Twitter now displays the company's name in the place of grievance officer for India with a US address and an email ID. According to a government official, the company has lost legal protection as an intermediary and will be legally held responsible for all content posted by its users on the platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Welfare system needs to redesigned to meet challenge posed by pandemics: Abhijit Banerjee||The Covid pandemic has paved the way for learning many lessons with regard to the country's health situation and preparedness in general as well as highlighted the need to redesign welfare systems, Noble laureate and renowned economist Abhijit Banerjee said on Sunday. While addressing a webinar organised by the city-based National Institute for Implementation Research on Non-Communicable Diseases, Banerjee focused on the economic aspect of the country's health situation, welfare and healthcare systems. On the economic aspect of the health situation, he said that India has a large population afflicted with lifestyle diseases, which are non-communicable diseases (NCDs). “Many young people died in the second and first wave of the pandemic, but their conditions were not detected. Causalities among the young has caught us without any clue,” the economist said, terming awareness about NCDs a key challenge. Banerjee also said that the welfare system of the country has not been designed for a pandemic and stressed on the need for redesigning the welfare mechanism to deal with such situations in the future. The webinar was organised by the institute on its foundation day and Banerjee was chief gusted for the virtual event. Speaking on different aspects of the healthcare system of the country, the noble laureate highlighted multiple consequences of medical practitioners without any qualification (quacks) and indiscriminate and spontaneous use of steroids and their availability. Citing a study, he said, In West Bengal, underweight women frequently take steroids to put on weight for marriage and these steroids are easily available at a local grocer. Terming the practice by quacks in rural areas a fully open phenomena, Banerjee said that there was no enforcement to address this issue and this has triggered a general culture of abusive medicine. Our healthcare system is being handled by those who are left out of the healthcare system, he said. The noble laureate also highlighted the issue of over-prescribing of medicines for very normal ailments. While talking about the public healthcare system, he claimed that sub-centres are empty and nurses are mostly not available, which pushes people to visit quacks. While an average time given by an MBBS doctor to a patient is about two minutes, quacks give adequate time to them hearing their problems, he claimed and argued that this was a likely condition forcing patients go to quacks. Taking a dig at the consumerist culture towards medicine, Banerjee stressed on the need of development of a preventive culture instead of a curative culture. We are exposed to demand of medicines. We go to the doctor and tell him 'Kuchh to de do (give us something)', when he is disinclined to prescribe medicines, he said. There is a need to build a mechanism for prevention and get people aware about it, Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Jammu blast: FIR launched under UAPA, NIA may take over case||An FIR was registered Sunday under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport, officials said, while indicating that the case is likely to be taken over by the terror probe agency NIA. The drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday, perhaps the first time that suspected Pakistan-based terrorists have used unmanned aerial vehicles in an attack, officials said. "The NIA is all likely to take over the case. They are already supervising the investigation at the scene of the blast after joining the probe," one of the officials said. An FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Explosive Substances Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Satwari police station on the application of a junior warrant officer of the IAF, the official said. Two Indian Air Force personnel were injured in the explosions that took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the high security technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one was on the ground, the officials said. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh has termed the incident a "terror attack".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Puducherry cabinet gets five ministers from NDA after month-long suspense||Ending the more than a month-long suspense over cabinet formation, five ministers, including two from the BJP, were inducted in the Chief Minister N Rangasamy-led NDA cabinet on Sunday. A Namassivayam, K Lakshminarayanan, C Djeacoumar, Chandira Priyanga and A K Sai J Saravana Kumar were sworn in as Ministers by Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan in front of the Raj Nivas. All the Ministers took oath in the name of God. Chief Minister Rangasamy, among others, was present on the occasion. The portfolios of the ministers were not revealed. Lakshminarayanan, Djeacoumar and Priyanga represent lead partner AINRC, while Namassivayam and Saravana Kumar are from its ally BJP. This is the first time the saffron party is part of a Ministry in the Union Territory. The exercise also saw a woman member become a minister after a 41 year gap, with Chandira Priyanga being sworn in. Late Congress leader Renuka Appadurai was the last woman minister from the UT during 1980-83 and handled the Education portfolio in the M D R Ramachandran (DMK)-led coalition ministry. Ending more than a month's suspense over cabinet formation, Chief Minister N Rangasamy on June 23 submitted the list of members to be included in his ministry, to Soundararajan, which was subsequently approved by the President. Though the AINRC-led NDA had swept the April 6 Assembly polls in this union territory, cabinet formation dragged on for long as the saffron party initially insisted for a deputy CM post, but later settled for the post of the Assembly Speaker. Soon after leading his alliance to a win, AINRC founder Rangasamy was sworn-in as Chief Minister on May 7 but no other cabinet member was sworn-in. Later, BJP's 'Embalam' R Selvam was elected unopposed as Speaker of the Puducherry Assembly on June 16. The swearing-in ceremony was held at 2.30 PM in front of Raj Nivas, the office cum residence of the Lt Governor. AINRC emerged victorious from 10 segments out of 16 seats it contested in the hustings and heads the NDA in Puducherry. The BJP annexed six of the nine seats it contested. The NDA enjoys the support of three nominated members belonging to the BJP. The House has a total of 33 MLAs, including the three nominated ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Vaccine availability for children to pave the way for school reopening, says AIIMS chief||Making Covid-19 vaccine available for children will be a milestone achievement and pave the way for reopening of schools and resumption of outdoor activities for them, AIIMS Chief Dr Randeep Guleria has said. He said the data of phase two and three trials of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on two to 18 years age group is expected by September. The vaccine can be available for children in India around that time following approval from the drug regulator, he said. "If the Pfizer vaccine gets approval before that, then it can also be an option for children," Dr Guleria told PTI on Saturday. According to a senior government official, pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila is also likely to soon apply to the Drugs Controller General of India for emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D, which it claims can be given to both adults and children. "So, if the Zydus vaccine gets approval, it will be another option," Dr Guleria said. He stressed that though children mostly have mild infections of Covid-19 and some even are asymptomatic, they can be carriers of the infection. Underscoring that there has been a major loss in studies in the last one-and-half years on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the AIIMS chief said, "Schools have to be reopened and vaccination can play an important role in that." Vaccination is the way out from the pandemic, he said. The government has recently cautioned that even though Covid-19 has not impacted children greatly till now, that can increase if there is a change in the behaviour of the virus or in epidemiology dynamics. It said that preparations are being made to deal with any such situation. A national expert group has been formed to review Covid-19 infections among children and approach the pandemic in a new way and reinforce the nation's preparedness for it. On the issue of vaccinating children, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul recently said, "Child cohort is not a small one. My rough guess is that if it is between 12 to 18 years, this itself is about 13 to 14 crore population for which we will need about 25-26 crore doses." He further shared that not only Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Zydus Cadila's vaccine is also being tested on children. "So when Zydus comes for licensure soon, maybe we have enough data to take a view on whether the vaccine can be given in children," Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Twin blast at Jammu Air Force station a terror attack by drone: J&K top cop||Two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday, perhaps the first time that suspected Pakistan-based terrorists have used unmanned aerial vehicles in an attack, officials said. An FIR was also registered Sunday under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport, officials said, while indicating that the case is likely to be taken over by the terror probe agency NIA. Two Indian Air Force personnel were injured in the explosions that took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the high security technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one was on the ground, the officials said. The attack at the IAF station in Jammu is a terror attack, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh told PTI. He said the police and other agencies were working together with IAF officials to unravel the plan behind the attack. A team from anti-terror probe agency National Investigation Agency (NIA) was also at the spot. It was not immediately clear from where the drones had taken off and investigations were on to ascertain their flight path, officials said. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is 14 km. While officials were investigating the drone attack, another major strike was averted when a person, probably owing allegiance to the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba, was arrested along with an improvised explosive device weighing around six kg, the director-general of police said. "Drones with payload were used in both the blasts at Jammu airfield. Another crude bomb was found by the Jammu police. This IED (Improvised Explosive Device) was received by LeT outfit operative and was to be planted at some crowded place," he said. The person was tasked with triggering the IED in a crowded place. "The suspect has been detained and is being interrogated. More suspects are likely to be picked up in this foiled IED blast attempt," Singh said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's office said he spoke to Vice Air Chief, Air Marshal H S Arora, over the airport incident. In a Twitter post, the IAF said two "low-intensity explosions" were reported early Sunday morning in the technical area of Jammu air force station. "One caused minor damage to the roof of a building while the other exploded in an open area There was no damage to any equipment. Investigation is in progress along with civil agencies," it said. Earlier in the morning, a defence spokesperson said, "There were reports of an explosion inside Air Force Station Jammu. There is no injury to any personnel or any damage to any equipment. Investigation is on and further details are awaited". Jammu airport is a civil airport with the runway and the ATC (air traffic control) under the IAF. Jammu Airport director Pravat Ranjan Beuria told PTI that there was no disruption in flight operations due to the explosions. "Flights to and from Jammu airport are operating as per schedule," The National Investigation Agency is likely to take over the case after an FIR was lodged regarding the blasts on Sunday, officials indicated. "The NIA is all likely to take over the case. They are already supervising the investigation at the scene of the blast after joining the probe," one of the officials said. An FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Explosive Substances Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Satwari police station on the application of a junior warrant officer of the IAF, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Rajnath Singh visits Ladakh amid India-China standoff, thanks Army personnel||The dedication of Indian soldiers and veterans towards the country is an "exemplary example", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday soon after arriving in Ladakh on a three-day visit aimed at taking stock of India's military preparedness in the region in the face of a prolonged border row with China. In Leh, Singh interacted with senior elected representatives of Kargil, Leh and Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council with a focus on the overall development of the regions, officials said. The defence minister, accompanied by Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, also met a number of armed forces veterans and discussed issues relating to their welfare as well as national security. "The dedication of our soldiers and veterans towards the country is an exemplary example. I express my gratitude from the bottom of my heart to all," Singh said on the occasion. "Our aim is that all of you should be taken care of in the same way you had taken care of the country's security. Despite this, if you have any problems somewhere, then a helpline has been arranged for to address them," his office quoted him as saying. Official sources said the defence minister will carry out a comprehensive review of India's operational readiness in eastern Ladakh amid a stalemate in the next stage of disengagement with China at several friction points. His visit to the sensitive region comes two days after India and China held a fresh round of diplomatic talks to resolve the prolonged military standoff that began in early May last year. The defence minister is scheduled to visit various key formations and high-altitude bases in the region to assess the ground realities as well as to boost the morale of the troops guarding the Line of Actual Control in a hostile environment. It is Singh's first visit to eastern Ladakh after the Indian and Chinese militaries pulled back troops, tanks, infantry and other equipment from the Pangong lake areas in February as part of an agreement. The disengagement process in the remaining friction points including Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang is deadlocked as China is reluctant to withdraw its troops from these areas. At a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on Friday, India and China agreed to hold the next round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points. Singh's visit to the sensitive region comes amid fresh sparring between India and China over the standoff. India on Thursday blamed China for the standoff saying its amassing of a large number of troops close to the border and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC last year were responsible for seriously disturbing peace and tranquillity in the region. India's response came after China said its military deployment in the region is a normal defence arrangement aimed at "preventing and responding" to "encroachment and threat" on Chinese territory by India. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. According to military officials, each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control in the sensitive sector. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks. Last month, Gen Naravane said that there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. The Army Chief also said that India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
27-06-2021||India||Delta plus variant has greater affinity for lungs compared to others:  NTAGI chief||The Delta plus variant of Covid-19 has a greater affinity to lung tissues as compared to other strains but it does not mean that it will cause severe disease or is more transmissible, head of coronavirus working group NTAGI Dr N K Arora said. A new viral variant of the coronavirus, Delta Plus, was identified on June 11. It was recently classified as a variant of concern. Till now, 51 cases of Delta Plus have been detected across 12 states, with Maharashtra reporting the maximum cases of this variant. Talking about Delta plus, chairman of Covid-19 Working Group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) said it has been found that the variant has a greater affinity to lung tissues as compared to other strains of coronavirus but clarified that it does not mean the Delta Plus variant will cause more severe disease or is more transmissible. "Delta plus is having a greater affinity to the mucosal lining in the lungs, higher compared to other variants, but if it causes damage or not is not clear yet. It also does not mean that this variant will cause more severe disease or it is more transmissible," Arora told PTI in an interview. He said the impact of the Delta plus strain will become clear only as more cases are identified but it appears that the disease is generally mild in all those who have got either single or double dose of the vaccine. "We need to keep a very close watch and look at its spread so that it will give us transmission efficiency," he said. Arora said the number of cases identified of Delta plus variant may be more as there may be many asymptomatic individuals also -- those who do not have any Covid-19 symptoms but are carrying the virus and spreading it. "But the important point is that our genomic surveillance component has picked it up rightly and early enough. Now what will happen is that states have already been told that it is a variant of concern and it requires action which means that several states have already started making micro plans for the districts where the virus is identified so that their spread can be contained. Obviously vaccination will have to be increased in these districts," he said. Responding to a question if the Delta plus variant can trigger the third wave of coronavirus, Arora said it is difficult to assess that as of now. "Waves are linked to new variants or new mutations so there is a possibility as this is a new variant, but whether it will lead to a third wave it is difficult to answer as it will depend upon two or three things," he said. "The first thing is we had a ferocious second wave in the last three months and it is still going on, we are seeing for the last 8-10 days the number of cases are stuck at 50,000, while at some places cases continue to come so that wave has not settled down," he said. He said the second wave will influence the community's response to another variant and the third wave will depend upon what proportion of the population got infected in the second wave. "If a large proportion is infected then in the next wave people can develop a common cold-like illness but may not develop a serious or fatal illness," he said. "Secondly, another thing that is important is vaccination -- the rapidity with which we vaccinate...even single dose is effective and the way we are planning, if we rapidly immunise then the possibility of a third wave becomes very less because vaccine plus infection plus Covid appropriate behaviour will save us from next wave, mitigate the next wave and the third wave will not be able to cause the damage as was caused in the first two waves," he added. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Modi asks Indians to shed vaccine hesitancy, get inoculated soon||Cautioning people that the threat of Covid-19 remains, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged them to shed vaccine hesitancy and get themselves inoculated soon. In his monthly Mann ki Baat broadcast, Modi hailed the feat of most vaccination doses administered in a single day on June 21 at the start of the new phase of inoculation under which all adults are being given free jabs. Seeking to make people shed vaccine hesitancy, Modi spoke to residents of Dulariya village in Betul district of Madhya Pradesh and counselled them to take the vaccine amidst their doubts about the exercise. He noted that both he and his nearly 100-year-old mother have taken both doses of the vaccine, and asked people not to believe in rumours and trust science and scientists. "The threat of Covid-19 remains and we have to focus on vaccination as well as follow Covid-19 protocols," he said. With the Monsoon approaching, Modi also stressed on water conservation. In his broadcast, he also paid tributes and remembered the contribution of Indian sprint legend Milkha Singh, who died earlier this month. Modi hailed Singh's contribution to Indian sports and said he will always cherish his interactions with the athlete. Singh died in a Chandigarh hospital after a month-long battle with Covid-19. He also lost his wife Nirmal Kaur, a former national volleyball captain, to the same disease. Modi also shared the struggles and triumphs of Olympics-bound Indian athletes and said that people must not build any pressure on these sportspersons but "cheer for India". "Every athlete who is going to Tokyo has worked hard. They are going there to win hearts. It must be our endeavour to support our team and not put pressure on the team," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||1.35 billion Covid vaccine doses by end of the year, Centre tells Supreme Court ||More than 1.35 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses will be available for the public by the end of the year, the government has told the Supreme Court. The pledge comes after the government surprised critics of its sluggish vaccine rollout by administering a record 34 million doses in six days. Until recently, severe shortages of vaccines had been reported around the country. The government’s success in meeting its commitment to the Supreme Court, though, will hinge on at least two domestic vaccines that are still under development clearing key Phase 3 clinical trials. So far, India has vaccinated just over 4 per cent of the population. Experts have warned that unless the government sharply accelerates its vaccination programme, the country may be swamped by a devastating third wave. In its court affidavit, Bar and Bench reported that the government said that the Serum Institute of India would produce 500 million doses of Covishield, India’s version of the AstraZeneca Covid vaccine, between July and December and that 400 million doses of Covaxin would also be available on the market during the same time. The Serum Institute has said it will hike Covishield vaccine production from 65 million doses in June and July to 100 million in August and September. Bharat Biotech currently produces 20 million doses of the indigenously developed Covaxin monthly and has said it expects to produce 35 million doses in July. After that, the figures submitted to the Supreme Court suggest the company expects to hike its Covaxin production steeply to 78.2 million in August and September. Besides Bharat Biotech, several other companies are expected to launch production of Covaxin which was developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Bharat Biotech has also said it will activate plants in Hyderabad and Bangalore to produce Covaxin. Saturday’s promise of 1.35 billion doses by year-end is lower than the more than 2 billion doses of coronavirus vaccines which top government advisor V.K. Paul told reporters last month would likely be available between August and December. At that time, Paul said the doses would include 750 million of the Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute, as well as 550 million doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Around 100 million doses of the Russian-made Sputnik V are also expected to be available for distribution to the public between July and December, the government said in its 375-page affidavit submitted to the court. The government told the court it would be receiving 300 million doses of a vaccine from the Indian company Biological E and 50 million doses of Zycov-D vaccine from Zydus Cadila. 
The Biological E vaccine is undergoing phase three trials and is expected to be on the market by August. The government is paying a Rs 1,500 crore advance to the manufacturer for the vaccine. The Phase 3 data of Zycov-D has been undergoing analysis. The company is expected to apply for emergency use permission next week. Zycov-D is a three-dose DNA-based vaccine. The government told the court in its affidavit that 1.86 billion vaccine doses will be needed to vaccinate around 940 million Indians above the age of 18. The government last Monday vaccinated more than 8 million people. Most observers at the time said the government would not have enough vaccines to keep up its scorching pace. While the number of doses has fallen, it is still administering five to six million doses a day, far more than the 3 million it was administering for most of the past month. The government had declared in early June that it would deliver 120 million vaccinations during the month. That was up from the 79.4 million doses that were available for the National Covid Vaccination Programme in May. The extra vaccines appear to have become available thanks to 15.7 million doses of vaccines leftover with the states on June 1 when the government resumed control of the vaccination programme combined with a rise in production to about 90 million. Also, 10 million Sputnik V vaccines from Russia have become available though it’s unclear how many have actually been administered to the public. Some leading hospitals in Delhi have just started giving Sputnik V jabs while others say they are about to start administering. The Centre has fixed a price of Rs 1,145 for the vaccines which are currently being imported from Russia. Some of the Sputnik V doses have been imported in a fully finished form and others are being put into vials here. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is expecting to start production of Sputnik V in India at the beginning of August. Russia has deals with six Indian companies to produce 850 million doses of Sputnik V. The government will need to deliver around 9 million doses daily to vaccinate all adult Indians by end-December, according to experts. China is currently vaccinating about 100 million people a week. In vaccinating the population, the government is not only dealing with supply issues, it must overcome vaccine hesitancy, especially in rural areas, along with logistical problems in reaching remote areas of the countryside. India recorded 48,698 new Covid-19 cases and 1,183 deaths Saturday. It was the lowest daily number of fresh cases since March 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Centre to SC: 188 crore doses to be administered by year-end||The Centre Saturday told the Supreme Court that a total of 51.6 crore Covid vaccine doses would be made available by July 31 of which 35.6 crore have already been provided. Giving the status of vaccine availability for children, the Centre said in an affidavit that the Drugs Controller General of India on May 12 permitted Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials of its vaccine Covaxin on volunteers between 2 to 18 years of age, and the enrolment process for this trial has also begun. “It informed the court that Zydus Cadila which is developing DNA vaccines has concluded its clinical trial for between the age group of 12 to 18 years of age and, subject to the statutory permissions, it may be available in near future for children of the age group of 12 to 18 years of age. "It is humbly submitted that as of now, the companies' manufacturing Covid-19 vaccination in India have only been given Emergency Use Authorization' for vaccinating people of 18 years age and above. Therefore, Covid-19 vaccines are not recommended for persons/children less than 18 years of age and is due to the fact that the clinical trial cohort during Phase 1, 2 and 3 did not cover the children below 18 years of age," it said. The government said that there would be availability of vaccines to vaccinate the entire eligible population. It said the "biggest vaccination drive in the history" is going on with full swing, reaching even remotest areas of the country by constructive and cooperative collaboration of the Central government, State/UT governments, local authorities, human resources in medical sectors and the citizens of the country. Giving the break-up of vaccines till the date of filing of the affidavit i.e. June 26, the Centre said a total of 35.6 crore doses were made available -- 26.6 crore Covishield, 8 crore Covaxin, and additional 1 crore doses as commodity assistance under COVAX facility. It also said that apart from these supplies, it is expected that around 16 crore doses will also be available during the period of May and July across the country. The Centre further said that 31.5 lakh doses of first component and 60,000 doses of second component of Sputnik V has been received. It said that two vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) have been a part of the vaccination program since January 2021 and Sputnik V has received Emergency Use Authoridation by the DCGI in April 2021 and is now being administered in the country. The government said, "In addition, some other domestic vaccines such as those from Biological E and Zydus Cadila are in the late stages of clinical trials and subject to the regulatory approvals, will further increase the availability of vaccines." The government in its 375-page affidavit filed in the suo motu matter on Covid-19 management said that in order to further increase vaccine availability and incentivising foreign manufacturers, the regulatory process for the use of foreign vaccines within India has been accelerated and simplified. It clarified that due to the initial assistance provided for developing Covaxin, it has ensured a price of Rs.150 per dose of Covaxin and it is not possible to reduce it any further. "This price is the lowest procurement price in the world." The government said that as per the projected mid-year population for 2020, the total population of the country aged 18 years and above is approximately 93-94 crore and as such, administering two doses to these beneficiaries would require an estimated 186 to 188 crore vaccine doses. "Out of this requirement, 51.6 crore doses will be made available for administration by July 31, 2021, leaving a requirement of approximately 135 crore vaccine doses for complete vaccination to the eligible population," it said. Giving the breakup for vaccines quantity that may be receivable from all sources the Centre said that a total of 135 crore doses will be procured: Covishield (50 crore), Covaxin (40 crore), Bio E Subunit vaccine (30 crore), Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine (5 crore) and Sputnik V (10 crore). It said that the procurement of Bio E Subunit vaccine and Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine will be subject to approval which will come in the near future. "It is submitted that the vaccination drive would obviously get a boost if the Government of India succeeds in its attempts to procure vaccines available outside India such as vaccines of Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna etc," the affidavit said. The Centre said that for the purpose of procurement of these vaccines from abroad, efforts are ongoing at the level of the highest political executive in the country and also at the highest diplomatic level. "It is submitted that since these efforts are at a very advanced stage, it is neither desirable nor possible to give comprehensive details of these facts. As and when these efforts materialise, the speed of vaccination will be further augmented and enhanced," it said. A 375-page affidavit was filed by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in response to a slew of questions raised by the apex court in its May 31 order while hearing the suo motu case related to Covid management in the country. A bench headed by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud had slammed the Centre's Covid vaccination policy, describing as "prima facie arbitrary and irrational" allowing states and private hospitals to charge those in the 18-44 age group while the jabs were offered free for groups in the first two phases, and ordered its review. Seeking to scrutinise the Covid vaccination policy in detail, the top court had also asked the Centre to provide information including as to how Rs 35,000 crore, earmarked for vaccines, has been spent so far, and to place on record all relevant documents and file notings reflecting its thinking culminating in the policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||India logs 50,040 Covid-19 cases in a day||A single-day rise of 50,040 fresh Covid-19 infections took India's tally to 3,02,33,183, while the number of active cases dipped to 5,86,403, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 3,95,751 with 1,258 more people succumbing to the viral disease in a day. Active cases now comprises 1.94 per cent of the total infections, the data updated at 8 am showed. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases of Covid-19 for the 45th consecutive day with the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surging to 2,92,51,029. The case fatality rate stood at 1.31 per cent. While the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.75 per cent, the weekly case positivity rate has come down to 2.91 per cent. According to the ministry data, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.82 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 20 consecutive days. India administered 64.25 lakh vaccine doses in a day, taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far under the nationwide inoculation drive to 32.17 crore, according to immunisation data published at 7 am. Also, 17,45,809 tests were conducted on Saturday for the detection of Covid-19, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 40,18,11,892. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore total Covid-19 cases on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23. The total 3,95,751 deaths reported so far in the country include 1,20,881 in Maharashtra, 34,654 in Karnataka, 32,199 in Tamil Nadu, 24,961 in Delhi, 22,443 in Uttar Pradesh, 17583 in West Bengal, 15979 in Punjab and 13,427 in Chhattisgarh. The ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths reported so far have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Mayawati refutes claims of alliance with AIMIM in Uttar Pradesh polls||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday refuted claims that her party and Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM will fight in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections together, and said that it will go solo in the state polls, due early next year. Mayawati reasserted that her party had only announced an alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab, but in UP and Uttarakhand, it will fight alone. The two parties have also finalised the seat-sharing agreement in the 117-member Assembly, with SAD contesting on 97 seats and the BSP on 20. "This news has been broadcast in a media news channel since yesterday that the AIMIM and BSP will fight the upcoming assembly elections in UP together. This news is completely false, misleading and baseless. There is not even an iota of truth in this and the BSP vehemently denies it. "In this regard, it is again clarified that except Punjab, the BSP will not contest the UP and Uttarakhand state polls early next year in alliance with any party; meaning it will go it alone," Mayawati tweeted on Sunday. Earlier in an interview with ndtv.com, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had also ruled out making an alliance with BSP or the Congress during the upcoming polls. He also revealed that his party would go for like-minded smaller parties for alliance. "My experience with big parties is not good, I will not get into any alliance with them," Akhilesh told ndtv.com, without naming Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Twin blasts rock Jammu Air Force station, possible drone attack being investigated||Two consecutive explosions took place at the high security Jammu Air Force station in the early hours of Sunday and the Indian Air Force is probing whether they were part of a terror attack, officials and people familiar with the defence and security establishment said. Investigators are examining the possible use of drones to drop the explosives at the technical area of the Jammu airport that has various assets of the IAF. The first blast, which took place around 1.40 am, ripped off the roof of a single storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one, which took place within a gap of five minutes, was on the ground, the officials said. According to sources, two IAF personnel suffered minor injuries. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's office said he spoke to Vice Air Chief, Air Marshal HS Arora over the explosions. In a Twitter post, the IAF said two "low-intensity explosions" were reported early Sunday morning in the technical area of Jammu air force station and one of them caused minor damage to the roof of a building while the other exploded in an open area". "There was no damage to any equipment. Investigation is in progress along with civil agencies," it said. "Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh spoke to Vice Air Chief, Air Marshal HS Arora regarding today's incident at Air Force Station in Jammu. Air Marshal Vikram Singh is reaching Jammu to take stock of the situation," it tweeted. The people familiar with the defence and security establishment said all angles including the possible involvement of terror networks in the explosions are being probed. They said Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria has been apprised about the explosions. The IAF chief is on a three-day visit to Bangladesh from Saturday. Earlier, the defence spokesperson said, There were reports of an explosion inside Air Force Station Jammu. There is no injury to any personnel or any damage to any equipment. Investigation is on and further details are awaited"'. He said the area was sealed by security forces within minutes. A high level meeting was underway at the Air Force station with senior police and Indian Air Force officials in attendance, sources said. Various probe teams including that of the IAF and National Investigation Agency have also reached the Air Force station. Jammu airport is a civil airport with the runway and the ATC under the IAF. Jammu Airport director Pravat Ranjan Beuria told PTI that there was no disruption in the flight operations due to the explosions. The flights to and from Jammu airport are operating as per the schedule, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Protesting peasants march to Raj Bhavans, raise twin flags of ‘Save Agriculture’ and ‘Save Democracy’||The protesting farmers marched on Saturday to Raj Bhavans across the country, reminding the nation that their vigil at Delhi’s borders had withstood the might of the Narendra Modi government for seven months and coped with the devastating second wave of the pandemic that diverted attention from their cause. The farmers indicated they would continue to campaign against the BJP during the upcoming polls in the states, including Uttar Pradesh. The farmers, protesting against three new farm laws, raised the twin flags of “Save Agriculture” and “Save Democracy” as they marked seven months of their agitation at Delhi’s borders, a day after the 46th anniversary of the Emergency. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s decision to have farmers march to the Raj Bhavans in every state instead of effecting a big mobilisation around Delhi was a concession to the pandemic. On Friday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had urged the farmers to end their agitation, saying the government was willing to talk to them about their fears about the new farm laws. He claimed these three laws had the support of many others from the farming community. The Morcha, the collective leading the protests, described Tomar’s remarks as perplexing. “It appears that he has gone back to a position of asking farmers to share clause-by-clause concerns and objections, whereas farmer leaders had already clearly explained by the beginning of January 2021 why they are not seeking some meaningless amendments here and there in the three central farm laws when there are fundamental flaws in the laws and their very objectives,” it said. For the protesting farmers who have lost nearly 500 colleagues during the agitation, the minister’s insistence that the laws are for their benefit amounts to rubbing salt into their wounds. The farmers believe that such a stance completely ignores the apprehensions that have brought tens of thousands of them onto the streets for so long. “It is clear that the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has not given up on its numerous tactics of escaping its responsibility towards farmers of the country,” the Morcha said. “Farmers are ready to put in their energies to educate fellow citizens, and appeal to them to punish the BJP. That is the only lesson that the government seems to be willing to listen to.” The comments suggested the farmers intended to go ahead with their plan to campaign against the BJP in the next round of Assembly elections, too, including the crucial one in Uttar Pradesh. The farmers hope to hurt the BJP particularly in western Uttar Pradesh, where Jat farmers have rallied around Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been one of the faces of the protest since January. Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhury too has been working in tandem, and the protesters hope to keep this dynamic alive till the elections. In the last round of Assembly elections, too, the farmers had travelled to key states, including Bengal, to campaign against the BJP while maintaining they would not canvass votes for any party. “Ours was an issue-based approach where we went and told the people not to vote for the BJP because of what they are doing to farmers, and vote in a manner that would defeat the BJP. We did not campaign for any party,” a farmer leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Ayodhya: Modi stays silent on dubious land deals||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust was not part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual meeting on Ayodhya on Saturday. A day earlier, the town’s sadhus had demanded that Modi clarify the land scam allegations against the trust at the meeting. A state government official who attended the hour-and-a-half meeting said it had been decided in the morning that the members of the trust, entrusted with building the Ram temple, would not attend it. “We had been told four days ago that chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his cabinet members, senior state and district (Ayodhya) officials and a few trust members would attend the meeting,” the official told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. “However, the trust members were told in the morning that a separate meeting would soon be held in Delhi with them.” Anil Mishra, a trust member, told local reporters that the meeting was about the “Ayodhya Vision” — a development plan — and not on the Ram temple, and the trust had never been invited to it. “The state and the central government have a plan to develop the town as a heritage city. The trust’s job is limited to building the Ram temple and related issues,” Mishra said. However, the Ayodhya Vision is a 30-year plan to develop the town for religious tourism, with the Ram temple at the heart of it. Adityanath and his deputies Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma attended the meeting, titled Ayodhya Vision 2051, from Lucknow. The trust, which has collected donations from people across India, has recently been embroiled in controversy over its purchase of land. In at least two deals, the trust bought plots at far higher prices than they had been sold for just minutes or a few months earlier. It denies any wrongdoing. On Friday, a meeting of 150 of Ayodhya’s sadhus had demanded that at Saturday’s meeting, Modi should clarify how the dubious land deals were struck “under his nose”, senior sadhus had told reporters. At the time, the widespread impression was that trust members would be part of Modi’s meeting. The media was not allowed to attend or view Saturday’s meeting. A tweet by Modi and a central government media release on the meeting did not mention the temple or the trust. “Chaired a meeting on the Ayodhya development plan. Emphasised on public participation and involving our Yuva Shakti in creating state-of-the-art infrastructure in Ayodhya, making this city a vibrant mix of the ancient and modern,” Modi tweeted. The government release said Ayodhya would be developed “as a spiritual centre, global tourism hub and a sustainable smart city”. An official in Lucknow quoted the Prime Minister as telling the meeting that the major development projects in Ayodhya should be completed in the “next two-three years” before the Ram temple was built and opened to the people. The general wisdom is that the BJP plans to have the temple built before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “He (Modi) said the major projects should be completed within two-three years. The minor projects can continue.... He also said that tradition and culture should be highlighted in every project,” the official said. The Rs 20,000-crore Ayodhya Vision includes Rs 14,000 crore to be spent by the state government to upgrade the town’s small airport and build or expand bus stands, cultural and heritage centres, museums to portray Ram’s life and roads to link the town with other parts of the country. The central government release said the plan included “an upcoming greenfield township (with) lodging facilities for devotees, space for ashrams, maths, hotels, bhavans of various states” and “a tourist facilitation centre, a world-class museum” along with river cruises on the Saryu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Covid: Justice Ramana asks law minister to resolve poor digital connectivity in far flung areas||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday expressed concern at “the poor digital connectivity in rural, tribal, remote and hilly areas”, saying this was slowing justice delivery across the country and depriving thousands of young lawyers of their livelihood. Justice Ramana said he had written to Union law and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to address the problem, underscoring the importance of the issue at a time the pandemic has forced all court proceedings to be held virtually. The Narendra Modi government has been claiming that its massive digital push has turned administration into a smooth and seamless exercise. The CJI said he had asked the Union minister to evolve a way of helping lawyers who  had lost their livelihood to the pandemic and urgently needed financial assistance. Justice Ramana’s remarks came at a panel discussion that followed the online launch of a book, Anomalies in Law and Justice, authored by the former Supreme Court judge, Justice R.V. Raveendran. The CJI told the audience that the issue of poor connectivity had figured prominently also at the two-day conference of high court chief justices that he had recently convened. Justice Ramana said that poor connectivity was pushing a whole generation of lawyers out of the system. Justice Ramana said that his letter to minister Prasad requested him to prioritise bridging the digital divide. Further, his letter highlighted the need to declare legal professionals and associated functionaries as frontline workers and prioritise their vaccination, he said. The letter asked the Centre to take the following steps: ⚫  Strengthen the digital network and connectivity beyond the major urban centres, particularly in the rural and tribal areas. ⚫  Vaccinate all functionaries associated with the courts and their families across the country to facilitate full-scale functioning of the courts. ⚫  Recognise all functionaries associated with the courts, including the lawyers, as frontline workers in the context of providing pandemic-related relief. ⚫  Provide financial support to lawyers, especially junior lawyers, who are struggling to survive with the pandemic having robbed them of work for more than a year. “It would be highly appreciated if you could take up these issues with the concerned ministries/ departments at the highest level,” Justice Ramana wrote to Prasad. He also stressed the need to provide the courts with the latest information and communication technology tools to facilitate access to justice, and to revamp the judicial infrastructure to tackle the challenge posed by the huge backlog of cases. “A blueprint of the proposal to set up the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC) is in the final stages of preparation and will be shared with the Union government shortly,” the letter, sent in the second week of this month, said. Justice Ramana said that during his recent interaction with the high court chief justices, he had emphasised the need to speed up the process of sending collegium recommendations to the government to fill up vacancies in the high courts. While releasing Justice Raveendran’s book on the virtual platform, Justice Ramana paid tributes to the former judge. Trained under S.G. Sundaraswamy, a doyen of the Karnataka Bar, Justice Raveendran had developed an ability to relate to the people and issues around him, he said. “Justice Raveendran’s judgments are of great value, not because they are replete with western jurisprudence or are rich in legal jargon, but because of their connect with today’s Indian context and its people,” Justice Ramana said. “He never tried to project himself as the saviour of the judicial process. He continued to be humble and believed that the office which he held did not exist for himself. He discharged his duties with distinction and commitment to the people. He exemplifies all that is great about our institution.” Justice Raveendran’s judgments had set a high standard of excellence and demonstrated that the law can be a force for bringing out the best in the community and making society a better place, Justice Ramana said. He said Justice Raveendran had in his book made an earnest attempt to explain to the ordinary reader in simple words the various deficiencies in the law that need to be overcome so that the citizen does not lose faith in the judiciary and the legal system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-29
27-06-2021||India||Kerala government to make school textbooks gender-neutral ||The Kerala government has decided to audit and revise school textbooks to make them gender-neutral amid a spate of dowry deaths and violence against women although experts have cautioned about the lack of Malayalam equivalents of some English words. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced the plan to revise school textbooks through a tweet on Thursday: “To inculcate a culture of gender equality, Kerala’s school textbooks will be revised and audited to sieve out words and phrases disparaging women. Steps will be taken to turn our schools and colleges into spaces that embrace the idea of gender equality and equal rights.” Education minister V. Sivankutty said gender equality and gender justice would be taken in “all seriousness” while reforming the education system. “All words that stand against gender equality must be changed. This will be taken up in all seriousness while reforming the educational system,” Sivankutty said in a statement issued by his office. An official in the education ministry said a decision would be taken soon on seeking suggestions from educationists and experts in gender justice to scrutinise the textbooks and make them gender-neutral. To cite a few examples, postmen would be changed to mail carriers, stewardesses would become flight attendants, clergymen would be just clergy, salesman would be salespersons or sales executives, and mankind would be re-written as humankind. Academics pointed out that the Malayalam vocabulary might not be broad enough to find equivalents of all English words. Although some English words are transliterated in Malayalam textbooks, the first preference would be to use a word in the native language, sources said. Writer and a senior member of the Progressive Writers Association, Vallikkavu Mohandas, cautioned: “English is a highly evolved language which is truly cosmopolitan in nature and hence has words for everything.” He said it would be easy to re-write English textbooks since templates were available in several countries. “While the English language is so broad and cosmopolitan, Malayalam is not. We don’t even have a feminine gender equivalent of ‘dheeran’ (brave) although ‘dheera’ is used informally. So the first step should ideally be an overhaul of the language by finding appropriate words,” Mohandas said. He said there were innumerable examples where Malayalam did not have apt equivalents for English words. “The bigger danger is the negative connotations ascribed to words like ‘napumsagam’ (transgender),” he said, alluding to the fact that the Malayalam word is also used to describe a coward. The chief minister’s announcement has triggered suggestions that textbooks be also made trans-neutral so that children develop respect for the third gender as well. “Good. Include trans-inclusive and friendly language. Have toilets in schools for trans kids too. Sensitise teachers every 3 months with refresher course on gender equality & justice workshops. Make it a point to employ trans, non-binary folx (folks) as teachers so they get represented,” an user named Ashayy tweeted in response to Vijayan’s announcement. The first state to come out with a Transgender Policy in 2015, Kerala has since taken several steps to provide rations, identity cards, health care and employment to transpersons. But many still complain about the lack of inclusiveness in the state’s ecosystem. A member of the Transgender Justice Board that functions under the department of social justice, Sheetal Shyam, was of the view that textbooks should also be made “trans-friendly” by using non-sexist and gender-fair language.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Cong points mandi closure finger at Modi govt||The Congress on Saturday said the Narendra Modi government had been gradually closing down government grain procurement centres (mandis) ever since the three farm laws were introduced while reiterating its support to the agitating farmers who held several protests to mark the completion of seven months of their ongoing movement on the same day. Alleging that the Modi government was working on a sinister plan to harm the farmers for the last seven years, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Is it not true that the government mandis are being closed down gradually ever since the three farm laws were introduced? Didn’t the Commission for Agriculture Cost & Prices in its report for 2021-22 say that the government keeps the sample size to determine the input cost very small to ensure real cost isn’t reflected?” As Rahul Gandhi reiterated Congress’s support to the agitating farmers yet again, Surjewala said: “The Modi government started tormenting the farmers right after coming to power in 2014, but it crossed all limits of brutality in the last seven months. Nowhere in the world are the farmers treated in this manner like the Modi government has dealt with them during the last seven months. The intention was clear when they tried to kill the Land Acquisition Act in 2014. Then they filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court saying that giving the promised 50 per cent profit on input cost is not possible.” Surjewala also referred to high diesel costs that burdened the farmers. The Congress also demanded restoration of dearness allowance to lakhs of government employees, army personnel and pensioners that was discontinued in the name of the Covid-19 pandemic in April 2020. Party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the government’s decision robbed Rs 37,500 crore from 115 lakh employees and pensioners during the pandemic when they needed greater financial assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Woman dies in traffic on President Kovind's trip ||A woman entrepreneur died in Kanpur on Friday evening, allegedly because of a delay in receiving medical help, after police stopped her car to make way for the convoy of a visiting President Ram Nath Kovind. Traffic had been held up for 45 minutes and doctors at Regency Hospital said Vandana Mishra, 45, would have lived if she had arrived even 15 minutes earlier, her husband Sharad Mishra alleged. Kanpur police commissioner Asim Arun, who visited the family’s home to apologise and convey the President’s condolences, said traffic had been halted for 25 minutes despite an order not to stop it for more than 5 minutes. “We have suspended a sub-inspector and three constables for not allowing them (Mishras) to move,” Arun told reporters. Efforts to get a doctor or senior executive take this newspaper’s call to the hospital proved fruitless. Vandana was president of the women’s wing of the Kanpur chapter of the Indian Industries Association. She ran an industrial unit herself, sources said, but its nature could not be immediately ascertained. “She had had Covid a month and a half ago but had recovered. She complained of breathlessness on Friday afternoon and I took her to Regency Hospital,” Sharad told reporters. “The doctors examined her and found her fit. I took her back home but she again complained of breathlessness an hour later. While I was driving her to the same hospital, traffic was stopped near Govindnagar Bridge for the President. Despite my requests, the police didn’t let us move for 45 minutes.” He added: “When we reached the hospital after 6pm, the doctors declared her dead on arrival and said she would have lived had she reached the hospital 15 minutes earlier.” As news of the death circulated on social media on Saturday, police commissioner Arun rushed to the family’s Kidwai Nagar home to apologise to Sharad. “Nikhil Pathak, additional deputy commissioner of police, will probe the matter,” he told reporters. District magistrate Alok Tiwari said: “The President took cognisance of the unfortunate incident and asked us to personally tender our apologies to the family of the deceased.” The Kanpur police commissionerate tweeted in Hindi: “The Hon’ble President was distressed to know the death of sister Vandana Mishra. He called the police commissioner and the district magistrate to know more about it and asked them to convey his condolences to the family. Both officers attended the cremation and conveyed the President’s message. Kovind is on a heavily publicised trip to Kanpur, his home district, where he arrived on a special “Presidential Train” on Friday afternoon. He is to leave on Sunday. It’s been a largely personal visit, with Kovind meeting old friends and visiting the villagers of Paraukh, Jhinjhak and Rura where he had spent his childhood. He has also held a few meetings with government officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
27-06-2021||India||‘We orchestrated daring escapes from Indian custody, including one from the IB headquarters in James Bond style’||Zoramthanga is five foot nearly nothing but do not be misled by his diminutive frame, or even his beguiling smile. At 76, the three-time chief minister of Mizoram still packs a punch. Consider, for a start, that he fought alongside the Pakistani army during the 1971 war and was then able to change course to hold extended reign in high public office. On more than one occasion, Zoramthanga tells me with relish, “We orchestrated our daring escapes from Indian custody, including one from the headquarters of the Intelligence Bureau, in typical James Bond style.” It took 20 years of a devastating insurgency to restore peace in the tiny northeastern state of 12 lakh people tucked between Myanmar and Bangladesh; on June 30, 1986, the Mizoram Peace Accord, arguably modern India’s most durable such agreement, was finally signed. Mizoram has never looked back. Zoramthanga recalled to me flashes of the turbulent days leading to the final laying down of arms by the firebrand guerrillas of the Mizo National Front (MNF) led by the legendary Pu Laldenga. Having graduated from a college in Manipur in 1966, Zoramthanga joined the MNF’s armed underground ranks to wage a freedom war against India. He served as secretary for the Run Bung area for three years, living and fighting from the bush. In 1969, he became secretary to Laldenga and accompanied him to East Pakistan. “After the fall of Dhaka in the Bangladesh war, we escaped miraculously to Rangoon [now Yangon] pretending to be refugees headed for Myanmar. In March 1972, we fled from Rangoon to Karachi on a Pakistani charter flight. Laldenga, his family, three others and I then moved to Islamabad for four years,” he recollects. “Around that time, we made contact with the Indian government secretly (behind Pakistan’s back) through Kabul. We landed in Delhi in January 1976 for talks. These ‘talks’ lasted for 10 years and culminated in the accord.” All this while, Mizoram, then a Union Territory, remained wracked by violent insurgency. Zoramthanga went underground and operated from the Chittagong Hill Tracts of Bangladesh. “In 1979, Morarji Desai, then Prime Minister, told us to hand over arms. We said first negotiate, then we will surrender arms.” The Centre responded by detaining the MNF leaders at the IB headquarters in New Delhi. “But we devised an audacious escape route and managed to board a flight to Calcutta. We then flew to Silchar in Assam (there being no airport in Mizoram at the time) and boarded a jeep to reach the Mizo jungles. I remember we walked for 27 days thereafter. Subsequently, I became the vice-president of MNF as Laldenga was in Delhi. Laldenga was incarcerated in Tihar jail, but was finally released and allowed to go to London.” While Zoramthanga oversaw operations from the jungle headquarters in Mizoram, “between 1980 and 1986, we negotiated with the government in Delhi through those whom I delegated. I did not go to Delhi again. I supervised the underground movement.” The chief minister has put down his memoirs — “You will find all the adventures of my insurgent days there” — and hopes to publish them once the pandemic abates. He hopes, too, that some Hollywood producer — “not Bollywood” he is quite sure — will find in them the masala to churn out a blockbuster. In 1986, the Mizoram accord was signed. In his book on this historic event titled Lest We Forget, L.R. Sailo, press secretary to the chief minister of Mizoram for years and now regional director of the Indian Institute of Mass Communication in Aizawl, aptly says this was “the only insurgency in the world that ended with the stroke of a pen”. The view is shared by Zoramthanga’s predecessor and five-time chief minister, Lal Thanhawla, the Congress veteran who had to step down to allow Laldenga to take his place in 1986 to ensure smooth transfer to truce. “The historic accord is the most successful one to have been signed in this country,” the 83-year-old said from his home in Aizawl. Mizoram earned its statehood after the accord, in 1987, with special protection in the form of the Inner-line Permit, land and customary laws. In that interim government, Zoramthanga was a cabinet minister. He became the MNF president when Laldenga died in 1990 and has helmed the party ever since. Asked if all the clauses of the accord had been implemented, he says: “We are yet to get a separate high court. Rehabilitation of the returnees is still unsatisfactory. But our resounding success was that not a single person went underground again. That is why Mizoram is today an island of peace and the accord is a success.” He rues that the accord anniversary this week cannot be celebrated as it ought to be, because of the pandemic. “We will mark the occasion, but we are disciplined,” he adds. On his part, Lal Thanhawla graciously acknowledges his takeaways from the years of governance of a state that was not only disturbed but lacking in economic development. “The civilian population was caught in the crossfire between the insurgents and the army. The forced eviction of villagers and herding them like cattle into cluster settlements resulted in famine and acute poverty. Their homes were burnt down so that the insurgents could not use them for refuge. Finally, the accord ushered in complete peace and saved countless lives.” Asked whether his sacrificing the chief ministerial chair had reaped dividends, Lal Thanhawla says, “Political problems cannot be solved through the barrel of a gun or by military might. They need to be solved through negotiations. We have to create a conducive atmosphere, ensure the people’s co-operation as well as a willing bureaucracy. Whoever comes forward for negotiations should be welcomed with open arms. Finally, there has to be give-and-take… the return of peace was most important for the disturbed state. It is very difficult to restore peace, even more difficult to maintain it. Throughout my five terms as chief minister, I have strived for development. Our per capita income was the highest in India 2017 onwards. The GDP grew significantly.” Mizoram’s remarkable literacy graph and its green initiative have also earned applause. In a nation whose parts remain riven with thwarted aspiration and civil-military strife, Mizoram remains a unique and durable narrative of peace, hinged on an ability to sacrifice power for a larger cause and skillful conflict management. Only such values could enable not one but two armed guerrillas to transition from the jungles to heads of democratically elected governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-30
