28-06-2021||India||Jammu: Alert soldiers thwart another attack by drones on Army station||A fresh attempt to target a military installation here with drones was foiled by alert soldiers even as a preliminary probe into the attack by two unmanned aerial vehicles on the nearby IAF station by terrorists hours earlier on Sunday indicated the possible use of a cocktail of chemicals including RDX in the first of its kind incident in the country. Investigators were yet to determine the flight path of the drones that dropped two bombs at the Indian Air Force(IAF) station in the early hours of Sunday, causing minor injuries to two IAF personnel, sources said on Monday, as they scanned the CCTV footage, including from cameras installed on the boundary walls of the airport. However, all the CCTV cameras focused on the roadside, the sources added. Officials said the drones that dropped the explosive material at the technical area of Jammu airport in the outskirts of the city were either flown back across the border or to some other destination during the night. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is 14 km. The IAF attack is the first instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike at the country's vital installations. Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta also held a meeting with senior officials of Border Security Force (BSF) and the state police to chalk out a strategy to deal with the national security challenges posed by drones. According to central security agencies, over 300 drones and unidentified flying objects have been sighted along the sensitive border with Pakistan post the August 5, 2019 abrogation of Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir, even as they grappled to find a suitable technology to check these lethal sky-floaters. Army sentries at the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military station in Jammu fired at the two drones that later disappeared, an incident that came hours after the nearby IAF station witnessed the first terror attack using quadcopters. The first drone was spotted at around 11.45 pm on Sunday followed by another at 2.40 am the next day over the military station, which was targeted by terrorists in 2002 in which 31 people were killed including 10 children. Officials said on Monday that alert Army troops fired nearly two dozen rounds in a bid to bring down the drones hovering over the Brigade headquarters of the military station. "...two separate drone activities were spotted over Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area by alert troops," Jammu-based Army PRO Lt Col Devender Anand said in a statement here. He said a high alert was sounded immediately and Quick Reaction Teams (QRTs) engaged the drones with firing. "Both the drones flew away. A major threat was thwarted by the alertness and proactive approach of troops," he said, adding the security forces are on high alert and the search operation is in progress. The officials said the whole area outside the military station was cordoned off immediately and a massive search operation was going on when last reports were received. Nothing objectionable has been found on the ground so far, the officials said. The military station at Kaluchak has been on high alert ever since the 2002 terror attack. Military personnel, family members of Army men and civilians were among the 31 killed in the deadly attack. Forty-eight people were also injured. A day afer the attack, the IAF station continued to remain out of bounds for all but the probe teams including one from the National Investigation Agency(NIA), which picked up every bit of evidence available on the ground. Officials said the explosive material dropped by the drones might have been manufactured using a cocktail of chemicals including RDX but a final confirmation was still awaited. They said an NSG post-blast analysis team has been sent to the IAF station to examine the material. This team will share its findings with the Jammu and Kashmir police and the NIA after completing the task. The explosions took place around 1.40 am on Sunday within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area on the outskirts of the city. The second one was on the ground. The investigations are going on but the teams are still clueless about the path taken by the drones before dropping the bombs, sources said. Various probe agencies and senior officers of the army, police and other security agencies visited the IAF station for the second day on Monday, while the Army's Quick Reaction Teams were seen patrolling the areas outside the base at regular intervals. J&K Director General of Police Dilbag Singh has termed the incident a "terror act" and said the police and other agencies were working with the IAF officials to unravel the plan behind the attack. Vehicular movement recorded around the site of the attack at the time when the drones dropped the explosive material was also being scrutinised minutely, officials said. Drones cannot be detected by radars deployed at border areas to monitor enemy activity, they said, suggesting that a different radar system that can detect drones as small as a bird be installed. Jammu airport is a civil airport with the runway and the ATC (air traffic control) under the IAF. The Jammu and Kashmir Police has registered an FIR under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, officials said, indicating that the case is likely to be taken over by the NIA. A Border Security Force(BSF) official said Indian habitations and important bases all along the Pakistan border are the most vulnerable when it comes to attacks by a single or a swarm of drones. This is because, the official said, infiltration has become very tough due to the effective domination by security forces in anticipation of the terrorist designs post August, 2019, regular unearthing and plugging of the under-ground tunnels and a ceasefire recently agreed upon by the two neighbouring countries. In October 2019, the Union Civil Aviation ministry had issued a policy document primarily to deal with possible security challenges from rogue drones to key installations like nuclear power plants and military bases. Titled 'National Counter Rogue Drones Guidelines', the document said it was a matter of concern that small drones were proliferating at a rate that has alarmed battlefield commanders and planners alike. "The utilisation of armed drones by extremist groups to carry out reconnaissance and targeting strategic Israeli installations during Israel-Lebanon war is an example of escalation of terrorist and insurgent drone capabilities," according to the document.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: BSP pulls out of zila panchayat chairpersons' elections||BSP president Mayawati on Monday said her party will not contest the zila panchayat chairpersons' elections so that it can focus on next year's assembly polls, drawing accusations from the Congress that she is pulling out to help the ruling BJP.  She said people wanted the Bahujan Samaj Party to form the government next year --- and it will go to the polls with the slogan that Uttar Pradesh must be saved .  Instead of contesting the zila parishad chairmen's elections, the party has decided to channelize its efforts on strengthening the organisation and expanding its base, Mayawati told reporters.  At the same time, she said her party would have fought the zila chairpersons' elections if they were being held in a fair manner.  Polling for the district panchayat chiefs in Uttar Pradesh will take place on July 3. About 3,000 recently elected district panchayat members across UP will vote for these posts.  Mayawati's decision prompted a sharp response from the Uttar Pradesh Congress.  "The statement by Mayawati that her party will not contest the zila panchayat chairmen's elections makes it clear that whenever she has to help the BJP, she pulls back from contesting the polls," UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh tweeted in Hindi.  But Mayawati claimed that once the BSP forms its government in the state, the majority of the zila panchayat chairmen will themselves join her party as they cannot function without power .  We have kept this fact in mind and so decided not to contest the election," she said.  Alleging misuse of state machinery in the panchayat polls, she said the BJP is using the same tactics deployed by the earlier Samajwadi Party government.  "I also want to make it clear that if we were sure that these elections will be impartial, then the party would have fought them and at many places the BSP candidates would have won," she said.  The former chief minister claimed that during the BSP government's term there had never been a fraud in the big or small elections so that people kept faith in democracy.  She asked BSP workers to be wary of wary of rival parties tactics .  Mayawati charged that these parties are acting according to a conspiracy and spreading rumours that the BSP is not as actively preparing for the assembly polls as it should.  She alleged that this was being done to demotivate BSP workers.  Mayawati said she has been in Lucknow since the first coronavirus wave subsided, holding regular meetings to strengthen the party at every level.  But unlike other parties, I don't invite the media to show what all is being done. Meetings with party men of other states are also being held. The media, which is a strong pillar of democracy, should also not underestimate the BSP," she added.  The Samajwadi Party has alleged that BJP workers prevented its candidates from filing nominations for the June 3 elections. The SP also sacked at least 11 district-level leaders, suggesting that they colluded with the BJP||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 6,727 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, 101 fatalities||Maharashtra on Monday reported 6,727 fresh coronavirus positive cases and 101 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 60,43,548 and the toll to 1,21,573, the state Health department said. A total of 10,812 patients were discharged during the day, which raised the count of recoveries in Maharashtra to 58,00,925, leaving the state with 1,17,874 active cases, it said. Maharashtra's case recovery rate now stands at 95.99 per cent while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent, as per the department. Currently, 6,15,839 people are in home quarantine and 4,245 others are in institutional quarantine. Wardha district in east Maharashtra didn't report a single COVID-19 case during the day. Mumbai reported 611 fresh cases and 18 deaths, taking the overall count of infections to 7,20,960 and the toll to 15,414, the department said. Mumbai division saw 1,578 fresh infections and 28 fatalities, taking the overall count of cases to 15,91,447 and the toll to 31,990. Nashik division reported 510 cases including 221 from Ahmednagar district and 176 from the Nashik district. Pune division reported 1,429 cases including 479 in Satara and 375 in Pune district. Kolhapur division saw 2,750 new infections including 917 in the Kolhapur district and 605 in the Sangli district, as per the department. Aurangabad division added 106 fresh cases, Latur division 193, Akola division 102, while the Nagpur division added 59 infections during the day. With 1,66,163 new tests, the total number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra went up to 4,12,08,361. The COVID-19 tally in Maharashtra is: Positive cases 60,43,548, deaths 1,21,573, recoveries 58,00,925, total tests 4,12,08,361, active cases 1,17,874, tests today 1,66,163.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to entertain plea against overcharging for cremations, ambulances||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea raising issues of alleged overcharging for cremations, burials as also ambulance services during the Covid-19 pandemic and seeking a direction to the Centre to consider formulating a policy to protect the rights of the dead. The plea, which had referred to the reports about several bodies found floating in the river Ganga during the pandemic, came up for hearing before a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Hemant Gupta. The bench said the petitioner, a Delhi-based NGO trust, has referred in the plea about recommendations of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on the issue. The apex court said that petitioner can approach the NHRC. The plea, filed through advocate Jose Abraham, had said the Centre should be directed to advise all the states and Union Territories to frame guidelines prescribing rates for cremation or burial of those who have died due to the virus and also for ambulance services along with penal actions for non-compliance at the earliest. It is deeply depressing to see people putting bodies of their beloved ones in rivers like Ganga due to lack of money, it said. It is primarily due to exorbitant amounts asked for cremation and ambulance services that scores of people decided to put the bodies of their beloved in the river Ganga, it said. It also said that NHRC had issued an advisory last month for upholding the dignity and protecting the rights of the dead. The plea had alleged that no cogent action has been taken by the authority to tackle the issue of undue profiteering by unscrupulous caretakers at crematoriums because of which many are unable to cremate or bury their beloved. It had referred to earlier verdicts of the apex court which had said that dignity of the dead must be maintained and respected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Sofia Khan Disbursing Humanitarian Aid Amid Pandemic||The world is engulfed in chaos due to the pandemic and the situation in India is no different. An astonishing amount of social work has surfaced to help the people of our country who are crippled financially and emotionally. Sofia Khan has devoted her life to social work and her approach to battle the pandemic is turning head among the community. She is helping people desperate for medical supplies and ration by arranging these via her NGO, Sufi Humanity Foundation. She also helped many Migrant labors stuck in pandemic to send their native place with all safety gear. Sofia Khan is a multifaceted individual who does far beyond her bit to help humanity thrive. A government school teacher by profession, Sofia Khan was always an academically sound student. She was the zonal toper of the coveted School Service Commission exam and currently teaches to students. Sofia Khan achieved so many professional milestones while contributing to many social work organizations and as a general secretary, such as Udaan and National Human Rights Organization. Sofia Khan lost both of her parents at such a tender age but mustered the courage to stand tall and do social work rather than only focusing on her career. Being born and raised in Kolkata, she always has a soft corner for the people of the state. West Bengal and Orissa were caught on two devastating cyclones over the past two years and she raised awareness, funds and supplied ration and tarpaulin to help the affected seek temporary shelter while the help arrived. Her foundation distributed water to the shoreline areas where fishermen and families live. Sofia Khan has actively worked to raise the concern over shrinking oxygen supplies in the State and arranged for many oxygen cylinders as well for the needy. She says, "Medical oxygen was in short supply and there was a lot of commotion in distribution. Rather than pointing fingers, I and my team worked with the manufacturers to issue oxygen cylinders for patients gasping for breath. Our goal was to ensure hospitalization and oxygen support for the patients who need it the most and we succeeded in it by maintaining active conversation with both the patient families and hospital staff."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||DarshanKumar Joshi: The story of a Technopreneur||Technopreneur DarshanKumar Joshi has made quite an impression by persisting in the face of hardship. His organisation, GraymatterOnline LLP, is one of the greatest digital marketing agencies. Aquaman, The Invisible Man, The Last of Us Part 2 and Ad Astra are just a handful of the numerous projects on which this technopreneur has collaborated. This was done largely to guarantee that a permanent dent was made in the field of entrepreneurship, or as he prefers to call it, technopreneurship. Darshan brings his creativity and vision to create the marketing experience for the production one to remember. As his career as a well-known Art-Director took him to new areas, Darshan had the opportunity to work with one of the best animators and graphic artists in the industry. DarshanKumar, a native of India's silk city, is one of those individuals admired by the younger generation. The list of accomplishments this man has amassed would be enough to make any creative person giddy. The majority of his childhood was spent succeeding in school and appreciating all sorts of visceral stimulation, such as art, music, and gastronomy. DarshanKumar is a tech expert who also lives a life that represents all of the traditional Indian principles. Keeping this in mind, he went to the University of Greenwich, one of London's most prestigious educational institutions, to learn more about the areas he was enthusiastic about. The marketing agency's goal is to bring out the best in him, which he has gathered throughout his past employment. The entertainment sector has included augmented reality, virtual reality, and machine learning in its marketing strategies. It won’t be wrong to say that he has a long way to go as a technopreneur and can shine brighter to influence the people around him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Gyms open up in Delhi after three months||The wait to hit the gym was finally over for Delhiites on Monday as gyms and yoga centres opened in the national capital after a gap of three long months. These centres were shut to check the spread of coronavirus. The Delhi government Saturday allowed them to operate at 50 per cent capacity. Gym-owners and instructors have devised plans including frequent sanitisation and slots allowing only up to 50 per cent of their establishment's capacity in accordance with the Covid guidelines. The city government has also allowed weddings at banquet, marriage halls and hotels with 50 people in attendance under the phased unlock process initiated with an improvement in the city's COVID-19 situation. Chirag Sethi, the vice president of Delhi Gym Association, said the fitness industry welcomed the opportunity to reopen while following the guidelines. Sethi, also the owner of Anytime Fitness in Malviya Nagar, said they were allowing gym members to come in about 16 slots of 50-60 people from 6 am till 9 pm. "People are excited about coming back as they have realised it's important to be healthy to fight COVID-19," Sethi told PTI. Along with segregating groups of gym-goers, Sethi has also vaccinated his staff and directed them to sanitise all the equipment frequently. "We are also giving discount offers for members who have been vaccinated. We have placed a bottle of sanitiser and a cloth next to each equipment so anyone who uses it can clean it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-25
28-06-2021||India||Twitter drops distorted map of India||After drawing flak over displaying a distorted map of India that showed Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as separate country, Twitter has now removed the wrong map.  The glaring distortion, which appeared on the career section of Twitter website under the header 'Tweep Life', had triggered a heavy backlash from netizens on Monday as they demanded strict action against the microblogging platform that has flouted various rules on multiple occasions in the past.  #TwitterBan was trending on Twitter with almost 17,000 tweets.  This is not the first time that Twitter has misrepresented India's map. Earlier, it had shown Leh as part of China.  The global map, which grossly misrepresented India's boundaries, was removed on late Monday evening by Twitter following social media outrage.  Sources said the government is seriously looking into the matter. In this case, since the wrong depiction is on Twitter's website, the case is not that of an 'intermediary' but of a publisher which is responsible for content.  When something is clearly wrong it has to be tackled, or consequential action will follow, they said.  Twitter -- which has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India -- has remained mum on the entire episode. Emails sent to the company did not elicit any response.  The US digital giant has been at loggerheads with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has confronted Twitter over deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules, despite repeated reminders.  Notably, the microblogging platform has lost its legal shield as an intermediary in India, becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content.  In October last year, Twitter came under heavy criticism and faced backlash after its geotagging feature displayed "Jammu & Kashmir, People's Republic of China" in a live broadcast from Leh's Hall of Fame, a war memorial for fallen soldiers in the Union Territory of Ladakh.  India had issued a stern warning to Twitter that time, making it clear that any disrespect of the country's sovereignty and integrity is totally unacceptable.  In November, Twitter again showed Leh as part of Jammu and Kashmir instead of the Union Territory of Ladakh, following which the Centre issued a notice to the US-based company for disrespecting the territorial integrity of India by showing an incorrect map.  Twitter's apparent heavyhandedness has come under government scrutiny, given that the platform has not complied with the new IT rules, called intermediary guidelines, that mandate setting up a robust grievance redressal mechanism and appointing officers to coordinate with law enforcement.  The rules became effective from May 26 and Twitter, even after the expiry of the additional time, had not appointed the requisite officers, leading to it losing the 'safe harbour' immunity.  Even in the backdrop of heightened strained relations with the Indian government, Twitter on Friday briefly blocked IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from accessing his account over alleged violation of US copyright law -- a move that was immediately slammed by the minister as being arbitrary and in gross violation of IT rules.  Meanwhile, Twitter's interim grievance officer for India, Dharmendra Chatur, has quit within weeks of taking over the key role.  California-based Jeremy Kessel has now been named as India's grievance redressal officer on the platform's website -- although the appointment does not meet the requirements of new IT rules that clearly mandate key officers including the grievance officer, to be resident in India.  Twitter and the government have been on a collision course on multiple issues in the past months, including during the farmers' protest and later when the microblogging platform tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP as "manipulated media", drawing a sharp rebuke from the Centre.  Other major flashpoints included rampant proliferation of fake and harmful content against India and the platform's 'discriminatory' practices in dealing with them, as well as no action being taken on a type of coronavirus being called the 'Indian variant'.  IT Minister had earlier said that it is "astounding" that Twitter, that portrays itself as the flag bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the intermediary guidelines.  The ministry has called out Twitter on a number of occasions for attempting to dictate terms to the world's largest democracy.  "Twitter needs to stop beating around the bush and comply with the laws of the land," IT Ministry has stated in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||Twitter appoints US national as greivance officer amid tussle with Centre||In the midst of a battle with the government, Twitter has appointed Global Legal Policy Director Jeremy Kessel as the grievance officer for India to follow the centre's new rules for social networking websites, NDTV.com reported. The new rules, however, require an Indian resident for the role. This comes a day after the social media giant's interim grievance redressal officer in the country, appointed less than a month ago, resigned amid the firm's prolonged feud with the government. Twitter had told the Delhi High Court on May 31 it was appointing Dharmendra Chatur, partner at a law firm that represented Twitter, as the interim officer for the role. But the centre said it could not accept the appointment of outsiders to statutory posts, as a result of which Chatur resigned on Sunday. With the new rules or the so-called Intermediary Guidelines, the government aims to regulate content on social media websites that have more than 50 lakh users such as Facebook and Twitter, making them more accountable for the content. The guidelines include appointing India-based compliance executives and other conditions. Critics have raised concerns that Twitter may no longer enjoy protection against user-generated content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||Delhi oxygen row: BJP stages dharna at Jantar Mantar seeking Kejriwal's resignation||Delhi BJP leaders sat on a dharna at the Jantar Mantar here on Monday, demanding Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's resignation over his government "inflating" the city's oxygen need during the second wave of coronavirus. Leading the protest along with MPs, MLAs and office bearers of the party, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta also said Kejriwal should be "arrested for criminal negligence". "The interim report of a Supreme Court committee has said that the Kejriwal government raised a four-time higher demand of oxygen than actual consumption that caused shortage in other states and led to deaths of Covid patients. Kejriwal himself is responsible for this and should step down from his post," Gupta said. New Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi alleged that Chief Minister Kejriwal raised a "false" oxygen shortage issue to "hide the failures" of his government in tackling the second wave of the virus. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has charged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of "cooking up" the report and trying to blame the Delhi government on the basis of it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||HC refuses to stay new IT rules regulating digital news media||The Delhi High Court on Monday refused to stay the new Information Technology rules which seek to regulate digital news media, saying it was not in agreement with the petitioners on passing such an order at this stage. Foundation for Independent Journalism, The Wire, Quint Digital Media Ltd and Pravda Media Foundation, parent company of Alt News, sought a stay on the Information technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, on the ground that a fresh notice has been issued to them to comply with the rules or else coercive action will be taken. A vacation bench of Justices C Hari Shankar and Subramonium Prasad said the notice has been issued to them only for implementation of notification on which there was no stay. "We are not in agreement with you. If you want we will pass a reasoned detailed order or if you want we can renotify it before the roster bench. You take instructions and let us know," the bench said. After taking instructions, senior advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, representing the news portals, urged the court to list the matter on reopening of courts after vacations. The court listed the applications for stay before the roster bench on July 7. According to amended IT rules, social media and streaming companies will be required to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist in investigations. Meanwhile, the court issued notice and sought response of the Centre on a fresh petition by Pravda Media Foundation challenging the vires of IT Rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||India overtakes US in total number of vaccines administered, informs govt||India has overtaken the US in the total number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. While India launched the COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16, and has administered over 32.36 crore doses till date, the US which started its inoculation drive on December 14, 2020 has given over 32.33 crore doses. "India achieves another milestone in COVID-19 vaccination and overtakes USA in total number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered," the ministry said.India's cumulative vaccination coverage exceeded 32.36 crores on Sunday. A total of 32,36,63,297 vaccine doses have been administered through 43,21,898 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Monday, the ministry said. It said 17,21,268 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. According to the data, so far 1,01,98,257 healthcare workers have taken the first dose while 72,07,617 have taken the second dose. As many as 1,74,42,767 frontline workers have received the first dose while 93,99,319 have taken the second dose.In the 18-44 age group, 8,46,51,696 individuals have taken then first dose, while 19,01,190 have received the second dose. In the 45-59 age group, 8,71,11,445 people have been administered the first dose, while 1,48,12,349 have taken the second dose. Besides, 6,75,29,713 people aged above 60 years have received the first dose, while, 2,34,08,944 have taken the second dose. The new phase of universalization of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||Jammu: Army sentry guns down suspected drone over brigade headquarters||An Army sentry opened fire on noticing a suspected drone hovering over brigade headquarters in the outskirts of Jammu in the early hours of Monday, official sources said. The drone was seen by the sentry of an Army Garrison at Kalu Chack around 3 am and he swiftly opened fire to bring it down, the sources said. They said the whole area outside the military station was cordoned off immediately and a massive search operation was going on when the last reports were received. Nothing objectionable has been found on the ground so far, the sources said. The latest incident comes barely a day after a drone, in a first-of-its kind strike, dropped two bombs at Indian Air Force (IAF) station here, causing minor injuries to two personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||SC closes plea on trial in sexual assault case against Tarun Tejpal||The Supreme Court on Monday closed the case related to extension of time after noting that a trial court in Goa has completed the trial by rendering acquittal verdict in the sexual assault case against Tehelka magazine founder Tarun Tejpal. On May 21, a trial court of Mapusa town of Goa acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then woman colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. The state has also filed an appeal in the case. The apex court, in October last year, had extended till March 31, 2021 the time for completing trial in the sexual assault case at the request of the trial judge. The Goa government had also earlier moved the top court seeking extension of time to complete the trial. "The trial is concluded, Now, no order is required (on extension)," a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, Vineet Saran and M R Shah said while closing the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||Maharashtra tightens curbs amid fear of 3rd Covid wave||Amid fears of a third wave of coronavirus and cases of its highly infectious 'Delta Plus' variant emerging in Maharashtra, the state tightened restrictions with effect from Monday, with essential shops allowed to remain open only till 4 pm on all days. Non-essential shops and establishments can remain open till 4 pm only on weekdays, as per a Maharashtra government notification issued last week which said the entire state will have 'level 3' restrictions. Restaurants are allowed to operate dine-in facility with 50 per cent capacity till 4 pm on weekdays and takeaways and home deliveries after that, according to the order. The suburban trains will operate only for medical staff and personnel engaged in essential services, while gyms and salons are allowed to remain open till 4 pm at 50 per cent capacity. The new order will impact cities like Nagpur, Thane and Pune as they had seen more relaxations than Mumbai, which continued to be under 'level 3' restrictions, despite qualifying for 'level 1' where all curbs are allowed to be lifted. The state government on Friday announced a 'state-level trigger' for imposing restrictions in administrative units irrespective of the weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy percentage. The weekly positivity rate regarding levels of restrictions will be determined on the basis of RT-PCR tests, and not rapid antigen or other tests, the state government had said while describing the 'Delta Plus' as a variant of concern. Restrictions in administrative units will remain at a level not below 3, the government had said, and also called for pushing for 70 per cent vaccination of eligible population in the state. Earlier this month, the state government had introduced a graded system of easing the lockdown-like curbs in each district, considering the COVID-19 weekly positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds. Districts and municipal corporations were then classified under levels 1 to 5. Accordingly, some cities and districts in the Marathwada and Vidarbha regions had lifted restrictions and some were in 'level 2'. However, last week, the Maharashtra government modified the graded system and said the entire state will have 'level 3' restrictions. District administrations have been asked to take various steps, including testing, vaccination and enforcement of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and penalty for violators. If there is an upward trend in number of coronavirus positive cases, the district disaster management authority will impose higher-level of restrictions, the order said. Attempts must be made to achieve 70 per cent vaccination of eligible population and focus should on test, track and treat methodology to contain the spread of COVID-19, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||SII asks govt to take up inclusion of Covishield in vaccination passport with EU||Serum Institute of India (SII) has requested the government to take up the matter of inclusion of Covishield vaccine in the EU COVID-19 Vaccination Passport with the European Union and other countries, citing this will affect students and business travellers and cause severe disruptions to the Indian and global economy. Only four vaccines -- Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford and Johnson & Johnson's Janssen -- have been approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and only those vaccinated by these vaccines will be given vaccination passports and will be allowed to travel within the EU during the pandemic. "India has a large population. However, not including Covishield into the EU COVID-19 Vaccination Passport will not allow Covishield vaccinated people to travel to European countries and this will affect students, business travellers back and forth, and cause severe disruptions to our economy and to the global economy," a source quoted Adar C Poonawalla, CEO of SII, as having communicated in a letter to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Sources said referring to Poonawalla's letter, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, Prakash Kumar Singh, has also sought Jaishankar's intervention at the highest level, saying, "It will be in the national interest as well as in the interest of people at large globally if Covishield vaccine is included in the EU COVID-19 Vaccination Passport." Poonawalla in his letter is learnt to have mentioned that nearly 30 crore people have already been vaccinated with Covishield in India and it is expected that more than 50 per cent of Indian population will be protected with Covishield vaccine finally. The letter also mentions that AstraZeneca-SII Covishield has been manufactured under technology transfer from Oxford/AstraZeneca and that clinical trials of the vaccine have been conducted successfully abroad and has been approved by MHRA for emergency use approval. Poonawalla on Monday said he has taken up the issues faced by Indians who have taken the Covishield jab travelling to the European Union at highest levels and hopes to resolve them soon. "I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the EU, I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries," Poonawalla said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||India logs over 46,000 fresh Covid cases in a day||India saw a single day rise of 46,148 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,02,79,331, while daily fatalities were recorded below 1000, taking the total death toll to 3,96,730, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. India saw 979 fatalities due to COVID-19 in a day, the lowest in 76 days. According to the data published at 7 am, the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 32.36 crore under Nationwide Vaccination Drive. "India achieves another milestone in COVID-19 vaccination and overtakes the USA in total number of Covid vaccine doses administered," the ministry said. The active cases declined to 5,72,994 comprising 1.89 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.80 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 13,409 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 15,70,515 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 40,63,71,279. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.94 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 21 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.81 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 46th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,93,09,607, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-26
28-06-2021||India||SPO, his wife and daughter shot dead by militants in J&K||Militants shot dead a special police officer, his wife and daughter in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district, officials said on Monday. The ultras barged into the house of SPO Fayaz Ahmad at Hariparigam in Awantipora area at around 11 pm on Sunday and opened fire on the family, the officials said. The injured were rushed to a hospital where the SPO succumbed. His wife Raja Begum and daughter Rafia also died later on. Security forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation to track down the assailants but no arrests have been made so far, the officials said on Monday. Militants have intensified attacks on cops and security forces. While an inspector and a constable were killed in Nowgam and Eidgah areas of Srinagar last week, a civilian died in a grenade attack on security forces at Barbarshah in the heart of the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Drive in Navi Mumbai to inoculate potential super-spreaders||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, which recently undertook a drive to vaccinate homeless persons and beggars against COVID-19, has now started a campaign to inoculate potential super-spreaders in the township, a civic official said on Monday. In the first phase of the new campaign, 250 employees of various medical stores in Navi Mumbai were administered vaccine doses at a special camp organised on Sunday, civic spokesperson Mahendra Konde told PTI. He said those working at medical stores come in contact with a large number of people, including sick persons, frequently. Hence, the NMMC undertook the special drive to protect them from the coronavirus infection, he said. In the first round, 169 men and 81 women working at medical stores in Sanpada area of Navi Mumbai were covered, the official said. NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said medical shop staffers have been risking their lives in the fight against COVID-19. "The special camp was organised to protect them from the infection," he said. He further said the NMMC will soon organise special camps for vaccinating those working in hotels/restaurants, petrol pumps, milk and other delivery persons, auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers, and those employed in theaters. The civic body has also been vaccinating workers of various quarries within the civic limits, Konde said. "Efforts are being made to ensure all Navi Mumbai citizens aged 18 and above receive at least one shot of the anti-COVID-19 vaccine by July 31," the official said. He said 78 vaccination centers are currently operational in the township for citizens. A mass awareness drive highlighting the need for vaccination has also been undertaken, he said, adding that volunteers who are part of the campaign are given Rs 10 as special allowance for each person they reach out to, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Fire breaks out in room in AIIMS||A fire broke out in a room adjacent to the operation theatre of Emergency Department in AIIMS here on Monday morning, Delhi Fire Service said. No one was injured, they said. A call was received at 5.04 am about a blaze in the operation theatre (OT) of Emergency Department and seven fire tenders were rushed to AIIMS, Delhi Fire Service Director Atul Garg said. The fire was brought under control very quickly, he said, adding it broke out in the store room adjacent to the OT. According to police, a PCR call was received at Hauz Khas police station at around 5.15 am about the blaze and on reaching AIIMS, sparking and smoke was observed in a dummy room near the casualty area. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "All the patients in the vicinity were evacuated. Seven fire brigade vehicles reached at the spot and extinguished the fire." The situation is now normal and under control, and there is neither any casualty nor any injury to any person, he said. Casualty area has been reopened for patients, the police said, adding an investigation is underway to ascertain the exact cause of the blaze. Another minor blaze was reported at Safdarjung hospital, fire officials said. A call was received at 7.58 am about a fire near the canteen area of the hospital. Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Garg. The fire broke out in an underground cable. It was brought under control very quickly and no injuries were reported, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Ex-VC killed over Rs 100 by intruder in Odisha’s Jharsuguda district||An 83-year-old former vice-chancellor was axed to death at his home by a suspected drunk intruder who demanded Rs 100 from the octogenarian’s wife in Odisha’s Jharsuguda district on Sunday afternoon. The victim has been identified as Dhruva Raj Naik, 83, former vice-chancellor of Sambalpur University. Prabin Dharua, 20, the suspect, has been detained. The accused belongs to Naik’s village Kuanrmal in Jharsuguda, Odisha, about 340km from here. Naik’s son-in-law Sapan Kumar told local reporters: “The accused barged into the house in an inebriated condition at 11.30am and demanded Rs 100. He had an argument with my mother in-law. Hearing the noise, others and I rushed to the spot following which he started retreating.  At that point, my father-in-law, who had gone to the market, entered the house, confronted the accused and threatened to call the police.” Dharua started retreating and Naik followed him to the gate, which he wanted to lock up to stop trespassers like him. “But suddenly Dharua, who was carrying an axe, attacked Naik with it. The accused fled leaving him bleeding profusely,” the relative said. Naik was rushed to hospital where he was declared dead. Family members said there was previous enmity between the accused and Naik. Jharsuguda SP Bikash Chandra Das told The Telegraph: “There was a heated argument between Naik and the accused. Naik was furious as the accused had entered his bedroom. We have arrested the accused from a nearbyforest.” Naik started out as a lecturer in 1962 and retired in 1998. Later, he was appointed as the vice-chancellor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Low-intensity blasts hit IAF station at Jammu airport||The heavily guarded Indian Air Force Station at Jammu airport was hit early on Sunday by two low-intensity blasts that police suspect were the first drone attacks on Indian soil and had been carried out by militants. The air force had not till Sunday night confirmed the use of drones. The IAF said two of its officials were injured but no equipment was damaged in the attack, which appears to have shaken the country’s security establishment and led to calls for a revamp of the security infrastructure at key installations. Police sources said one of the blasts occurred at 1.47am and ripped off the roof of a building in the IAF station’s technical area, injuring two officials. The other blast took place minutes later on open ground, reportedly causing no damage. Police and intelligence officials said the intended targets seemed to have been Mi17 helicopters and transport aircraft parked at the airport as well as air traffic control, but they had escaped unharmed. One bomb, however, landed not far from the ATC, operated by the air force. Police officers said the remnants of drones had been found, implying that remotely operated unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) had been turned into improvised explosive devices to target the installation. Former director-general of Jammu and Kashmir police S.P. Vaid said the attack had “added a new dimension” to the threat to India, and steps must be taken to protect “from the air” installations that are “protected from the ground”. Investigations — led by the National Investigation Agency with the participation of the IAF, police and others   — are on to ascertain whether the purported drones had been launched from across the Pakistan border, which is 15km away, or from nearby areas on the Indian side. The blasts took place hours before defence minister Rajnath Singh and the army chief, General M.M. Naravane, began a visit to neighbouring Ladakh. The attack came three days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks with Kashmir leaders in the first outreach since the special status was revoked. Jammu airport is a dual-use facility that is under the air force’s control but operates passenger flights. Officials said there was no disruption in flight operations because of the explosions. Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbag Singh said it was a terror attack and later told agencies that drones with payloads were suspected to have been used. A PTI report said investigators had scanned footage from security cameras installed on the airport’s boundary walls to try and determine where the drones had come from, but the cameras were all focused on the roadside. Sources in the security establishment said the armed forces had already procured some kind of anti-drone technology and were in the process of getting anti-drone systems in large numbers from Israel. The technologies include radio-frequency jammers that can sever communications between drones and their handlers. The police said an FIR had been registered under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The NIA has taken over the probe. Drones had earlier too been used in Jammu and Kashmir but for allegedly dropping weapons, not to carry out blasts. Additional reporting by Imran Ahmed Siddiqui from New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Vaccine: Alarming gap in available and ordered doses||An affidavit filed by the Centre in the Supreme Court suggests it has ordered 346 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for delivery up to July 2021 and received another 10 million doses from a global facility, the total still over 30 per cent lower than the projected available 516 million doses. One possible explanation for the gap between the 516 million doses projected as available until July and the 346 million actually ordered by the Centre and the 10 million received from Covax might be that the balance doses were ordered by the states and private hospitals between May 1 and June 20. Private hospitals could directly place orders till June 20. An email query sent to the health ministry by this newspaper seeking a clarification on the gap between the projected available doses and the supplies received has not evoked a response. In the new policy that kicked in from June 21, the Centre has said 25 per cent of vaccines will be set aside for the private sector but the procurement will be facilitated by the government. If indeed the gap between 516 million projected available doses and  356 million ordered and received doses till  July is accounted for by orders placed by states and private hospitals, little seems to be amiss legally. But perception-wise, any confirmation that a part of such a huge quantity of doses — 160 million or 16 crore — was diverted to the private sector could escalate a political storm, especially when a Rajya Sabha MP and an academic have approached the Supreme Court challenging the Narendra Modi government’s vaccine private quota policy. If the quantity given to the private sector is minimal, the Centre would find it easier to weather any questions linked to this particular affidavit. But since the gap figure of 160 million doses or 30 per cent in just less than two months (May 1 to June 20) is closer to the 25 per cent quota in the new policy, it is also an indication of the quantities the private sector will be handling if the quota remains intact. The doses dispensed by the private sector are far more expensive than the government-administered ones. On June 8, a government table had indicated around 180 million or 18 crore doses would be procured by the states and the private sector till July. But it did not draw too much attention until the matter reached the court. Anecdotal evidence so far suggests most of the doses would have been procured by the state governments and on payment till June 20, which will again bring under stress the Centre’s boast of “free vaccination”. The June 26 affidavit, in a section describing future availability of vaccines, says the Centre has procured 346 million doses and an additional 10 million doses has been received from Covax, an international mechanism for the supply of vaccines. Apart from these supplies, the health ministry document says, it is expected that around 160 million doses “will also be available” from May through July 2021. This would raise the total available doses from January through July to 516 million doses. But in another section describing funds utilisation, supply timelines and supply status, the affidavit shows that the Centre has through three purchase orders, the last one dated May 5, ordered 346 million doses for delivery from January to July 2021. And that the supplies from a fourth purchase order on June 5 for 440 million doses (250 million doses of Covishield and 190 million doses of Covaxin) are expected to start in August. The affidavit also says the Centre had until June 12 received 221 million doses in five months since mid-January, with 75 million doses of Covishield and 50 million doses of Covaxin expected to be received through July that would take the total to 346 million. Experts said the supplies shown appear inconsistent with the Serum Institute’s production capacity of 65 million Covishield doses per month and Bharat Biotech’s 20 million doses per month described in an earlier affidavit filed by the health ministry. At a production capacity of 85 million doses per month, the country’s vaccination campaign should have had access to 255 million doses in just three months, instead of 221 million doses in five months. Spokespersons for Serum and Bharat had said earlier this year that both companies had stockpiled doses prior to the vaccination campaign. A Serum spokesperson had said it has stockpiled 50 million doses and could provide 100 million doses a month by March while a Bharat Biotech spokesperson said it stockpiled 20 million doses and could supply 120 million doses by July. “The numbers in the new affidavit suggest that the actual supplies have not been in line with claimed production capacity,” said R. Ramakumar, professor of development studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, who had earlier raised questions about vaccine supplies. Ramakumar is one of the petitioners in the Supreme Court against the vaccine private quota policy. The June 26 affidavit says 1,350 million doses (500 million Covishield, 400 million Covaxin, 100 million Sputnik V and 350 million doses of two new vaccines yet to be approved) are expected to become available from August through December. Senior health officials have said the Centre is hoping to procure sufficient doses to vaccinate by the end of the year nearly all of the estimated 930 to 940 million people, 18 years or older, eligible for vaccination. This would require 1,860 million to 1,880 million doses. The vaccination campaign had until Sunday administered more than 321 million doses. Nearly 56.6 million people (about 6 per cent of an estimated eligible 940 million) have received both doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: ‘Union govt’ reference angers Centre-struck state BJP unit||Does calling a spade a hoe blunt its edge? The Tamil Nadu BJP is in uproar because the new DMK government has been referring to the Government of India as “ondriya arasu” (Union government) instead of the conventional “mathiya arasu” (central government) in all official communication. William Shakespeare would surely not have objected if he knew Tamil, since both terms refer to the same entity and are interchangeable in common parlance. But to the state BJP, the change of wording does not smell so good. The DMK has explained that “Union government” emphasises the federal nature of the Indian Union while “central government” inspires visions of “over-centralisation” — of a concentration of all power in one entity. It’s precisely this that’s got the BJP’s goat. The party has attributed the change of phraseology to sinister “motives” of “demeaning” the Government of India and passed a resolution condemning it at a meeting attended by Union minister of state V.K. Singh. Party hardliner Karu Nagarajan has threatened to move court while senior functionaries such as state unit general secretary K.T. Raghavan have trained their guns on chief minister M.K. Stalin. They have claimed that Stalin’s predecessors in the DMK, such as his father M. Karunanidhi or party founder C.N. Annadurai, did not use “Union government” to refer to the government in Lutyens Delhi. An unruffled Stalin replied to the charges in the Assembly on Wednesday, saying: “Some are trying to portray the use of ‘ondriya arasu’ by us as some kind of a social crime. It is not so. Our usage is legal and perfectly in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Indian Constitution.” Stalin underlined that “India that is Bharat shall be a Union of States” is the very first line in the Preamble to the Constitution.“We are using the words (‘Union government’) precisely in that sense and not as something that is not there in the Constitution,” he said. He denied that the usage was a departure from past DMK practice. “The DMK had used the term ‘Indian Union’ in its very first election manifesto in 1957 to refer to the Government of India,” Stalin said. The Government of India is not known to refer to itself as “Union government” in its orders or communications, using mostly “Government of India” but also “Union of India” in legal contexts and “Republic of India” in foreign affairs. Stalin’s reply did not end the controversy. Two days later, the state BJP’s executive committee met and passed a resolution accusing the DMK of “demeaning the central government” by referring to it as “Union government”. “The BJP considers that while there is no crime in saying ‘Union government’, there is some other intention behind the DMK’s use of that term,” the resolution added. Observers suggested the BJP’s stand reflected the RSS notion of India as “one entity” from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, with the states having been formed only for “administrative purposes”. A retired bureaucrat in Calcutta drew a parallel with the decision by the framers of the Constitution to drop the use of “province” — as was the practice under British rule — for “state”. He said the Founding Fathers believed that “province” connoted remoteness from the centre of things and denigrated the states’ sovereignty, picturing them as mere administrative divisions whose powers could be taken away at will. The veteran civil servant, who did not wish to be quoted, added that in its communications with the Bengal administration, the Government of India “more often than not” referred to itself as “central government”. Some observers suggested that the BJP’s anger stemmed partly from a longstanding perception among some that any emphasis by the DMK on the states’ powers or autonomy was imbued with a desire for “secession”. However, the DMK had under Annadurai given up its “Dravida Nadu” demand way back in 1962 following the Chinese aggression and fully supported the war efforts of the then Congress government in Delhi. In his Assembly reply, Stalin cited a speech Annadurai had delivered in the Rajya Sabha in December 1963 (during the debate on the Constitution’s 16th Amendment Bill that sought to ban political parties advocating secession from contesting elections) that had made the DMK’s position on Centre-state relations clear. Quoting from Annadurai’s speech, Stalin said: “The Preamble to the Constitution says that the political sovereignty rests with the people. Then ‘legal sovereignty’ is divided between the federal union and the constituent units (states).” Annadurai had stressed in his speech that the framers of the Constitution “wanted a federal structure and not a unitary structure”. Stalin also recalled the words of the late C. Rajagopalachari, the only Indian to hold the post of governor-general and who later became a minister in Jawaharlal Nehru’s cabinet, that “true federalism” would become a reality only when the “enormous powers concentrated at the Centre” were diluted. “There is nothing illegal in our use of the term ‘ondriya arasu’ and there need be no hue and cry about it,” Stalin said. He said the expression succinctly captured the “federal” spirit of the Constitution and emphasised his government would “continue to use it”. Additional reporting by our Bengal bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Covid: Lockdown turns Odisha bus owner into vegetable seller||Panchanan Sahu, a 42-year-old bus owner from Kandhamal with a fleet of five minibuses, now sells vegetables with the pandemic having frozen the transport business. Sahu said one of his problems was that while his income from his buses had plummeted to zero, he still had to pay the insurance premium and permit fee — both of them hiked during the pandemic — and road tax. “Most of my 20 employees have left, their dues unpaid. Only five have stayed on, selling vegetables with me and looking after the buses, which are in poor condition,” Sahu told The Telegraph. “Whatever the earning from selling vegetables, I share with them.” Sahu, whose buses plied within Kandhamal district, said he had started his transport business with loans in 2004. “Within 15 years, I had bought five buses for myself and two for my brother. But things began getting complicated with the hike in insurance premium and the prices of fuel, tyres and other bus parts,” he said. “Still I managed to remain afloat. But the pandemic has spelt doom for the transport business.” Sahu fears that even if the government lifts the lockdown on July 1, as expected, he might not be able to run his buses. “None of the buses are in fit condition. Their tyres, batteries and engines are damaged from prolonged non-use. It will take Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 to get even one bus roadworthy,” he said. “I have survived the past one year selling vegetables. Now I shall have to take a loan to have the buses repaired.” During the last 15 months, Sahu’s buses have run only from October 2020 to April 2021, that too at half capacity. Another bus owner from Kandhamal, Tulu Patnaik, 56, said: “Panchanan Babu is young and started his career as a support staff member in a bus. He may be selling vegetables for a living but that’s not possible for everyone. I, at least, cannot do it. Age is a factor.” Patnaik too complained that apart from the lockdown, the high insurance premiums and permit fees and the rising fuel prices have “made life miserable for a bus owner”. Debasis Nayak, a senior member of the All Odisha Bus Owners’ Association, said: “Bus owners have begun evading their own staff because they can’t pay salaries. Many bus owners have failed to pay their EMIs for their new buses, which come to at least Rs 30,000 a month. Sometimes it crosses Rs 1 lakh.” Nayak, whose transport business is based in Bhubaneswar, added: “Besides, the road tax varies between Rs 10,000 and Rs 20,000 depending on the nature of the bus. Insurance money is another headache for a bus owner. You can’t imagine how the bus owners, especially those from lower-middle-class backgrounds, have survived in these times.” The government should give Odisha’s nearly 14,000 bus owners “a consolidated amount of Rs 1 lakh as interest-free loan which can be repaid in a year”, said the general secretary of the association, Debendra Kumar Sahoo, a bus owner from Cuttack. Sahoo said the government should also exempt bus owners from paying road taxes at least for the period between July and September this year. Prodded by the association, the Odisha government has written to the Centre asking that bus owners’ EMIs on bank loans be deferred by a year. Transport minister Padmanabha Behera said the state had also sought an interest waiver on bus owners’ bank loans for the period between April and June this year. “We have further requested that their insurance coverage be extended without the payment of any extra premium,” Behera said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Mumbai Samachar, India's oldest newspaper, turns 200 ||In the heart of south Mumbai's heritage Fort precinct, a bright red building houses the unassuming offices of an enduring institution that will soon turn 200 -- Gujarati daily Mumbai Samachar'.  Still going strong despite reverses in the print media industry the last few years, Mumbai Samachar will celebrate its 200th year on July 1 after seeing through two pandemics, two world wars, and the growth of a city thriving in myriad avatars, from a textile and mercantile hub to a buzzing financial and film industry capital.  Mumbai Samachar's director Hormusji Cama says that 20 years ago the newspaper conducted research and found that it is the oldest surviving publication in India and the fourth oldest in the world.  Bombay Samachar (as it was called then) started as a weekly in 1822 to primarily inform the readers about ship movements and commodities, and gradually evolved into a true city newspaper with a focus on trade that it is today.  Fardunjee Marzban, a Parsi scholar, started the publication four years after the Bengali newspaper Samachar Darpan was launched, to become the second non-English newspaper published in India. Then named Moombina Samachar, it was a weekly for the first 10 years, then a bi-weekly and has been a daily newspaper since 1855.  The paper exchanged several hands before the Cama family took over in 1933.  Cama Norton and Co. was a supplier of newsprint and ink to Mumbai Samachar, then owned by the Belgaumwala family. The Camas had approached the court against non-payment of arrears by Belgaumwalas and sought liquidation proceedings. The court instead asked Camas to take over the newspaper and salvage it, citing the livelihoods of employees that would be lost if the paper were to shut down. The Camas agreed.  Since then the publication has steadily grown and today it boasts of the most advanced technologies available in the field of publishing.  Cama, its present director and a passionate vintage car collector, insists that placing the reader in the centre is the key to the newspaper's success.  As long as your content is in demand, you will be around, he told PTI.  A variety of factors led the newspaper to increase its cover price to Rs 10 per copy Cama quips it is not just the oldest newspaper but also one of the most expensive in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic. But it continues to be supported by a loyal readership despite a dip in circulation that used to be 1.5 lakh before the pandemic.  Even with the fall in circulation, the newspaper is among the few which delivered profits in the fiscal year 2020-21, said Cama, who is also a director on the Board of The Press Trust of India, a not-for-profit private news cooperative.  (PTI is owned by several newspaper shareholders, who do not receive any dividends from the company's profits, as their purpose is to ensure that the country has a thriving, independent, neutral news agency that can serve all media organisations).  To limit the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, Mumbai Samachar increased the cover price by Rs 2, reduced the number of pages and imposed cost control measures like a salary cut for senior management and no emoluments at all for those at the top to ensure that the business thrives, Cama said. He added that not a single staffer of the family of 150 people was retrenched.  We do not believe in retrenching people at all. People who have given us the prime of their lives cannot be asked to go because of things beyond their control like technology changes. We train them, and they adapt, says the proud director.  The Cama family believes in giving complete freedom to the editors. Cama desists from speaking on editorial strategies, directing queries on such matters to editor Nilesh Dave. The newspaper has always been apolitical, believing in constructive criticism and focusing on positivity, Cama says.  The newspaper has never been sensationalist in its coverage, Cama says, ruing the tendency among some journalists to embellish news stories for grabbing attention. When told that the bright red exteriors may lead someone to assume that it is a fiery newspaper's office, Cama points out that the name of the building is Red House' and it cannot be coated in any other colour.  Seated in the ground floor newsroom, Dave says he has never received a single call from the management with any request. Despite the Gujarati readership, which tends to favour the current government, the paper's editorials are critical of some government policies as well, he says.  Its ability to continue doing so may lie in a decision the Cama family took long ago and has followed diligently. The proprietors do not have any other business interests beyond the newspaper, and this helps ensure the newspaper's independence is never compromised.  The strategy to make the reader pay for content Cama says the reader should not value it less than a cutting chai' (Mumbai lingo for half a portion of tea mostly served in a special kind of glass instead of a cup) acts as a safety valve.  Cama says Mumbai Samachar has never sold space to quacks or those making dubious claims like curing COVID-19, while Dave says the space devoted to ads stays within 20 per cent.  In the last few years, with regional language publications coming under pressure, Mumbai Samachar has started initiatives to grow its Gujarati readership and keep Gujarati theatre thriving, Dave says. He adds that such initiatives were a major driving factor for a 35 per cent growth in the newspaper's circulation in the pre-pandemic days.  The other initiatives include holding Gujarati book fairs, which have led to the sale of titles worth over Rs 4 crore till now, Dave says.  The newspaper had planned a mega event to commemorate the 200th anniversary, but such a celebration was not possible amid the second wave of the pandemic, Dave said. Other initiatives, especially the unsung heroes' project will continue and to mark the special anniversary, Mumbai Samachar will felicitate health workers for their stellar services in the pandemic.  Asked about the broad changes the newspaper has outlined for its new century, Cama says, We are not very ambitious and our set of values have worked well for us till now. We will continue on the same path that has made Mumbai Samachar what it is.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||India-China: Rajnath Singh in Ladakh amid Beijing build-up||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday met the military leadership in Ladakh amid massive Chinese build-up at the remaining friction points inside India-claimed lines along the Line of Actual Control. Accompanied by army chief General M.M. Naravane, Rajnath arrived in Ladakh to take stock of India’s military preparedness in the region in the wake of the border standoff with China that started in May last year. Rajnath’s visit comes at a time China is said to be resisting the Indian demand for the restoration of status quo ante. The Chinese army is reluctant to disengage from the remaining friction points — Hot Springs, Gogra and the Depsang Plains. “Leaving New Delhi for Ladakh. During my visit, I shall be interacting with the troops and attending the inaugural function of several infrastructure projects constructed by Border Roads Organisation (BRO). Looking forward to it,” Rajnath had said in a tweet earlier in the day. This is also the first visit by the defence minister to Ladakh after India and China had moved back from their positions on the lake’s north and south banks by creating a buffer zone within India-claimed lines under the disengagement process in February. Earlier this month, a ground assessment by Indian forces suggested only a “partial” disengagement by the Chinese from the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake. “After the partial disengagement from Pangong Lake in February, the Chinese army has now been iterating its claim that the occupied zones in the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra is their territory. They want Indian troops to retreat further within India-claimed lines, as at the Pangong Lake and the Galwan Valley,” said a defence ministry official. Sources in the security establishment said the Chinese army had been building up considerably along the LAC over the past one year, raising tension in the region. Chinese continued to occupy areas within India-claimed lines also at Hot Springs and Gogra and the strategically crucial Depsang Plains where they were preventing Indian patrols from accessing the Line of Control. So far, 11 rounds of military talks have taken place without any breakthrough. “The defence minister is scheduled to visit various key formations and high altitude bases in the region to assess ground realities and boost the morale of the troops deployed at the LAC,” said an army official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-27
28-06-2021||India||Sangharsh Morcha proposes extra 50-day work under NREGA||A civil society group has demanded an extra 50 days’ work per person under the rural job guarantee scheme over and above the provision of up to 100 days’ work per family every year. Under the NREGA Sangharsh Morcha’s proposal, communicated in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a family with one job card holder will be entitled to 150 days’ work while one with two will get 200 days’ work and so on. The Morcha has sought the relief only for financial year 2021-22, citing the pandemic-fuelled rise in unemployment. Debmalaya Nandi, a social activist associated with the Morcha, said the government must make additional fund allocations for the scheme, implemented under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. “The scheme’s implementation has been poor in many states because of erratic funds release by the Centre. The government must make additional allocations and increase the permissible workdays,” Nandi said. According to the job scheme’s website, more than 1.07 lakh households had exhausted their 100 days by June 14, that is, 75 days into the new financial year. Nandi said that various government and private projects had stopped or been drastically reduced in rural areas, drying up employment opportunities. He said the joblessness across sectors had increased the demand on the rural job scheme, turning it into families’ main source of livelihood. “This will continue till the start of the rabi season (in November),” Nandi said, referring to the winter when more labour-intensive crops are grown, necessitating the hiring of farm hands. In its letter, the Morcha has quoted data published by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private research group that surveys the job situation in the country. According to the CMIE, the monthly unemployment rate in the country in May this year was 11.9 per cent — 14.73 per cent in urban areas and 10.63 per cent in rural areas — with over 1.5 crore jobs lost that month. With businesses shut, jobs lost and salaries slashed, many people are pledging their gold savings to borrow money for essential expenditures and medical emergencies. According to the latest Reserve Bank data, loans against gold have jumped 82 per cent since March last year. Migrant labourers are struggling to find work because of local lockdowns. A survey by the Stranded Workers Action Network, a civil society group, between April 21 and May 31 found that 82 per cent of the respondents had at most two days’ rations left and 76 per cent had at most Rs 200 left with them. Swan had surveyed 1,396 workers’ groups made up of 8,023 people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
28-06-2021||India||Covid: Lack of supplies chokes Bihar’s vaccination drive||Jamui district, with a population of around 20 lakh, received 260 vaccine vials on Saturday. Begusarai district, where over 30 lakh people reside, got 200 vials on Friday and none on Saturday. Bihar’s vaccination drive has slowed down to a trickle because of lack of supplies, but the Nitish Kumar government that has the BJP as its dominant partner has been silent, showing nothing of the urgency the other states have been displaying while demanding increased supplies from the Centre. The majority of the 38 districts of Bihar have been getting a meagre supply of vaccines since early last week, with no consignment having arrived from the Centre in the past two days, sources in the state government said. Officials said Bihar needed to have a stock of 25 lakh vaccine doses to run its vaccination drive. They could not say how many doses were currently available as the state does not maintain an inventory, but said the stocks were “negligible”. Vaccination camps have had to be called off in many places across Bihar because of the shortage. With the number of shots administered dipping sharply, the state government discontinued its daily vaccination bulletins from Thursday. “The supply of vaccines has been decreasing over the past few days. The last batch contained just 200 vials and we could inoculate people at just a couple of places in the district. Before that, we had received 700 vials,” Begusarai civil surgeon Vinay Kumar Jha told this newspaper. Several civil surgeons fear that calling off vaccination camps or schedules would hobble the drive to inoculate all eligible people by this year-end. “There was much hesitation among people over taking Covid vaccines in the initial phases, but the momentum had picked up after we took several measures, including publicity campaigns. However, the lack of supply is impeding the flow of the drive,” Khagaria civil surgeon Ajay Kumar Singh said. Nitish had on June 21 announced a campaign to vaccinate six crore people in the state in six months. Bihar is languishing towards the bottom of the vaccination chart in terms of coverage. It has been able to administer at least one shot to just over 1.5 crore people, or around 12.5 per cent of its 12 crore population. Close to 20 per cent of India’s population has received at least one dose of Covid vaccine. Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey told The Telegraph that the supplies would “improve from tomorrow (Monday)”. “Only 10 crore vaccines were produced in June. It will go up to 17 crore in July. Naturally its availability will improve,” he said. Health department special secretary Manoj Kumar acknowledged that Bihar was facing a situation of “irregular supply of vaccines, which has created a scarcity. We are not getting them, which is why we are facing the problem.” “The Centre does not hold consultations with the states about their requirement of vaccine doses. It allots them on its own. We don’t know about its criteria. However, we have been told that the supplies will become all right from June 29,” Manoj Kumar told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
28-06-2021||India||Covid: Study shows Delta strain is a threat even after vaccination ||Fresh lines of evidence have amplified concerns among health researchers that the highly infectious Delta variant driving India’s second Covid-19 wave also has the capacity to cause infections in people believed protected by vaccination or by previous Covid-19 episodes. Researchers have found that the Delta variant, which now makes up over 50 per cent of sequenced viruses from new Covid-19 cases in eight states including Bengal, dominated infection clusters among vaccinated healthcare workers in three Delhi hospitals. While severe disease in fully vaccinated healthcare workers was rare, the clusters of infections among the vaccinated individuals are “concerning”, the researchers from multiple institutions in India and the UK have said in a new study. Their study has also suggested that the Delta variant has spread fast through its high transmissibility and capacity to evade immune responses and is able to dodge 20 to 55 per cent of immune protection provided by prior Covid-19 infections. Lab measurements have indicated that antibodies generated by Covishield and Covaxin, among other Covid-19 vaccines, show reduced activity against the Delta variant, but the Indian Council of Medical Research has said residual activity is strong enough for both vaccines to work against the variant. Senior ICMR officials have also underlined that vaccines work not only through antibodies but also through other arms of the immune system that can help mitigate the impact of a viral infection. The new study by researchers at the University of Cambridge, India’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, and collaborating hospitals in Delhi has provided fresh insights into how the Delta variant contributed to the second wave. In a set of biological experiments, the researchers also observed that the Delta variant showed increased replication in tissues designed to mimic human airway cells, a feature they believe could lead to higher viral loads and easier transmission. The Delta variant’s footprint has expanded in India alongside the second wave. The variant spread from one district in December 2020 to 52 districts by March 2021 and 174 by June, said Sujeet Singh, director of the NCDC, a lab coordinating a nationwide coronavirus genome sequencing effort. In eight states — Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab and Telangana — the Delta variant now makes up more than 50 per cent of viruses sequenced from samples of new Covid-19 cases, Singh said. Singh and other officials have asserted that irrespective of the variant in circulation, the response measures remain the same — early testing, treating, contact tracing, precautions such as masks and crowd avoidance, and vaccination. The India-UK researchers hypothesised that given its capacity to evade immune responses, the Delta variant might compromise vaccine efficacy and sequenced so-called breakthrough infections among vaccinated healthcare workers. In one Delhi hospital, they observed 30 Covid-19 infections among its 3,800 vaccinated staff and found on sequencing that the majority were caused by the Delta variant. They probed two other large hospitals and found the Delta variant similarly dominating infections among vaccinated staff there. Their study observed 10 infection clusters during April and May caused by Delta in inoculated healthcare workers, most of whom had been fully vaccinated with two doses. But those infected after vaccinations did not develop severe disease — none needed ventilation, only one needed oxygen. While the findings raise concerns about breakthrough infections, medical researchers not associated with the study said the absence of severe disease underlined the need for India to quickly accelerate its vaccination campaign. However, independent studies have indicated that the coronavirus is gaining strategic mutations that might allow it to escape immune responses and that vaccines would require continual redesign. The ICMR’s director-general, Balram Bhargava, said on Friday that vaccine redesign was an option, should that become necessary in the future. “If need be, the vaccine composition can be changed as per the circulating variants of concern,” Bhargava said. “That can be done easily, more easily with the mRNA vaccines (such as Pfizer or Moderna), but also with whole virion vaccines (such as Covaxin) or other vaccines.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-28
