29-06-2021||India||Delhi records surge in Covid cases||The numbers recorded on Tuesday marked a steep rise in the number of Covid cases recorded on Monday (59) and Sunday (89). A day after recording the lowest number of coronavirus cases, the national capital recorded 101 new cases of the viral infection. According to the health department bulletin, Delhi in the past 24 hours, recorded four deaths and 119 recoveries. According to a Hindustan Times report, the total number of cases in the national capital now stands at 1,434,094. However, the number of recoveries continue to outnumber the number of daily cases being registered. The report indicates that the positivity rate reached 0.15% after 66,397 samples were tested, of which 101 came back positive. Significantly, in the past 30 days Delhi’s positivity rate was below 1%. The numbers recorded also marks an increase from the 58,895 tested a day prior, which took the positivity rate to 0.10%. According data available, a total of 42,973 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests, and 23,424 rapid antigen tests have been conducted in the previous 24 hours in Delhi. The HT report further indicated that 204,711 beneficiaries had been immunised on Tuesday. Around 164,715 of the those vaccinated were had received their first dose, and 39,996 were jabbed with their second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
29-06-2021||India||Covid: 49% of population aged 60 years and above vaccinated||A marked increase in the pace of Covid-19 vaccination has been observed from June 21 with around 4.61 crore doses being administered in eight days, which is more than the population of Iraq (4.02 crore), Canada (3.77 crore), Saudi Arabia (3.48 crore) and Malaysia (3.23 crore), the government said on Tuesday. On an average, 57.68 lakh doses of the vaccine were administered per day which is more than the population of Finland (55.41 lakh), Norway (54.21 lakh) and New Zealand (48.22 lakh), Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said addressing a press conference. The new revised guidelines of Covid-19 vaccination came into effect from June 21, according to which the Centre will now procure 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country. In order to incentivise production by vaccine manufacturers and encourage new vaccines, domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to also provide vaccines directly to private hospitals. This would be restricted to 25 per cent of their monthly production, the new guidelines stated. Agarwal informed that 49 per cent of the population aged 60 years and above has been vaccinated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The government highlighted that the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 33.11 crore so far. Out of an estimated 59.7 crore people in the age group of 18-44 years, 15 per cent have been vaccinated with the first dose of the vaccine, it said. Agarwal said from June 21-28, 57.68 lakh average daily doses have been delivered. "A marked increase in vaccine administration in the present phase (June 21-28) with 4.61 crore doses administered in 8 days which is more than the population of Iraq (4.02 crore), Canada (3.77 crore), Saudi Arabia (3.48 crore) and Malaysia (3.23 crore)," he said. From May 1 to June 24, 56 per cent doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been given in rural areas, while 44 per cent have been administered in urban areas, he said. Of the total number of vaccinations so far, Aggarwal said 46 per cent women have been inoculated and 54 per cent men have received the jabs. A total of 54,693 other gender have also been given vaccines during the period, Agarwal said. There are 20.9 crore people aged between 45-59 years, out of which 42 per cent have been vaccinated with the first dose of the Covid vaccine, Agarwal said. A decline of almost 92 per cent has been noted in the daily Covid-19 cases since the highest reported peak on May 7. A sharp decline of over 85 per cent has been noted in weekly positivity since the highest reported weekly positivity of 21.3 per cent reported between May 4 to May 10. India launched its Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 and has so far administered over 33.11 crore doses, while the UK which began the drive on December 8 has administered around 7.67 crore doses. The US which started the drive on December 14 has administered over 32.44 crore doses while Italy, Germany and France which launched their inoculation drive on December 27 have administered around 4.98 crore, 7.21 crore and 5.24 crore doses respectively, he said. India took 163 days to reach the 32 crore mark, while the US took 193 days. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said there is an improvement in the pandemic situation but stressed on maintaining caution. "There are 111 districts where more than 100 daily cases are being reported and it is in our peninsula region -- Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal. Concern in the face of an ongoing pandemic of this nature must continue to be on our minds...lowering of guard is not acceptable," he said. "We would like to see increased proportion of women coming to vaccination booths for receiving the vaccine so that skew in gender can also get corrected," he added. On vaccination of lactating mothers, he said all four Covid-19 vaccines presently approved in India are safe for them. "They must take it and no specific precaution is needed and they should get vaccinated. This is scientifically valid and applicable to all the vaccines that have been licensed," he said. "With full authority and science and research, I want to say there is no side effect of infertility associated with vaccines and it is rumour mongering and raising doubts so please don't believe them. There is no chance with any infertility, male or female, in relation to any licensed vaccine -- Covaxin, Covishield, Sputnik-V and Moderna," he said. On a question why the death toll remains high, he said death rates were higher in the second wave as compared to the first wave. "I have no doubt that the deaths are declining and are on a downswing and it is only a matter of time. It is essentially the lag due to which these are there, but some of the serious cases that prolonged from more intense phases are also adding up to this situation," he said. On the Delta plus variant of Covid-19, he said scientific data on transmissibility, severity or vaccine efficacy against this variant is not available yet. "It is being monitored and scientific action is being taken," he added. On vaccination of pregnant women, Agarwal said NTAGI recommendation has come to the Health Ministry and it is being examined and it will be examined with other stakeholders too, and required orders based on that will be issued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
29-06-2021||India||House panel seeks Twitter’s response on locking Ravi Shankar Prasad, Shashi Tharoor’s accounts||A parliamentary panel on Tuesday asked Twitter to explain with 48 hours why it had blocked access of Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor to their accounts, sources said. The missive from the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, headed by Tharoor, came amid a continuous tussle between the microblogging platform and the central government over various issues, including new IT rules. The panel was instructed by Tharoor to seek reply from Twitter on the blocking of access to accounts of Prasad and others on its platform, the sources said. Last week, Twitter had blocked Union Information and Technology Minister Prasad from accessing his account which ratcheted up tensions with the government as it came under renewed attack for not following local laws. Twitter denied Prasad access to his account '@rsprasad' for almost an hour on the grounds that he violated the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, but the minister said the microblogging platform violated new IT rules that require intermediary or a host of user content to give prior notice before locking access. The IT minister called out Twitter over the brazen arbitrariness and running its “own agenda”. Soon after Prasad flagged the issue, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted that he too had faced something similar. “Raviji, the same thing just happened to me. Clearly DMCA is getting hyperactive. This tweet has been deleted by @Twitter because its video includes the copyrighted BoneyM song ‘Rasputin’,” Tharoor tweeted. Tharoor further said: "As Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, I can state that we will be seeking an explanation from @TwitterIndia for the locking of @rsprasad's & my accounts & the rules & procedures they follow while operating in India". Prasad lashed out at Twitter, and in a series of posts on rival social media platform Koo said it was apparent that his statements calling out the “high handedness and arbitrary actions” of Twitter, had ruffled feathers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
29-06-2021||India||Punjab Assembly elections 2022: Rahul says no meeting with Navjot ||Rahul Gandhi today said there was no meeting scheduled with Navjot Singh Sidhu a day after the disgruntled Punjab Congress leader's team said he had a "meeting with the Gandhis". On Monday, Navjot Sidhu's team had said he would meet with Rahul Gandhi and his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi. The cricketer-turned-politician had sought a meeting with the Gandhis to press for his demands in the middle of his intense feud with Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. So had Amarinder Singh, who was in Delhi last week for a second meeting with the three-member Congress committee formed by party chief Sonia Gandhi to resolve the Punjab infighting. His expected meet with the Gandhis did not happen, even though the party made it clear that he will lead the Congress in the election. It was surprising, in the circumstances, when Mr Sidhu's office announced that he was meeting with the Gandhis today. Both Amarinder Singh and Mr Sindhu have met with the committee more than once. However, no solution so far has achieved the approval of either. Mr Sidhi, a former BJP leader who joined the Congress ahead of the 2017 Punjab election, has made it clear to the party leadership that he is no longer ready to be treated as a "showpiece" during the election campaign. He has repeatedly targeted the Chief Minister, accusing him of sidelining him and trying to suppress him. According to NDTV despite the panel suggesting that Mr Sidhu's candidates should be given a share in the cabinet and in the Congress in Punjab, Amarinder Singh has been resistant to the idea. Mr Sidhu, 57, who is known to have Rahul Gandhi's support and is a hugely popular face with a following both in the state and the party, is among several leaders challenging Mr Singh's leadership in the state. One of the key triggers of the revolt is the Punjab government's legal setback in a 2015 case involving the desecration of the Sikh religious text Guru Granth Sahib and police firing during peaceful protests. Mr Sidhu and other critics of the Chief Minister say his government did not do enough to bring justice in the case. The most recent flashpoint was Mr Singh's move to give government jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs on "compassionate" grounds -- Mr Sidhu had accused him of giving jobs to elitist people". Last week, Mr Sidhu told NDTV he was ready to work with Mr Singh but only if the Chief Minister met promises made to the people before the last assembly elections. He also refuted allegations that he damaging the party in one of the few states where it was in power on its own steam. "It is damaging if you address issues like sacrilege? Every MLA is raising this issue. All 78 MLAs are with me," he questioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: 22 district panchayat chiefs elected unopposed||Chairpersons of 22 zila panchayats out of a total of 75 in Uttar Pradesh were on Tuesday declared elected unopposed by the state poll panel with the BJP claiming victory in 21 seats. The remaining one seat in the Etawah district was bagged by the Samajwadi Party. The voting for the remaining 53 seats of district panchayat chairpersons will be held on July 3, from 11 am to 3 pm, the Uttar Pradesh Election Commission said. UP State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar, in a statement on Tuesday, said chairpersons of zila panchayats in 22 districts have been elected unopposed. The poll panel did not announce the party affiliation of winning candidates but the BJP later claimed victory over 21 seats and the SP over one of the Etawah distrct. The districts where whose zila panchayat chairperson won unopposed are Saharanpur, Bahraich, Etawah, Chitrakoot, Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Moradabad, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Banda, Shravasti, Balrampur, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Mau, Varanasi, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Process of relaxing lockdown restrictions should be carefully calibrated, says govt||The Centre asked the states on Tuesday to focus on the five-fold strategy for effective COVID-19 management and said the process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated. In an advisory to all the state governments and Union Territory administrations on COVID-19 management for the month of July, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also said the states should regularly monitor the districts with a high number of active coronavirus cases per million (10 lakh) population as it is an important indicator to predict the need for upgrading the health infrastructure and logistics, so that early and prompt action can be taken. He said with the decline in the number of active coronavirus cases, many states have started relaxing the restrictions. Bhalla said the process of relaxing the restrictions should be "carefully calibrated", and prompt and targeted action needs to be taken by the states, in line with the advisory issued by the Union health ministry. "States, UTs should closely monitor case positivity and bed occupancy on a regular basis, taking the districts as administrative units. "On witnessing any early sign of an increase in the case positivity rate and higher bed occupancy, necessary action should be taken for containment and upgrading the health infrastructure," the communication said. The home secretary said for the districts with a high positivity rate and bed occupancy, the states may consider imposing restrictions. "There should be a continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for an effective management of COVID-19 i.e. test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour," he said. Bhalla said as has been emphasised in previous home ministry orders and advisories, adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour is crucial to guard against any surge in the number of cases. To reiterate, Covid-appropriate behaviour includes mandatory use of face masks, hand hygiene, following physical, social distancing (maintaining a two-yard distance with anybody) and proper ventilation of closed places, he added. While easing the restrictions, it must be ensured that there is no let up in adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, the home secretary said. "I would, therefore, urge you to issue directions to the districts and all other authorities concerned to take necessary measures as advised by the health ministry in its letter dated June 28 for the management of COVID-19. "I would also advise that the orders issued by the respective state governments, UT administrations, district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and the field functionaries for their proper implementation," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Delhi Police book Twitter over access to child pornography||The Delhi Police has registered an FIR against Twitter for allegedly allowing access to child pornography on the microblogging platform on a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), officials said on Tuesday. The case has been registered under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the IT Act, they said. This comes days after the NCPCR, the country's apex child rights body, asked Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy to explain why no action had been taken against Twitter as per its letter to the Delhi Police dated May 29. In its letter, the NCPCR had asked the Delhi Police to book Twitter on the basis of the findings of its recent inquiry in which it had found that child sexual abuse material (CSAM) was easily available on the platform. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal said, "Acting on a complaint received from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights regarding the availability of child sexual abuse and child pornographic material on Twitter in the form of various accounts and links, an FIR under relevant sections of IPC, IT Act and POCSO Act has been registered by the Cyber Crime Unit, and investigation has been taken up." The complaint was against Twitter Inc and Twitter Communication India Private Ltd., the police said. In its May 29 letter, the NCPCR had said that it was found that "the toolkit for deep and dark web" was also available on Twitter. This gives access to all, including children, to obtain CSAM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Modi meets Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and security advisor Ajit Doval||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Tuesday and discussed "futuristic challenges" in the defence sector, sources said. They also discussed various other aspects, including equipping security forces with modern equipment and involving more youth, start-ups and the strategic community in the field. The meeting came against the backdrop of the first-of-its-kind terror attack using drone at an Indian Air Force station in Jammu. The government has handed over the probe into the attack to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Shortly after midnight on Sunday, two blasts had taken place at the Air Force base at the Jammu Airport, in which a building was damaged and two Indian Air Force personnel suffered minor injuries. The high security airport is located around 14 km from the border with Pakistan. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh said Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba is suspected of involvement in the attack. Suspicion about a Lashkar link came following the arrest of a suspected operative of the group from Banihal. The 22-year-old, carrying an explosive device weighing 4 kg, was arrested hours after Sunday's blasts. Over the last two years, reports from Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir suggested that Pakistan was using drones to make weapons drop. Two such instances have been recorded in Jammu and two in Punjab. Sunday's attack took place shortly before Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Army Chief General MM Naravane's scheduled visit to Ladakh to review India's operational readiness in the backdrop of the ongoing stand-off with China. The attacks shattered the relative stability at the border, where a drop in infiltration was observed amid the Covid pandemic. The government said it has been considering the restart of the political process in Jammu and Kashmir in view of the security situation. Singh said Lashkar could also be behind the drones spotted near the Kaluchak military facility on Monday. Yesterday, the army said a major threat was averted when the troops spotted two drones near the military station in Jammu. They flew away after the troops opened fire at them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Follow IT rules, court order, parliamentary panel asks social media giants||Facebook and Google representatives Tuesday deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology over the issue of social media misuse, with sources saying they were told to comply with the new IT rules, government instructions and court orders. The panel, chaired by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, had asked them to appear in person at the parliament secretariat here. While from Facebook it's country public policy director Shivnath Thukral and general counsel Namrata Singh deposed before the panel, Google was represented by its country head (government affairs and public policy) Aman Jain and director (legal) Gitanjali Duggal. The agenda of the parliamentary panel meeting was to safeguard citizens' rights and prevent the misuse of social/online news media platforms. The sources also said the representatives were conveyed that there are loopholes in their existing data protection and privacy policy mechanism, and were asked to put in place stringent safeguards to protect data privacy and data security of their users. The sources said that Chairman Tharoor expressed concern about the privacy of women users of social media platforms. He said he has also received complaints from several women MPs in this regard. Earlier, Facebook representatives had informed the parliamentary panel that their company policy does not allow their officials to attend in-person meetings because of their Covid-related protocol. But Tharoor conveyed to Facebook that its officials will have to appear in-person since the parliament secretariat does not allow any virtual meetings. The Parliamentary Committee on IT will also summon representatives of YouTube and other Social Media Intermediaries in the coming weeks over the issue. Facebook and Google representatives were called days after Twitter officials deposed before the panel. In the last meeting, several members of the panel had categorically told Twitter that the rule of land is supreme not the social media platform's policies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Domestic pharma majors join hands for clinical trial of Covid treatment drug||Leading drug makers Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Cipla, Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Sun Pharmaceutical Industries and Torrent Pharmaceuticals have decided to collaborate for clinical trial of the investigational oral antiviral drug Molnupiravir for the treatment of mild COVID-19. The five pharma companies have entered into a collaboration agreement, wherein the parties will jointly sponsor, supervise and monitor the clinical trial in the country, according to regulatory filings by Dr Reddy's and Cipla. As per the directive of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, Dr Reddy's will conduct the clinical trial using its product, and the other four pharma companies will be required to demonstrate equivalence of their product to the product used by Dr Reddy's in its clinical trial, the filings noted. The clinical trial will be conducted for the treatment of mild COVID-19 in an outpatient setting and is expected to take place between June and September across India with the recruitment of 1,200 patients, they added. Such collaboration for a clinical trial is a first of its kind within the Indian pharma industry, and will aim to investigate yet another line of treatment in the collective fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the companies noted. On successful completion of the clinical trial, each company will independently approach the regulatory authorities for approval to manufacture and supply Molnupiravir for the treatment of COVID-19 in India, it added. Molnupiravir is an oral antiviral drug that inhibits the replication of multiple RNA viruses including SARS-CoV-2. It is currently being studied by MSD, through a collaboration with Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, in a Phase Ill trial for the treatment of non-hospitalised patients with confirmed COVID-19 globally. Between March and April this year, the five Indian pharma companies had individually entered into a non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreement with Merck Sharpe Dohme (MSD) to manufacture and supply Molnupiravir to India and over 100 low- and middle-income countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Jaishankar calls for global cooperation to combat Covid challenge at G20 meet||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday that international cooperation is the answer to the challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. "Whether it is vaccines, medicines, PPE or oxygen, international cooperation is the answer to the COVID challenge. Need more, not less," Jaishankar said while addressing the G20 Foreign Ministers' Meeting here. "Institutional multilateralism has been found wanting. Reforms have many forms but vaccine equity will be the immediate test. The real economy needs decentralised globalisation, including in manufacturing, food and health. Resilient supply chains must develop in parallel," he said. "The full diversity of our planet needs more accurate reflection in global policy making," he added. India has recorded more than 3 crore coronavirus cases and registered nearly 400,000 deaths due to the virus since the beginning of the pandemic last year. Globally, the coronavirus has infected over 18 crore people and killed nearly 40 lakh, according to Johns Hopkins University. Jaishankar arrived in Italy from Greece on the second leg of this two-nation tour to attend the the G20 ministerial meetings. The G20 summit is scheduled to be held in Italy in October. India is expected to hold the presidency of the G20 in 2022. The G20 is an influential bloc that brings together the world's major economies. The G20 member countries are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Japan, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States and the European Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Drone attack: Congress asks Centre to act on experts' advice rather than headlines management||The Congress on Tuesday said a credible and comprehensive policy and measures are the need of the hour to tackle drone attacks by Pakistan-based terror outfits. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Modi government needs to act on the strategic advice of experts instead of focusing on mere headlines management. The reaction came after a series of drones were found in Jammu following two drone attacks on the Air Force station there. "Armed drone attacks are a real threat to security forces and government establishments. A credible and comprehensive policy and measures are the need of the hour to tackle attacks by the Pak-based terror outfits, backed by the infamous ISI, instead of mere circulars and amendments of rules," Surjewala said on Twitter. The Congress leader hoped the BJP government is aware of the ISI and Pakistan-based terror outfits using Chinese Hexacopters and drones, gifted by Beijing to Pakistan for use in CPEC, to drop arms across the border. He also talked of the sale of 50 Wing Loong II armed drones by China to Pakistan for use in high-altitude areas. "Hope the BJP government is aware that MPs have repeatedly raised the issue of drones attacks through Parliamentary Question on July 9, 2019, March 5, 2020 and on September 20, 2020. "The entire nation stands as one with our security forces and government to repulse such attacks. "But the Modi government should realise that it needs to act on strategic advice of defence experts with experience of modern warfare rather than rely upon mere headlines management," he said. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the central government must focus on procuring equipment to counter drones as Pakistan establishment follows the policy of cloak & dagger and cannot be trusted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Modi lauds Indian archers' 'stupendous performance' at World Cup||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday congratulated Indian archers for their stupendous performance at the World Cup and said their success will inspire upcoming talent in the sport. Star archer Deepika Kumari led the show with supreme authority to grab a hat-trick of gold medals as India made an unprecedented clean sweep at the World Cup Stage 3 in Paris on Sunday for a perfect build-up to the Tokyo Olympics in less than a month's time. In the absence of the world number one South Korea, the Indians faced little challenge to win the women's individual, team and mixed pair events with Deepika a constant in each of them, playing back-to-back four matches in less than five hours. "The last few days have witnessed stupendous performances by our archers at the World Cup," Modi said in a tweet. "Congratulations to @ImDeepikaK, Ankita Bhakat, Komalika Bari, Atanu Das and @archer_abhishek for their success, which will inspire upcoming talent in this field," the prime minister said. India topped the medals tally with four gold medals as Abhishek Verma had clinched the solitary top medal in the compound section earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
29-06-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh fails to appear before ED in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh did not appear before the ED in connection with a money laundering case on Tuesday, citing COVID-19 and his old age, and requested for a virtual interaction on a day suitable for the central agency. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had asked the 71-year-old NCP leader to appear before it at 11 am on Tuesday, after he did not depose before the investigating officer here on Saturday. Deshmukh had on Saturday sought a fresh date for appearance in the money laundering case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to his resignation from the post of home minister in April this year. On Tuesday, Deshmukh submitted a letter to the agency through his lawyer Inderpal Singh as authorised representative, in compliance with the summons. In the letter, Deshmukh requested for a copy of the ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) and other documents from the ED. "I am a law abiding citizen. I am sanguine to expose the falsity, hollowness and lack of substance in the allegations levelled against me," he said in the letter. Deshmukh also cited COVID-19 times and the fear of exposure (to the infection) due to his age and co-morbidities and sent his lawyer as the authorised representative. "I am a septuagenarian, about 72 year of age, and suffering from various co-morbidities, including hypertension and cardiac problems," he mentioned in the letter. Deshmukh also said he already had a long interaction with the probe agency officials on June 25, spanning over several hours, during the course of search and recording of his statement. He reiterated that he will furnish all information and any document that the ED may require once he is aware of the content and details of the ECIR. "I am at your disposal through any audio-visual mode of interaction at any time convenient to your good self, today or any other day, any time so convenient," Deshmukh said in the letter. Meanwhile, Deshmukh's lawyer told mediapersons that they were cooperating with the probe agency and will continue to do so in future too. "We are providing documents to them and have requested for a new date (for appearance)," said the lawyer. After receiving the required documents from ED officials, Deshmukh will appear before the agency, he said. The ED on Saturday arrested Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45) after it carried out raids against them and the NCP leader in Mumbai and Nagpur on Friday. The ED's case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) first carried out a preliminary enquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the CBI to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Indians who got Covishield jabs don’t qualify for EU green travel pass ||Indian travellers who’ve had two shots of Covishield are out of luck if they want to travel to Europe under the European Union’s Digital Covid certificate. That’s despite the fact that Covishield is the India-made equivalent of AstraZeneca’s Covid vaccine Vaxzervria which is on the EU’s approved list. The news comes after the European Medical Association said in a statement that Covishield’s makers, the Serum Institute of India, didn't apply for the certificate. “I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken COVISHIELD are facing issues with travel to the EU,” Adar Poonawalla, Serum Institute’s chief executive, tweeted. “I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries,” he said. There are just four vaccines that have got the green light from the European Medicines Authority (EMA). Those are the AstraZeneca’s Vaxzervria that is manufactured in the UK and other sites around Europe and BioNTech Pfizer Alliance’s Cornimaty vaccine. Moderna and the newer Janssen from Johnson & Johnson have also made the cut. Let’s wind back a few steps first. The EU has come out with a “digital green certificate” that will come officially into force on July 1 that will enable holders to travel smoothly from one country to another within the 27 nation bloc. Some EU countries such as Germany, Spain and Greece, have already implemented the green pass system. Unfortunately, according to the EMA, the Serum Institute of India failed to apply for marketing authorisation in the EU for Covishield. Says the EMA: “The only Covid-19 vaccine from AstraZeneca for which a marketing authorisation application in the EU (has been made) is Vaxzevria (previously Covid-19 vaccine AstraZeneca).” As well as the Serum Institute, the government is also reportedly moving to put this situation right. The issue may also be taken up by Indian officials on the sidelines Tuesday of the G20 foreign ministers’ meeting being held at Matera in Italy. The EU is one of the G20 members. Covishield has received approval from the World Health Organization. The EU has indicated that it is open to considering any application.  “Should we receive a marketing authorisation application from Covishield or should any change to the approved manufacturing sites for Vaxzevria be approved, we would communicate about it,” says the EMA . The EMA says that there was no way that it could have stretched the green light given to AstraZeneca to include Covishield. “Even though it may use an analogous manufacturing technology to Vaxzevria (the Covid-19 AstraZeneca vaccine authorised in the EU), Covishield as such is not currently approved under EU rules.” The EMA stipulates different makers of the same vaccine must submit separate applications for approval. The EMA explains in a statement that, “This is because vaccines are biological products. Even tiny differences in the manufacturing conditions can result in differences in the final product, and EU law, therefore, requires the manufacturing sites and production process to be assessed and approved as part of the authorisation process.” The certificates will contain a QR code with advanced security features and permit travellers to visit Europe and move around the region without needing to enter quarantine or take a fresh coronavirus test when they arrive. An individual country is able to get round the EMA’s decision and there is talk that France is considering such a move. The EMA regulations permit individual countries to add to the list of vaccines other jabs that they are prepared to recognise. “The Commission has also permitted the Member States to issue certificates for travellers vaccinated with vaccines other than those approved by the EMA. However, the decision is up to each individual Member State if they want to permit entry for those vaccinated with such vaccines or not,” the EMA statement says. India’s indigenously made Covaxin has not yet been endorsed by the WHO and until it is approved by the world health body it’s unlikely to be accepted internationally. The WHO has given China’s Sinovac and Sinopharm vaccine approval for emergency use. The health agency and the EMA are both still reviewing Sputnik V for approval over data issues. Until the EU clears Covishield, getting to an EU country is a confusing and cumbersome process for Indians which is on the Red List of many countries. That’s thanks to the fast-spreading Delta variant, believed to have originated in India and blamed for this country’s devastating second wave, that’s now ripping through countries like the UK, sending caseloads soaring. Travellers from Brazil and South Africa are also not welcome at the moment in the EU due to their high infection rates. The EU green pass is mainly intended for EU citizens. Others, like Americans and Canadians, can get the certificate if they’re able to persuade EU authorities that they have had the qualifying jabs. However, lack of an official vaccination certificate in many countries such as the US, means it’s unclear what documentation will be accepted. Sputnik V which is set to be administered in India also is not recognized by the EMA. Many EU nations are expected to remain extremely cautious about giving travel approval to anyone coming from this country. The result of all this vaccine red tape is that travelling abroad is an enormously cumbersome and complicated task. The US has a travel ban on visitors from India apart from students. Switzerland says Indians who have been fully vaccinated with WHO-recognised vaccines can enter the country but must quarantine. South Korea has done away with its compulsory two-week quarantine for Indians who’ve received both Covishield jabs. Turkey has also opened its doors for Indians but they will need a negative RT-PCR test report and will have to spend 14 days in quarantine. Russia also accepts Indians as does Costa Rica, Egypt, Ghana and South Africa. The UAE, which shut its borders to travellers from India, has eased travel restrictions. But the only people who can enter if they have a residence visa and have had two shots of a UAE-approved vaccine that includes the Covishield jab, Sputnik V and the Chinese-made vaccines. Travellers from India must undergo a PCR test four hours before boarding the plane for Dubai and need to go undergo another RT-PCR test on arrival and will have to quarantine until the result of the PCR test comes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Kejriwal's poll promise: 300 free electricity units for Punjab||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday promised 300 units of free electricity per month for each household in Punjab if his Aam Aadmi Party wins the assembly election in that state next year. The AAP leader also promised 24-hour power supply in Punjab and waiver of pending electricity bills if his party is voted to power. He made these announcements while addressing the media here. Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year. Kejriwal said power in Punjab is the "costliest" in the country despite the state being an electricity producer. "We do not produce power in Delhi. We buy it from other states and despite that we have power in the national capital almost at the cheapest rates," he said. AAP's Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann, party's Punjab affairs incharge Jarnail Singh, co-incharge Raghav Chadha and state leadership including MLAs Harpal Singh Cheema were also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Have not received request for approval of Covishield under Green Pass scheme, says EU||The European Union on Tuesday said that the European Medicine Agency has not received a request for the approval of Covishield regarding the Covid-19 ‘vaccine green list’ with the EU, amid worries among Indians who got the vaccine facing problems to travel to certain parts of Europe. According to ndtv.com, it said temporary restrictions on non-essential travel to the EU are in place from many countries, including India, due to the pandemic. “Concerning a possible EMA authorisation for Covishield, as of yesterday, the European Medicine Agency (EMA) stated that it had not received  a request for approval. It will examine any such request when received, as per its procedures,” EU said in a statement. People vaccinated with Covishield, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), are unlikely to be eligible to travel to the European Union member states under the 'Green Pass' scheme as the vaccine is yet to be cleared by the EMA. Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, had requested the government to take up the issue of the vaccine's inclusion in the EU 'vaccination passport', sources quoted by ndtv.com said. "India has a large population. However, not including Covishield into the EU Covid-19 Vaccination Passport will not allow Covishield vaccinated people to travel to European countries and this will affect students, business travellers back and forth, and cause severe disruptions to our economy and to the global economy," Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla had writer to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Pointing out that the "EU Digital Covid Certificate" is not a pre-condition to travel, the EU said it is meant to facilitate safe free movement during the pandemic within the EU. "It will serve as proof that a person was vaccinated against Covid-19, received a negative test result or recovered from Covid-19," the EU said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Cipla gets DCGI nod to import Moderna's Covid vaccine for emergency use||India's drug regulator DCGI has granted permission to Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company Cipla to import Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country, official sources said on Tuesday. Moderna's vaccine will be the fourth COVID-19 jab to be available in India after Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik. "Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission to Cipla to import Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country as per the provisions of the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules , 2019 under Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940," a source told PTI. In separate communications, Moderna on June 27 informed DCGI that the US government has agreed to donate a certain number of doses of its COVID-19 vaccine through COVAX to India for use here and sought an approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for the vaccines. On Monday, Cipla, on behalf of the US pharma major, requested the drug regulator for import and marketing authorisation of these jabs. "This permission is for restricted use in emergency situations in public interest. The firm has to submit 7 days safety assessment of the vaccine in first 100 beneficiaries before rolling out of vaccine for further immunisation programme, according to the approval order," an official said. On Monday, Cipla filed the application seeking permission for import of Moderna's vaccine referring to DCGI notices dated April 15 and June 1 according to which if the vaccine is approved by the USFDA for EUA, the vaccine can be granted marketing authorisation without bridging trial and assessment of safety data of first 100 beneficiaries of vaccines shall be submitted before rolling out in immunisation programme. Also, the requirement of testing of every batch by Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL), Kasauli can be exempted if the batch/lot is released by the CDL of country of origin, however summary lot protocol review and scrutiny of documents shall be undertaken by the laboratory for batch release according to standard procedures, Cipla said referring to the DCGI's new revised rules. Further, Moderna through a separate communication has informed that the US government has agreed to donate a certain number of doses of the Moderna vaccine, mRNA-1273, through COVAX to the government of India for use in the country and has submitted the dossiers through e-mail. "This correspondence is to request the CDSCO to open a file for approval of these urgently needed vaccines," Moderna said. On June 1, in a bid to expedite the rollout of vaccines, the DCGI decided to waive testing of batches at CDL for foreign-manufactured vaccines that have been approved by international drug regulators such as the US FDA, the UK's MHRA or the WHO. The central government in April issued detailed guidelines and proactively eased entry of foreign made COVID-19 vaccines approved by US FDA, EMA, UK's MHRA and Japan's PMDA, and WHO's Emergency Use Listing into India. According to the guidelines, these vaccines will not need to undergo prior bridging trials. The provision was further amended to waive off the trial requirement altogether for the well-established vaccines manufactured in other countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||SC asks states, UTs to implement 'one nation, one ration card' scheme by July 31||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed states and Union Territories to implement the 'one nation, one ration card' scheme by July 31, while asking the Centre to provide dry ration for free distribution among migrant workers till the COVID-19 situation continues. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah issued a slew of directions on a plea of three activists seeking directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers and other welfare measures for migrant workers who faced distress again due to curfews and lockdowns in various parts of country during the second wave of COVID-19. "The central government must develop and put in place a portal for registering unorganised and migrant workers, and start the process, not later than July 31," the bench said, according to ndtv.com. "Lackadaisical attitude by the Ministry of Labour and Employment is unpardonable," the court said over the delay in putting up the data. "The centre's delay in not putting up a portal on unorganised workers and migrants shows it is not alive to the concerns of migrant workers and it is strongly disapproved," it added. The bench has said ONORC scheme is for welfare of poor citizens as it allows migrant workers to get ration at the place of their work in other states as well where their ration cards are not registered. The bench directed the Centre to develop a portal with the help of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) for registration of unorganised sector workers for granting them the benefits of welfare schemes by July 31. It also directed the states, UTs to run community kitchens for migrant workers till the COVID pandemic continues. It asked the Centre to keep allocating foodgrains to the states, UTs for distribution among migrant workers for free till the pandemic situation exists. The state governments and the UT administrations shall bring a scheme to provide dry ration to migrant workers by July 31 and such a scheme will remain till COVID situation continues, the top court said. "States that have not implemented the scheme must do the same before July 31," said the two-judge bench in a stern reminder. The bench directed states and UTs to register all establishments and contractors under the Inter-state Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service Act) 1979. Activists Anjali Bharadwaj, Harsh Mander and Jagdeep Chhokar had filed a plea seeking implementation of welfare measures for migrant workers and the judgement was reserved on June 11 by the bench. The fresh plea was filed in a pending suo motu case of 2020 in which the top court in May last year had taken cognizance of problems and miseries of migrant labourers and had passed a slew of directions including asking the states not to charge fare from migrant workers and provide them food free of cost till they board trains or buses. The Centre had said that while most states were implementing the ONORC, four of them, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and West Bengal have not yet integrated into the scheme and it would depend on their technical readiness to implement the portability of ration cards. The Centre also said that the AAP government's claim regarding the launch of ONORC plan is misleading as a large number of migrant workers are unable to take the benefit of subsidised National Food Security Act (NFSA) food grains in Delhi as there is no full implementation. The activists had sought directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers, transport facilities and other welfare measures for the migrant workers on grounds that they are in dire need for help as the crisis is bigger this time. On May 24 this year, the top court had termed as "very slow" the process of registration of unorganised workers and had directed the authorities to provide dry ration and make operational community kitchens for migrant workers stranded throughout the country amid COVID-19 pandemic. Referring to the resurgence of COVID-19 infections and consequent curbs, the activists, in their plea, had said, the problems and miseries faced by migrant workers during the lockdown in 2020 have persisted over the past year due to the continued economic distress and now have got aggravated on account of fresh restrictions, curfews and lockdowns being imposed in many states to control the spread of COVID.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||SC refuses to override Delhi HC's order dismissing plea to stop Central Vista work||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea challenging the Delhi High Court order which had rejected a PIL seeking to halt Central Vista construction work in view of the COVID pandemic. A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose said it is not inclined to interfere with the High Court order as the PIL petitioners had selectively chosen Central Vista Project and did not even do basic research about other public projects which were allowed during the lockdown in the national capital. It said that findings of the Delhi HC on the PIL that it was "motivated" and filed with "ill-intent" and "lack of bona fides" is possible a view. The top court also refused to interfere with the Rs 1 lakh cost imposed on the petitioners. The main Cental Vista project envisages building a new Parliament House, a new residential complex to house offices and the prime minister and the vice president. It will also have new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate various ministries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||R-day violence: Court issues fresh summons to Deep Sidhu||A Delhi court on Tuesday issued fresh summons to actor-activist Deep Sidhu and other accused in the Republic Day violence case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar directed all the accused to appear before it on July 12 through video conference. The court issued fresh summons after it was informed that the summons issued earlier were not received by the accused. On June 19, the judge had taken cognizance of the charge sheet in the case and summoned all the accused on June 29. However, Harjot Singh was the only accused who appeared before the court on Tuesday. Counsels for the other accused apprised the court that their clients have not been served the summons yet. On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen. Sidhu, who is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, is currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||PM to chair council of ministers meeting on Wednesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting of the Union council of ministers on Wednesday, which is likely to discuss the Covid situation and may also review functioning of few ministries, sources said on Tuesday. The meeting will be held virtually on Wednesday evening, the sources said. The work done by the Road and Transport Ministry and Civil Aviation and Telecom ministries may be reviewed in the meeting, the sources said. A wider discussion on the COVID-19 situation is also likely during the meeting, they said. The meeting is being held a week after Prime Minister Modi held meetings with ministers both Cabinet and Minister of State rank in different groups to review the performance of their respective ministries. These meetings were held at the Prime Minister's official residence and BJP president JP Nadda was present in most of these meetings. Political observers and BJP insiders feel the council of ministers meeting assumes significance as it is being held at a time when political circles are abuzz with speculation of a cabinet expansion and reshuffle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||NIA to probe drone attack on Jammu airport||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) was on Tuesday given the charge of investigation into the drone attack on the Jammu air force station. The decision to hand over the probe into the first-of-its-kind terror attack at the Indian Air Force station was taken by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The investigation into the attack on the Jammu air force station has been handed over to the NIA, a Home Ministry spokesperson said. In what was the first instance of Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike vital installations, two bombs were dropped at the IAF station in Jammu in the early hours of Sunday, causing minor injuries to two airmen. The explosions took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area on the outskirts of the city. The second one was on the ground. The officials said the explosive material dropped by the drones might have been manufactured using a cocktail consisting of RDX, but a final confirmation was still awaited. Investigators were yet to determine the flight path of the drones that dropped the bombs as they scanned the CCTV footage, including from cameras installed on the boundary walls of the airport. However, all the CCTV cameras focused on the roadside, the officials said. The drones that dropped the explosives were either flown back across the border or to some other destination during the night, they suspect. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border is 14 km. A day after the attack, the IAF station located at the Jammu airport on Monday continued to remain out of bounds for all but the probe teams including one from the NIA, which picked up every bit of evidence available on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-22
29-06-2021||India||Facebook to publish interim compliance report as per IT rules on July 2||Social media giant Facebook on Tuesday said it will publish an interim report on July 2 as mandated by the IT rules, and provide information on the number of content it removed proactively between May 15-June 15. The final report will be published on July 15, containing details of user complaints received and action taken. The new IT rules - which came into force from May 26 - mandate large social media companies to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. In accordance with the IT Rules, we'll publish an interim report for the period May 15-June 15 on July 2. This report will contain details of the content that we have removed proactively using our automated tools, a Facebook spokesperson said in a statement. The spokesperson added that the final report will be published on July 15, containing details of user complaints received and action taken. The report on July 15 will also contain data related to WhatsApp, which is currently being validated, the spokesperson further stated. The report on July 2 will be an interim report and will not include the details of complaints received and action taken thereon as we are in the process of validating this data and that that data will be provided in the July 15 report, as per information available on Facebook's Transparency Centre webpage. The new IT rules are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of digital platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Under these rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity and pornography. Significant social media intermediaries - those with over 5 million registered users in India - are also required to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal officer and a grievance officer and these officials are required to be resident in India. Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. Facebook had recently named Spoorthi Priya as its Grievance Officer in India, while Facebook-owned WhatsApp had appointed Paresh B Lal as its grievance officer for India. India is a major market for global digital platforms. As per data cited by the government recently, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||At UN, India flags possible use of weaponised drones for terrorism ||The possibility of the use of weaponised drones for terrorist activities against strategic and commercial assets calls for serious attention by the global community, India has told the UN General Assembly, a day after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport. A fresh attempt to attack a military installation with the help of drones was foiled by alert Army sentries at the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak station who fired at the unmanned aerial vehicles that flew away, an incident that came hours after an IAF station saw the first terror attack using quadcopters. The first drone was spotted at around 11.45 pm on Sunday followed by another at 2.40 am over the military station, which witnessed a terror attack in 2002 in which 31 people were killed, including 10 children. The IAF attack is the first instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike at the country's vital installations. "Today, misuse of information and communication technology such as internet and social media for terrorist propaganda, radicalisation and recruitment of cadre; misuse of new payment methods and crowdfunding platforms for financing of terrorism; and misuse of emerging technologies for terrorist purposes have emerged as the most serious threats of terrorism and will decide the counter-terrorism paradigm going forward, Special Secretary (Internal Security), Ministry of Home Affairs in the Government of India, V S K Kaumudi said. Speaking at the Global scourge of terrorism: assessment of current threats and emerging trends for the new decade', he said, another add-on to existing worries is the use of drones. "Being a low-cost option and easily available, utilisation of these aerial/sub-surface platforms for sinister purposes by terrorist groups such as intelligence collection, weapon/explosives delivery and targeted attacks have become an imminent danger and challenge for security agencies worldwide, he said at the 2nd High Level Conference of the Head of Counter-Terrorism Agencies of the Member States in the General Assembly. The possibility of the use of weaponised drones for terrorist purposes against strategic and commercial assets calls for serious attention by the member states. We have witnessed terrorists using UAS to smuggle weapons across borders, Kaumudi said, according to his statement issued by the Permanent Mission of India to the UN. Kaumudi said the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent isolation have further accentuated the impact of the internet on people making them vulnerable to radicalisation and recruitment by terrorist groups. Spreading terrorist propaganda through the use of "indulging video games" is another strategy that was deployed by terrorist groups during the pandemic, he said. "It is imperative for countries to adopt a multi-pronged approach to tackle the global threats emanating out of misuse of new technologies particularly aiming towards terrorism and violent extremism conducive to terrorism," he said. India called on the world to remain united against tendencies of labeling terrorism based on terrorist motivations especially those based on religion, and political ideologies. "This will certainly divide us and weaken our fight against terrorism," Kaumudi said. He said the transborder nature of this threat calls for collective and unified action by the international community, without any excuse or exceptions, ensuring that those countries which provide safe havens to terrorists should be called out and held accountable. India noted with concern that internet and social media platforms have turned into indispensable resources in the toolkit of global terrorist groups for spreading terrorist propaganda and conspiracy theories aimed at spreading hatred among societies and communities and offer additional radicalisation opportunities which may proliferate globally. The increased use of closed group communications adds to the concern, he said. Kaumudi told the General Assembly that continuing advancements in evolving technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence, robotics, deep fakes , blockchain, dark web are fraught with the risk of being abused by terrorists. Already, cryptocurrencies, virtual assets, crowdfunding platforms are helping terror financing, owing to anonymity and un-traceability of these technologies, he said. India has put in place an elaborate counter-terrorism and security architecture, besides introducing a series of measures in the cyber-space encapsulating counter-radicalisation and de-radicalisation strategies. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload dips below 40,000 after 102 days||The single-day rise in fresh cases was recorded below 40,000 after 102 days, bringing India's COVID-19 infection tally to 3,03,16,897, while the daily fatalities remained below 1,000 for the second consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India saw 37,566 new cases being reported in a day, while the COVID-19 death toll rose to 3,97,637 with 907 daily fatalities, the lowest in 77 days. According to the data published at 7 am, 32.90 crore cumulative vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. The number of active cases has further declined to 5,52,659, comprising 1.82 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.87 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 20,335 cases has been recorded in the virus count in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,68,008 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total cumulative tests done so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 40,81,39,287, while the daily positivity rate has declined to 2.12 per cent . It has been less than 5 per cent for 22 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.74 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 47th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,93,66,601, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 907 new fatalities include 287 from Maharashtra, 110 from Kerala, 98 from Tamil Nadu and 93 from Karnataka. A total of 3,97,637 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,21,573 from Maharashtra, 34,836 from Karnataka, 32,399 from Tamil Nadu, 24,967 from Delhi, 22,559 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,644 from West Bengal, 16,011 from Punjab and 13,437 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI PLB||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Twitter India chief named in FIR over incorrect map of India||Twitter's India chief Manish Maheshwari has been named in an FIR in Uttar Pradesh over an incorrect map of India on its website, which showed Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as a separate country, NDTV.com reported. This is the second FIR against Twitter this month in UP as troubles grow for the social media giant in the midst of its standoff with the government. The distorted map - displayed in the "Tweep Life" section of Twitter's website - was removed Monday following a huge backlash after it was flagged by a user. "This act of treason has been committed intentionally and action should be taken," reads the complaint filed by right-wing group Bajrang Dal's leader Praveen Bhati. The case has been filed under Section 505 (2) of the Indian Penal Code (creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) and Section 74 of IT (Amendment) Act 2008. Amrita Tripathi, who also works with Twitter India, has also been named in the complaint filed in UP's Bulandshahr, about 100 km from Delhi. She tweeted a clarification on her role, hours after the complaint was filed. Last week, Maheshwari was summoned by the Uttar Pradesh Police over another FIR after posts linked to the assault of a Muslim man in UP's Ghaziabad sparked controversy. Along with Twitter, journalists Rana Ayyub and Saba Naqvi, and some Congress leaders were also named in the case. Tweets were shared with a clear motive to "provoke communal sentiments", the complaint said. Maheshwari got a temporary relief from the Karnataka High Court as he was granted protection from arrest. The court also ruled that Maheshwari, who is a resident of Bengaluru, does not have to travel to UP. "If police desire to investigate or question, they may do so by virtual mode," the court said. Amid the social media giant's months-long bitter feud with the government, Twitter on Monday appointed its Global Legal Policy Director Jeremy Kessel as the grievance officer for India to follow the centre's new rules requiring social networking websites to have India-based officers and act on complaints of content considered illegal, offensive or inimical to national interests. An interim grievance officer appointed by Twitter India, Dharmendra Chatur, had quit on Sunday, within weeks of taking charge. The government had earlier objected to the appointment of Chatur, partner at a law firm that represented Twitter, and said it could not accept outsiders for statutory posts. Twitter had also been in trouble over posts related to farmers' protests against the controversial laws in February. Later, the government had also asked the site to remove the "manipulated media" tag from tweets posted by several BJP leaders on an alleged Congress "toolkit". After the social media giant's refusal, the Delhi Police served notices, visited its offices in Delhi and Gurgaon, and questioned Twitter India chief Manish Maheshwari in Bengaluru.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Covid: Centre’s stimulus package built around govt guarantees||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman rained another confetti of big numbers to create another chimera around her second stimulus package for a Covid-battered economy that left industry, economists and the markets poring over the figures to understand how much was real and how much mere illusion. Like the staccato announcements in May last year that formed part of the first stimulus package, Sitharaman once again came up with a grossly under-funded set of measures that totalled Rs 6.29 lakh crore, or 2.82 per cent of the nominal GDP of Rs 222.87 lakh crore projected in this year’s budget. More than three-quarters of the stimulus package is built around government guarantees (Rs 267,500 crore), rosy estimates of outcomes from exports and a valiant attempt to prop up a crumbling power distribution sector (Rs 218,631 crore) — which tries to cast a glow of optimism around an economy that shrank by 7.3 per cent last year and has shown very little signs of recovery over the next few quarters. Government guarantees are in the nature of promises that the Narendra Modi regime will provide a back-stop if creditors default on loans that they take from banks. “The overall cap for admissible guarantees is being raised from Rs 3 lakh crore to Rs 4.5 lakh crore,” Sitharaman told a media conference. The additional Rs 1.5 lakh crore has been tacked on to the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) that was announced last year to provide loans to stressed entities. A new Rs 1.1 lakh-crore guarantee scheme has been created which will be divided between the health sector (Rs 50,000 crore) and other stressed sectors (Rs 60,000 crore). Loans will be given to the health sector to expand or create new medical infrastructure outside eight metropolitan cities. The maximum loan granted will be Rs 100 crore and the tenure has been set at three years. The interest rate on these loans will be capped at 7.95 per cent. Loans to other sectors will be provided at 8.25 per cent. The guarantees provide comfort to lending institutions but there is no evidence that anyone has cashed in on them — or ever will — especially after the lending institutions were persuaded to prepare a two-year debt restructuring scheme for last year’s defaulters, effectively kicking the can further down the road. The other big mirage is around exports — with the government counting up outcomes rather than stumping up money upfront in the form of incentives or raising its spending to stoke demand. The Centre has proposed to create an additional corpus over the next five years to enable the Exim Bank to underwrite project exports worth Rs 33,000 crore under the National Export Insurance Account. The government gave no details about how this would be funded. It also proposed to infuse equity in the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) over the next five years to boost insurance cover by Rs 88,000 crore. Again, it did not say how much of equity it planned to pump into the ECGC or explain the correlation between equity infusion and the surge in insurance cover. For the record, equity infusion in the ECGC rose by a mere Rs 1,200 crore between 2015-16 and 2019-20, for which details are currently available. In 2019-20, the ECGC’s equity capital was raised by Rs 500 crore to Rs 2,500 crore -- and there will be questions about the sleight-of-hand through which small doses of capital in the ECGC can whip such a massive froth of numbers. Some experts charitably estimated the “real” funding in this stimulus package at Rs 1.18 lakh crore. This was broken into three components: a sum of Rs 93,869 crore earmarked for the distribution of free food grain till November under the Pradhan Mantra Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, the additional Rs 15,000 crore that the Centre intends to spend on the health sector, and half of the sum of Rs 19,041 crore that will be spent over the next two years under the BharatNet programme which seeks to create rural broadband connectivity under public-private partnership. The food grain programme had been announced sometime ago by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the cabinet approved it. The big number was padded to the second stimulus programme to provide some heft to the numbers. D.K. Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY India, said: “The total additional burden on the 2021-22 budget from these three initiatives would be Rs 118,390 crore. This amounts to about 0.5 per cent of the estimated GDP for 2021-22. Although this is a limited magnitude of direct stimulus, it would be desirable to follow it up with another dose of stimulus later in the year.” He reckoned that the Centre would come out with another package soon which might contain spending announcements. “I’m expecting another 0.5 per cent of GDP as additional expenditure, which could include cash transfer, over the coming months. There will be pressure on the RBI to support the government’s borrowing programme, even though it may not be direct monetisation,” he added. Others felt that Monday’s stimulus package looked a lot worse if one looked beyond the smokescreen of numbers. “Setting aside the guarantee schemes and the announcements that had already been made prior to today, the increase in the fiscal outgo based on the fresh announcements is estimated at around Rs 60,000 crore,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at credit rating agency ICRA. The government said it would waive visa fees for 5 lakh foreign tourists in an attempt to revive the moribund tourism industry. It will also provide loans of up to Rs 10 lakh to travel agencies and related businesses while registered tourist guides will be eligible for a loan of up to Rs 1 lakh. The average foreign tourist stays for 21 days in the country and spends about $24 (or Rs 2,400) a day. “Free visa is an excellent policy decision but should be extended to all foreign tourists till March 31, 2023, and not limited to 5 lakh tourists only,” said Rajiv Mehra, president of the Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO). The stimulus plan made an ineffectual stab at job creation by extending the scheme to incentivise employers to hire more people till March 30 next year. The scheme, which seeks to provide subsidies for two years to firms hiring new employees drawing monthly wages of less than Rs 15,000, was supposed to end on June 30. Under the scheme, the government has offered to pay the employer’s and employee’s share of provident fund contributions for establishments with a workforce of less than 1,000 and only the employee’s share for those above that threshold. Sitharaman said the government was committed to doubling farm income but waffled when pressed for details. The package provides for Rs 14,775 crore as subsidy for the popular phosphatic fertiliser DAP (di-ammonium phosphate) and other complex fertilisers this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Election Commission remains undecided on CM bypolls||The Election Commission remains undecided about when by-elections will be conducted with two chief ministers, Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee and Uttarakhand’s Tirath Singh Rawat, facing deadlines to get elected to their state legislatures. The EC had in May indefinitely deferred by-elections after concluding five Assembly polls that coincided with the second wave of Covid, and whose conduct amid the pandemic prompted Madras High Court to observe that commission officials should face “murder charges”. A commission source said on Monday that “no decision” had been taken on conducting the pending by-elections yet, nor had meetings been scheduled to discuss the subject this week. The Supreme Court had last week refused to accept Covid as an “excuse” for deferring elections and directed the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to conduct civic polls by September 15 “before the third wave arrives”. “Covid has become a good excuse in all matters…. We know the reality in these matters; unless and until political parties are ready, elections are not held,” Justice Hemant Gupta, who shared the vacation bench with Justice Aniruddha Bose, observed. But a senior EC official told The Telegraph: “At the moment, the commission has not taken a decision but it is definitely assessing the situation…. The Supreme Court direction was for a state election commission and has no bearing on us. No meeting has been scheduled on this matter.” The state election commissions conduct municipal and panchayat polls and are independent of the Election Commission of India. Un-elected ministers are required to get themselves elected within six months of taking the oath. Mamata, sworn in as chief minister on May 5 after narrowly losing a contentious election in Nandigram, is expected to contest the necessary by-election from her home turf of Bhowanipore, which a cabinet colleague has vacated for her. Mamata has also petitioned Calcutta High Court challenging the Nandigram result. In case the court orders a recount and she wins, she will not need to contest a by-election. The chief minister had recently taken a dig at the Election Commission from a position similar to the apex court’s in the matter of the Tamil Nadu civic polls. “I came to know that when Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) will give the instruction, then only they (the commission) will hold the by-election. If it is so, then I will request the Prime Minister, clear the by-election,” she said. “Because now, the situation is okay. But if the third wave (of the pandemic) comes, then you cannot do anything.” Ironically, the Election Commission had in April rejected Mamata’s demand to club the last three of the eight phases of the Bengal polls and minimise the pandemic damage when the second wave was escalating. The commission, whose autonomy is protected by the Constitution, has not responded to Mamata’s jibe on the Prime Minister’s prospective “instruction”. Nor has chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra responded to a question from this newspaper on the criteria for the conduct of elections during an epidemic. Also last week, Maharashtra’s state election commission rejected a request from the state government to defer local body polls in five districts, scheduled on July 19, on the ground of the pandemic. The Bengal BJP, however, has opposed by-elections being held during the pandemic and demanded that Mamata resign. Seven Assembly seats are vacant in Bengal. Elections were not held in two because of the deaths of candidates; two Trinamul winners died after the polls; two BJP winners quit their Assembly seats to remain MPs; while minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay resigned from the Bhowanipore seat on May 21. Sovandeb too, therefore, needs to be elected — by November 21 — while finance minister Amit Mitra, sworn in on May 10 after opting out of the polls, faces a November 10 deadline. In Uttarakhand, where former state BJP president Rawat was appointed chief minister on March 10 after an intra-party struggle against his predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat, the Congress has written to the Election Commission to clear the air on by-elections. While deferring the by-elections in Bengal in May, the Election Commission had cited “lockdown/restrictions under Disaster Management Act, 2005, as issued by NDMA/SDMA” — the national and state disaster management authorities. Although a few restrictions still remain, both Bengal and Uttarakhand have unlocked many public services and commercial activities over the past month. Bengal had 21,580 active cases on Monday — the eighth straight day the count fell — while Uttarakhand’s active cases numbered 2,294. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had last year sought election to the legislative council after being sworn in. When the polls were postponed because of the pandemic, Uddhav had requested governor B.S. Koshiyari to appoint him to a vacant “nominated” seat, only to be refused. Uddhav then wrote to Modi, after which Koshiyari asked the Election Commission to notify the election to the vacant legislative council seats. In its press note then, the commission had said: “In cases of former Prime Ministers Sh. P.V. Narasimha Rao in 1991 and Sh. H.D. Deve Gowda in 1996; and several chief ministers of states (like Sh. Ashok Gehlot, chief minister Rajasthan in 1991; Smt. Rabri Devi, chief minister of Bihar in 1997, Sh. Vijay Bhaskar Reddy, chief minister of Andhra Pradesh in 1993, chief minister of Uttar Pradesh & 4 ministers in 2017, and chief minister of Nagaland in 2017), commission conducted by-elections to fulfil similar constitutional requirement. Commission noted that this has been the consistent practice in the past.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Father of Manipur activist arrested for post on cow dung moves SC||The father of a Manipur activist imprisoned for a Facebook post which said after the state BJP chief died that cow urine and cow dung do not cure Covid petitioned the Supreme Court on Monday challenging his son’s detention under the National Security Act and arguing it constituted contempt of court. Raghumani Singh has underscored that his son Erendro Leichombam was arrested despite the apex court’s April 20 order saying citizens shall not be subjected to criminal cases or arrested for airing their views on social media relating to the Covid crisis. He has through a habeas corpus petition asked that his son, arrested on May 13, be produced before the top court. Through a separate petition, he has sought contempt proceedings against Manipur chief secretary Rajesh Kumar, director-general of police L. M. Khaute and Imphal West district magistrate Th. Kirankumar. Raghumani’s petition says that despite Erendro being granted bail by a trial court on May 17 in the original case, registered under Indian Penal Code sections, he was rearrested on the district magistrate’s order under the National Security Act. The NSA allows preventive detention for up to 12 months on grounds of the security of India and the maintenance of public order. “Despite such protection offered by the Hon’ble Supreme Court to individuals seeking to help others in these times of need, respondent officers... in wilful disobedience of the aforementioned direction, wrongfully detained the son of petitioner herein owing to a particular Facebook post that sought to check misinformation regarding the pandemic,” the petition says. Erendro had in a Facebook post on May 13 referred to the recent death of Manipur BJP chief S. Tikendra Singh and remarked: “The cure for Corona is not cow dung & cow urine. The cure is science & common sense. Professor ji RIP.” This, Raghumani’s petition says, was in the context of several BJP politicians claiming cow dung and cow urine could cure or prevent Covid and many people coming to believe them. The petition refers to news reports about such statements by BJP leaders, including MP Pragya Singh Thakur.” “Bolstered by such advice from leading political members, there were reports of people smearing cow dung and drinking cow urine to cure corona. In fact, in some places proper units were established which took to treating people with coronavirus using cow dung and cow urine,” the petition, filed through advocate Shadan Farasat, says. However, multiple FIRs were lodged in various police stations in Manipur against Erendro’s post following complaints from BJP workers, including one on May 13 by state BJP vice-president Usham Deben. The IPC sections invoked were 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 505(b)(2) (public mischief), 295A (outraging religious sentiments), 294B (obscenity), 503 (criminal intimidation) and 504 (breach of peace). If convicted, Erendro can be jailed for up to three years. Erendro was initially remanded in judicial custody till June 1 but the chief judicial magistrate, Imphal West, granted him bail on May 17. The same day, the petition says, the district magistrate ordered his detention under Section 3(2) of the National Security Act, 1980. Raghumani’s petition says the Facebook post was meant not to hurt anyone’s feelings but to express his son’s “disagreement with the treatment by using cow dung and cow urine which has no scientific basis”. It says the detention “is a display of the coercive arm of the State against his attempt to stem misinformation in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic”. Erendro is convener of the political outfit Peoples’ Resurgence and Justice Alliance. A journalist, Kishorechandra Wangkhem, too was arrested on May 13 for a similar post and rearrested on May 17 under the NSA following the grant of bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Covid: DU claims success in holding online classes and examinations||The Delhi University (DU) authorities on Monday claimed success in holding online classes and examinations but faculty members raised concerns about quality and the exclusion of deprived sections. Acting vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi, who is a candidate for the post of regular vice-chancellor, also shared several initiatives including the effort to collaborate with remote colleges and university departments in academic and research areas. Joshi presented a 12-month report card of his tenure since he took over as pro-VC and later became in-charge VC after regular VC Prof. Yogesh Tyagi was suspended over charges of non-performance. A search committee is currently in the process of selecting a regular VC. According to the document, online open book exam (OBE) was introduced last year for the final-year undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students. The students received questions through email and were asked to upload the written answer sheets. The OBE continued this year as well. “The new examination system threw challenges now and then during its implementation, but the University learnt the way to tackle each of them and improve the system in the process. Students were able to write their examinations within the comforts of their home/space and teachers were able to evaluate through electronic means. Hundred per cent online teaching, learning, examination and assessment were conducted,” the report card said. According to the document, attendance of students in the ongoing OBE is 95 per cent. Last year 90 per cent students had appeared for the online exam and those who missed were given the opportunity to take the test offline. The report card said DU has provided e-learning resources to students. The varsity’s assertion came at a time when the University Grants Commission (UGC) under the instruction of the central government wants to make online education the mainstream mode of education delivery. The higher education regulator has allowed universities to offer up to 40 per cent of any course online. DU Teachers Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray said the online mode of education was followed out of compulsion and it cannot replace the offline mode. “There is big quality concern in online education. In the OBE, there was no proctoring or scrutiny. It gave enormous scope for malpractice. The students gave the online exam because they did not want to wait for a longer time to sit for the offline exam,” Ray said. He said the quality of education in online classes is also a concern because of poor Internet connectivity at the end of students and teachers. Former DU Executive Council member Rajesh Jha said the claims made by the varsity were purely a public relations (PR) activity sans any substantive basis. “The reforms claimed by the administration were opposed by the teachers as well as the students. The students from deprived sections are not able to take classes because of lack of access. Online education is a tool for exclusion,” Jha said. Both Ray and Jha questioned the DU’s performance in helping the university community tackle the Covid crisis. Ray said the staff faced unimaginable suffering during the pandemic and demanded a Covid hospital on the campus ahead of a possible third wave. Jha said the university administration did a great disappearing act during the crisis period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Covid: Odisha waives road tax on buses for June ||The Odisha government on Monday waived road tax for buses and contract carriages for June. A notification to this effect was issued in the evening by the Odisha commerce and transport department. On Monday, The Telegraph had published a report headlined “Bus Owner to Vegetable Seller”, highlighting the plight of 14,000 bus owners in the state. Debendra Kumar Sahoo, general secretary of the All Odisha Bus Owners’ Association, said: “Today, we sent The Telegraph report to the government citing the plight of the bus owners. Taking it into consideration, the government waived the road tax for June. We are thankful to the Odisha government. Earlier, it had waived the road tax for April and May. We will still insist that the road tax for July, August and September be also waived. Now it’s the turn of the Union government to announce a special package for bus owners.” He added: “The Centre should initiate steps to waive the interest on bank loans taken for purchasing a vehicle or defer the EMIs by a year. Besides, the insurance companies should be asked to waive the fees for the lockdown period.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Filmmakers' campaign against Cinematograph Act amendments||A group of young filmmakers has initiated an online campaign to mobilise opinion against the proposed amendments in the Cinematograph Act, particularly the bid by the information and broadcasting ministry to restore the “revisional powers’’ of the Union government on film certification after a movie has been cleared by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC). “This provision will effectively give the Central Government supreme power over cinema exhibition in the country, potentially endangering freedom of expression and democratic dissent,’’ the filmmakers have said in a letter that will be submitted to the ministry on July 2 — the deadline set for sending responses on the proposed amendments. This initiative comes amid an almost deafening silence from the big names in the film industry over the restoration of revisional powers of the Centre, which had been struck down by the courts two decades ago citing democratic principles. Making use of the ministry’s request for comments on the proposed amendments, some young filmmakers, academics, researchers and lawyers put together a 12-page clause-by-clause response to the Cinematograph Amendment Bill, 2021, and placed it in the public domain on Sunday night for endorsement to “embolden our fight against authoritarian censorship’’. Besides urging the government to drop the amendment pertaining to restoring the revisional powers, the filmmakers want the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FACT) — which was abolished in April — to be restored; pointing out that in its absence, they would be left with no option but to approach the courts directly if they are unhappy with a decision taken by the CBFC. Apart from being an expensive option, this would also result in financial loss because of potential delays in film releases, they said. About the move to restore the revisional powers, their letter to the ministry says it is “another blow’’ to the film fraternity. “Undermining the sovereignty of the Censor Board and the Supreme Court, this provision will effectively give the Central Government supreme power over cinema exhibition in the country, potentially endangering freedom of expression and democratic dissent. This will also render filmmakers powerless at the hands of the state and more vulnerable to threats, vandalism and intimidation of mob censors,’’ the appeal said. What the filmmakers fear the most is that the revisional powers will be used to force the film industry to build a narrative the government wants to impose on the country. Also, the amendments could shrink the space for films that seek to push the envelope or address hot button issues. The letter iterates a long-held view of the industry that the CBFC, as the name suggests, should only be a body that grants certification and “not be authorised to dictate excision, modifications and amendments to films under review’’. Some of the early signatories to the letter include directors Dibakar Banerjee, Zoya Akhtar, Vikramaditya Motwane, Hansal Mehta, Anurag Kashyap, Abhishek Chaubey, Chaitanya Tamhane and Farhan Akhtar and actors Arundhati Nag and Sheeba Chaddha. Though filmmaker Vishal Bhardwaj had on Friday urged film bodies to oppose this “unfair and unreasonable provision’’, there was no indication that they have responded to the ministry’s proposals yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-23
29-06-2021||India||Bihar: 26-year-old man accused of theft lynched||A 26-year-old youth accused of theft was allegedly lynched by a mob at a village in Araria district of Bihar in the early hours of Sunday. The incident occurred at Chakai village under Jokihat police station, around 340km northeast of the state capital. The victim, identified as Muhammad Ismail, a resident of Balua village under neighbouring Mahalgaon police station, neither had past criminal record nor were any stolen goods recovered from him. Ismail had allegedly entered the house of Domar Yadav during the early hours of Sunday. The family members woke up and raised an alarm following which he tried to escape. Other villagers also joined in the chase. Ismail was caught and brought back to the house that he had allegedly entered, was tied to a post and brutally thrashed. Ismail fell unconscious after some time and a few villagers shifted him to the local primary health centre, where he died during treatment. Jokihat station house officer Vikas Kumar Azad said the police rushed to the village after getting information about the incident and also sent the body for post-mortem. Bihar has witnessed several mob-lynching incidents, especially over theft allegations, in the last couple of years. Araria sub-divisional police officer Pushkar Kumar denied that it was an incident of mob lynching. “It seems he (Ismail) had gone there to steal things. The people living in the house caught him while some other villagers also joined. They thrashed him following which he died while undergoing treatment at a government hospital,” he said. “We have registered an FIR in which 15 people have been accused of killing the youth. We have arrested Nitish Kumar and Rupesh Kumar. They are the prime accused in the case and are residents of the house in which the deceased had broken in,” Pushkar told The Telegraph. He also said that the victim’s name was not in the records of the police stations in the area, but efforts were on to check whether it was present in other police stations in the district. The family members of Ismail have alleged there was a conspiracy behind his death. “My son had a dispute over the construction of a road in the village. Some people opposed to him conspired to kill him,” Ismail’s father Muhammad Shoaib told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||J&K: Suspected militants kill SPO, wife and child in Pulwama||A special police officer, his wife and daughter were killed in a suspected militant attack at Awantipora in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Sunday night. Officials said suspected militants barged into the house of officer Fayaz Ahmad, in his late 40s, at 11pm. The militants were looking for the officer apparently to kill him. Ahmad’s wife Raja Begum and daughter Rafia tried to save him but the family faced a barrage of fire, killing Ahmad on the spot. His wife and daughter were hospitalised. The wife died of wounds during the night while his daughter passed away early on Monday. The killings have plunged the village in grief and triggered outrage across the Valley. Inspector-general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the militants first fired upon Ahmad. “The mother and daughter tried to save him (SPO) but they were also fired upon. They were martyred. We are very grieved but they (militants) will soon be identified and neutralised,” he said. Kumar said two militants carried out the attack, one of whom appeared to be an “FT” (foreign terrorist) from his appearance. “There is a presence of Jaish militants in the area. They could have carried out the attack,” he added. Former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti condemned the attack. “I unreservedly condemn the dastardly and cowardly militant attack on the J&K police SPO Fayaz Ahmad, his wife and his young daughter at their home last night. I pray they receive their place in Jannat (heaven) and their loved ones find strength during this terrible time,” Omar tweeted. “No words are strong enough to condemn the cowardly attack in Awantipora that claimed the lives of a JKP officer Fayaz Ahmad, his wife and daughter. May Allah Ta’aala grant them maghfirat and their loved ones the fortitude to bear this loss,” Mehbooba said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Jammu: Indian Army foils possible drone attacks on 2 military camps||The army claimed to have foiled possible drone attacks on two military camps in Jammu on Sunday night, barely 24 hours after the Indian Air Force station at Jammu airport suffered blasts attributed to the first ever drone strikes anywhere in India. The army said its quick reaction teams fired at two unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) on Sunday night and forced them to retreat. After the previous night’s assault on the IAF station, experts had warned of more drone attacks. Army sources said one drone was spotted over the Ratnuchak army camp at 11.30pm on Sunday and the other over the Kaluchak army camp around 1am on Monday morning. Ratnuchak is 4km north of the IAF station where, according to the police, two explosive-laden drones caused low-level blasts early on Sunday morning, injuring two officials, while Kaluchak is 6km south of the IAF station. All three are around 15km from the Pakistan border. “On midnight of 27-28 June 2021, two separate drone activities were spotted over Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area by alert troops,” defence spokesperson Devender Anand said in a statement. “Immediately, high alert was sounded and quick reaction teams engaged them with firing. Both the drones flew away. The security forces are on high alert and the search operation is in progress.” The army statement did not say where the drones had come from or where they flew away. The security forces carried out multiple searches to try and figure out whether the UAVs had been sent from somewhere on the Indian side rather than from Pakistan. An official said it was not clear whether the drones had been sent to launch an attack or to drop weapons — a purpose for which UAVs have been used in the past in Jammu and Kashmir and neighbouring Punjab. Security experts had on Sunday said the purported drone attack on the IAF station had added “a new dimension” to the militant threat to India and suggested an overhaul of the security grid to protect vital installations from the air. Kaluchak, in particular, has been heavily guarded since a suicide attack on the camp in 2002 killed 30 people — three soldiers, 16 army family members and 11 other civilians. Forty-eight others, mostly soldiers and their families, were injured. The attack on the IAF station the previous night had injured officials Arvind Singh and S.K. Singh and ripped out the roof of a building in the technical area. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh had suggested that a “drone with payload” was used and pointed a finger at militants. But the IAF is yet to confirm a drone attack or a militant link. Drones can be used as bombs themselves or can drop bombs or fire missiles from the air, depending on their level of sophistication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Single mom in Kerala fights her way into police force||Ten years ago, Aanie S.P. was selling ice cream and lemonade at the Sivagiri Mutt fair in Varakala, an abandoned mother barely into her 20s struggling to raise a two-year-old son all by herself. On Friday, the now 31-year-old was appointed a sub-inspector of police in the same town, located in Thiruvananthapuram district. Aanie is now basking in a shower of congratulatory messages from across Kerala lauding her single-handed and successful battle against odds. Going by the social media messages, Aanie appears to be a hero Kerala desperately needed at a time a spate of suicides by newly married women over dowry and domestic abuse has pricked its conscience. “I keep telling all women who contact me for whatever problems they face to never accept defeat, as a tiny ember of hope will always be there to help us find the spark of success and happiness,” Aanie told The Telegraph on Monday. Aanie’s life had been thrown into turmoil when, still in her teens, she had defied her middle-class parents to move in with her boyfriend. She was then an undergraduate student of sociology at the K.N.M. Government College in Thiruvananthapuram. Shortly after the baby’s birth 12 years ago, the father deserted mother and child. Aanie was left with a mountain to climb: pay rent, take care of herself and the boy, continue her own education. She did it all, selling anything from curry powder to lemonade while she left the baby at a crèche at a concessional Rs 400 a month, and then cooking, washing and studying at home. “I took refuge at my grandmother’s home (near her parents’ place) for over two months since I had to complete my degree exams. After that I lived alone in rented rooms in Thiruvananthapuram, taking care of my child and earning my livelihood,” she said. Aanie received no help from her parents or elder brother. As with most single mothers, life was full of challenges. “One can imagine the problems women face when they have to live alone. So I went for a makeover by cutting my hair and switched to trousers and shirts to look like a man,” she said. “Now I’m very comfortable in this appearance and attire since I’m a police officer,” Aanie, who rides a Royal Enfield motorbike, grinned. Her father, who used to work in the Gulf, had always wanted her to become an IPS officer. But it was a relative who in 2016 suggested she take the sub-inspectors’ test. With the result of the test getting delayed, she took the constables’ test successfully and got a posting with the Special Armed Police in Thiruvananthapuram. But, determined to become a sub-inspector, she took the SI test again in early 2019 and cracked it. As she began her sub-inspector’s training at the police academy in Thrissur, her mother moved in with her. But her father and brother remain estranged. After a year’s training, Aanie was sent back to Kochi as a probationary sub-inspector. On June 25, she received her formal appointment as a sub-inspector in Varakala. The police department has accepted her request for an immediate transfer to Kochi, where she believes her 12-year-old son Shivasurya can get better schooling. On Sunday afternoon, the Kerala police celebrated her achievement with a Facebook post, titled “The story of our colleague who overcame challenges”. It immediately triggered a flood of applause from Keralites. “Congratulations to Aanie who achieved success in life with her determination. Let her success inspire many others,” tweeted Malayalam film star Mohanlal. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan of the Congress congratulated Aanie for building a “life for herself & her son” against heavy odds. Appearing to allude to the recent dowry suicides, Satheeshan tweeted: “In a dismally male-dominated society where atrocities against vulnerable women are occurring every day, her life and achievements are truly inspirational.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Indian Army capable of befitting reply to every challenge: Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said the Indian Army had the capability to give a befitting reply to every challenge, and efforts should be made to find a solution to resolve disputes through dialogue with neighbouring countries. Rajnath, however, desisted from naming China, a policy Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been following through the 13-month border standoff with that country. India and China have been locked in border disputes at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since May last year. China’s People’s Liberation Army has altered the unmarked Line of Actual Control (LAC) at these friction points and is estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Even a year after the Galwan clash, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, there are no signs of restoration of status quo ante along the LAC. Sources say China has so far shown no intent of pulling back either from Hot Springs/Gogra or from the Depsang Plains where its troops are said to have transgressed 18km into the India-claimed territory. Interacting with the troops of Indian Army’s 14 Corps in Ladakh on Monday, Singh said: “India is a peace-loving nation that never resorts to any kind of aggression, but at the same time, it is always prepared to give a befitting reply if provoked.” A press statement from the defence ministry said: “He (Singh) reiterated the government’s stand of resolving disputes through dialogue with neighbouring countries, but assured the nation that safety and security of the nation will not be compromised at any cost.” The defence minister, who arrived in Ladakh on Sunday on a three-day visit, also inaugurated 63 bridges constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in six states and two Union Territories. Singh said the Union government’s “historic” decision to bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh into two separate Union Territories had bolstered national unity and led to major reduction in terrorist activities. Lauding the army for displaying exemplary courage during the Galwan Valley face-off, the defence minister paid tributes to the bravehearts who laid down their lives in the line of duty. In the wake of the PLA’s massive deployment along the LAC in Ladakh, the Indian Army has put in place mirror deployment and established habitat facilities for 50,000 additional troops deployed there, backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the Indian Air Force’s combat aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
29-06-2021||India||Centre asks NCERT to develop the National Curriculum Frameworks||The government has asked the NCERT to coordinate with its state counterparts to develop the National Curriculum Frameworks (NCF), the guiding documents for writing school textbooks, after failing to find experts of its choice for the job. However, the directive has prompted fears among some academics that this is a ploy to get the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) to interfere in the preparation of the state curriculum frameworks (SCFs), which tend to loosely follow the NCF but are not bound by it. Anita Rampal, former dean of Delhi University’s faculty of education, expressed a fear of “centralisation of the (state) curriculums”. The Union education ministry last month asked the NCERT to coordinate with the State Councils of Educational Research and Training (SCERTs) for the preparation of four NCFs. One of these is to be about early childhood care and education for early graders, another about school education, a third about teacher education and the fourth about adult education, two ministry officials told this newspaper. Till now, the NCF used to be one comprehensive document. However, one paragraph in the government document has caused alarm among educationists. It reads: “As per the strategy of MOE (ministry of education) and NCERT, national curriculum framework should be framed by incorporating and integrating local and indigenous flavour from across the country through wider consultations. For this, state curriculum frameworks may be developed and then feed into the preparation of national curriculum framework.” Rampal wondered why there was a centralised plan to direct the states on the preparation of their SCFs, emphasising that education was on the concurrent list. “The SCERTs are independent institutions. It’s up to the states and their SCERTs to decide how they would like to develop their own curriculum frameworks,” she said. “Some states did not prepare their SCFs (even when the last NCF came out in 2005) while some broadly drew upon the NCF 2005 to develop their curricula and textbooks. Now the central government’s decision to get the SCFs ready before the NCFs — ostensibly through collaboration between the SCERTs and the NCERT — seems like an attempt at centralisation of the (state) curriculums.” Just as the NCFs are mere guidelines for the SCFs, so are the NCERT’s 225 textbooks just models that the SCERTs may follow while preparing their states’ school textbooks. While Rampal believes the Centre may be using the NCERT to influence the SCERTs, the government seemed initially not to trust the national body with the preparation of the NCFs and unsuccessfully looked for its own experts — delaying the entire process. The National Education Policy brought out by the NDA government last year advocates the framing of a new NCF and the preparation of new school textbooks. Last September, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that schoolchildren should follow a new curriculum in 2022. “That means the NCF preparation should have ended by December 2020. But it’s starting only now. There’s been a huge delay and it can’t be completed by 2022,” an academic who did not wish to be named said. Education ministry officials said the ministry had initially been keen to set up an expert committee to prepare the NCFs in a departure from the convention of the NCERT setting up such committees. The government had rejected the NCERT’s proposed set of experts for the NCF committee and consulted its own trusted people who suggested several names too. All these names were sent to the Prime Minister’s Office. “It could not be decided who should be chairperson of the NCF committee after former IIT Delhi chairman Vijay Bhatkar declined the offer,” a ministry official said. Eventually, the Centre could not find any candidate of the required stature and asked the NCERT to prepare the NCFs in consultation with the SCERTs. The NCFs have to be approved by the Central Advisory Board of Education, which includes all the state education ministers. The NCF provides broad guidelines that another expert committee formed by the NCERT follows while preparing the syllabuses and textbooks for every class, the whole process usually taking three to four years. After an expert committee formed by the NCERT in 2004 under noted academic Yash Pal came out with the last NCF in 2005, the textbooks were introduced in phases for all classes until 2008. “In all probability, textbook preparation may be pushed back to the term of the next government,” the academic who sought anonymity said. An email sent to the education ministry seeking the reasons for the delay in preparing the NCFs brought no answers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-24
