30-06-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra reports 9,771 new cases, 141 deaths||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 9,771 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 60,61,404, while the death toll rose to 1,21,945 after 141 patients succumbed to the infection, according to a health department official. The state reported about 1,700 more cases, but 90 less fatalities as compared to Tuesday, when the new infections stood at 8,085 and the deaths at 231. The official said as many as 10,353 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recovered cases to 58,19,901. The state now has 1,16,364 active Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is 96.02 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent, he said. According to the official, out of 4,16,37,950 Covid-19 tests conducted so far, 60,61,404 have tested positive for coronavirus, reflecting a case positivity rate of 14.56 per cent. Currently, 6,17,926 people are in home quarantine and 4,173 in institutional quarantine, he said. According to the official, Mumbai reported 706 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 7,22,222, while the death toll increased to 15,451 with the addition of 25 fresh fatalities. He said 536 people tested positive in Pune municipal limits, which took the tally to 4,94,342, while the the death toll remained unchanged at 8165 as no fresh fatality wasreported in the city in the last 24 hours. According to the official, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 22, 269, 63, nine and 20 new Covid-19 cases, respectively. Coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 60,61,404; new cases-9,771; total deaths 1,21,945; recoveries 58,19,901; active cases 1,16,364 total tests 4,16,37,950.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-17
30-06-2021||India||Cabinet decisions will provide additional financial support to various sectors: Modi||With the Union Cabinet approving a loan guarantee scheme for Covid-affected sectors and raising the corpus of emergency credit line guarantee scheme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that it will provide additional financial support to key projects in various sectors, especially in healthcare and medical infrastructure. The Cabinet chaired by Modi approved the loan guarantee scheme, enabling funding to the tune of Rs 50,000 crore to provide financial guarantee cover for brownfield expansion and greenfield projects related to health and medical infrastructure. It also approved introduction of a scheme for other sectors and lenders, including those allied to better healthcare, besides an additional funding up to Rs 1,50,000 crore under the emergency credit line guarantee scheme. In a tweet Modi said, "An important Cabinet decision that will provide additional financial support to key projects relating to various sectors particularly healthcare and medical infrastructure." As part of the package to support the Covid pandemic-hit economy, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on Monday announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fee for foreign tourists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-17
30-06-2021||India||Covid: Tweets from India grew 7 times in Apr-May, says Twitter||Microblogging platform Twitter on Wednesday said the average daily number of tweets about Covid-19 from India increased 7 times during April-May this year as compared to the February-March period.  Social media emerged as a lifeline for many during the deadly second wave of the pandemic with people turning to platforms like Twitter and Facebook with SOS calls as they looked for resources like oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors, and ventilators.  "The average daily number of tweets about Covid-19 from India increased by over 600 per cent (7X) during the surge (April 1-May 31, 2021). People in India came together to support each other and share information, bolstering replies during the surge months by 1.5X," Twitter said in a statement.  Tweets from medical professionals in India increased by 1.5X during the surge period as they used Twitter to share important information. Also, tweets on Covid-19 grew manifold during April 1-May 31, 2021, and the service witnessed 100 per cent growth in Covid-19 conversations compared with the previous two months (February 1-March 31), it added.  "With the onset of the second wave of Covid-19 in India, Twitter emerged as a real-time helpline as people turned to the service seeking and offering help to secure life-saving facilities, medicines, food, and much more. An incredibly positive people's movement to support one another took shape on the service," Twitter said.  Twitter noted that tweets about seeking or providing medical help increased by 1958 per cent (20X). #Covid19 was tweeted 77 per cent more during April-May, while #Blood was tweeted 72 per cent more as compared to the February-March period. Similarly, #Plasma saw an 834 per cent increase and #SOS was tweeted 152 per cent more during this time.  "Tweets around #Vaccine and #Vaccination went up by 246 per cent. To support this conversation, Twitter introduced a home Timeline prompt that points people to vaccine-related updates and information from authoritative sources," it said.  Tweets with hashtags - #CoronavirusUpdates, #CoronaIndiaUpdate, #Covid19IndiaResources and others - amped up conversations by 10X, it added.  People also came forward to contribute to relief efforts, and fundraising conversations went up by 731 per cent (8x).  Mental well-being recorded 153 per cent (2.5X) increase during the surge period as people tweeted with hashtags such as #DoctorsMentalhealth, #CovidCounselling, #CovidDepression, #CovidInsomnia, and others. Tweets on #IndiaFightsCorona saw a 530 per cent increase, while #DelhiFightsCorona and #MaharashtraFightsCorona also witnessed a significant increase in tweets.  "More than ever, Twitter remains committed to serving the public conversation. It introduced a number of features and initiatives in support of the Covid-19 conversation in India," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-17
30-06-2021||India||Narendra Modi meets council of ministers, urges to spread awareness about Covid vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday exhorted his Council of Ministers to work towards creating such an atmosphere in the country wherein everyone follows COVID-19 protocols diligently and takes vaccine to stop the third wave of the pandemic.  Underlining that the fight against COVID-19 is not over yet, Modi told the ministers that vaccination should be done on a war footing.  Chairing a meeting of the Union Council of Ministers, he asked them to ensure that the projects for which they have laid the foundations are completed and inaugurated by them.  He also asked them keep track of the projects and ensure these are not delayed, sources said.  The prime minister sought suggestions from the ministers on how to expedite economic growth of the country post pandemic.  He urged them to work on mission mode in their respective ministries.  Talking about the upcoming Parliament session, Modi asked his ministerial colleagues to prepare themselves with facts and figures to counter any changes made by the opposition, sources said.  During the meeting which lasted nearly five hours, Member (Health) of NITI Aayog V K Paul made a presentation on the coronavirus pandemic.  Modi stressed that people have to remain vigilant to contain the spread of the virus, sources said.  The prime minister said such an atmosphere should be created that all remain vigilant while strictly following COVID-19 protocols and get vaccinated so that there wouldn't be any third wave, sources said.  He suggested the ministers to follow COVID-19 protocols and wear masks while visiting their constituencies.  Modi also said several "myths" were created during the pandemic and that these should be countered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||India asks EU to accept vaccination certificate issued through CoWIN portal||As the European Union relaxes travel restrictions under its 'Green Passport' scheme, India has requested the members of the 27-nation grouping to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin vaccines to travel to Europe, sources said. The sources said India has requested the EU member nations to accept the vaccination certificate issued through the CoWIN portal. The European Union's Digital Covid certificate framework to facilitate free movement during the Covid-19 pandemic is to come into effect on Thursday. Under this framework, persons who have taken vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will be exempted from travel restrictions within the EU. The individual member states have the flexibility to also accept vaccines that have been authorised at the national level or by the World Health Organisation. "We have requested EU member states to individually consider extending similar exemption to those persons who have taken Covid-19 vaccines in India, that is Covishield and Covaxin, and accept the vaccination certificate issued through the CoWIN portal," said a source. The sources said the genuineness of such vaccination certification can be authenticated on the CoWIN portal. "We have also conveyed to EU member states that India will institute a reciprocal policy for recognition of the EU Digital Covid Certificate," the source said. "Upon notification of Covishield and Covaxin for inclusion in the EU Digital Covid Certificate and recognition of Indian CoWIN vaccination certificates, Indian health authorities would reciprocally exempt the EU member state concerned for exemption from the mandatory quarantine of all those persons carrying EU digital Covid certificate," the source said. There have been apprehensions in India that people who took Covishield and Covaxin jabs are unlikely to be eligible to travel to the European Union member states under its 'Green Pass' scheme. The EU Digital Covid certificate or 'Green Pass' will be mandatory to travel to European countries and the document will serve as proof that a person is vaccinated against Covid-19. An EU official on Tuesday said individual member states of the European Union will have the option to accept vaccines authorised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) like Covishield for obtaining the bloc's digital Covid certificate. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday took up the issue of inclusion of Covishield in the EU digital Covid certificate scheme during a meeting with Josep Borrell Fontelles, the High Representative of the European Union. The meeting took place on the sidelines of a G20 meeting in Italy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Delhi burns as severe heat wave sweeps national capital||A severe heat wave swept the national capital on Wednesday, with the mercury soaring to 43.5 degrees Celsius, the highest recorded this year so far, the India Meteorological Department said, adding the monsoon is at least a week away. The maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung Observatory, the official marker for the city, was seven notches above normal, weather officials said. By July 7, conditions are predicted to become favourable for the monsoon to advance into the region, according to the MeT office. Most of the monitoring stations in the capital recorded a severe heat wave, with their respective maximum temperature remaining at least 7 degrees Celsius above the average temperature. A severe heat wave seared Lodhi Road (43.7 degrees Celsius), Ayanagar (44.2), Ridge (44), Mungeshpur (44.3), Najafgarh (44.4), Pitampura (44.3) and Narela (43.7), officials said. The monitoring station at Pusa recorded a high of 44.3 degrees Celsius, eight notches above normal, they added. For the plains, a "heat wave" is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A "severe" heat wave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. On Monday, Delhi recorded the first heat wave this summer with the mercury levels increasing to 43 degrees Celsius. Another heat wave has been predicted for Thursday. Light rainfall and dust storm on Friday are likely to bring the mercury below the 40 degrees mark. Usually, the capital witnesses heat waves till June 20 and cooler temperatures thereafter. The increase in the maximum temperature this time can be attributed to the delay in the arrival of the monsoon, said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD's regional forecasting centre. There has been no rainfall in the last few days and warm westerly winds are blowing across a major part of northwest India, which has not been covered by the monsoon yet, he said. After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon had raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India, seven to 10 days earlier. The meteorological office had earlier predicted that the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15, which would have been 12 days early. However, westerly winds have been blocking its advance into Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29. The wind system is not likely to cover the remaining part of northwest India, including Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and west Rajasthan in the next six to seven days, the IMD said. The last time the monsoon arrived so late in Delhi was on July 7 in 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Doubtful if one can refuse to take Covid jab as a matter of right, says Madras HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday raised doubts if a citizen can refuse to take vaccine as a matter of right. "It is doubtful whether the right to refuse to take the vaccine can be exercised in such circumstances," the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. "Vaccinating oneself may not only be to protect oneself but also in the larger interest of public health," it said. "When such larger interest of public health comes into play and it is possible that a person who has not taken the vaccine may not reveal any symptoms but still be a silent carrier, it is doubtful whether the right to refuse to take the vaccine can be exercised in such circumstances," the bench explained. The explanation followed a submission from the State that there is an element of reluctance in some quarters to take the Covid vaccine. The bench said that the State should try and persuade them with awareness campaigns and scientific data to indicate the efficacy of the vaccines and the indispensable nature thereof in dealing with the present pandemic. Though the June 29 status report indicates appropriate measures having been taken or planned to be taken at rehabilitation homes, mental care centres and the like, as prayed for by advocate Karpagam, the petitioner, the bench felt that there does not appear to be a plan in place for persons with disabilities, who are homebound and do not have the ability or resources to travel, particularly in the semi-urban and rural areas. It, however, hoped all persons with disabilities, irrespective of status and resources, are taken care of by the State in due course. The matter stands adjourned till July 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||India received 10 per cent excess rainfall in June, says IMD||Even as southwest monsoon continues to elude parts of north India, including Delhi, the country has received 10 per cent more rainfall than normal in June, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Currently, the northernmost limit of southwest monsoon is passing through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. "Since June 19 there has not been any progress of monsoon," the IMD said, inferring that most of the advancement was recorded between June 3-19. The monsoon made onset over Kerala on June 3. According to the IMD, the further advancement of southwest monsoon into the remaining parts of Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab is not likely till July 7. Central and north Indian plains are already reeling under searing heat that is pushing temperatures over 40 degrees Celsius. The ongoing weak monsoon spell is over central, peninsular and northwest India while northeast India, Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh are witnessing heavy rains. "For the country as a whole, cumulative rainfall during this year's Southwest Monsoon till June 30 has been above normal by about 10 per cent above Long Period Average (LPA)," the IMD said. Actual rainfall during the same period is 18.29 cm as against the normal of 16.69 cm, it said. East and northeast India have received 1.3 per cent more rainfall than normal in June. Northwest India received 14 per cent more rainfall than normal, central India 17 per cent and south peninsula 2.4 per cent, the IMD said. Southwest monsoon reached Kerala two days late. It raced through parts of the country, covering east and northeast India, central India, central peninsula and even large parts of north India much before its scheduled arrival. But it is yet to reach Haryana, Delhi, parts of west Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. "Forecasts based on model consensus show that the formation of a low pressure system over north Bay of Bengal is unlikely till July 7," the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Delhi has no Delta Plus case of Covid-19 yet, says health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the national capital has not reported any case of Delta plus variant of COVID-19 so far, adding that there is no communication from the Centre to make any special arrangement to deal with it. He said a genome sequencing lab to detect the variants of coronavirus will become operational at Lok Nayak Hospital within a week. Another such lab is being created at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, he said. "There are several variants of coronavirus, but there are only two ways to protect yourself against it -- get vaccinated and use masks. There is no separate communication from the Centre to make special preparations for the Delta plus variant. Also, Delhi has not reported any such cases so far," Jain told reporters here. He said the Delhi government is in the process of increasing hospital beds to accommodate 37,000 cases a day in case of a third wave. The Delhi government has already installed 32 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants with a total capacity of 29.77 metric tonnes (MT). Three liquid medical oxygen storage tanks with a cumulative capacity of 171 MT have also been installed. Jain also said the coronavirus situation is under control in Delhi, but appealed to people to continue observing Covid appropriate behaviour. "The number of cases had reduced significantly in January and February too, and people let their guards down. The experience of the last one-and-a-half-year shows one has to remain vigilant all the time," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Barring all odds Alma Chopra motivates people towards staying positive||Internationally based speaker and entrepreneur, Alma Chopra believes that one can overcome adversity and become an inspiration to others, as she has done with her own life journey. She has risen to great heights as a positive influence on others, demonstrating that anyone can achieve anything if they put their minds to it. Being an exemplary example for the world with her life experience she has shown that with a positive attitude one can fight with a serious illness like Cerebellar Ataxia. And also has been a true inspiration for many young generations. Regardless of all the challenges she experienced in life, this brave woman never gave up. A world-class speaker whose power is to reinforce belief in individuals, Alma has reclaimed her power after two decades of hiding away and living in the shadow of her infirmity. Even though she has gone through such humiliation and mental suffering that is unimaginable, her ability to rewind and replay circumstances and scenes that cause bodily or emotional pain cannot be underestimated. Speaking on her breakthrough moment, Alma says, “Our acts in life are motivated by fear and hatred. We live in a world where far too many of us are propelled by negativity. Motivating ourselves for the purpose of love is significantly less harmful, and it may even assist us in achieving the calm and tranquilly we want.” Life throws obstacles at everyone, and it's impossible to avoid them. This is why she works with audiences to help them create appropriate coping mechanisms while also strengthening their resilience during the challenging shift. She is able to help others and put a smile on people's faces through her public speaking and coaching, which also encourages her. An enabler who has destined herself to work towards moulding the norm, Alma, has made it her mission to challenge the current status quo, tells charming stories to enable her listeners to escape the self-pitying images and obtain entrance to the centre table of belief and resurrection. This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||EU approval for Covishield in a month, says Serum India chief ||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India is confident of receiving approval from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for its Covid-19 vaccine Covishield in a month, company's chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla said on Wednesday. He also said the issue of vaccine passports should be on the basis of reciprocity between the countries. "The EMA is absolutely correct in asking us to apply, which we have through AstraZeneca, our partners, a month ago, and that process has to take its time. An approval process even with UK MHRA, WHO took its time and we have applied to the EMA," Poonawalla said at India Global Forum 2021. "We are quite confident that in a month EMA will approve Covishield. There is no reason why not to, because it is based on AstraZeneca data and our product is identical to AstraZeneca more or less and it has been approved by WHO, UK MHRA. So it's just a matter of time. It is not really going to hinder anything," he said. "But the reason why it was flagged is because if the issue is not addressed now, and when India gets off the red list and when citizens want to travel they should not be refused in a given country just because they have a Covishield certificate," he added. On the issue of vaccine passports, Poonawalla said that it was a slightly different issue. "The issue with vaccine passports is slightly different. What I am trying to say is that let us take a manufacturer outside of India. Let's say they have been approved by WHO and everyone in that country gets vaccinated taking that product and now when those citizens need to travel, what good is their vaccine certificate if it is not acknowledged and reciprocity is not there between the countries," Poonawalla said. It is that level of reciprocity that is expected between all these nations, he added. On the issue of waiving of intellectual property rights on vaccines to increase the supply, Poonawalla said waiving of IP is perhaps not going to solve the immediate shortage of vaccines. However, it is a good strategy in the long term, to be prepared for future pandemics. Stating that it was difficult for the company to stop the export of Covishield as it had prior commitments, he however said Serum did it in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic hitting India. Decision of stopping the exports was particularly stressful, "because it was not just our partner AstraZeneca that needed vaccines for the other parts of the world, it was COVAX, it was other countries that we had commitments with, we had taken advance funding, we had to return some of that funding, and really explain to other world leaders as well that there was really no choice at that moment ," Poonawalla said. We had to tell them that ,"we really had to support our nation at that moment for a few months and that we would get back to them," he added. It was really difficult for everyone to digest that , but slowly as they realised what was going on in India everyone was really supportive and understanding, Poonawalla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Odisha halts vaccination in 11 districts citing shortage||The Odisha government on Wednesday stopped the Covid-19 vaccination drive in 11 districts due to an "acute shortage" of Covishield doses, officials said. The inoculation exercise was temporarily halted during the day in Angul, Bolangir, Balasore, Bhadrak, Dhenkanal, Ganjam, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Kendrapara, Koraput and Sonepur , they said. The authorities were administering over 3 lakh doses of the vaccines to eligible beneficiaries every day since June 21 after Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had asked officials to accelerate the inoculation process before the possible third wave of Covid-19. But, the health department was able to give only 1.18 lakh jabs on Tuesday, an official said. Covaxin is being administered to people in the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation area, while Covishield vaccine is being used in other parts of the state. "On Tuesday, no vaccination drive was conducted in Kendrapara and Balasore. Today, the authorities stopped the immunisation programme in 11 districts due to the acute shortage of doses. The state has a stock of 38,380 vials of Covishield till this morning, and the next allocation is likely to be made on July 2," another health department official said. Health and Family Welfare Minister N K Das had recently requested the Centre to allocate at least 6 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine to carry out the immunisation programme smoothly in June, the officials said. Odisha has so far administered over 1.18 crore doses of vaccines, they said. The state on Wednesday reported 3,371 fresh coronavirus cases, which pushed the tally to 9,09,800. At least 48 more fatalities due to the infection raised the death toll to 4,018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Political leaders have been patient by don't cross limits, Haryana CM warns farmers||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said the protesting farmer unions should not remain adamant on repeal of the new central farm laws, adding that making it a precondition for talks with the government does not serve any purpose. He also claimed that only a "handful of people" were opposing the farm laws and that "common farmers are happy". "Those spearheading the agitation are in reality not farmers. Real farmers have no objection with the farm laws, they are happy," he said. The chief minister further alleged that those opposing the farm laws are only doing so due to political reasons. "Their Punjab team is doing so because polls are approaching there. But there are no polls due in our state. Here the agenda is to defame the government using political angle. And the Congress is also supporting them in this," he said. Khattar said the word kisan (farmer) is a sacred one, but some incidents like the alleged sexual exploitation of a woman from Bengal at the Tikri border last month have "prompted people to raise questions". On Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar's appeal to the protesting farmers to end their agitation and his invitation for talks, Khattar said, "The farmer unions are adamant on only one thing -- repeal of the farm laws -- without being able to pinpoint at any shortcomings of the laws." "It does not serve any purpose if they remain adamant on just one thing and making it a precondition for talks with the government," he said at a press conference here. "What I feel is that Kisan word is a very pious word. Everyone, including common people, government and I would say even those leading this agitation have faith and respect towards farmers. But the sad part which has come out of this agitation is that some incidents have happened prompting people to raise questions," he said in an apparent reference to the sexual exploitation incident at Tikri border. The Haryana Police had last month launched a probe into allegations by the father of the victim woman, who died after showing COVID-like symptoms, at a hospital in Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district, that she had been raped by two men she had accompanied to the farmers protest site at Tikri border. The CM also referred to the death of a 42-year-old man whose family members alleged that he was set on fire by four people in Bahadurgarh. According to the complaint lodged by the victim's brother, the four men were part of the ongoing farmers agitation at the Tikri border near Delhi. "There has been sexual assault, murder, and also disputes with local people about roads being blocked for which even panchayats have been held," Khattar said. He also referred to the alleged targeting of BJP-JJP leaders in the state over the farm laws. "I condemn their undemocratic way of work. We are exercising restraint. And what are they (those spearheading the stir) saying that the ministers, MLAs, chief minister, deputy CM cannot go to attend public functions. After all those running the government, it is their responsibility to go among the people and listen to them,"" he said. "We have always exercised restraint as they (protesters) are our own people we do not want confrontation. When they say some things, we tolerate it as they are our own people. But exceeding it beyond limit is not in anyone's interest," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-18
30-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines not linked with infertility, clarifies centre||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday said that there is no scientific evidence suggesting Covid-19 vaccination can cause infertility in men and women and asserted the vaccines have been found to be safe and effective. It further said that the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has also recommended Covid vaccination for all lactating women, terming it as safe with no need to stop or pause breastfeeding before or after the inoculation. The statement by the ministry comes in the wake of media reports expressing concerns regarding infertility due to Covid-19 vaccination among population of reproductive age and whether the vaccination is safe for lactating women. The health ministry as clarified in the FAQs posted on the website that none of the available vaccines affects fertility of either men or women, as all vaccines and their constituents are tested first on animals and later in humans to assess if they have any such side effects, the statement said. Vaccines are authorised for use only after their safety and efficacy is assured. "Furthermore, in order to curb the prevalent myth regarding infertility due to Covid-19 vaccination, the government of India has clarified that there are no scientific evidences suggesting Covid-19 vaccination can cause infertility in men and women. The vaccines have been found to be safe and effective," the statement said. It further said that in a recent interview, Dr N K Arora, chairperson of Covid-19 Working Group of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) has countered these fears and allegations. He said that misinformation was also created during the administering of polio vaccine in India and abroad that children who are getting the vaccine may face infertility in the future. He assured that all vaccines go through intense scientific researches and none of the vaccines have this sort of side-effect, the statement stated. NEGVAC has also recommended Covid-19 vaccination for all lactating women, terming it as safe with no need to stop or pause breastfeeding before or after the vaccination, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Former Mumbai police commissioner's son arrested for stalking estranged wife||Former Mumbai police commissioner R D Tyagi's son Raj Tyagi was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly stalking and intimidating his estranged wife in the western suburb of Bandra here, an official said. According to the police, Raj Tyagi, who had come out on bail a few days ago in a domestic violence case, was apprehended by the police based on a complaint lodged by his estranged wife, who lives with her four children in Bandra (west), the official said. In her complaint, Tyagi's wife had alleged that he stood below their Bandra residence and followed her car in his own vehicle, he said, adding that a security guard had also spotted Tyagi standing below the building. Based on the complaint, an offence under section 354 (D) (stalking) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) was registered against Tyagi, the official said. Following his arrest, Tyagi produced before a court in Bandra, which remanded him to police custody till July 2, he said. Earlier, Tyagi was arrested in March in an attempt to murder and domestic violence case filed by his wife last year. The Bombay High Court had granted him bail last week on certain conditions, as he had filed an affidavit from prison stating that he will not enter the jurisdiction of the Bandra police station, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Cabinet approves Rs 6.29-lakh cr COVID-19 relief package announced by Nirmala Sitharaman||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the Rs 6.29-lakh crore relief package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to support the pandemic-hit economy. This was informed by Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar after the Cabinet meeting. As part of the package to support the Covid-19 pandemic-hit economy, Sitharaman had on Monday announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fee for foreign tourists. Together with previously announced Rs 93,869-crore spending on providing free foodgrains to the poor till November and additional Rs 14,775 crore fertiliser subsidy, the stimulus package, which is mostly made up of government guarantee to banks and microfinance institutions for loans they extend to Covid-19-hit sectors, totalled up to Rs 6.29 lakh crore. The finance minister provided Rs 23,220 crore of additional funding to set up children and paediatric care at hospitals to prepare healthcare infrastructure to deal with any emergency arising due to Covid-19 wave hitting children. Further, to incentivise job creation, the government committed to paying the employer and employee's share to provident fund (PF) for all new recruitments done till March 2022. Previously, the government paid Rs 902 crore for 21.42 lakh beneficiaries of 79,577 establishments. With the tourism sector being hit hard by the pandemic, the minister had announced financial support to over 11,000 registered tourists, guides, travel and tourism stakeholders, in addition to free one-month tourist visas to the first five lakh tourists. Other announcements included an additional Rs 19,041 crore to provide broadband internet cover to all village panchayats, an extension of tenure of a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for large-scale electronics manufacturing by a year and Rs 88,000 crore of insurance cover for goods exporters. The central government has announced the support measures as states start lifting restrictions after new coronavirus infections showed a decline. Two annoucements made by Sitharaman regarding the additional subsidy of Rs 14,775 crore for DAP & P&K fertilizers, and extension of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) free food grains from May to November 2021, were previously approved by the Cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India|| After Delhi Police, NCW sends notice to Twitter over child porn||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has asked the Managing Director of Twitter India to remove all pornographic and obscene content from the platform within a week. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma also wrote to the Commissioner of Police, Delhi to investigate the matter and take appropriate legal action. "The NCW has taken suo motu cognisance of several profiles on Twitter sharing pornographic content. Chairperson Ms Rekha Sharma has written to Managing Director, Twitter India for immediately removing all such pornographic and obscene content from the platform within a week," the women's panel said in a statement. Upon receiving a similar complaint earlier, the commission had brought the matter to Twitter's notice for immediate action. However, no action was reportedly taken by the platform, the NCW said. The commission is disturbed by the fact that despite knowing of the availability of such banned content which not only violates Indian laws but also Twitter's own policy, no action has been taken to date towards removing them. "The commission has shared with Twitter details of a few profiles sharing pornographic content on Twitter and has directed to remove all such content within one week. The platform has also been asked to communicate action taken within 10 days," it said. The move comes a day after the Delhi Police registered a case against Twitter on a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) for allegedly allowing access to child sexual abuse material on the social media platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Delimitation Commission to visit J&K from July 6 to July 9||The Delimitation Commission (DC) will visit Jammu and Kashmir next week for discussion with political leaders and administrators over demarcation of constituencies for the Union territory that lost its statehood and legislature in 2019. The visit, scheduled between July 6 to July 9,  has been announced after PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah met leaders of the key parties from the territory—many of whom were detained for close to a year after the removal of the state’s special status in 2019. “So far, the views of only one party have been aired at the commission-- which has the five MPs from J&K as associate members. Three associate members did not attend the meeting in February. The commission absolutely wants to hear the concerns of all parties concerned and we will invite all national and state parties,” a senior DC source told The Telegraph after a meeting on Wednesday. Only the two BJP MPs attended the DC meeting in February. The DC is redrawing the boundaries of seats based on the 2011 census. This is opposed by almost all Opposition parties and several civil society groups. The NC rejected the nomination of three of its MPs to the delimitation commission on grounds that delimitation should be done on the basis of the 2021 Census like the rest of India—except four North Eastern states, where there is also Opposition to delimitation. The NC, however, has recently authorised its leader Farooq Abdullah to consider any future invitation from the commission but has also stressed on the restoration of statehood before elections are held. Besides the eight national parties—of which only the CPM is part of the alliance to restore constitutional autonomy and statehood— J&K has three state parties. These are the J&K National Conference (NC), J&K Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and the J&K National Panthers Party. The former two are also part of the alliance. Besides the four parties, those invited to the PM’s meet last week included representatives of the Congress, BJP, Apni Party and People’s Conference. The PM stressed on delimitation and elections, the first after the Assembly of the undivided state was dissolved by the governor in 2018. Wednesday’s meeting included only chairperson Justice Ranjana Desai and chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra. J&K’s state election commissioner K. K. Sharma, an ex officio member, views were heard over telephone, a source confirmed. In a statement after the meeting, the DC said that it would visit the UT from July 6 to 9. The commission explained, “During this period, the Commission will interact with political parties, public representatives and Union Territory administration officials including District Election Officers/ Deputy Commissioners of 20 districts of the Union Territory to gather first-hand information and input concerning the on-going process of delimitation as mandated under the Jammu & Kashmir Reorganization Act, 2019.” It added, “The Commission already had series of meetings related to data/ map of the Districts/ Constituencies related to census 2011. Earlier, it invited all Associate Members for interaction, which were participated by two of the Associate Members. A number of representations has also been received on various aspects concerning delimitation from civil societies and members of public from the Union Territory. The Commission has already taken note of all such suggestions and directed that these may be deliberated further in the context of ground realities concerning delimitation. The Commission expects that all stakeholders will cooperate in this endeavour and will provide valuable suggestions so that the task of delimitation is completed timely.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Child porn charges: Twitter says it has developed tools to detect restricted content ||A day after the Delhi police booked Twitter for allowing access to child porn, the microblogging platform has said it has a "zero tolerance policy for child sexual exploitation" and has developed special special tools to detect and remove content linked to child pornography and the accounts linked to it. According to a report by ndtv.com, Twitter said that "viewing, sharing, or linking to child sexual exploitation (CSE) material, regardless of the intent, contributes to the re-victimization of the depicted children and is prohibited on our service". The Delhi Police has sent a notice to micro-blogging site Twitter seeking details about steps taken by it against circulation of child pornographic content on its platform following the FIR. The police have sought to know the steps taken by Twitter officials concerned against child sexual abuse content on their platform and sought details of the accounts circulating such material. A spokesperson of Twitter on Wednesday was quoted by ndtv,com, saying that in 2019, the platform launched a feature in search prompt aimed at deterrence of child sexual exploitation. "The prompt was developed in collaboration with the Ministry of Home Affairs and NGOs in India to blacklist specific CSE search keywords in Hindi, English, Bengali and Kannada," the spokesperson was quoted as saying. "We have been at the forefront of responding to the evolving challenge of preventing the exploitation of children on the Internet and will continue to aggressively fight online child sexual abuse, as well as invest in the technology and tools that are essential to stay ahead of this issue,"Twitter said. "We will continue to invest in proactive detection and removal of content that violates the Twitter Rules and work with law enforcement and NGO partners in India to tackle the issue," the spokesperson added. The Delhi Police had registered an FIR against Twitter for allegedly allowing access to child pornography on its platform following a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The case was registered under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the IT Act, police said. This comes days after the NCPCR, the country's apex child rights body, asked Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy to explain why no action had been taken against Twitter as per its letter to the Delhi Police dated May 29. In its letter, the NCPCR had asked the Delhi Police to book Twitter on the basis of the findings of its recent inquiry in which it had found that child sexual abuse material (CSAM) was easily available on the platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India|| International flight suspension extended till July 31, notifies DGCA||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till July 31, aviation regulator DGCA said on Wednesday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 24 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||SC asks Ramdev to submit full record of his comments on allopathy||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked Baba Ramdev to place before it the original record of his statement on the use of allopathic medicine during COVID-19 pandemic. "What is the original thing which he has said? You have not placed the whole thing," a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who was appearing for the yoga guru. Rohatgi told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, that he would file the original video along with the transcript. "Okay," the bench said and posted the matter for hearing on July 5. The top court was hearing Ramdev's plea seeking stay on the proceedings in connection with multiple FIRs lodged against him by Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Bihar and Chhattisgarh over his remarks against use of allopathic medicine during COVID-19 pandemic. The Patna and Raipur chapters of the IMA have lodged complaints against Ramdev alleging that his remarks are likely to cause prejudice to the COVID control mechanism and may dissuade people from availing proper treatment against the pandemic. In his plea, he has sought transfer of the FIRs lodged in Patna and Raipur to Delhi. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, Rohatgi told the bench that Ramdev is a public figure and proponent of yoga and ayurveda. He said that during an event, Ramdev had read out a WhatsApp message which was sent to him. Ramdev has clarified that he has nothing against doctors or anyone, Rohatgi said, adding that several complaints have been registered against at different places. Different complaints and FIRs have been filed against him , he said, adding that these complaints be clubbed in Delhi. Rohatgi said that last year, when Patanjali had brought coronil', allopathic doctors went against him. He (Ramdev) is not against them. Why should he go to so many places. Everybody has freedom of speech, he said. The yoga guru has been booked under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to aa infection of disease dangerous to life) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the IPC have been invoked against him. Ramdev, whose alleged statements created a nation-wide debate over Allopathy versus Ayurveda issue, however, had withdrawn his statements on May 23 after receiving a letter from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan who had called his remarks as "inappropriate". Ramdev has sought clubbing of FIRs on the issue and their transfer to Delhi and as an interim relief, he has also urged for a stay on the investigation in connection with the criminal complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu meets Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi,  discusses role in party revamp||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu met party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday morning, and is learnt to have discussed his role in the revamp in the party's state unit ahead of Assembly polls. He also met former party chief Rahul Gandhi at his residence here on Wednesday evening. Sidhu had said on Tuesday that he was slated to meet Rahul Gandhi but the latter denied that there was any scheduled meeting with him. The former Punjab minister is at loggerheads with Chief minister Amarinder Singh and has gone public against him. Sidhu said he had a long meeting with Vadra. "Had a long meeting with @priyankagandhi Ji," Sidhu tweeted, along with a picture with Vadra. The Congress leadership is trying to revamp the party's Punjab unit and present a united face ahead of assembly elections in the state early next year. Sources said the party leadership is trying to work out a position for Sidhu in the revamped party or state government, but he is adamant on not working with CM Singh. Rahul Gandhi has been meeting party leaders from Punjab for their views on the political situation and steps needed to strengthen the party ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. Sidhu, who had resigned from the Punjab Cabinet after he was divested of the local bodies portfolio in 2019, has been at loggerheads with Chief Minister Singh. He has attacked the chief minister over the alleged delay in justice in the 2015 incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing. The chief minister had slammed Sidhu for continuously attacking him over the sacrilege issue and termed the former's outbursts "total indiscipline". Earlier this month, Sidhu had appeared before a three-member panel set up by the Congress to resolve the infighting within the party's state unit. On June 22, Singh appeared before the panel, headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, in Delhi. However, he returned to Chandigarh without an audience with party president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal are members of the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre over rising fuel prices||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the long queues for public transport are not just due to Covid restrictions but also because of high petrol and diesel prices. Gandhi's remarks came amid reports of serpentine queues outside Delhi Metro stations as the average waiting time for commuters went up to nearly an hour at some places on Tuesday. "Long-inconvenient queues for public transport aren't just due to Covid restrictions. See the rates of petrol-diesel in your city to find out the real reason," the former Congress chief said on Twitter. He used the hashtag "#TaxExtortion" to attack the government over high taxes imposed on petrol and diesel. The Congress has been accusing the government of collecting crores through excise duty and taxes on petrol and diesel due to which fuel prices are hovering around or have crossed Rs 100 per litre at several places in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-19
30-06-2021||India||Private hospitals cannot procure vaccines from manufacturers, rules Centre||The central government on Tuesday announced that private hospitals must procure their vaccine orders via CoWIN after registering on the platform, and can no longer directly buy them from manufacturers. In order to balance limited supply and prevent wastage, the Centre also put a limit on the maximum number of doses a private unit can order in a month, according to a report by ndtv.com. The new guidelines come into effect from July 1, and include a formula - double the average daily consumption of vaccine doses in any seven-day period (the hospital can choose the seven-day period) of the previous month - to calculate a private hospital's "maximum monthly limit". For example, if a private hospital has ordered for July, it can select June 10-16 as the seven-day period. In that period, if it utilised 700 doses, the daily average is 100. The "maximum monthly limit", therefore, is 100 doses x 31 days (for July) x 2 (double the average), which is 6,200 doses. Hospitals joining the vaccination drive for the first time will be allocated vaccines based on the number of beds available, according to the report by ndtv.com. All private hospitals will enter required details into the CoWIN database that will then aggregate district- and state-wise demand before passing the information on to the manufacturers. No prior approval from government authorities will be necessary. The move comes a day after the Jharkhand government requested the Centre to cut down on the quota of Covid-19 vaccines for private players from 25 per cent to 5 per cent, citing lack of private healthcare facilities in rural areas and a high BPL population in the state with limited purchasing power. Other states like Tamil Nadu and Odisha had also requested for the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||No respite from searing heat for Delhi residents||With the monsoon keeping away from Delhi and nearby areas, another hot day is likely to trouble residents in the national capital on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A heat wave is predicted during the day as the maximum temperature is likely to settle around 41 degrees Celsius, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. As the monsoon continued to play truant, Delhi on Monday recorded the first heat wave this summer season with the mercury soaring to 43 degrees Celsius, the highest so far this year. A severe heat wave seared Lodhi Road, Ridge and Pusa areas, where the mercury soared to 42.6 degrees Celsius, 43.4 degrees Celsius and 44.3 degrees Celsius, respectively, seven notches above the average temperature. Najafgarh (44.4 degrees Celsius), Pitampura (44.3 degrees Celsius) and Mungeshpur (44.3 degrees Celsius) also reeled under a severe heat wave. For the plains, a "heat wave" is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A "severe" heat wave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. Usually, the capital witnesses heat waves till June 20 and cooler temperatures thereafter. The increase in the maximum temperature this time can be attributed to the delay in the arrival of the monsoon, Srivastava said. There has been no rainfall in the last three days and warm westerly winds are blowing across a major part of northwest India, which has not been covered by the monsoon yet, he said. After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon had raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India seven to 10 days earlier than normal. The meteorological office had earlier predicted that the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15, which would have been 12 days early. However, westerly winds have been blocking its advance into Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29. The wind system is not likely to cover the remaining part of northwest India, including Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and west Rajasthan in the next six to seven days, the IMD said. The last time the monsoon arrived so late in Delhi was on July 7 in 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Brazil suspends Bharat Biotech's Covaxin order over graft allegations||The Brazilian government, which agreed to purchase 20 million doses of Bharat Biotechs COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, on Wednesday announced suspension of the contract following allegations of irregularities in the deal. "By recommendation of @CGUonline, we decided to temporarily suspend the Covaxin contract. "According to CGU's preliminary analysis, there are no irregularities in the contract, but, due to compliance, the @minsaude opted to suspend the contract for further analysis," Brazil Health Minister Marcelo Queiroga tweeted. The Covaxin contract to Brazil landed in controversy after the South American country's Attorney General reportedly launched a probe into the deal. "It is noteworthy that the @govbr did not pay ANY CENT for the Covaxin vaccine. The measure does not compromise the pace of the vaccination campaign against #Covid19 in Brazil, since there is no approval from Anvisa for emergency or definitive use of the immunizing agent," Queiroga said in another tweet. Reacting to the development, Bharat Biotech in a statement emphatically denied any wrongdoing and said, "In the specific case of procurement of Covaxin by the Ministry of Health, Brazil, since the first meetings during Nov 2020 until June 29, a step-by-step approach has been followed towards contracts, and regulatory approvals, during this eight-month-long process." "EUA received on June 4. As of June 29, Bharat Biotech has not received any advance payments nor supplied any vaccines to MOH Brazil. Bharat Biotech has followed a similar approach towards contracts, regulatory approvals and supplies in several countries worldwide, where Covaxin is being supplied successfully," it added. The Hyderabad-based drug maker said reports in the media over the past few weeks had "misrepresented" the procurement process of Covaxin in Brazil and other countries. "The procurement process for COVID-19 vaccines and several vaccines for routine immunization follow a common process which is widely accepted, and established in Industry,"  it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||India logs almost 46,000 fresh Covid cases, 817 casualties in a day||India logged 45,951 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,03,62,848, while daily fatalities remained below 1,000 for the third consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll rose to 3,98,454 with 817 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 81 days. According to the data published at 7 am, cumulatively 33.28 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. The active cases further declined to 5,37,064 comprising 1.77 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.92 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 19,60,757 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 41,01,00,044 while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 23 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.69 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 48th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,94,27,330 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 817 new fatalities include 231 from Maharashtra, 118 from Tamil Nadu and 104 from Karnataka. A total of 3,98,454 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,21,804 from Maharashtra, 34,929 from Karnataka, 32,506 from Tamil Nadu, 24,971 from Delhi, 22,577 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,679 from West Bengal and 16,033 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Cylinder blast in Delhi kills four, probe initiated||Four people including a woman died following a cylinder blast at a house in Farsh Bazaar area of Shahdara on Wednesday, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) officials said. A call about the blast was received at around 12.15 am on Tuesday night after which nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot, they said. A portion of the roof of the house collapsed due to the explosion, according to officials. "A fire broke out in a house due to leakage in the LPG gas cylinder resulting in death of four people due to smoke inhalation while another person sustained 25 per cent burn injuries and was shifted to Hedgewar hospital through CATS," DFS Director Atul Garg said. Munni Devi (45), Naresh (22), Omprakash (20), and Suman (18) died in the incident while Lal Chand (29) sustained burn injuries, officials said. An enquiry has been initiated in the matter, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Centre's failure to set up migrant database 'unpardonable': SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday termed as “unpardonable” the Centre’s “apathy and lackadaisical attitude” towards creating a national database for unorganised workers, the worst sufferers of the pandemic, and said the labour ministry was “not alive to the concerns of the migrant workers”. The court pointed out that the Centre had failed to set up a National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW) despite directives as far back as August 21, 2018. Such a database is central to the identification of migrant and unorganised workers who are in need of rations and to the distribution of benefits among them. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah directed that the portal must be in place by July 31. The court issued directives on making available adequate rations, including foodgrains, and running community kitchens for migrant workers. “When the unorganised workers are waiting for registration and are waiting to reap the benefits of various welfare schemes of the states and the Centre, the apathy and lackadaisical attitude by the ministry of labour and employment is unpardonable. There was urgency in the portal to be finalised and implemented looking to the pandemic and the dire need of unorganised workers to receive the benefit,” the court said. “The attitude of the ministry of labour and employment in not completing the module (database) even though directed as early as on 21.08.2018 shows that the ministry is not alive to the concerns of the migrant workers and the non-action of the ministry is strongly disapproved,” the bench added. It directed the secretary, ministry of labour and employment, to ensure that the portal is finalised and launched before July 31. “Let the secretary of the ministry of labour and employment file a report to that effect within a period of one month thereafter,” Justice Bhushan, who authored the judgment, said. The court was dealing with a batch of applications from the NGO Bandhua Mukti Morcha and social activists Anjali Bharadwaj, Harsh Mander and Jagdeep Chhokar on the plight of migrant and unorganised workers facing severe hardships, including starvation, because of the pandemic and the restrictions. “We have noticed… that several states have stated in their affidavits that they are waiting for the module to be provided by the ministry of labour and employment to proceed further with the registration of unorganised workers,” the apex court said. The bench said registration was essential to provide access to the migrant workers to different schemes of the Centre and the states. It noted that although the court had passed relevant directives in August 2018 in another matter on the strict implementation of the National Food Security Act, they had not been implemented so far. At that time, the court had told the labour and employment ministry to provide the module to all states and Union Territories for registering migrant and unorganised workers, but it was yet to be done. “We impress upon the central government as well as the states and Union Territories to complete the portal for registration under the National Database for Unorganised Workers project as well as implement the same, which by all means may commence not later than 31.07.2021,” the top court said. “We make it clear that after registration is complete, the correction and updating of the data should be always possible and which is part of the process. It is only after registration of the workers that the states and the Centre shall be able to extend the benefits of the welfare schemes to them. “Prior to that unless the registration is complete, tall claims by all the states and Union Territories that they have implemented various welfare schemes for the migrant workers and unorganised workers remain only on paper without giving any benefit to unorganised workers,” Justice Bhushan said. The bench declined to entertain the Centre’s contention that it had allocated over Rs 45 crore for the portal but the process was underway with the National Information Centre, which is providing technical help for the project. The court noted the allocation was made by the government only this year whereas the directions had been passed close to three years ago. “We have noticed that this court as early as on 21.08.2018 had directed the ministry of labour and employment to make available a module to the states/Union Territories for the purpose of registration. “No exception can be taken to the central government deciding to create the NDUW portal for facilitating the states and Union Territories to register so that the National Database of Unorganised Workers may become available. A statement is made… that the NIC has been required to develop a portal for which an amount of Rs 45.39 crore has been released in the month of January/February 2021,” Justice Bhushan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Nobody can forget the night oxygen ran out ||At 9.45pm, alarms blared across the intensive care unit of Jaipur Golden Hospital. Over two dozen patients on ventilators couldn’t breathe. Some flailed their arms and legs. Others cried for help, choking sounds coming from their throats as if they were being strangled. Mechanics sprinted to the maintenance room to see what was wrong. Nurses grabbed small plastic pumps to fill the lungs of critically ill patients by hand. It wasn’t enough. Jaipur Golden, a respected hospital in Delhi, had run out of medical oxygen. Over the next seven hours, 21 coronavirus patients died. “Nobody can forget that night,” said Shaista Nigar, the hospital’s nursing superintendent. “It was a total breakdown.” Across India, amid a devastating second wave of Covid-19, hospitals ran out of beds and critical supplies, contributing to the deaths of untold thousands of people and worsening an already tragic outbreak. India’s leaders knew the country was vulnerable. Yet the Narendra Modi government and local officials alike failed to prepare for the second wave, according to interviews and a review of government documents by The New York Times. India is a major producer of compressed oxygen. But the Indian government moved too late to distribute supplies. State governments feuded over oxygen and seized tankers, creating bottlenecks and delays. When tight supplies and government missteps led oxygen to run out at Jaipur Golden, some families said the hospital offered no warning. Without a comprehensive coronavirus plan, Modi’s government has left much of the burden to states, cities, hospitals and even individuals. The oxygen crisis tragically revealed the limits of a do-it-yourself approach. That approach will be tested again. Though infections have dropped, a vaccine shortage puts India at risk of a third wave. Without adequate preparations, the second wave’s tragedies could return. “With an effective surge plan,” said Robert Matiru, a director at Unitaid, a health initiative affiliated with the World Health Organisation, “this could have been averted.” Anuradha Bansal had a 102-degree fever when she checked into Jaipur Golden on April 13. A veteran schoolteacher, Bansal had tested positive for Covid-19, along with her husband, Atul, and their two daughters. Jaipur Golden had a good reputation. A four-storey private hospital, it offered specialities like orthopaedics and paediatric gastroenterology. Its motto was “We Care… With Care”. But Anuradha was shocked by the crowds filling Jaipur Golden and other hospitals in Delhi. Sick people packed the reception area, some leaning against the walls. In her Covid-19 ward, she said, extra beds had been squeezed in. Atul, a lawyer, was lying on his back in the ICU down the hall, a plastic oxygen mask strapped to his face. He had been healthy for his 54 years, a strong swimmer who could hold his breath for minutes and ate a wholesome diet of beans, whole grain flour and yoghurt. Though the tragic experiences of other places, like Egypt, showed what happens when oxygen runs out, India was still unprepared. By April 20, Jaipur Golden was overstretched and undersupplied. “My father was seething from inside,” said Rohit Gupta, a sales manager in Delhi whose father, Satish Kumar Gupta, had been admitted to the ICU in early April. Rohit said his father soiled the bed because nobody helped him go to the bathroom. Rohit said his father cried out: “Take me away from here.” The hospital declined to comment. On April 23,  all 250 beds were full. Outside the emergency room, patients slumped in wheelchairs waited to be admitted. Seema Awasthi, a school principal from north Delhi, was propped up on her ICU bed, a ventilator feeding her lungs. At 8.45am, she sent a text to her family: “I have to be fine soon. Trying to be strong.” That same morning, Modi huddled with the chief ministers of India’s 10 hardest-hit states. “We fear a big tragedy may happen due to the oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told him on the video call. Jaipur Golden typically received its daily oxygen shipment by 5pm, said Dr D.K. Baluja, its medical director. This time, though, the truck didn’t appear. At Inox, an oxygen supply company, nobody picked up the phone. Contacted by The Times, Inox said it distributed oxygen “as per government of Delhi’s instructions”. Delhi officials said they would supply records for April 23 but then did not. At 7pm, Dr Baluja called Delhi’s oxygen command centre. Officials said they had none. Jaipur Golden was nearly out. But employees and families said they had not been told. Some family members said they would have sought canisters on Delhi’s streets had they known. Around 7pm, Anuradha was summoned to the ICU. Her husband, Atul, had suffered a heart attack. The oxygen levels on his ventilator were fluctuating. He was writhing in his bed, gasping for air. “I couldn’t bear to watch,” she said. She left. At 9.45pm, ventilator alarms rang across the ICU. The oxygen was gone. Dr Baluja later said that Jaipur Golden had a backup system of 50 oxygen cylinders. That ran out, too, he said. At 10.28pm, Ruchika Gupta telephoned from Amsterdam to check on her father, Satish Kumar Gupta. Right after the phone was answered, the receiver was put down. “Hello? Hello?” Ruchika asked. In the background, she could hear the ding-ding of the ventilator alarms and someone muttering “Hari Om, Hari Om, Hari Om”, invoking God. “My father was probably dying at that moment,” Ruchika said. Rohit Gupta, her brother, arrived at Jaipur Golden around 11.30pm. It was chaos, he said. People dashed in carrying oxygen cylinders. Distraught relatives threatened to kill doctors. One man paced around shouting: “I will not leave these doctors alone if something happens to my mother!” Two tankers arrived close to midnight: a large one from Inox, seven hours late, and a smaller one from the Delhi government. For 21 patients — Atul Bansal, Satish Kumar Gupta, Seema Awasthi, Atul Kapoor, Raj Kumar Gupta, Gurinder Singh, Parvinder Singh, Delphin Massey, Manohar Lal and 12 others — it was too late. The next morning, Dr Baluja appeared on television, weeping. “They were my patients. They were my responsibility. They came on the faith of Dr Baluja to Jaipur Golden Hospital,” he said. “And where did I put my faith? The government of India. Delhi government.” Jaipur Golden, now facing a lawsuit from several families, declined to comment further. Many of the families blame national, local and hospital officials for the deaths. Several are demanding a criminal investigation. Anuradha keeps a portrait of her husband by her bedside. “I miss him at every living moment,” she said. “They killed him.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||SC asks Centre to provide adequate food and rations to migrants||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre to set up a national database for unorganised and migrant workers by July and also ensure that they receive adequate food and rations. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah passed the following directions while disposing of a batch of applications filed by the NGO Bandhua Mukti Morcha and others seeking relief for unorganised sector workers and migrant labourers: ⚫ The Centre and the states must develop the National Database for Unorganised Workers portal in consultation with the National Informatics Centre for the registration of unorganised labourers and migrant workers at the earliest but not later than July 31. ⚫ All states, Union Territories, licence holders and contractors must cooperate with the Centre to complete the registration so that the benefits of the welfare schemes are available to migrant workers and unorganised labourers. ⚫ The ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution has to allocate and distribute food grains according to the demand from the states for additional dry rations for disbursement among migrant labourers. ⚫ The states must put in place by July 31 a scheme for the distribution of dry rations among migrant labourers and are free to ask for additional grains from the Centre. The scheme may be continued till the pandemic persists. ⚫ The states that have not yet implemented the one nation, one ration card scheme have been directed to do so by July 31. The Centre pointed out that Bengal, Delhi, Assam and Chhattisgarh have not put in place the scheme, which makes free rations available at the place of work. ⚫ The Centre may undertake an exercise under Section 9 of the National Food Security Act, 2013, to re-determine the total number of people to be covered under the rural and urban areas, respectively. ⚫ All states and Union Territories have to register all establishments and grant licences to all labour contractors under the law and ensure that the contractors fulfil their statutory duty of submitting the particulars of migrant workers hired by them. ⚫ The states and Union Territories have been directed to run community kitchens at places where there are a large number of migrant labourers, who do not have sufficient means to procure two meals a day. The kitchens must be run as long as the pandemic continues. The top court referred to the worldwide awareness of the right to food and said the fundamental right to life under Article 21 may include this right as well. “There has been worldwide awareness regarding right to food to human beings. Our country is no exception. Lately, all governments have been taking steps… to ensure that no human being should be affected by hunger and no one dies of hunger. The basic concept of food security globally is to ensure that all people, at all times, should get access to the basic food for their active and healthy life,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||India airs weaponised drone worry at United Nations General Assembly||India on Monday flagged the use of weaponised drones for terrorist activities at the United Nations General Assembly, stating that they provide an easy-to-use low-cost option to extremists. This effort to draw attention to the use of drones by terrorists came a day after two low-intensity blasts hit the Indian Air Force station at Jammu airport that police suspect were the first attacks on Indian soil by unmanned aerial vehicles and had been carried out by militants. Speaking at the second high-level conference of the Head of Counter-Terrorism Agencies of the Member States, special secretary (internal security) in the home ministry, V.S.K. Kaumudi, described drones as an add-on to the existing worries vis-à-vis terrorism. He, however, made no mention of the incident in Jammu. “Being a low-cost option and easily available, utilisation of these aerial/sub-surface platforms for sinister purposes by terrorist groups such as intelligence collection, weapon/explosives delivery and targeted attacks have become an imminent danger and challenge for security agencies worldwide. The possibility of the use of weaponised drones for terrorist purposes against strategic and commercial assets call for serious attention by the member states. We have witnessed terrorists using UAS (unmanned aircraft systems) to smuggle weapons across borders,’’ he said. Last week, national security adviser Ajit Doval had also stressed the need to monitor new technologies used by terrorists including drones for smuggling weapons and misuse of the dark web, artificial intelligence, blockchain and social media. The possible use of drones by terrorists had also been raised in Parliament by Opposition members through various questions over the past couple of years. This was pointed out by Congress media communications chief Randeep Surjewala while demanding a comprehensive policy on tackling terrorism. Stating that the Congress stands with the government on issues of terrorism, he wanted to know if the ruling dispensation was aware of Pakistan’s ISI and terror groups using Chinese hexacopters and drones to drop arms across the border. In the last question asked about drones in the Lok Sabha in September 2020, the home ministry had said necessary guidelines — including measures to be taken by the Union and state governments — had been issued in consultation with security agencies to counter the threat of drones. Further, the Lok Sabha was informed that the ministry of civil aviation and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) regulate the operation of drones in the country. On August 22, 2018, the DGCA had notified the Civil Aviation Requirements for civil use of Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems, laying down the norms for the import, sale and operation of drones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Parliament monsoon session likely to be held on schedule  ||The nearly month-long monsoon session of Parliament is likely to be held on schedule, beginning from July 19, despite the Covid-19 pandemic. The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs led by defence minister Rajnath Singh has recommended the monsoon session be held from July 19 to August 13, sources said. The monsoon session of Parliament usually commences in the third week of July and concludes before Independence Day. A fall in Covid cases in the country and a good number of MPs and Parliament staff getting vaccinated has led the government to go for a normal session to clear many pending bills and ordinances, sources said. So far, 403 members out of the Lok Sabha’s total strength of 540 and 179 out of 232 Rajya Sabha MPs have received both doses of the vaccine. Some MPs have not received the second dose as they got infected with Covid after the first jab. The normal functioning of Parliament has been affected because of the pandemic since March last year. The budget and monsoon sessions last year and this year’s budget session had to be wrapped up early because of Covid. Last year, the winter session had to be foregone because of the pandemic. The upcoming monsoon session is likely to have 20 sittings in all and is set to be stormy with the Opposition seeking to corner the government over mismanagement of the pandemic, vaccinations and the economic crisis. This will be the first session post the recent bunch of Assembly polls in which the BJP faced a drubbing in Bengal. The results will strengthen the Opposition’s attack on the government. Covid protocols, however, will be in place with no visitors allowed in the galleries and strict screening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-20
30-06-2021||India||Covid: India approves US-based Moderna vaccine||India has approved the Covid-19 vaccine from the US-based Moderna, allowing its imports and entry into the vaccination campaign, a senior health official announced on Tuesday. However, the vaccine maker’s Indian partner declined comment for now on timelines and doses. The apex regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines has approved an application received from Cipla, Moderna’s Indian partner, for emergency use authorisation of the vaccine, said Vinod Paul, the chair of an expert panel guiding the Centre on its Covid-19 vaccination policy. “Our vaccine basket is now richer by this addition… this potentially opens up a clear likelihood of the vaccine being imported into India,” Paul said. “Let’s wait and see how this opportunity will be used for imports of the vaccine into the country.” This is the fourth Covid-19 vaccine approved in India — after Covishield, Covaxin and Russia’s Sputnik V. It is the first one approved under a relaxed regulatory regime allowing the emergency use authorisation of vaccines approved by select foreign agencies without clinical trials in India. The Moderna vaccine that has 94 per cent efficacy against Covid-19 infections and 100 per cent efficacy against severe disease has already received emergency, conditional, or provisional approval in over 50 countries and an emergency use listing from the World Health Organisation. Many countries — the US, the UK, the EU, Israel, Japan, and others — had signed advance supply pacts with Moderna between August and December 2020, a period during which Indian health officials were entirely focused on the domestically-produced vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin. A query sent by this newspaper to Cipla asking about possible timelines for the imports, the number of doses likely available to India during this year, and distribution mechanisms has not evoked a response. A spokesperson representing Cipla said it would respond “as soon as possible”. While Moderna and Cipla have not yet announced a price tag for the vaccine in India, a UN agency document with prices of different vaccines has listed the Moderna vaccine’s lowest price at $15 (Rs 1,115) per dose and its highest price at $34.50 (Rs 2,564) per dose in high-income countries. Health experts believe the Moderna vaccine, when imported, is intended to be made available through private hospitals just as Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V for those willing to pay for the vaccines. For comparison, Covishield costs Rs 600, Covaxin Rs 1,200 and Sputnik V about Rs 900 at private centres. Public health experts tracking global vaccine supplies say the Moderna vaccine is in the near future likely to play a limited role in India’s vaccination campaign given its commitments to other markets. Moderna had by mid-June, for instance, supplied 217 million doses to the US government which has a confirmed order of 500 million doses. The company had said in February it was working to supply up to one billion doses worldwide during 2021. The Moderna vaccine is based on a novel mRNA platform that requires the vaccine to be stored at minus 20 degrees Celsius for periods up to seven months. But the vaccine may be stored at 2 to 8 degrees Celsius, the normal vaccine cold chain, for 30 days. The approval by India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation allows the vaccine to be imported for use in adults 18 years or older. “The approval is for import of ready-to-inject vaccines, but we hope in the future the company will consider manufacturing in India,” Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
30-06-2021||India||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav predicts  fall of Nitish Kumar-led government||Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has again claimed that the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government in Bihar would fall and asked his Rashtriya Janata Dal legislators to be prepared for such an eventuality “This is Bihar where four governments were formed in four years. Anything could happen over the next two to three months. The NDA government could fall. You all should stay prepared for it,” Tejashwi told RJD legislators during a marathon meeting at the 10 Circular Road residence of his mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi in Patna on Monday evening. “There is a need for all of you to stand steadfast with the people. The future is yours. You must understand that everything is possible in politics,” the RJD leader and former deputy chief minister said while hinting that the Grand Alliance of the RJD, Congress and the Left parties may come to power in the state. The meeting was called to discuss the future course of action, as well as chalk out plans to celebrate the 25th foundation day of the RJD on July 5. Party chief Lalu Prasad is expected to address the foundation day programme virtually from Delhi. Tejashwi said the public have seen that the ruling dispensation in the state was a failure and has harboured no hope on it. He asserted that his party’s MLAs should fill the vacuum and termed Nitish “a fake socialist” who had nothing to do with the welfare of the people.Tejashwi’s comments come after his visit to his constituency Raghopur in Vaishali district last week where he told the people that Lalu was coming back to Patna soon and the Nitish-led government will topple in three months. The imminent return of Lalu, currently the tallest leader in the state, after an absence of over three years, coupled with the continuous bickering among the NDA partners, have led to speculation about the future of the Nitish government, which is in power with a thin majority. The RJD is the largest party in the Legislative Assembly with 75 MLAs and leads the Opposition alliance that has 110 legislators. The NDA has 126 MLAs and the support of an Independent legislator in the 243-member House. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has five MLAs but is not part of the two alliances, while one seat is vacant. Numerically, any party or alliance with 122 MLAs can form the government. However, the current situation is such that a shift of just a few legislators or their resignation can tilt the balance of power. NDA partners — Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and Vikassheel Insan Party — with four MLAs each, keep voicing discordant notes frequently and could become a cause for concern. Tejashwi’s assertions have stirred a hornet’s nest with the NDA leaders attacking him for resorting to such statements to save his own party. “He (Tejashwi) is trying to save his own flock. Hence he is spreading propaganda about friction and split in other parties. He is trying to keep his MLAs united using it,” BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said. JDU spokesperson and former minister Neeraj Kumar said the RJD legislators were thoroughly disenchanted with Tejashwi and were not going to believe his forecasts about the fall of the NDA government, which he has been making for several months. On the other hand, Congress leaders said there was no need to try to break the NDA or its constituent parties.“The BJP and the JDU are already facing trouble due to internal friction and fights. Nobody has to make any effort to break them. They are going to implode,” Congress leader Harkhu Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
30-06-2021||India||Ignou's Jyotish course faces backlash from scientists||Several scientists have closed ranks to accuse Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) of promoting “pseudoscience” after the institute last week launched a postgraduate programme in astrology to make students “employable in the field of jyotish”. The master’s degree programme in jyotish (MAJY), launched by the Centre-run Ignou on June 24, will be conducted through the distance mode, as are its other courses. More than 1,000 scientists and academics have already signed a note that acknowledges India’s rich tradition of mathematical astronomy dating back to the Vedic period. “However, these achievements cannot and should not be used as a proxy to justify claims that the positions of the planets somehow have an impact on anyone’s daily life, or instruments like horoscopes can actually predict anyone’s future,” the note said. “It has been conclusively proven through numerous scientific studies around the world that phal-jyotish or astrology has no logical basis and the claimed successes do not stand statistical scrutiny,” the scientists’ note added. After more signatures are collected, the group of scientists will approach the three national science academies, urging them to issue a statement against the study of astrology. The scientists pointed out that the last time a concerted push was made to introduce astrology in academics was in 2001, when a BJP government under Atal Bihari Vajpayee was in place. Since then, several universities have been offering postgraduate courses in astrology. Aniket Sule, a signatory to the note and associate professor at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, said astrology was yet to produce any evidence that could justify its positioning as a branch of knowledge. “When Murli Manohar Joshi was the human resource development minister, the first big attempt was made to promote this pseudoscience in institutions. Now it is again getting importance. This is happening because either there is a nudge from the government to institutions or some institution heads are taking such measures to please the government,” Sule told The Telegraph. Higher education regulator University Grants Commission had in February 2001 issued a notification to universities seeking a proposal for starting courses on “Jyotir Vigyan” (Vedic astrology) as a science course. The UGC had also suggested the introduction of “Karmakanda” as a vocational subject. Many universities started these courses. “We will seek the intervention of the UGC to stop universities from offering courses in astrology,” Sule said. Ignou vice-chancellor Nageshwar Rao said the university started the astrology course as part of its efforts to promote the Indian knowledge system, as suggested by the BJP government’s new National Education Policy. “The NEP has laid emphasis on the Indian knowledge system. This course will promote the Indian knowledge system. What we are doing is not new. Many universities had already started this much before us. The UGC has a paper on this in the National Eligibility Test,” he said. The NET is held to determine eligibility for the post of assistant professor and also for the award of Junior Research Fellowship in universities and colleges. Rao said the astrology course would not spread any blind beliefs or superstitions. Analysing the astrology courses offered by several universities, the scientists and academics have found that the teaching of traditional methods of mathematical astronomy constituted only a minor part. These courses are pandering to the “pseudoscience” of astrology and not focusing on the real history of Indian astronomy, the scientists feel. The note said it was time for the scientifically minded citizenry to raise their voices against “unscientific” pursuits such as astrology. The signatories include Soumitro Banerjee and Prof. Dibyendu Nandi from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Calcutta; S. Krishnaswamy from Madurai Kamraj University; Nissim Kanekar of the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics-Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Pune; and S.G. Dani from the Centre for Excellence in Basic Science, Mumbai. Rationalist Sudesh Ghoderao, the secretary of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS) and a faculty member of Bytco College, Nashik, said universities offering courses in astrology would only help the practice gain legitimacy in society. Ghoderao said the NEP’s stress on the Indian knowledge system was encouraging institutions to start courses in areas that had no scientific basis. He said it would have been better had Ignou started courses on health and hygiene during the pandemic. Chandramauli Upadhyaya, retired faculty member of jyotish at Banaras Hindu University, said the department had been there since the inception of the university in 1916. He asked the critics to present their specific objections to astrology. “We predict based on planetary positions. This gives 70 per cent success rate. Even modern medical science does not give 100 per cent success. Still if they have any specific objections, they must tell us,” Upadhyaya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
30-06-2021||India||Gauri Lankesh murder case:  Sister moves SC against key accused||The sister of Gauri Lankesh has moved the Supreme Court for restoring charges that include the death penalty provision against a key accused in the 2017 murder of the journalist and trenchant critic of the Right-wing brand of Hindutva. Karnataka High Court had quashed the organised crime charge against the accused, Mohan Nayak, in April this year. The BJP-led government in the state — the prosecuting agency — has so far chosen not to challenge the high court order. The state government’s inaction has compelled Kavitha Lankesh, the younger sister of Gauri, to move a special leave petition in the Supreme Court. On Tuesday, the apex court issued notice to the Karnataka government. Gauri was shot dead in front of her home in Bangalore on September 5, 2017. She used to run the Kannada weekly Gauri Lankesh Patrike in Bangalore. Nayak, the 53-year-old accused, was originally booked by Bangalore police under sections of the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act (KCOCA) that entail punishments of either life imprisonment or the death penalty. The charges under the KCOCA were quashed by the high court. On Tuesday, a Supreme Court bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose sought the response of the Karnataka government after senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for Kavitha, complained that the high court had on April 22 committed a “grave error” by striking down the charges under the KCOCA. In her petition filed through advocate Aparna Bhat, Kavitha submitted that she was constrained to move the special leave petition on her own as she was “greatly aggrieved by the impugned order and is therefore, approaching this Hon’ble Court since the state of Karnataka which is the prosecuting agency has not challenged the same”. The BJP government in Karnataka came to power in 2019. The petitioner said that the Bangalore police commissioner had on August 14, 2018, granted sanction for Nayak’s prosecution under the KCOCA. The supplementary chargesheet filed by a special investigation team, set up by the Karnataka government following the furore over Gauri’s murder, had also invoked KCOCA Sections (1)(i), 3(2), 3(3) and 3(4) against Nayak. The SIT arrested Nayak in July 2018. The SIT had unearthed details of Nayak’s close links with Right-wing organisations such as the Sanathan Sanstha, which was how he met another key conspirator in the case, Amol Kale from Pune. The two knew each other since 2016. The SIT had said the accused were involved in organised crimes as a syndicate, thus attracting the provisions of the KCOCA, Kavitha’s petition pointed out. It was submitted that the investigation had found that Nayak had provided shelter to the suspects before and after Gauri’s murder and had also participated in a series of conspiracies — abetting, planning and providing logistics. “Therefore, he is involved in ‘continuous unlawful activity’,” Kavitha’s appeal said. Parashuram Waghmare, who gunned down Gauri, had also allegedly stayed with Nayak at least once.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-21
