08-09-2021||North East||Violent clashes erupt between BJP and CPI(M) activists in Tripura||Violent clashes erupted between activists of the ruling BJP and the principal opposition, CPI(M), in different parts of Tripura on Wednesday.  Trouble started at Udaipur town in Gomati district of Tripura after CPI(M)'s youth wing Democratic Youth Federation of India took out a procession and a few activists from the rally allegedly attacked a ruling BJP activist who was passing by, injuring him seriously.  Police said a group of BJP activists, who were camping nearby, retaliated by attacking the DYFI procession. Police said two to three persons were injured but their political affiliation was not known.  According to sources, CPI(M) party offices in Agartala, Bishalgarh and Kathalia, were also vandalized and set on fire, after the Udaipur clash.  The clashes follow an earlier round of violence on Monday between workers of the two parties, when former Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar was allegedly prevented from proceeding to Dhanpur.  Police said the injured BJP activist from Udaipur, who was in a critical condition, was shifted to G.B Pant hospital in Agartala.  A large contingent of police had to be deployed to disperse the mob and avoid further rioting. Officers also said a group of unidentified miscreants also vandalized CPI(M)'s Udaipur party office, while a vehicle belonging to the former Left Front Minister Ratan Bhowmick was set ablaze.  Agriculture minister Pranajit Singha Roy rushed to the spot soon after the clash and took stock of the situation.  Later speaking to the media, the minister said that the youth wing of the CPI(M) had brought out a rally without seeking prior permission from police.  When police tried to stop the CPI(M) rally, they indulged in violence, injuring several people. A BJP activist- Mofiz Miah, who was passing by, was attacked and critically injured. Besides, a hotel was vandalized and some houses were ransacked, Singha Roy told the media.  He said the government would take legal action against those involved in the violence. Meanwhile, Union Minister of State Pratima Bhowmik led a protest march at Dhanpur in Sonamura sub-division protesting the Monday's violence.  Later in the evening, BJP Sadar district unit also held a protest rally in the capital city- Agartala. The CPI(M) state party office at Melarmath was set on fire and a newspaper office near the main road was also vandalized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
08-09-2021||North East||Boat capsizes in Brahmaputra river in Assam after colliding with ferry, several feared dead||A boat with over 120 people on board sank in the Brahmaputra river after colliding with a ferry steamer near Nimati Ghat in Jorhat district of Assam on Wednesday and there could be "many casualties", officials said.  The accident occurred when the private boat 'Ma Kamala' was headed to Majuli from Nimati Ghat and the government-owned ferry 'Tripkai' was coming from the riverine island.  "The boat capsized and sank. We do not have much detail at this moment," an official of the Inland Water Transport (IWT) Department said. Another IWT official said more than 120 passengers were on board the boat but many of them were rescued by lifeguards on 'Tripkai'.  Jorhat Deputy Commissioner Ashok Barman told PTI that 41 people have been rescued so far and bodies of people suspected to have died in the crash are yet to be recovered.  "We cannot say right now how many people have died," a senior official of Jorhat district administration said. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and SDRF have started a search and rescue operation.  The boat was also carrying vehicles.  Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma expressed concern over the accident and directed the district administrations of Majuli and Jorhat to undertake a rescue mission earnestly with the help of NDRF and SDRF. He also asked minister Bimal Bora to rush to the site of the accident. Sarma asked Principal Secretary to the chief minister Samir Kumar Sinha to monitor the developments "round-the-clock". He will visit Nimati Ghat tomorrow to take stock of the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
08-09-2021||North East||AJP, TIPRA join hands to unite other regional parties of Northeast||The Assam Jatiya Parishad and the Tipraha Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance joined hands on Tuesday to unite the other regional parties of the Northeast so that they could work together to ensure the cultural, political and economic rights of the indigenous communities of the region. The decision to this effect was announced at the AJP workers meet held here in presence of Tipra chairman and royal scion Pradyot Kishore Manikya Debbarma, the chief guest of the event, who said that it was the time to come together for one last fight to secure the future of the indigenous people of the region. While the AJP was formed in September 2020, the TIPRA was formed in February 2021, their formation triggered by the contentious CAA whose rules are yet to be framed. Both the fledgling parties see it as a threat to the culture, identity and language of the indigenous people of the northeast. The AJP had made it its key poll plank in the Assembly polls held in March-April but could win only a single seat. The TIPRA, however, made a stunning debut in the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) elections held in April by emerging as the single largest party at the expense of the ruling BJP-IPFT alliance. It also ended the Left’s 15-year reign in the TTAADC, sending a strong message that regional parties can survive without compromising their ideology or support of the national parties. “This is the objective behind our move to unite the regional parties of the Northeast because our problems and demand are similar. Our goal is to ensure the survival of the indigenous population and give them a life of dignity,” AJP general secretary Jagadish Bhuyan told The Telegraph after the meeting. Both Debbarma and AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi in their respective speeches said they were not bothered about winning or losing but nobody should accuse them of not trying to secure the future of the indigenous population of their states and the Northeast. Debbarma said the indigenous tribal population of Tripura has been reduced to a minority in their own state because of influx while Assam is also moving in that direction. “What we need is a united movement so that we can speak in one voice before Delhi to ensure the constitutional rights of my people and that of the Northeast. We will talk to PPA, NPP and UDP... I am already in touch with IPFT, an ally of the BJP,” Debbarma said. The imposition of CAA, both Debbarma and Gogoi said, poses a huge threat to the culture, identity and language of the Northeast and this can be prevented only by ensuring the rights of the affected population. Thanking the AJP for inviting him to their meeting, Debbarma said he would install the statue of legendary Ahom general Lachit Barphukan in the TTAADC  because it was important that the people of other Northeast states are also aware of his exploits just like mainland India. On his part, Gogoi extended AJP’s support to the TIPRA’s demand of Greater Tipraland/Tipraland envisaging the constitutional rights of the indigenous people of Tripura. Gogoi also used the opportunity to reveal his party’s plan to hold a protest against CAA in the district headquarters on September 14 and a week-long programme across the state seeking the repeal of CAA and implementation of Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord. The accord, which brought an end to the six-year-long Assam Movement against illegal influx, provides for constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
