11-09-2021||North East||AFSPA extended in Assam for six more months||The Assam government extended the 'Disturbed Area' status of the state for another six months from August 28 under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA), according to an official statement issued on Saturday. The AFSPA was imposed in Assam in November 1990 and is extended every six months since then after a review by the state government. "The Government of Assam in exercise of powers conferred by Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 has declared the entire State of Assam as "Disturbed Area" up to six months with effect from August 28, 2021 unless withdrawn earlier," the single-paragraph statement said. The statement did not mention any reason for the extension of the AFSPA in the state In the Northeast, the AFSPA is in force in Assam, Nagaland, Manipur (excluding Imphal Municipal Council Area), Changlang, Longding and Tirap districts of Arunachal Pradesh, and areas falling within the jurisdiction of the eight police stations in Arunachal Pradesh, bordering Assam. Civil society groups and rights activists in the region have been demanding the withdrawal of the "draconian" law. The AFSPA empowers security forces to conduct operations anywhere and arrest anyone without any prior warrant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
11-09-2021||North East||Abhishek set to lead roadshow in Agartala on September 15||Trinamul Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee will lead a roadshow in Agartala on September 15 against the “hooliganism” of the ruling BJP in Tripura. The show of strength was announced on Friday, days after the Enforcement Directorate had questioned the Diamond Harbour MP in a money-laundering case. Trinamul sources said the protest march had been organised to send a message to both the voters of Tripura and the BJP-led Centre that the party would be in the state for a long haul. “The rally is also to make it clear that Trinamul will not be cowed down by any central probe and will continue to fight for democracy,” said a Trinamul leader while referring to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s salvo against the BJP on Wednesday. Addressing party workers in Calcutta on Wednesday, Mamata had said the BJP was “harassing Abhishek without any evidence” and it was a ploy to teach her a lesson. Senior Trinamul leader in Tripura Ashish Lal Singh told The Telegraph that the party expected a turnout of around 50,000 people in the 4km-long roadshow in Agartala on Wednesday. “BJP’s hooliganism must end and we will do everything possible to restore democracy,” Singh said Trinamul’s proposed roadshow comes in the wake of the CPM flagging the alleged lawlessness in Tripura by organising protest rallies across the nation on Friday against the attack on its offices allegedly by the BJP on Wednesday. CPM leader Jiten Chowdhury told The Telegraph that the party had lined up a series of programmes to highlight the attacks triggered by what he said were successful rallies addressed by former chief minister Manik Sarkar in his Dhanpur constituency on Monday. “They (the BJP) have vandalised 20 CPM offices and 20 residences of our party members since Wednesday. We will also submit a memorandum to the Tripura governor regarding the attacks. A team of party MLAs will leave for Delhi soon to stage protests and also meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Union home minister Amit Shah demanding restoration of rule of law in the state,” Chowdhury said. Rejecting Chowdhury’s claims, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said: “They (the CPM) are attacking our karyakartas, including women members. They are trying to revive the reign of terror they were used to when in power.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
11-09-2021||North East||Ex-HNLC leader encounter: Knives dumped in Shillong protest||Senior leaders of the 11 pressure groups seeking the suspension of three senior Meghalaya police officers for their alleged role in the August 13 encounter death of a former militant leader deposited over 500 knives at the gate of the state secretariat in Shillong on Friday morning in protest against the “unbelievable claim” that he was shot after he had tried to attack the police team with a knife. The knives were collected during a “knife surrender rally” organised by the groups on Monday under the banner of Ka Sur Ki Nong Mawlai (The Voice of Mawlai People). Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma has maintained it would be unfair to suspend the police officers before the report of the judicial probe panel set up by the government comes in. Political observers said that with both sides standing firm, it remains to be seen who blinks first. “But since the knives are out, the NPP-led state government has to act with tact to douse the fire triggered by the encounter death,” one of them said. The pressure groups are seeking the suspension of director-general of police R. Chandranathan, East Jaintia Hills superintendent of police Jagpal Singh Dhanoa and SP (traffic) Shailendra Bamaniya for their alleged role in the death of former Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) general secretary Cheristerfield Thangkhiew in an encounter with the police in the early hours of August 13 at his Mawlai residence in Shillong. Though the police have claimed that Thangkhiew was shot in self-defence after he tried to attack the police team with a knife, it found few takers after his family alleged that the ailing man was killed by the cops, fanning anger and protests. This led the government to impose curfew in Shillong on August 15, the day Thangkhiew was laid to rest. Thousands attended his funeral. Donboklang Kharlyngdoh, president of Hynniewtrep Youths’ Council (Mawlai circle), one of the leaders of the groups, told The Telegraph that the “surrender and deposit of knives” was a message to the police that they cannot kill somebody just for possessing a knife and that they will continue with their protest till they get justice for Thangkhiew. “The surrender and deposit of knives were against the unbelievable claim of the police after the fake encounter,” Kharlyngdoh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
