16-09-2021||India||Bengal worker’s plight at  ‘transit camp’ in Assam||Gangadhar Pramanik returned to his home in Bengal on Wednesday from a detention camp in Assam, carrying with him a harrowing sneak preview of the probable fate that awaits countless people when citizenship regimens are enforced blindly in a country with a poor documentation record. Gangadhar, 33, had left his remote village in Bankura in search of work around 10 years ago. He ended up spending over three years at a detention centre in Assam’s Goalpara after he was declared a foreigner. The detention centres are officially called transit camps. He allegedly could not produce documents supporting his citizenship after he was picked up by the border police who are expected to serve notice seeking such papers. Usually, if a person fails to furnish the documents, the case is sent to a superintendent of police who, if unsatisfied, can refer it to one of the several Foreigners Tribunals in Assam. If the tribunal decides the suspect is a foreigner, he or she will be kept in a detention centre. Attempts are expected to be made to deport such foreigners but India does not have a deportation treaty with Bangladesh, the neighbour usually targeted in India over illegal entry although recent trends suggest a sharp decline in such movements. Gangadhar’s case is not linked to the preparation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) — a contentious exercise whose culmination in Assam was followed by the Citizenship Amendment Act that convulsed the country in the latter half of 2019. But his detention shows what might happen to those who cannot prove their citizenship and are kept out of the NRC and the treatment that awaits them at the detention centres. Those who do not figure in the final NRC in Assam will eventually have to move the same Foreigners Tribunals for an opinion on their citizenship status. The BJP, an  advocate of the NRC as well as its extension to the rest of India, found itself questioning the final figures in Assam as they did not match its assumptions. The break-up has not been disclosed but Hindus are said to account for a large number of people who could not furnish citizenship proof and, as a consequence, were kept out of the NRC in Assam. Gangadhar was released on bail from the detention centre following the intervention of Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), a platform of human rights defenders that in the past one year has helped release 50 detained people in Assam. The CJP has also assisted 12 lakh people to fill up forms for the NRC. A CJP team, headed by its Assam chapter in-charge Nanda Ghosh, accompanied Gangadhar to his Radhanagar home on Wednesday and reunited him with his mother Bharati who had been surviving the last three years with aid from neighbours. Gangadhar was detained on December 12, 2017, and sent to the Goalpara detention centre. He was accused of not responding to a notice in Assam and not showing any documents to prove his citizenship. Gangadhar said he did not receive any notice. “I went to Assam around 10 years ago in search of a job. I had planned to return home after making decent savings to help my needy family,” Gangadhar told The Telegraph from his Bankura home. “I used to work at a roadside eatery on the outskirts of Guwahati but my life changed after I was picked up in the winter of 2017 by the police and put in a jail-like place in Goalpara. I was unaware why they dumped me there but I remember I was labelled a foreigner,” Gangadhar added. Recollecting the three years at the detention centre, Gangadhar said he made several attempts to flee from the “hellhole”. When he could not, he had contemplated committing suicide, Gangadhar said. “The police kept round-the-clock vigil and eight of us were confined to a small room. It was difficult to escape and my attempts did not work. I was depressed,” said Gangadhar, who has pledged never to step out of Bengal again in search of work. Struggling for words, Gangadhar said a typical day at the detention centre began with a cup of black tea. At 11am, lunch of rice, dal and vegetables was served. The last meal of the day was at 5pm. Ghosh, who along with CJP advocate Abhijeet Choudhury brought Gangadhar to Radhanagar, said: “We found that all those who have spent a few years at the detention centre have been left mentally traumatised. They have become unusually quiet and find it difficult to recall events.” They arrived at Burdwan station by the Saraighat Express and travelled to Gangadhar’s village from Radhanagar by car. Hearing about the arrival of Gangadhar, a large number of villagers rushed to the near-dilapidated, tin-roofed house of the Pramaniks, Ghosh said. Between the time Gangadhar had left home and returned on Wednesday, his father Mantu Pramanik had passed away and his sister had got married in Bihar. “His father, a marginal farmer, died a few years ago thinking about his son as Gangadhar remained untraced. After his father’s death, his mother Bharati became helpless. We helped her survive with foodgrains and clothes for the past few years. We had no idea that Gangadhar was in a detention camp,” said Ashis Dey, a neighbour and social activist. It was a chance incident that led to Gangadhar’s release from the centre. The CJP team had come to know about him from two persons whose release they had helped secure in July. “We came to know about Gangadhar in July and immediately initiated steps to get him released. The two persons we helped get released had told us that Gangadhar was in a terrible mental condition. The release took time as it was difficult to get someone in Assam who would stand as a guarantor to secure his bail. Relevant documents of Gangadhar’s citizenship will have to be provided over time,” said Ghosh. According to the bail order in Assam, Gangadhar will have to visit Bishnupur police station in Bankura once a week. Ghosh and his advocate went to the police station and the village police camp to inform them of the bail conditions. “We have done all legal formalities and handed him over to his family. It is really a happy moment for us,” said Ghosh, adding that the case to prove Gangadhar’s citizenship would continue. For more on Citizen's For Justice & Peace log on to: https://cjp.org.in/||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
16-09-2021||North East||Congress MLAs in Meghalaya walk out over ‘encounter’ death ||Opposition Congress MLAs in Meghalaya staged a walk-out from the Assembly on Wednesday after the Speaker disallowed discussion on the demand for suspension of the police officials allegedly involved in the killing of a former militant leader Cheristerfield Thangkhiew in the wee hours of August 13 at his residence in Mawlai in Shillong. Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh disallowed the shot duration discussion sought by Congress’ Mawlai MLA P.T. Sawkmie on the ground that the matter was sub judice, triggering noisy scenes and sloganeering against the government. In support of his demand, Sawkmie had pointed to home minister Lahkmen Rymbui’s reply in the House on Tuesday on the encounter death of former Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) general secretary if the matter was sub-judice. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Dr Mukul Sangma accused the government of trying to protect senior police officials blamed for what the family of the deceased rebel leader had claimed was a “fake” encounter. He said removal of the police officials was required for a free and impartial investigation. The Congress taking a stand on the issue inside the 60-member House, sources said, would further bolster the campaign being led by the eleven pressure groups from Mawlai seeking “justice” for a former HNLC leader killed in a “fake encounter”. The groups, under the banner of Ka Sur Ki Nong Mawlai (The Voice of Mawlai People) have been steadfast in their demand for the suspension of three senior police officials allegedly responsible for the encounter death. The groups had even sought the help of 35 MLAs seeking their support to get the cops suspended. Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui had in response to a queries on the encounter death, including Sawkmie, on Tuesday had said that police’s mandate was to prevent a crime and arrest the accused, not to kill the accused. Sawkmie had asked whether any instruction was passed to the police to arrest or kill the former rebel and how many cops were involved in the operation. The Meghalaya government has ruled out any action against anyone till the report of the judicial commission probing the encounter submits its report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
16-09-2021||North East||Assam ferry passengers can book tickets through a mobile app||Ferry passengers in Assam will soon be able to book their tickets through a mobile app to be launched by September-end. The launch of the first-of-its-kind app was announced by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma after reviewing the safety measures put in place for the smooth movement of ferries and safety of passengers in wake of the September 8 ferry mishap at Neematighat in Jorhat district, which left three dead. A Majuli-bound ferry sank after being hit by another ferry arriving at Neematighat, triggering widespread protests against the government for not streamlining the ferry services for the safety of commuters and delay in constructing the bridge connecting Jorhat with the river island. Immediately after the mishap, the state government had announced a set of safety measures for passengers using water vessels plying between Jorhat and Majuli and elsewhere in the state, including banning the plying of single-engine boats, which started causing a lot of inconvenience to commuters. The demand for compulsory tickets for passengers with their names, address and contact numbers was a key demand of the local populace so that everyone could be accounted for in case of a mishap. An estimated 6,000 people used to commute between Neematighat and four other ghats in Majuli before the mishap, compelling commuters to be in long queues for tickets for the couple of available ferries from around 3am. These questions were raised by locals during the inspection by Sarma who responded by saying that passengers can now book tickets from their home once the app is launched by September 21-22. “Once the mobile app is launched, one can book tickets online from their homes. Every passenger will be accounted for,” he said. Majuli, Jorhat and Dhubri are among the districts where inland water transport is used by a significant population. Transport minister Chandramohan Patowary, who has been camping in Jorhat-Majuli since the day of mishap to plug loopholes plaguing the ferry service, told The Telegraph that the app is being developed by Amtron, a state government undertaking, and will be launched in a week. “We are aware of the inconvenience caused to passengers and are working out ways to end it. The app will be initially launched for Majuli and then extended to cover the entire state. Besides the app, we are also trying to make available at least eight boats/ferries for commuters in a week. Life jackets along with tickets to keep account of passengers have become mandatory now,” Patowary said. He also said that the state government will bear the cost of marine engines to be fitted in eight single-engine boats suspended after the mishap to make available more options for transport of goods and passengers. “We have also fixed timings of Ro-Pax vessels and boats with marine engines in operation. They will ply three times a day from both banks,” Patowary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
