17-09-2021||North East||Assam Down Town University hosts 8th convocation ceremony||Assam Down Town University (AdtU) on Wednesday successfully hosted the 8th Convocation Ceremony despite the prevailing situation not being favourable for conducting an event on a grand scale as usually witnessed. The varsity, which has over 64 programs and a faculty strength of 250, awarded degrees to 724 are Graduates, 213 Post Graduates, and 7 PhD achievers. "Education is the most powerful tool of empowerment and road to achieve excellence in our chosen path in the service of the Nation. Here in Assam Down Town University we constantly strive to develop a healthy academic environment for the students which help them not only to excel in the field of education but also prepare them to deal with the complexity of our social fabric. The pandemic situation has brought the world to a standstill for a long period of time. Despite the lockdowns and prolonged halt to physical classes,teaching learning has been a continuous progression in AdtU.The transition of Assam Down Town University has been very smooth and successful as it always believed in the integration of information technology in education," the university said in a statement. AdtU also conferred honorary Doctor of Letters (D.Litt.) to Sri Prafulla Kumar Mahanta, former Chief Minister of Assam and notable Social Activist and to Sri Padma Hazarika, an eminent Social activist and Entrepreneur of Assam. "The pandemic situation has brought the world to a standstill for a long period of time. Despite the lockdowns and prolonged halt to physical classes,teaching-learning has been a continuous progression in AdtU. The transition of Assam Down Town University has been very smooth and successful as it always believed in the integration of information technology in education," the university said. The event commenced with the academic procession of the esteemed dignitaries of the university with the University anthem playing in the background. The programme started with the felicitation of the chief guest of the ceremony Governor Jagdish Mukhi by the Registrar Ashim Barman. After the Governor declared the Convocation open, a welcome address by the Chancellor Dr. N. N. Dutta commenced. Thereafter, the Vice Chancellor (Dr.) N.C. Talukdar also presented his address. Dean of Studies, Prof. Bandana Dutta, presented the PhD Degrees to the research scholars. The Deans of the various Faculty of Study presented the names of the candidates under their respective undergraduate and postgraduate programmes who have qualified for the conferment of Bachelors and Masters Degrees. His Excellency, the Governor awarded the students their respective degrees. The students who had qualified for the award of the Doctorate of Philosophy, Masters’ Degree and Bachelors’ degree in different Faculties of Studies and disciplines but were unable to attend the Convocation were presented by the Controller of Examination, Dr. Joydeep Goswami and their degrees were awarded in absentia by the Governor. Ms. Jyotismita Sarma (BSc. Microbiology)and Ms. Jutima Baruah (Msc. Microbiology)  bagged the Gold Medal for the Best Graduate and the Best Post Graduate of the session 2021 respectively. A befitting award of appreciation for the Best PlacementAchiever of the year was presented to Ms. Debapriya Paul (MBA). Subsequently, the Oath of Dedication was administered to the Degree recipients by Ms Jutima Baruah and the Vice-Chancellor invited each of the three Awardees to speak a few words. Thereafter the Recipients of the honorary degrees, Prafulla Kumar Mahanta and Padma Hazarika were invited to deliver their speeches. After the awards, the Chancellor invited the Chief Guest and the Visitor of the university to deliver his address followed by the tradition of signing the Convocation Book. The Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor also put their Signatures on the Book. After the signatures,the Governor was requested to declare the Convocation closed and the event ended with the National Anthem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
17-09-2021||North East||Nagaland’s business community protests against ‘multiple taxation’ ||Nagaland’s business community on Thursday protested against “multiple taxation” by the Naga political groups (NPGs) and government agencies by observing a 12-hour bandh despite the state government urging the trade bodies to call it off. The bandh, which was successful and peaceful across the 12 districts of Nagaland, was necessitated by the fact that the business community was finding it increasingly difficult to operate under the prevailing circumstances, the Confederation of Nagaland Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CNCCI) president Khekugha Muru told The Telegraph. Those who had called the bandh used the term NPGs to refer to the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M) and all its factions. Barring NSCN-K, all factions are engaged in the ongoing peace process with the Centre to resolve one of the longest-running insurgencies in Asia. Those familiar with Nagaland said businessmen and traders not only have to pay “taxes” to the NPGs but also to government agencies. These taxes either force traders to hike the prices of goods or sell them at little profit or no profit. Muru said the bandh was called in protest against the state’s “unsatisfactory response” to their demands placed before the chief secretary on September 9. The CNCCI’s demands included a solution to multiple taxation by the NPGs and civic bodies on commodities that are covered by the goods and services tax (GST) and inclusion of representatives from the business community in the decision-making process of civic bodies among others. The Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party-BJP government is in power in Nagaland. “Multiple taxation leads to rise in prices of non-GST items by at least 10-15 per cent above market price. For GST items, we have very little profit or no profit. It has become very difficult for us to conduct business,” Muru said. “Therefore, we want the state government to come up with a solution to the multiple taxation issue. We also want the government to spell out whether these taxes are legal or illegal. We have to pay if these taxes are legal, but if they are illegal the government ought to act. We will only intensify our agitation if the government does not respond to our demands,” Muru added. The Dimapur Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DCCI) imposed the bandh in the district, considered the commercial hub of the state. Former Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi had in June raised the “taxation issue” following a claim by a “Naga armed organisation” engaged in the peace process that it had a right to collect “tax” from the people and this right had been “recognised” by the government’s representative negotiating with them. The NSCN (I-M), which had made the claim on June 19, responded by hitting out at Ravi for questioning the “taxation right” of the organisation while asserting that the “nominal taxations” it collected would continue. “The Naga nation does not require permission from the government of India for taxation. The matter remains loud and clear that at no point of time the Nagas became Indians either by conquest or consent. Thus, it is too far-fetched for the governor of Nagaland state to issue such an outrageous statement on taxation,” the NSCN (I-M) had said. The Centre “opposing taxations” by the outfit “violates” the Framework Agreement signed in 2015 wherein the “two entities have agreed to coexist peacefully as two different entities sharing sovereign power”, the outfit added. The peace process between the NSCN (I-M) and the Centre, which began in 1997, seems to have got stalled because of “differences” between Ravi and the outfit. Those in the know view Ravi’s transfer to Tamil Nadu as an attempt by the Centre to put the talks back on track.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
