22-09-2021||North East||Amit Shah authorises Himanta Sarma to hold Ulfa-I peace talks||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has been authorised by Union home minister Amit Shah to engage with the proscribed United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent) to prepare the ground for peace talks with the armed outfit. Sarma himself revealed Shah’s go-ahead hours before flying to Dimapur to hold talks with the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M) for an early resolution to the Naga political issue to end one of the longest running insurgencies in Asia. The hour-long meeting on Tuesday afternoon with the NSCN (I-M) leadership was Sarma’s first. The Ulfa (I) was formed in 1979 to secure sovereignty for Assam. Sarma, who is also convener of the North East Democratic Alliance (Neda), a forum of non-Congress parties, said ongoing peace initiatives in the region, among others, figured in his meeting with Shah in Delhi on Monday. “I raised the issue of talks with the Ulfa (I)… whether I can talk to the group if the Ulfa (I) wants. I was then told to hold preliminary talks. Now I can talk to the Ulfa (I) directly. Once we reach a certain stage and if everything goes to plan, the Centre will step in as is usually the case and take the process forward. But it will take some time for something concrete to emerge,” Sarma said, adding that unofficial parleys through a “third party” was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
22-09-2021||North East||Tripura HC blow to  TMC rally ||The Trinamul Congress’s plan to hold a road show in Agartala on Wednesday received a jolt on Tuesday when Tripura High Court “declined to interfere” with the state government’s decision to impose a prohibitory order across West Tripura district till November 4. Agartala is located in the West Tripura district. The high court order was in response to Trinamul leader Subal Bhowmik’s plea for a directive to police to allow the party’s road show which was supposed to be led by MP Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday. The BJP government imposed the prohibitory order under Section 144 of the CRPC, fearing a surge in Covid-19 cases and political violence. The order comes days after Trinamul’s plans to hold the road show — first on September 15 and then the following day — had to be shelved because the police didn’t give permission. “The BJP government fears Trinamul and Abhishek Banerjee, the royal Bengal tiger.… People of Tripura are with Trinamul despite the BJP government’s conspiracies against our party,” Trinamul MP Santanu Sen said. The court verdict and the prohibitory order, however, will not derail Abhishek’s proposed visit to Tripura, said Trinamul sources. “We will receive him at the airport tomorrow (Wednesday) morning, but we can’t carry flags and banners. He will be attending an induction programme and addressing a press meet,” a Trinamul leader said. Tripura advocate-general S.S Dey told The Telegraph that Justice Arindam Lodh had “declined to interfere” with the government order that imposed Section 144 and “closed the case without grant of prayers made in the petition”. Trinamul sources said although the prohibitory order would make political programmes difficult till November, the party would keep highlighting “the fear in the BJP” about Abhishek.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
22-09-2021||North East||Study reveals 22% workforce lost their jobs in Assam during Covid ||A study by an autonomous college in Assam has found that an estimated 22 per cent of the workforce may have lost their jobs in the state due to the Covid pandemic. The study conducted by Nowgong College (Autonomous) at Nagaon in central Assam from May to August in 14 of the 34 districts also found that over 20 per cent of the workforce took up new jobs to survive. “An estimated 2,300 employed people out of one lakh lost their jobs. Going by that estimate, an estimated 862,500 people may have lost their jobs in both the waves. The broad objective of the study was to analyse, among others, the impact of the current pandemic on life and livelihood, assess awareness level and understand the challenges posed by it as part of our college’s social responsibility,” a college faculty associated with the study told The Telegraph. Unemployment is a major issue in the state with political parties flagging it as an important poll plank in the Assembly elections held in March-April. There are over 16 lakh registered educated unemployed in Assam. Those who lost their jobs or changed jobs were mostly associated with the travel, construction, transport, textile and the hospitality sectors besides small-scale units. Others affected included daily wagers, those running small grocery shops and fruit and vegetable sellers. The study also confirmed that more than 40 per cent small-time businessmen faced acute problems due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. Closure of small-scale industrial units saw most of their employees turn into daily wagers. The voluntary exercise was conducted both offline and online jointly by the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) unit of the college. Altogether 100 members from both cells of the college, led by principal Sarat Borkataki and IQAC coordinator Bhuban Ch. Chutia, initiated the study jointly through a structured online form, covering a population of 3,500 in 700 households in 14 districts.  The districts included Nagaon, Morigaon, Karbi Anglong, Sonitpur, Udalguri, Biswanath, Lakhimpur, Tinsukia, Dibrugarh, Charaideo, Sivasagar, Jorhat, Golaghat and Bongaigaon. The state government imposed long curfew hours and barred inter-district travel as cases soared in April and May, affecting lives and livelihoods. Economic activities have started picking up as the government began to ease curbs by August-end. Government and private schools resumed classes for Class X students from Monday after a gap of four months by adhering to Covid protocols. Till Sunday, Assam had 3,709 active cases with a positivity rate of 0.92 per cent. Altogether 597,968 people have tested positive for the coronavirus and 5,797 have died since the first wave that started in March 2020 in the state. The study also revealed that 20 per cent of the people are not aware of Covid-19 while 22 per cent were unaware of coronavirus testing centres, something which is reflected in people without masks in public places despite the standard operating procedures being issued by the administration. The survey also found that 63 per cent of the rural people faced Internet issues due to poor connectivity and 59.3 percent of the urban people preferred online transactions due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
