25-09-2021||North East||Assam: Death of a 12-year-old and CM's shockingly cavalier statement||The shock came in two waves. First, one of the official victims of the police firing in Assam’s Darrang on Thursday was a child who was aged 12 years and seven months and who had collected his Aadhaar card on the day he was shot dead. The Aadhaar card, ending with the digits 2232, lost its reason for existence within hours of reaching the hands of Shakh Farid, born on February 2, 2009. Second, for Assam chief minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma, the revolting sight of a photographer stomping on a motionless Moinul Hoque, the other victim of the police firing, “is just 30 seconds of the incident”. Later, he said a “3-minute” video. Moinul Hoque, born in 1993 and a father of three, was kicked, punched and kneed by a professional photographer hired by the Darrang district administration to document the eviction at the minority-dominated settlement on the banks of the Brahmaputra on Thursday. The photographer, identified as Bijay Shankar Baniya, has been arrested by the CID. The residents of Dhalapur II say they were not against the eviction but were only demanding rehabilitation instead of being pushed closer to the river. Chief minister Sarma said the government had agreed to allot six bighas to the landless in the affected area in line with its land policy but not to those who had come from outside the area. “The organisations — the AAMSU and the Congress — with which we had discussed (the matter) had agreed. The eviction started after that. But 10,000 people should not have attacked the police with lathis and sharp weapons,” Sarma said. Sarma said: “The photographer attacking a man is condemnable but that is just 30 seconds of the incident. You have to see what happened in the last four months and also see the entire video.” Farid’s relatives said the boy had fetched his Aadhaar card, meant to serve as proof of identity and address and a tool for financial inclusion, only on Thursday although it had been issued in July. When this correspondent visited Farid’s grief-stricken family on Friday, his elder brother Amir Hussain produced the Aadhaar card to give the boy’s personal details. Farid collected the card from the local post office on Thursday so he could avail himself of a scholarship from the minority department. Farid was in Class VII, making him the “most” educated among seven siblings. “What is the use of this card now? The card has lost its relevance, and Farid his life. We were hoping he would one day get a government job,” said Amir, seated beside his ailing father Khalek Ali. Farid’s mother Golabhanu has been inconsolable since the news of the death arrived around 2pm on Thursday. The family hails from Kirakara village, which adjoins Dhalpur where the protest against the eviction to free government land had erupted. “I had seen Farid on his way home with the Aadhaar card. He got caught between the protesters and the police. He was not even 13. Amir had given up his studies to ensure Farid could study and have a good life,” said Sofikul Islam, who lives nearby. Farid was informed about the card on Wednesday, Sofikul said. “He had to submit the card to his school for a scholarship,” he added. For most people in Kirakara and Dhalpur, life is hard and farming the only viable option to eke out a living -- a reason that Dhalpur residents resisted the eviction on Thursday. Darrang district police on Friday said two people were dead and nine policemen injured in Thursday’s clashes. A resident told The Telegraph that Saddam Hussain, identified as one of the dead on Thursday night, was injured but alive. No untoward incident was reported from the affected area on Friday. The government was clearing the area of encroachers to set up a community farming project over a 77,000-bigha tract. “I wanted the eviction but I also said that land would be given to the landless…. That’s why I have ordered a judicial inquiry so that the truth comes out,” chief minister Sarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
25-09-2021||North East||Assam: No shrine but prayer for peace||Imam Mohd Taizuddin ensured that the Friday prayers went on at the masjid which was demolished during the first round of eviction on Monday to remove encroachers  in the minority-dominated settlement in Assam’s Darrang. In the sweltering heat, the prayers were held in the open by around 40 people. More than a hundred joined them towards the end at the same place where the masjid stood for anywhere between “35 and 40 years”. The eviction, which spun out of control on Thursday, is aimed at setting up a mega community farming project over 77,000 bighas by the BJP-led state government to benefit indigenous youths. “We have all lost our homes. I lost my home on Monday to eviction but we need to keep the faith. There is only one Allah who can help us in these tough times. We prayed before Allah for peace, peaceful coexistence and also to ensure a change of heart in the administration so that they start thinking about people like us because they have nowhere to go,” Imam Taizuddin, 48, told the Telegraph. Kasim Ali, 65, and Samsul Hoque, 56, said they were not opposed to the eviction but what they had asked for was proper rehabilitation. Around 1,000 households have been affected. Some of the  affected alleged that they were served notice hours before the eviction, others a day before. After the eviction, they were informally asked by the administration to shift towards the Brahmaputra river, they said. “We are ready to move out but what will we do there? It is a low-lying area. During the floods, the water level will flow much above our dwellings. Even now we are surrounded by water for around six months. We are also Indians,” said Ali whose name figures in the updated NRC published in 2019. The affected riverine belt is accessible only by country boats, and the area has no power. “Our homes are lit by solar panels, mostly supplied by the government. During the rainy season, there is water in our homes for about a month. For another five months, we have to use country boats for transport,” said Sofikul Islam, a graduate from Dholpur, who helps people with their banking needs. The administration claims the police had to act in self-defence on Friday. The administration is wondering about the assembly of about 10,000 when the number of households to be affected was only around 60. “ Where did they come from?” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma asked on Friday. The imam said the population of the three villages in the area would be around 30,000, a plausible reason for the huge turnout of protesters on Thursday. “Although only Dhalpur was affected, people from nearby villages too came. It is quite natural because the news of eviction was all over the place,” a resident said. Saddam Hussain, a lawyer, said the affected had filed a case in Gauhati High Court in August over the then proposed eviction. “This case will continue. We will also file a PIL against the unconstitutional and inhumane eviction, seeking rehabilitation of the affected,” Hussain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
