08-04-2021||New Delhi||Itinerant academic Riyaz Punjabi passes away||Riyaz Punjabi, an itinerant academic and a firm proponent of syncretism in Kashmir, passed away here on Thursday.Born in Srinagar, Punjabi was conferred with the Padma Shri in 2011.An avid writer, Punjabi’s work touched the areas of peace studies, human rights, composite culture, inter-religious conflicts and rise of fundamentalism in South Asia and Sufism.In public life as well as in private, friends recall that Punjabi, a man unapologetically fond of his drink, was also nonchalant about his stout defence of Kashmiriyat and strong opposition to using violence to achieve political ends.  Punabi was also well conversant with the Sikh faith and had written a book on the spiritual content of Guru Granth Sahib.“He was a genuinely liberal Kashmiri. If you can believe that somebody is secular, he was one of them. I always found him to be a very informed person,” said Harpal Bedi, a senior journalist.However, many remembered him for taking positions that skirted close to the Union government’s line of the day.Punjabi is also remembered for a draft paper on autonomy for Kashmir.His last appointment was as Vice Chancellor of Kashmir University, but he also had stints with Jawaharlal Nehru University and Delhi University. He was also editing a magazine titled ‘International Peace Studies’, which however had recently fallen on hard times.“I feel sad that Prof. Punjabi died away from many of his friends and associates in Srinagar and elsewhere in Kashmir. Prof. Punjabi will be remembered in Kashmir long for his qualities of head and heart. I offer my condolences to Mrs. Taranum Riyaz and pray that God may rest his soul in peace and give the family the fortitude to bear this great loss,” said Congress leader Saifuddin Soz in a condolence message.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/itinerant-academic-riyaz-punjabi-passes-away-236431
08-04-2021||Jammu||3 dozen sheep and goats crushed to death by speeding truck in Udhampur||In a ghastly incident, three dozen sheep and goats, belonging to a nomadic community, were crushed to death by a speeding truck in Udhampur district, the police said on Thursday.A speeding truck drove through a flock of sheep and goats of a nomadic Gujjar near Darsu on Dhar road late Wednesday night, causing the on-the-spot death of 36 sheep and goats, a police official said.He said twelve other livestock were also injured in the incident, while the nomad family which was on move from Samba to Kashmir in search of greener pastures during their bi-annual migration escaped unhurt.The erring driver was arrested, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/3-dozen-sheep-and-goats-crushed-to-death-by-speeding-truck-in-udhampur-236406
08-04-2021||Jammu||Terror suspect arrested at Jammu airport||Cracking the whip on overseas terror modules, the National Investigation Agency on Thursday arrested a person upon his arrival at the Jammu airport in connection with a case of infiltration of militants in Poonch and smuggling of narcotics, officials said.Accused Shahid Naveed of Mendhar in Poonch district is alleged to be a close associate of Sher Ali, the main coordinator and facilitator of terrorist activities of various groups in the area, the officials said.Ali was arrested on February 17, and Naveed's name came up during his interrogation.Both Ali and Naveed were operating from Kuwait, and their involvement in terror activities surfaced during the investigation of a case lodged in Mendhar police station last year following the killing of two Pakistani terrorists affiliated with the JK Ghaznavi Force in an encounter at Surankote in Poonch on December 13.After the arrest of Ali in February, the NIA took over the case, the officials said.Naveed is believed to have been deported from a Gulf country and was brought to India under strict supervision. He was flown to Jammu for handing over to the NIA, the officials said.A police investigation had revealed that Ali facilitated the entry of the two terrorists from the Dabbi area of Balakote on the intervening night of November 24 and 25 last year at the behest of Pakistani handler Sultan, the officials said. Ali headed a network of overground workers who were behind smuggling of arms and ammunition, besides narcotics.Ali's father Mushtaq Ahmed and sister Raskeem Akhter were arrested by Poonch police on September 11 for receiving the arms consignment from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, and an FIR stands registered in Mendhar in this connection, police had said.Earlier, five overground workers -- Mushtafa, Mohd Yaseen, Younis, Irfan and Raskeem -- were arrested for their involvement in the terror network led by Ali. A huge cache of arms and ammunition, including five pistols, 13 grenades and one live improvised explosive device (IED), had been recovered from them.In addition, police had said that over two kg heroin, worth over Rs eight crore in the international market, was recovered from this terror network.The money generated from the sale of the narcotics was meant to be used for terror-financing. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/terror-suspect-arrested-at-jammu-airport-236351
08-04-2021||Jammu||Undertrial prisoner from Punjab dies by suicide in J-K's Kathua||A 42-year-old undertrial prisoner from Punjab allegedly hanged himself inside a jail in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua district on Thursday, officials said.Rajinder Singh of Kundal village in Fazilka was lodged in district jail Kathua since November 7, 2019 and was facing trial in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, they said.The officials said Singh's body was found hanging inside a bathroom around 2.15 am. He was pronounced dead by the jail pharmacist, they added.The body of the deceased was shifted to the Government Medical College Kathua for a post-mortem examination, and it will being handed over to his next of kin after completion of legal formalities, the officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/undertrial-prisoner-from-punjab-dies-by-suicide-in-j-ks-kathua-236300
08-04-2021||Jammu||Abducted CRPF jawan’s kin seek his safe return||Relatives of a CoBRA commando held hostage by Naxals after a recent gunfight with security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district blocked the Jammu-Poonch highway on Wednesday, demanding an assurance from the government for his safe release.“He is the responsibility of the government, which should take immediate action to ensure his safe return to us. We want the government to inform us about the action it is taking for his release,” Meenu, wife of abducted jawan Rakeshwar Singh Minhas, said.Thirty-one jawans were injured while CoBRA commando Minhas, belonging to its 210th battalion, went missing after the gunfight that took place along the Bijapur-Sukma border on Saturday and was stated to have been taken hostage. Twenty-two personnel from various security forces were killed in the ambush.In Jammu, dozens of Minhas’s relatives and neighbours took to the streets and blocked the main road outside his Burnai residence on Wednesday, raising slogans of “Bring back our hero”, “Long live India” and “Shoot the traitors of the nation”. Officials said a police party was at the scene trying to persuade them to allow normal movement of traffic, which had to be diverted to another route. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/abducted-crpf-jawans-kin-seek-his-safe-return-236198
08-04-2021||Srinagar||Boy who strayed across LoC handed over to Pak||The Army handed over a boy to the Pakistani authorities at the Titwal crossing point along the LoC in J&K’s Kupwara district on Wednesday, a defence spokesperson said here. Mausam, the son of Manzoor Ahmad and a resident of the Lipa area in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), was handed over to the Pakistani authorities at 11.50 am, he added.“On the night of April 5, the youngster inadvertently crossed the LoC into Kupwara’s Karnah. He was identified as Mausam, son of Manzoor Ahmad from the Lipa area of PoK,” the defence spokesperson said, adding that the Indian troops took due care of the boy and the Pakistani authorities were informed of his whereabouts.Following an interaction between the authorities of both countries on the hotline, the Indian side handed over the boy to Pakistani officials at the Titwal crossing point as a humanitarian gesture, he said.“The boy was presented with clothes and sweets. On the occasion of his repatriation, representatives of the Karnah civil administration were present,” the spokesperson said.He said such instances had been reported earlier also due to the proximity of villages along the LoC on either side. “However, the Indian side has always been prompt in returning individuals,” he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/boy-who-strayed-across-loc-handed-over-to-pak-236197
08-04-2021||Jammu||Not hygienic, 38 medical stores barred in Jammu||Operations of 38 retail medical establishments across the Jammu division have been suspended by the Drugs and Food Control Organisation for non-maintenance of sales records and not following proper hygiene, an official spokesman said.The shops were disallowed under relevant sections of the Drugs & Cosmetics Act by sleuths of the Drugs and Food Control Organisation during supervisory checks of retail sale outlets in Doda, Kishtwar, Jammu, Kathua and Samba districts. The spokesman said licensees were warned of severe action in case deficiencies were not removed within a stipulated time period.He said the drive was targeted to ensure medical stores operated strictly in consonance with the mandate of law and in the best interest of patient care. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/not-hygienic-38-medical-stores-barred-in-jammu-236196
08-04-2021||Srinagar||Ultras fire at troops in Shopian||Farooq out of hospitalSrinagar: National Conference president Farooq Abdullah was on Wednesday discharged from a Srinagar hospital where he was admitted last week as a precautionary measure after testing positive for Covid-19, officials said. He will, however, continue to remain in self-isolation at his residence for some time. He received his first dose of vaccine on March 2. PTITanker falls into gorge, 2 dieJammu: Two men were killed and two injured when an oil tanker skidded off the road and plunged into a deep gorge in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi district, police said on Wednesday. The tanker was on its way to Dugga from Reasi. The deceased were identified as Mohinder Pal and Dhayaan Singh, both in early 20s. PTIWoman, daughter charredJammu: A woman and her daughter were charred to death in a fire at their residence in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district in the early hours of Wednesday, police said. Posha Devi (50) and Neetu Bala (25) were trapped inside their kutcha house in Manzgam-Tagood village in Chhatroo area when the fire broke out around 1 am, a police official said. PTILeopard captured in DodaJammu: A leopard was captured by the wildlife department on Wednesday after hectic efforts lasting over six hours in a village in Doda district. The leopard strayed into Pranoo village from nearby forest around 8.30 am and was noticed by some labourers working on construction of a road, officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/ultras-fire-at-troops-in-shopian-236195
