10-04-2021||Srinagar||Encounters break out between security forces, militants in Shopian, Anantnag||Security forces are engaged in exchange of fire with militants in Shopian and Anantnag districts of Jammu and Kashmir as two separate encounters broke out on Saturday, police said.In the south Kashmir district of Shopian, police said security forces had launched a cordon and search operation in the Hadipora area based on specific information about the presence of militants.As the forces conducted the searches, militants fired upon them, ensuing an encounter, the official said.The exchange of fire is underway and further details are awaited, the official added.Meanwhile, another gunfight erupted in Anantnag district, the official said.The gunfight broke out at Semthan in Bijbehara area of the south Kashmir district after security forces launched a cordon and search operation based on an intelligence input about the presence of militants, the official said.He said further details were awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/encounters-break-out-between-security-forces-militants-in-shopian-anantnag-237321
10-04-2021||Srinagar||Army pays tributes to soldier shot dead by militants in Anantnag||The Army on Saturday paid floral tributes to Havildar Mohammad Saleem Akhoon who was shot dead by militants in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir.In a solemn ceremony at Badamibagh Cantonment, Chinar Corps Commander, Lt Gen D P Pandey and all ranks paid homage to the gallant soldier on behalf of the proud nation, an Army spokesman said.He said Akhoon was on leave in his native village and unarmed when he was attacked by militants on Friday.The injured soldier was immediately evacuated to District Hospital Janglat Mandi, Anantnag, but the doctors there declared him bought dead.Akhoon (43) had joined the Territorial Army in 2004 and belonged to Bijbehara village of Bijbehara tehsil in Anantnag district of south Kashmir.Akhoon is survived by his wife, a daughter and a son."The mortal remains of Akhoon were taken for last rites to his native place, where he would be laid to rest with full military honours. In this hour of grief, the Army stands in solidarity with the bereaved family and remains committed to their dignity and wellbeing," the spokesman said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/army-pays-tributes-to-soldier-shot-dead-by-militants-in-anantnag-237317
10-04-2021||Jammu||India capable of solving own problems: M Venkaiah Naidu||Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India and the country is capable of solving its own problems, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu said here today, asking other nations to “confine themselves to their domestic problems” rather than giving unsolicited advice to India.On his first Jammu and Kashmir visit since the August 2019 abrogation of Article 370, he said, without naming any country or individual, some people from the neighbourhood always try to create problems and disturbances because they do not want India to progress.Don’t worry about usSome friends are trying to give unasked advice to us… We are capable of taking care of our own problems and they need not worry about us. —M Venkaiah Naidu, Vice-President“My advice to some friends who are trying to give unasked advice to us in between and make commentaries to confine themselves to their domestic problems. We are capable of taking care of our own problems and they need not worry about us,” he said, addressing the 3rd and the 4th annual convocation of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) here. The convocation for two batches was held together as the 3rd was postponed due to the pandemic.Union Minister Jitendra Singh and J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha also attended the function, during which degrees were awarded to 148 MBA graduates who successfully completed their courses.“My dear youngsters, where you are studying is an integral part of India,” the V-P told the students. “And we are of the opinion we are capable of solving our problems. No country for that matter has any business to interfere or make comments on the internal affairs of another country or any other country.” In his nearly half-an-hour speech, he said, “We all believe in democracy and civilization. If you are really civilised you are not expected to interfere in the affairs of any other country. I am very clear about it.” He said this part of the country is very beautiful and so are the people who need to have peace.“Peace is the prerequisite for progress. If you have tension, you cannot pay attention. This has to be understood by one and all. That is why peace is very much required,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/india-capable-of-solving-own-problems-m-venkaiah-naidu-237106
10-04-2021||New Delhi||Omar Abdullah tests positive||Former Jammu and Kashmir CM and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah today said he had tested positive for Covid and had isolated himself.“For a year, I did my best to dodge this damn (sic) virus but it’s finally caught up with me. I tested positive for Covid-19 this afternoon. I’m completely asymptotic. Based on medical advice I’m self-isolating at home and monitoring my parameters like oxygen saturation levels,” Omar said. He said for the next few days, he would focus on beating this virus and would be back after the battle was won. Omar’s father and NC chief Farooq Abdullah has recently recovered from Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/omar-abdullah-tests-positive-237108
10-04-2021||New Delhi||7 ultras gunned down in two encounters||Security forces neutralised seven militants, including Imtiaz Ahmad Shah, the chief of terror outfit Ansar Ghazwatul Hind, in two separate encounters in Shopian and Pulwama districts.A senior official in the security establishment said, “Five terrorists were killed in a Shopian operation while the two others were killed in an encounter at Nowbugh in Tral area of Pulwama district.”Before neutralising the terrorists in Shopian, the officials said the Kashmir police along with central forces made efforts to make two militants hiding inside a mosque surrender. “For this, even the brother of a holed up terrorist & local Imamsahab sent inside mosque to persuade the #terrorists to come out & #surrender (sic). Efforts are on to save the mosque,” the police had said in a tweet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/7-ultras-gunned-down-in-two-encounters-237109
10-04-2021||Srinagar||Jawan shot dead by militants in Anantnag||Militants shot dead an Army jawan, who had come home on leave, in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said.The ultras shot at and injured Havaldar Salim outside his residence at Goriwan in Bijbehara area of the district, a police official said.Salim was rushed to the hospital but he succumbed to his injuries, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/jawan-shot-dead-by-militants-in-anantnag-237111
10-04-2021||Srinagar||7 terrorists gunned down by security forces in encounters in J-K's Shopian, Pulwama||Seven militants, including terror outfit Ansar Ghazwatul Hind’s chief Imtiaz Ahmad Shah, were gunned down by security forces in two encounters in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian and Pulwama districts, police said on Friday.“Five terrorists have been killed in a Shopian operation, while two others were killed in the encounter at Nowbugh in Tral area of Pulwama district,” a police official said.Earlier, the Kashmir Zone Police had said that efforts were being made to get two militants hiding inside a mosque in Shopian after an overnight encounter to surrender.“Brother of holed up terrorist and local imamsahab sent inside mosque to persuade the terrorists to come out and surrender. Efforts are on to save the mosque,” police had said in a tweet.They had also tweeted about the Ansar Ghazwatul Hind (AGuH) chief being trapped inside the mosque. “Chief of proscribed terrorist outfit AGuH (JeM) trapped,” police had said.The encounter in Shopian town broke out on Thursday evening. Giving an update about the operation on the same day, police had said that three militants have been killed and four security forces personnel injured.Inspector General of Police, Kashmir Zone, Vijay Kumar told reporters that AGuH chief Imtiaz Shah, who remained active since 2019, was actually killed in the gunbattle at Tral in Pulwama district.“While laying a cordon in Shopian, two militants managed to escape after hurling a grenade,” Kumar said.He said acting on inputs that the militants had moved towards orchards in the Tral area, another operation was launched in Nowbug and the two ultras were killed. One of the slain militants was identified as Imtiaz Shah, Kumar said.The officer said three people, who hurled stones on security forces when they were laying the cordon, suffered pellet injuries.The army’s 15 Corps’ Commander, Lt Gen D P Pandey, said the security forces had conducted the Shopian operation with utmost restraint and respect for the place of worship where the two militants were hiding. “It was ensured that there was no disrespect to the place of worship (the mosque),” he said. Lt Gen Pandey said security forces gave ample opportunity to the militants to surrender. “We want the misguided youth to comeback,” he said, but warned that anyone who takes to arms against the state will be neutralised.On the orders asking the media not to cover live encounters and law and order situations, IGP Kumar said he had written to all senior superintendents of police, keeping in mind the safety of journalists and to ensure media coverage does not hamper operations. “I have directed the district SSPs concerned to brief the media after the operations are over,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/7-terrorists-gunned-down-by-security-forces-in-encounters-in-j-ks-shopian-pulwama-236805
