29-04-2021||Kathua/Jammu||Two killed in factory blast in Kathua district||Two labourers were killed and another injured on Wednesday in an explosion at a zinc and copper factory in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, a senior police official said. The cause of the explosion that occurred at around 12.45 pm is being investigated, Senior Superintendent of Police, Kathua, RC Kotwal said. Charred bodies of two persons were recovered from the debris of the factory which went up in flames following the blast, he said.One more labourer was evacuated to hospital in an injured condition and admitted to Government Medical College (GMC) Hospital, Kathua. Officials identified the deceased as Shakeel Ahmad (35) and Salman (22), both residents of Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh, and the injured as their associate Alam (19) of Muzaffarnagar. They said a boiler is believed to have exploded, causing the fire and the casualties. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/two-killed-in-factory-blast-in-kathua-district-245664
29-04-2021||Jammu||DRDO to set up two 500-bed hospitals in Jammu, Srinagar||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will set up two 500-bed Covid hospitals in Jammu and Srinagar, officials said on Wednesday.Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, while chairing a high-level meeting, reviewed the proposal to set up the hospitals, they added. Bhalla asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration to immediately identify suitable locations for constructing the hospitals. He also asked the DRDO to evaluate and submit the corresponding proposal estimates through a team of experts.The meeting was informed that the administration has identified two patches of land in Jammu and Srinagar for the purpose. Jammu and Kashmir Chief Secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, Financial Commissioner, Health, Atal Dulloo, the Union secretaries of the departments concerned and officers from the DRDO, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the AFMS Institute attended the meeting. To mitigate the shortages in medical facilities, it was requested that the temporary DRDO Covid hospitals be constructed in time, an official spokesperson said. — PTI Medical oxygen stocks set to surge in J&K84-hr lockdown in 11 districtsTransporters want passenger fare upProtesting against the administration’s order capping the seating capacity in public transport at 50 per cent amid the Covid-19 pandemic, dozens of transporters held a protest here on Wednesday, demanding a hike in passenger fare for the survival of the  economically-hit” industry. Private transporters have been on an indefinite strike since April 21. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/drdo-to-set-up-two-500-bed-hospitals-in-jammu-srinagar-245631
