03-12-2020||New Delhi||Not anti-farmer like you: Capt Amarinder slams AAP||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday lashed out at AAP for “misrepresenting” his statement in respect of the need to end the farmers’ protests in the interest of national security.After AAP tweeted asking “What kind of pressure has Amit Shah exerted on Capt Amarinder Singh for him to go from ‘will resign for farmers’ to ‘farmers are a threat to the country’.”.@AmitShah की ED के दबाव में @capt_amarinder बोलने लगे भाजपा की बोली-आखिर क्या है अमरिंदर सिंह द्वारा किसानों को राष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा के लिए खतरा बताने वाली क्रोनोलॉजी? - pic.twitter.com/j4CbGEKKTj  Amarinder Singh retorted sharply saying, “You in AAP think everyone is anti-farmer like you. I never called farmers a threat to national security. My remarks were in context of prolonged stand-off which our hostile neighbours, whom the sons of these very farmers are fighting, can exploit.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-anti-farmer-like-you-capt-amarinder-slams-aap-179503
03-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh/Mumbai||Swara Bhasker calls Diljit Dosanjh 'a star' amid war with Kangana Ranaut; Richa Chadha says one must not fight with Punjabis||Diljit Dosanjh and Kangana Ranaut's Twitter war has been buzzing all Thursday. Now, B-town celebs have come forward in support of the Punjabi singer-actor.  As the verbal fight got nasty, actors Angad Bedi, Shruti Seth, Kubbra Sait and Swara Bhasker posted support for Diljit. Swara Bhasker tagged Diljit in her post and wrote: "Diljit Dosanjh is a STAR! Dil-jit actually! @diljitdosanjh." Diljit Dosanjh is a STAR! Dil-jit actually! 🔥🔥😍😍👏🏽👏🏽🤩🤩 @diljitdosanjh  Retweeting Swara's post, Shruti shared: "Hindustaniyo aur punjabiyon di shaan @diljitdosanjh." Actress Kubbra Sait tweeted: "I love @diljitdosanjh–end credits." I love @diljitdosanjh -end credits-  Richa Chadha also took to Twitter to show her support for farmers. She wrote in Punjabi, “Seriously, tussi saareyan nu public interest vichon daas ne aa , pubjabiyan naal lado ni plz (Seriously, I am telling this to all of you in public interest. Don’t get into fights with Punjabis please).”Seriously, tussi saareyan nu public interest vichon daas ne aa , pubjabiyan naal lado ni plz  Actor Angad Bedi said: "Aa kitti gal!!".Aa kitti gal!! Thank you pitaji @BishanBedi @diljitdosanjh Dosanjhwala do read. https://t.co/ynsfaEmTPt  Singer Jassi wrote: "Diljit Paaji tussi bhut wadiyaa kamm kar rahe ho. Kangna da agenda hi Andolan toh dhyan DIVERT karna hai. Eh apne maqsad ch kaamyaab ho rahi hai, tussi esnu reply na dao. Eh bhut chalak lok ne. Ede nal v gal karange, ek war sada kisaanii wala maslaa solve ho jawe. #KisanKiBaat"Diljit Paaji tussi bhut wadiyaa kamm kar rahe ho. Kangna da agenda hi Andolan toh dhyan DIVERT karna hai. Eh apne maqsad ch kaamyaab ho rahi hai, tussi esnu reply na dao. Eh bhut chalak lok ne.Ede nal v gal karange, ek war sada kisaanii wala maslaa solve ho jawe. #KisanKiBaat https://t.co/DG1B73oZx4||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/swara-bhasker-calls-diljit-dosanjh-a-star-amid-war-with-kangana-ranaut-richa-chadha-says-one-must-not-fight-with-punjabis-179488
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||BJP leader RP Singh demands apology from Kangana Ranaut over tweet against elderly Sikh woman||BJP leader RP Singh on Thursday asked Kangana Ranaut to apologise over 'demeaning' an elderly Sikh woman in her now-deleted farmers' post.  In a tweet, the BJP leader said that he respects Kangana for her courage and acting, but he would not accept her demeaning his 'mother', Mohinder Kaur.  He also demanded her to make a public apology. "@KanganaTeam I respect you for your courage & acting but I will not accept anyone disrespecting or demeaning my mother. You must make a public apology for doing so. #MohinderKaur," read the BJP leader's post. .@KanganaTeam I respect you for your courage & acting but I will not accept anyone disrespecting or demeaning my mother. You must make a public apology for doing so.#MohinderKaur pic.twitter.com/uB835sJE1w  Earlier, Kangana had misidentified the protestor as Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh, and claimed, that the woman had come to be a part of the protest for just Rs 100."Ha ha ha, she is the same dadi who featured in Time magazine for being the most powerful Indian... And she is available for 100 rupees. Pakistani journos have hijacked international PR for India in an embarrassing way. We need our own people to speak for us internationally," Kangana had said in a tweet.Kangana's claim in the tweet was proved to be wrong, several Punjabi artists like Jasbir Jassi, Ammy Virk, Prince Narula, Himanshi Khurana and others had called her out for it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leader-rp-singh-demands-apology-from-kangana-ranaut-over-tweet-against-elderly-sikh-woman-179480
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi singers play new tunes, reflect farmers' mood||Punjabi singers are doing their bit for the farmers' cause, coming up with catchy new numbers to help keep their protest going at Delhi's borders."Murrde ni laye bina haq, Dilliye" (Delhi, we aren't turning back without getting our rights) is one of them, reflecting the mood of Punjab farmers seeking repeal of the new laws enacted at the Centre.These songs, which primarily centre around the farmers' agitation, are gaining immense popularity among the protesters at the Singhu and Tikri borders.Noted Punjabi singer and actor Harbhajan Mann who has been supporting farmers' protests for the last several months said that he had come out with a new song on Wednesday."I have come out with a new song 'murrde ni laye bina haq, Dilliye'... It is all about how farmers carrying ration for six months are protesting and how the safety of their field is very important. It is a fight of their existence,” said Mann on Thursday.The video of the song also shows how farmers braved water cannons and broke the police barriers while en route to Delhi.About a month back, Mann had released another song "Anndataa, Khet Saadi Maa, Khet Saadi pagg" (fields are our mother, fields are our pride).Singer Kanwar Grewal's song "Ailaan, tennu Delhiye ekath pareshaan karuga, par faslan de faisley kisan karuga' (Delhi, this gathering will trouble you but farmers will only decide the price of crops) is also getting popular among the protesters.Grewal's another song 'Pecha' has also gone viral on the social media.The singers said they were also children of farmers and it is natural for them to stand shoulder to shoulder with the peasants in their struggle against the laws.“When farmers are facing tough times, it is our responsibility to stand with them. Farmers feel that these laws are not in their favour. We should support them in their agitation,” said Mann.Another famous singer Jasbir Jassi said it is good that Punjabi artists are supporting the farmers.“They are composing as well as singing songs in farmers' support,” said Jassi. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan thanked Punjabi artists and singers for standing in solidarity with the protesting farmers against the “black laws.” “It is a historical fact that artists are very important for the success of any struggle. We hail the singers for standing with the farmers,” he said.Several Punjabi singers, including Sidhu Moosewala, Babbu Maan and Harf Cheema, have already lent their support to the farmers' cause.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other areas have stayed put at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singers-play-new-tunes-reflect-farmers-mood-179469
03-12-2020||Rohtak||Farmers charge cell phones from tractors; brought bikes from Punjab||Farmers camping at Tikri-Bahadurgarh have completely prepared from Punjab. For the past five days, they have been charging their mobile phones by using the batteries of their tractors.They brought their motorbikes to get to one point to another point, since a stretch of 10 km between the Bahadurgarh bypass to Tikri border, Delhi is jam-packed with tractor-trailers, buses, and other vehicles.They have set up a backup team at their village which ensures the delivery of essential items for protesting farmers."Cell phone is the only way, here, to get updates about the agitation, and the direction from top leaders. Since we knew that there would be no electricity connection at the dharna spot to charge cell phones, hence, we created charging points at our vehicles. We charge the phone and power bank at night from the tractor's battery while the battery is charged by keeping the tractor started. This mechanism is being adopted by the majority of the farmers,” said, a protesting farmer, Jasprit Singh Walia.Significantly, several farmers are using electricity from poles installed on the highway to charge their phones and power banks.Magar Singh of Muktsar said, that a 10-km long stretch of the highway from Bahadurgarh to Tikri border was jam-packed with tractor-trailers, buses and other vehicles of the farmers.“Hence we are using two-wheelers not only to go to one point to other but also buy medicines, eatables and other essential things from Bahadurgarh town as you cannot move in the four-wheelers through road blockade,” he said, adding, that hundreds of farmers had brought two-wheelers with them.Sukhdev Singh from Sangrur added that a backup team has been set up village-wise.“We daily update the team members about the agitation and also apprise them of our need about essential items like medicines, milk powder etc. The teams send the village youths here to deliver the items here. The youths then replace those who want to return,” he added.Amit Nain, a young farmer, informed since the dharna spot was spread over 10 km hence two vehicles were being used to make the farmers updates from the latest development about the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-charge-cell-phones-from-tractors-brought-bikes-from-punjab-179466
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Attari-Wagah route vital for India, Pak prosperity: Manpreet Badal||The Attari-Wagah trade route is not just a road between India and Pakistan, but it is also vital for the prosperity and peaceful relation between the two neighbouring countries, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said.After launching a book titled 'Unilateral Decisions Bilateral Losses' here, Manpreet Badal also said that its reach up to Central Asia will remain crucial for the economic upliftment and social welfare of the Punjabis.Gauging the points made to lessen international trade losses in the book, written by Afaq Hussain and Nikita Singla, the Director and Associate Director of the Bureau of Research on Industry and Economic Fundamentals (BRIEF), respectively, a New Delhi-based research and policy think-tank, Badal expressed concern over the current situation of trade with the neighbouring countries."I, on behalf of the Punjab government, will pursue the case to revive the Wagah-Attari trade with the government of India," said the Finance Minister, adding that there are immense trade opportunities in the state.Notably, since February 2019, India-Pakistan relations have been sliding downhill after the militant attack in Pulwama district in Jammu and Kashmir. The Indian government had also decided to withdraw the status of Most Favoured Nation (MFN) for trade granted to Pakistan since 1996."German statesman Otto Von Bismark once remarked, 'the road to Berlin lies through Vienna'. I sincerely feel that the road between New Delhi and Islamabad lies through Punjab. For Punjabis, a lot is at stake given their proximity to the shared border."Trade at Wagah-Attari had made this shared border a point of cooperation and interdependence. Highlighting the losses on ground because of the suspension of trade, this makes it evident how over time, trade has become crucial for the survival of the border economies, revival of which could lead not just to prosperity but also lay the foundation for peaceful relations between India and Pakistan," said Badal.Virtually joining the discussion on the book, Congress MP from Amritsar, Gurjeet Singh Aujla, said that Amritsar doesn't have any real industry except for tourism which is also badly affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic.He urged the Government of India to consider Wagah-Attari trade as a full-fledged industry for Amritsar that gives direct and indirect employment to more than 25,000 families."Revival of trade is very important for the border district," he said.In their book, Hussain and Singla cited that in 2018-19, the bilateral trade between India and Pakistan stood at $2.5 billion -- India's exports to Pakistan accounting for $2.06 billion and India's imports from Pakistan at $495 million.India's decision vis-a-vis MFN status withdrawal and imposition of 200 per cent duty brought Pakistan's exports to India from an average of $45 million per month in 2018 to $2.5 million per month in March-July 2019, until trade was completely suspended by Pakistan.The book also highlights the socio-economic impact of trade suspension assessed through field research in Punjab.As the trade communities and the citizens at large stand by the decisions of the government, the book makes a call to identify adequate measures that could be taken to sustain the border economy of Punjab, in the absence of cross-border trade.According to the authors' interactions in Amritsar, more than 9,000 families have been directly affected because of their breadwinners' dependence on bilateral trade; and every month, two-third of nearly Rs 30 crore that was being added to the local economy is lost. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attari-wagah-route-vital-for-india-pak-prosperity-manpreet-badal-179464
03-12-2020||New Delhi||At protest sites, Punjab brothers doing 'sewa' by fixing tractors of farmers||From fixing cars and tractors free of cost to serving sugarcane juice to doctors attending protestors, Rantir Singh, a mechanic from Punjab, has taken up many roles to ensure farmers camping at Delhi's Singhu border for the last seven days can continue with their protest against the Centre's farm laws."My brother, Jaswant Singh, is camping at the Tikri border and doing the same. He too is a mechanic," says Rantir, from Barnala district.The duo are part of the thousands who have gathered at the two borders to protest against the new farm laws, which many farmers say will pave way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates."It is 'sewa' (service) and we don't charge for this", said 40-year-old Rantir who is at Singhu border since Friday.Rantir said he has travelled all the way from his village where he has a garage. "I have already fixed 30 to 35 tractors of the farmers here at Singhu border. This is 'sewa' for which, we do not charge anything. I have also repaired two to three cars," Rantir told PTI."I have studied up to class 8 and started working as a mechanic since the age of 14. We have a tractor and have placed a loudspeaker on it. We do announcements thrice a day on the loudspeakers that if anyone needs a mechanic, then they can contact me," Rantir added.Besides, Rantir also serves sugarcane juice to the doctors who are giving medicines to the protestors."I woke up at 4 am to help prepare 'langer' and then distributed to people. Later, I served sugarcane juice to doctors. I have come here along with farmers as I am also a farmer's son. We will not leave till our demands are accepted by the central government," he said."My brother Jaswant Singh has also come from the village. He is at Tigri border and doing same 'sewa' there," he said.Last Friday, hundreds of farmers reached the Singhu border of the national capital to protest against the Centre's new farm laws.The day had witnessed police using teargas shells, water cannons and multi-layer barriers to block the protestors and the farmers pelting stones and breaking barricades in their determination to push through as part of their 'Delhi Chalo' march.Police on Thursday closed routes on two national highways connecting Ghaziabad to Delhi as farmers remained unyielding on their demand for scrapping the new farm laws and stayed put at the national capital's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.The protesting farmers had on Wednesday threatened to block other roads of Delhi if their demands were not met. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-protest-sites-punjab-brothers-doing-sewa-by-fixing-tractors-of-farmers-179442
03-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra opens up about getting old; reveals his 'biggest worry'||Veteran actor Dharmendra recently announced that he will be sharing the screen space in 'Apne 2' with his 2 sons—Sunny and Bobby—and his grandson Karan.Even though his return to the screen will be after two years, he is more excited than ever to be back in front of the camera.The actor will turn 85 on December 8. However, he doesn’t feel old and is excited about doing new work.“I stopped counting my age after I turned 60. No matter what your age, you should keep your enthusiasm alive. I have childlike excitement about small things that life has to offer; I keep myself excited by thinking about what to do next as an actor. The camera loves me, and I become a different man when in front of it. I had dreamt of being an actor, and became one because of my fans. My biggest worry is that my fans may stop loving me. So, I keep myself grounded and consider myself a newcomer even today. I tell myself that I need to experiment with different roles,” he said in an interview to Mid-Day.Dharmendra revealed, that he is open to the idea of working in web series.“Every decade, the audience’s tastes change. So, you have to offer them the kind of cinema they enjoy. I am unstoppable as an actor and will do a web show. I am waiting for a good opportunity,” he said.On Tuesday, Sunny had announced the 'Apne 2' project.“With the blessings of Babaji and your love, all of us will be seen together, again. Feeling blessed to get a chance to work with my father, brother again this time with my son. #Apne2, in cinemas Diwali 2021,” the actor said in a tweet.Dharmendra was last seen in 'Yamla Pagla Deewana Phir Se' in 2018.The film also starred him with Sunny and Bobby. Dharmendra says they are known for creating ‘family entertainers’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-opens-up-about-getting-old-reveals-his-biggest-worry-179431
03-12-2020||---||Bathinda farmer dies during farm agitation at Tikri border||Bathinda, December 3A farmer from Laleana village in Talwandi Sabo, Bathinda, died on Thursday during the ongoing farmers' agitation against the contentious farm laws at the Delhi-Tikri border.Lakhbir Singh was in his fifties.Lakhbir Singh is said to have suffered a heart attack, after which he was taken to PGI Rohtak, where he was declared brought dead by doctors.Talking to The Tribune, Harjinder Baggi, general secretary of BKU Ekta Ugrahan said: “Lakhbir complained of uneasiness on Wednesday night following which he suffered a heart attack. Farmers from his village protesting along took him to PGI Rohtak but he was declared dead by doctors.”“Known for his seva bhavna and hard work among the union members, Lakhbir had been doing voluntary service at langars during the agitation. Earlier as well, he had quite actively participated in the protests being held at Badal village,” Baggi said.Lakhbir owned around six acres of agricultural land in his village. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter. Farmers from his village, who accompanied him to the protest venue, had even asked him to return to his home and return after sometime, but he denied, saying that he would either die in the protest or get the three agri laws revoked.“We have demanded adequate compensation from the government to the family members of the deceased farmer,” Baggi added.Earlier, two farmers had died on Wednesday during the protest.Gurjant Singh (60) from Bachhoana village in Mansa district died during the protest near Bahadurgarh border.Shingara Singh Mann, president of BKU Urgrahan said: “Gurjant was one of the most active members of BKU Ugrahan. He has been associated with the union for the past many years. He was a small-scale farmer with less than five acres of agricultural land. We have demanded compensation and government job next to the kin of the deceased from the government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-farmer-dies-during-farm-agitation-at-tikri-border-179424
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Diljit Dosanjh calls Kangana Ranaut 'mannerless' as Twitter war comes to an end; she signs off as 'Babbar sherni'||The Twitter war between Diljit Dosanjh and Kangana Ranaut has been getting uglier all through Thursday.It all started when Diljit criticised Kangana for misidentifying an elderly Sikh woman, who had joined the farmers' protest, as Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh. He also shared a video of the elderly lady in question, revealing that she was Mahinder Kaur.Respected MAHINDER KAUR JI 🙏🏾 Ah Sunn La Ni With Proof @KanganaTeam Banda Ena V Ni Anna Hona Chaida..Kush v Boli Turi jandi aa .. pic.twitter.com/Ie1jNGJ0J1  Soon, Kangana deleted her post, but didn't refrain from hitting back, calling Diljit filmmaker Karan Johar's pet."Ooo Karan johar ke paltu, jo dadi Saheen Baag mein apni citizenship keliye protest kar rahi thi wohi Bilkis Bano dadi ji Farmers ke MSP ke liye bhi protest karti hue dikhi. Mahinder Kaur ji ko toh main janti bhi nahin. Kya drama chalaya hai tum logon ne (Karan Johar's pet, the grandma who was protesting in Shaheen Bagh for her citizenship, the same grandma was seen protesting with the farmers. I don't even know who is Mahinder Kaur. What is this drama)? Stop this right now," she tweeted.Also read:Swara Bhasker calls Diljit Dosanjh 'a star' amid war with Kangana Ranaut; Richa Chadha says one must not fight with PunjabisJaved Akhtar submits statement in defamation plaint against Kangana RanautBJP leader RP Singh demands apology from Kangana Ranaut over tweet against elderly Sikh womanPlea filed to suspend Kangana Ranaut's Twitter account in Bombay HC; here's her reactionIn another tweet, she posted: "Listen you vultures, do not consider my silence as my weakness. I see how you are instigating the innocent by lying to them and are using them. Just like Shaheen Bagh, the truth behind these protests will soon be out. Then I will write a brilliant speech and leave with your faces black." She signed off as 'Babbar sherni'.Diljit retaliated: "Tuneh Jitne Logon Ke Saath Film Ki Tu Un Sab Ki Paaltu Hai...? Fer To List Lambi Ho Jaegi Maalko Ki..? Eh Bollywood Wale Ni PUNJAB Wale aa .. Hikk Te Vajj Sadey Jhooth bol kar logo ko badhkana aur emotions se khailna woh toh aap achey se janti ho (Are you the pet of all the people you have worked with? Then the list of your bosses must be long. This is not Bollywood but Punjab. Manipulating people by lying and playing with their emotions is something you know very well)."  Tuneh Jitne Logon Ke Saath Film Ki Tu Un Sab Ki Paaltu Hai...? Fer To List Lambi Ho Jaegi Maalko Ki..? Eh Bollywood Wale Ni PUNJAB Wale aa .. Hikk Te Vajj SadeyJhooth bol kar logo ko badhkana aur emotions se khailna woh toh aap achey se janti ho..😊 https://t.co/QIzUDoStWs  Mai Das riha Tainu EH BOLLYWOOD Wale Ni PUNJAB WALE AA ..2 Dian 4 Ni 36 Sunava Ge.. AA JAAA....... AA JAAA.... Jehda Tu DRAMA LAYA MAINU LAGDA EH PUNJAB WALE HEE KADDAN GE.. HOR KISEY TON LOT V NI AUNA TUSI... AA JAA AA JAA https://t.co/re9OepIWB5  He also asserted that he is not from Bollywood but Punjab, and will not take her attack and give it back with more power. At one point, he said: "Dimagh theek aa Tera (are you sane)?" Kangana responded: "Oh chamche chal, tu jinki chat chat ke kaam leta hai, main unki roz bajati hoon, jayada mat uchal, main Kangana Ranaut hoon tere jaisi chamchi nahin jo jhoot boloon, maine sirf aur sirf Shaheen Baag wali protestor pe comment kiya tha (You are a bootlicker, the one you try to please, I take them to task everyday. I am Kangana Ranaut, not a bootlicker like you who would lie. I only spoke about the Shaheen Bagh protestor), if anyone can prove otherwise I will apologise." Aa JAA... Kam Mai Hun Da Ni Karda ..Tuney Kitno ki Chaati Hai Kaam Ke Lie?Mai Bollywood Mai Strugle ni karta madam..Bollywood wale aa ke kehnde aa film kar Lao SIR 😊 Mai tainu das riha eH BOLLYWOOD WALE NI PUNJAB WALE AA 2 Dian 4 Ni 36 Sune gi.. https://t.co/KSHb45Xpak  Diljit called Kangana mannerless. "Bolan Di Tameez Ni Tainu.. Kisey di Maa Bhen Nu.. Aurat Ho Ke Dujeyq Nu Tu 100 100 Rs. Wali das di an.. SADE PUNJAB DIAN MAAVA SADEY LAI RAB NE.. Eh tan Bhoonda De Khakhar nu Shedh Leya Tu.. PUNJABI GOOGLE KAR LI (You have no sense how to speak to someone's mother or sister. You are a woman yourself and are calling another one would work for Rs 100. Our mothers of Punjab are like God to us. You have poked the hornet's nest. Google this Punjabi now)," he wrote.Bolan Di Tameez Ni Tainu.. Kisey di Maa Bhen Nu.. Aurat Ho Ke Dujeyq Nu Tu 100 100 Rs. Wali das di an.. SADE PUNJAB DIAN MAAVA SADEY LAI RAB NE.. Eh tan Bhoonda De Khakhar nu Shedh Leya Tu.. PUNJABI GOOGLE KAR LI..👍 https://t.co/KSHb45Xpak  Soon, things took a nasty turn when Kangana again said she was talking about the Shaheen Bagh 'dadi'. Replying to her, Diljit said: "Oye Bad Dimag Batmeez... Gal HO RAHI JIS MAA NU TU 100 rs. Dihadi wai Keh ke foto paee c.. Os Bebe Da JAVAB Sun Leya c Yaan Dobara Bheja.. Avi gal na ghumaa Hun.. GAL KAR NI BHAJJI DA .. Jod tod Bollywood ch chalda hona Tera.. Punjabi'an Naal Ni Chalna (Oh such a big fool. We're talking about the elderly woman whose photo you shared and said she protests for Rs 100 a day. Did you hear her answer or do I need to send it to you again? Your manipulations will work in Bollywood but not in Punjab)." Aa JAA Aa JAA... @KanganaTeam Dheley Di Akal Ni Tainu.. Sadian Maava Nu Tu 100rs Wali Das dian.. Bollywood Di Dhamki Te Draava Kisey Hor nu Daee JAA Ke.. Asi VATT Kadhan Nu Hee Jamey anTu Boldi Rahi an Bollywood waleya Nu..Tera Muh Pey Geya Har ek Nu Maada Bolan Da..  In another tweet he said: "What school taught you to demean people's mothers and sisters and call them labourers who'd protest for Rs 100." "Ah Tainu Khoob Kharabe Wale Lagde ne..? Har gal Te Khoob Kharaba.. Chauni ki an Tu ? Eh Sadey Lai RABB DA ROOP NE. Tainu Bolan Di Tameez Ni Sikahi Kisey Ne. Punjabi Dasan Ge Tainu Kidan Boli da Apne Ton Vadeya Naal (Do they appear to you as ones who would incite violence? Every word you say is like that, what do you want? They are like God for us. Did nobody teach you etiquette of speech? Punjabis will teach you how to speak to those who are elder to you)," he wrote in one tweet. Gal Kehdi Ho Rahi aa Eh Ja Kidar Nu Rahi aa ..?Dimagh theek aa Tera?Gallan Na Ghumaa.. Sidha Jawab de.. Jo bhonki an Tu sadian maava Lai..Aa Ke Gal Kari Sadian Maavan Naal Jina Nu Tu 100 Rs Di Dasdi c .. Sari HEROINE Giri Kadh Den gian.. https://t.co/K6V1SjuAi6  "Peaceful PROTEST CHAL RIHA.. Sab Kisaan'an De Naal aa .. @KanganaTeam Edey varge kush Lok Jo Bhonk Ke Mahaul Kharab karn di te divert karn Di Politics khel rahe aa.. Sarey Note Karn.. Eh Janani Shuru ton Hee Muddey nu Divert karn Da kam kardi Rahi aa.. Punjabi Jaande aa tainu (A peaceful protest is on. This lady is trying to divert the issue by highlighting nonsensical topics. She is known for this trait. Punjabis know this)," he said. — IANSAa JAA Aa JAA...Oye Bad Dimag Batmeez...Gal HO RAHI JIS MAA NU TU 100 rs. Dihadi wai Keh ke foto paee c..Os Bebe Da JAVAB Sun Leya c Yaan Dobara Bheja.. Avi gal na ghumaa Hun.. GAL KAR NI BHAJJI DA .. Jod tod Bollywood ch chalda hona Tera.. Punjabi’an Naal Ni Chalna https://t.co/EmfatISrrk  Ah Tainu Khoob Kharabe Wale Lagde ne..? Har gal Te Khoob Kharaba.. Chauni ki an Tu ? Eh Sadey Lai RABB DA ROOP NE🙏🏾Tainu Bolan Di Tameez Ni Sikahi Kisey NePunjabi Dasan Ge Tainu Kidan Boli da Apne Ton Vadeya Naal.. https://t.co/RCqerefEFf pic.twitter.com/dMe4Xi2H52  Koi Gal Ban Rahi aa Teri...Sanu Pata Tu Politics Join Karni an.. Par Ser Pair tan Hove Kisey Gal Da Yaar..Gal Sirf Kisaan Di Ho Rahi aa .. Te Ju Tu Bhaunki an Sadian Maava Lai Oh Ho Rahi aa.. Bhajj Na Hun Te Jehdi Film di gal Tu jod rahi an onu National award Mileya aa.. https://t.co/yX3eFfQV3s  Acha Te DIL Ch rehan Walian Maava Nu Tu 100 100 rs Wali das di an..Tere sarey Daa Pech Jaanda Mai..Bharat tere Kalli Da Ni.. Avi Jadon Dekho Politics..Sab Ton Vadh Kurbanian Punjabi’an dian ne Te Tu Sadi Maava Nu Bura BHALA Boley.. Fikar Na Kar Tu V Punjabi Yaad rakhe Gi.. https://t.co/eA4OTonHXz  Peaceful PROTEST CHAL RIHA.. Sab Kisaan’an De Naal aa .. @KanganaTeam Edey varge kush Lok Jo Bhonk Ke Mahaul Kharab karn di te divert karn Di Politics khel rahe aa.. Sarey Note Karn..Eh Janani Shuru ton Hee Muddey nu Divert karn Da kam kardi Rahi aa..Punjabi Jaande aa tainu  Toh Bhai Aaj Ka Last Tweet @KanganaTeam Yeh Paltu Mashoor Hai Chatne Mai Aur Mudey Ko Divert Karne Mai..Mudda Kisaani Da aa Te Asi Sare Kisaan’an De naal an. PEACEFUL TAREEKE Naal🙏🏾PUNJAB dian Maava Ton Maafi Mang Li Je KARMA THEEK KARNA AN TAN#FarmerProtest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-calls-kangana-ranaut-mannerless-as-twitter-war-comes-to-an-end-she-signs-off-as-babbar-sherni-179419
03-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Harbhajan Singh thinks Indians don't need Covid vaccine; check out Twitterati's advice to him||Harbhajan Singh on Thursday took to the microblogging website to question whether Indians 'seriously' needed the COVID-19 vaccine considering India's recovery rate without the vaccine is 93.6 per cent.The former India spinner even shared data of Pfizer and biotech vaccine's accuracy is being claimed at 94 per cent, while Moderna's and Oxford's accuracy rate is at 94.5 per cent and 90 per cent, respectively.PFIZER AND BIOTECH Vaccine:Accuracy *94%Moderna Vaccine: Accuracy *94.5%Oxford Vaccine: Accuracy *90%Indian Recovery rate (Without Vaccine): 93.6%Do we seriously need vaccine 🤔🤔  However, netizens are not buying into Singh's argument.Twitterati is schooling the former cricketer for this logic, and advising him to not 'post such tweets'.Here's what they are saying: 93.6% recovery means 6.4% die. 95% vaccine accuracy means there is 95% chance you won’t be in that 6.4%.Also, recovery comes side-effects physically & mentally & seeing this tweet, I can say people like you need the vaccine most as you can’t afford to lose any more brain cells.  Do not post such stupid tweets.. 🤦‍♂️🤦‍♂️If there was a 5% chance that the plane will crash, will u board it?A recovery rate of 93.6% means 6.4% will get serious/die.Now calculate the 6.4% of 1.4 billion population!! DO THE MATH!Learn SCIENCE before tweeting@harbhajan_singh  When Indian batsman can chase 350 runs in an ODI match then why do we need specialist bowlers, even part time bowlers will doWhen a spinner is bowling at slow speed why do we need pads for the legs, our bones are strong enough to sustain#BhajjieLogic 🤷🏻‍♂️https://t.co/pTizpV3tgS  Harbhajan bhai thodi der mein pic.twitter.com/4ViUPV6bPe  People :- from where you got this brilliant research ?Le Bhajji :- pic.twitter.com/NrHQl3TpNS  If everyone in indian cricket team has a MoM award, then India should win all matches.It doesn't happen that way, bhai. Statistics can be misleading and can help make a fool of ourselves.  100-93.6 = 6.4%. (6.4% of Indian population is at risk of death due to Corona).The vaccine will help save 94.5% out of this 6.4% as well. In a country of a billion+ people, that is a huge number. It is a difference between 88,618,262 people dying vs 4,874,004 people dying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harbhajan-singh-thinks-indians-dont-need-covid-vaccine-check-out-twitteratis-advice-to-him-179414
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhdev Dhindsa return Padma awards in protest against farm laws||Former Union Minister and five-time Chief Minister of Punjab Parkash Badal on Thursday returned the Padam Vibhushan award in protest against "the betrayal of the farmers by the Government of India."In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Badal said he was returning the award due to "the shocking indifference and contempt with which the government was treating the ongoing peaceful and democratic agitation of the farmers against the three farm Acts".Incidentally, SAD (Democratic) chief and rebel Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has also announced that he would be returning his Padma Bhushan award.Dhindsa was presented the Padma Bhushan—third highest civilian award —by President Kovind last year for his contribution in the field of public affairs.Welcoming the decision of the Akali stalwart, Congress leader Sunil Jakhar said it was the outcome of the growing public pressure and mass movement against the farm bills.“The BJP leadership should be gracious enough to respect the larger sentiments and call up the Akali stalwart to find a way forward in solving the farmers' agitation”.He also welcomed the announcement by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to return the Padma Bhushan.The full text of Parkash Singh Badal's letter:Honourable Rashtarpati ji,I write this letter to return the Padam Vibhushan award in protest against the betrayal of the farmers by the Government of India and against the shocking indifference and contempt with which the Govt is treating the ongoing peaceful and democratic agitation of the farmers against the Farm Acts.When the Government of India had brought the Ordnances, assurances were given that the farmers’ apprehensions on these Ordinances would be addressed to their satisfaction while bringing the relevant Bills and subsequently the Acts. Trusting these assurances, I even appealed to the farmers to believe the Government’s word. But I was shocked when the Government simply went back on its word.That was the most painful and embarrassing moment in my long political career. I just cannot put in words the emotional stress which I have been going through since then. I have truly begun to wonder why has the Government of the country become so heartless, so cynical and so ungrateful towards the farmers.While writing this letter to you, I am conscious that I address myself to a President who presides over the destiny of a population 70% of whom are farmers. For over 70 years, these farmers have been serving the country as its “Annadata” with the most selfless and self effacing humility.I hardly need repeat that the country owes a huge and almost irrepayable debt to them. When the country faced hunger and humiliation in the sixties, having to beg for food in world capitals, the Government turned to the farmers to pull it out of starvation. The farmer responded so heartily that in a matter of three years, he turned the country from a food-begging to a food exporting country.The tide was turned principally by Punjab with Green Revolution. But in the process, he sacrificed the only two natural assets he had: soil fertility and water.Today however, the same farmer finds himself forced to wage bitter struggles just to secure his fundamental right to live . The three Acts fell as bolts from the blue on the already beleaguered peasantry of the country.Now, the spectacle of hundreds of thousands of farmers crying out for justice in one voice in the national capital would have moved any other nation or its government. Tragically, no such sensitivity towards the farmers’ pain and anger is visible here. I am sure that as the first Citizen of our great country and a conscientious public figure, you would be fully aware and perhaps as deeply concerned about these developments as I have been.Even before these Acts were passed, the poor farmers had already been in the grip of sever crisis throughout the country. Agriculture was never a lucrative profession in our country as the costs of agricultural inputs had been rising steeply with while there has been just meager hike or no hike on the prices of agricultural produce. But in recent years, the crisis deepened with farmers unable to meet the rising costs of inputs and were driven to draw unbearable loans just to be able to keep feeding their families. When farm friendly parties like the Shiromani Akali Dal pleaded for debt relief to farmers in overall national interest, they were mocked. It was cynically suggested that farmers take loans just for ostentatious lifestyle. This cruel cynicism and malice against the farmers did not stop even when thousands of farmers in this country were and are being driven to take their own lives in a phenomenon called farmer suicides.Isn’t it amazing and unjust that lakhs of crores of corporate loans are waived off with just a single thoughtless stroke of the governmental pen. But no one has ever thought of even subsiding the farm debts, forget a complete waiver. Instead, the country chose to let its Annadata die.Against this background, the Black Laws now implemented by the Govt have come as the proverbial last nail in the coffin of the country’s annadata. The farmers are out on the streets battling police batons, tear gas shells and water cannons even as their sources of livelihood dry up. They have come to the national Capital from all over the country, leaving their fields, crops and even their families and travelled long distances – thousands of kilometers in some cases – to get the attention of their own government. They have shown incredible and unprecedented restraint, maturity and responsibility in keeping their protests totally peaceful and democratic. But conspiracies and vicious propaganda are unleashed to paint this peaceful struggle as anti-national.Throughout my life, I have been engaged in a long and often painful struggles at the head of my party Shiromani Akali Dal seeking greater autonomy to states under a genuinely federal structure in the country as I believed that the states should have the resources to look after their people – in Punjab’s case, predominantly the farmers. During the course of these struggles I have spent long years in jails – probably the longest ever by any political figure in free India.All this while, farmers and the Panthic ideal of Sarbat da Bhala , which every farmer lives by, have defined my life, both personal and public. Farmers have been almost a second religious passion for me.Everything I have, everything I take pride in every moment of glory or every office of public service that has been bestowed on me during my long public life has been purely because of my commitment to these ideals in which farmers have remained at the center of everything.Thus, when the country honoured me with the enviable honour of Padam Vibhushan, I knew that it was only in acknowledgement of my commitment to the people of Punjab in which the farmers featured most prominently. I owe it to them.But today, when even the survival of the farmers - because of whom I am who I am - has lost more than his honour, I see no point in holding on to the Padma Vibhushan honour.Accordingly, I have decided to return this honour in protest against the government’s betrayal of the farmers on the three Acts in question.The farmers of my state and country are out on the streets agitating against these Acts in this cold winter far away from their homes.And I feel so poor that at this stage of my life, I do not have much else to sacrifice to express solidarity with the farmers’ cause.As one who has spent close to a century amidst the people, especially the farmers of my country, I would request you still to use your good offices with the government and get it to listen to the farmers with love, compassion, understanding and , above all, with respect that they fully deserve. The Acts should be withdrawn or annulled and farmers others demands be seriously discussed with them.This is perhaps the hour for the country to repay the debt it owes to its farmers.I am deeply pained also by the communal insinuations being thrown at the peacefully and democratically protesting farmers. I can assure you that they have secular ethos running in their blood and are the best guarantee for safeguarding the country’s secular, democratic values and character which face serious challenges from some other quarters.As an optimist, I like to hope that you will win the confidence of these farmers as well as strengthen the secular democratic fabric of our great country.Thanks and high regardsYours sincerely,(PARKASH SINGH BADAL)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parkash-singh-badal-sukhdev-dhindsa-return-padma-awards-in-protest-against-farm-laws-179404
03-12-2020||Vibha Sharma||Farmers' agitation: No breakthrough, next round of talks on Dec 5||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 3To say that Thursday’s meeting was a complete washout will be incorrect. There appeared to be some movement forward even though the deadlock remains.The BJP-led Centre appeared to soften stance, agreeing to some amendments and also conceding to some points raised by farmers’ leaders.Though farmer leaders, who remained firm on their stated stance of repealing the five contentious laws – the three farm Acts, Air Ordinance and power legislation – said they would decide whether to attend the next meeting on December 5 after consultations on Friday.Also read: Farmers refuse to have ‘sarkari khana’, want surety on MSP, withdrawal of agri Acts“We will decide tomorrow whether or not to attend the meeting on December 5,” farmer leader Jagmohan Singh told The Tribune. Farmers, who refused to even have “sarkari khana and chai” during the marathon seven-hour plus meeting at the Vigyan Bhawan, are also demanding guaranteed MSP for all the 23 crops across the country.Also read: Amarinder appeals to farmers to resolve crisis saying agitation is affecting Punjab economyAfter the meeting, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the fourth round of talks concluded in a "very positive atmosphere", adding that there was "no ego involved" and the government had agreed to "discuss and consider with an open mind" all major points of concern of farmers about the three new laws.The Centre is also open to have a discussion on strengthening the APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee) 'mandi' system, tax parity with proposed private mandis and freedom for farmers to approach higher courts for any dispute resolution.Also read: Farmers’ protest: Key routes connecting UP-Delhi closed"We have always said we are with farmers. We will hold discussions on how to make the APMC stronger...farmers’ concerns over the SDM courts will also be addressed...We are also ready to discuss Air Ordinance and Power Act," said Tomar.The minister also reiterated that there would be no tinkering with the MSP. Regarding the demand that the Acts be taken back, Tomar just said that decision would be in "favour of farmers". Also read: Accepting anything less than complete repeal of new farm laws would be betrayal with India: Rahul Farmer unions said the government made some offer, which they would now discuss. “They want amendments but we want the Acts repealed. Besides, they have only given assurance (on amendments),” said Madhya Pradesh farmer leader Shiv Kumar ‘Kakkaji’.Kavitha Kuruganti of Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch said unions rejected the government’s proposal of amending the three Acts.Also read: Farmers block Jaipur-Delhi highway to demand withdrawal of farm laws“The government gave some proposals, they are willing to equalise the market in terms of fees, registration requirements, etc., and re-consider the SDM court mechanism in place of regular civil court. There was dialogue on each and every provision in the Bills, their Constitutionality. However, it is not clear what the government wants as they had put on the table only amendments. We will discuss the points at the meeting tomorrow,” said Kavitha Kuruganti. Also read: As Shah meets Amarinder, govt contemplating new offer to farmers?BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh also rejected any discussion about concessions like temporary postponement of implementation of farm laws.“We want these five laws to be repealed with immediate effect and nothing less than that is acceptable…we are not going to leave the protest site whatever tactics the government uses,” he said.And like in the last meeting, farmer unions refused to have “sarkari khana or chai” in Vigyan Bhawan and had the langar brought from the protest site. Normally during official meetings at Vigyan Bhawan, tea, snacks, lunch, etc., are served to participants.Union Ministers Piyush Goyal and Som Praksah were also present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-no-breakthrough-next-round-of-talks-on-dec-5-179402
03-12-2020||---||Capt announces Rs 5 lakh each for 2 farmers who died during stir||Chandigarh, December 3Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday expressed grief over the death of two farmers, Gurjant Singh and Gurbachan Singh, who were participating in the ongoing protests against the farm laws.The Chief Minister has announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the farmers, hailing from Mansa and Moga districts, respectively.Extending his condolences to the bereaved families, the Chief Minister prayed to the Almighty to give them courage to bear the irreparable loss and grant peace to the departed souls.Gurjant Singh of Bachhoana village in Mansa died in Delhi during the agitation against the farm laws while Gurbachan Singh (80) of Bhinder Khurd village in Moga district died of a heart attack during a protest in Moga on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-announces-rs-5-lakh-each-for-2-farmers-who-died-during-stir-179395
03-12-2020||Aditi Tandon||Amarinder appeals to farmers to resolve crisis saying agitation is affecting Punjab economy||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 3Reiterating Punjab’s position seeking early resolution of the farm laws’ deadlock, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Centre to rethink its stand on the legislations while appealing to farmers to find an early solution to the problem that was adversely impacting the state’s economy and also posed a serious danger to national security, a press release by the Punjab government read.In an important message to farmers after meeting Home Minister Amit Shah, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said the prolonged protests were impacting national security and Punjab economy and must be resolved soon.“My appeal to farmers is that they just urgently find a solution to this problem. It is impacting national security and Punjab’s economy,” he said.The problem needed to be solved quickly, the Chief Minister stressed during a crucial meeting here with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, whom he urged to ensure that the Government of India addressed the concerns of farmers.Singh had a frank meeting with Shah and said he had urged the Centre to find a solution to the ongoing agitation.“The two sides should not take rigid positions and a meeting ground must be found,” said the Chief Minister.Amit Shah and Amarinder Singh met at the former’s residence.The Chief Minister told mediapersons during a brief interaction after his meeting with Shah that while he and his government were not involved in the mediation in any way, and the matter had to be resolved between the Centre and the farmers, an early resolution was vital in the interest of both Punjab and the country, the press release further read.Stressing the need to protect the MSP and continue with the APMC-based mandi system, the Chief Minister urged Shah to listen to farmers with an open mind to resolve the standoff quickly so that farmers from Punjab and other states could return to their homes.“A solution has to be found at the earliest,” he said, adding: “He had come to meet the Union Home Minister to reiterate Punjab’s stand on the imbroglio between farmers and the Central Government, as well as the need to secure the future of the farming community and agriculture.”The Chief Minister had earlier warned that Pakistan and China were fishing in troubled waters over the ongoing farmers’ agitation over agriculture reform bills. He had earlier said that Pakistan had been sending drones into India.A day before, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu said on record that certain Khalistani elements had penetrated the protests and Amit Shah should take control as the agitation had gone out of hand.Asked what his position on farm laws is, Amarinder said: “That is between the Centre and the farmers. I only came here to tell the Home Minister to find a quick solution in the interest of India’s security and Punjab’s economic well-being.”The Chief Minister did not take a position on what the Centre should do about farm laws despite Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeting before Capt’s meeting with Shah that anything less than the repeal of black laws would be a betrayal of farmers interests.In an important cue to the Chief Minister ahead of the meeting, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said: “Anything less than the repeal of black farm laws would be a betrayal of the farmers of India.”Capt Amarinder may also be part of the deliberations the Centre has with farmers.The Chief Minister had earlier warned the Centre of the agitation and sought a status quo with respect to Punjab, where he said the ‘arhtiya’ system was part of the social fabric of the agriculture dominated landscape.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-appeals-to-farmers-to-resolve-crisis-saying-agitation-is-affecting-punjab-economy-179392
03-12-2020||New Delhi||Some roads to Delhi closed as farmers to hold talks with Centre||Hours before the scheduled talks between the agitating farmer leaders and the Centre on Thursday, the Delhi Traffic Police shut down the NH-9 and NH-24 from Ghaziabad to Delhi to stop any more farmers joining the agitation and entering the national capital.Chilla Border one carriageway from Delhi to Noida was opened for traffic yesterday, however, the other carriageway from Noida to Delhi will continue to remain closed, the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.Small borders like Auchandi and Lampur connecting Delhi and Haryana have also been sealed.The Delhi Traffic Police have advised commuters to take alternate routes. "Singhu border is still closed from both sides. Lampur, Auchandi & other small borders also closed. Please take alternate routes. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK Road," Delhi Traffic Police tweeted on Thursday. The traffic police also advised motorists to avoid the Outer Ring Road from Signature Bridge to Rohini and vice versa, GTK road, NH-44 and Singhu, Auchandi and Lampur borders. Tikri border, Jharoda border, Jhatikra border are also closed for any traffic movement while Badusarai border is open only for two wheeler traffic. "The available Open borders to Haryana are Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders," said a senior traffic police officer. The G.T. Road was also closed from both sides in Swaroop Nagar by Delhi Police as a precautionary measure.The Delhi Police also closed the NH-1 road from both sides to avoid the protesters build up in the capital which has also resulted in traffic snarls for those caught unaware.Traffic was, however, open on Kalindi Kunj road and DND connecting Delhi and Noida for commuters. Congestion in traffic was reported from these two stretches though.As the protest entered its eighth day and with inputs that more farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh can move to the capital, the security has been beefed up at Singhu border, Tikri border, Gazipur and Chilla borders where the farmers have been protesting against the farm laws.Paramilitary forces along with the Delhi Police is keeping a constant check on the agitation. Heavy barricades have already been placed at the protest sites.  Talks between the Centre and farmers demanding a rollback of the three recent farm sector legislations, ended inconclusively over the past few days with a new round about to take off at the Vigyan Bhawan.  IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/some-roads-to-delhi-closed-as-farmers-to-hold-talks-with-centre-179386
03-12-2020||Satya Prakash||Supreme Court grants anticipatory bail to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini in murder case||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 3The Supreme Court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case, “considering the fact that the impugned FIR has been lodged by the brother of the deceased after a period of almost 29 years from the date of incident.”“We are of the opinion that the appellant (Saini) has made out a case for anticipatory bail,” said a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan which had on September 15 granted him interim protection from arrest.It also took note of the fact that the offence of murder under Section 302 IPC was added subsequently to the case on the basis of the statements of Jagir Singh and Kuldip Singh who turned approvers in the case.The top court, however, asked Saini to surrender his passport, co-operate with the investigation. If arrested, the former Punjab DGP would be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh with two sureties in the like amount, it said.Multani—a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation—was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack.Saini’s troubles started in May when he was booked at a police station in Mohali along with six others for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. Murder charge was added in August after two of the accused policemen spilled the beans.The Bench had reserved its verdict on November 17 after hearing arguments from senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi for Saini and senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, representing Punjab Government.Even during the hearing the Bench had questioned the need for custody of the accused after 30 years of the crime observed that it was prima facie inclined to grant anticipatory bail.The Punjab government had opposed Saini’s plea. Granting anticipatory bail to the accused at this stage would hamper the probe, Luthra had argued.Saini had moved the top court after the Punjab and Haryana High Court on September 7 dismissed his anticipatory bail plea.Saini had alleged that the Punjab government was after him because he had filed two chargesheets in which Chief Minister Capt Amarinder was an accused.In a separate petition, Saini has also challenged a Punjab and Haryana High Court order dismissing his plea for quashing of the FIR in the case.He is also facing trial in a Special CBI Court in Delhi along with three others for alleged abduction and disappearance of automobile businessman Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver Mukhtiyar Singh in 1994.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-saini-in-murder-case-179378
03-12-2020||---||As Shah meets Amarinder, govt contemplating new offer to farmers?||New Delhi, December 3As Home Minister Amit Shah met Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh here on Thursday afternoon, speculation is rife that the government is contemplating a new offer to farmers.It may include holding back the three Acts for a couple of months during which a committee, in which CMs and farmer representatives may be included, will hold talks.In the meeting ahead of farmers’ dialogue with Union ministers, Singh and Shah were expected to hold deliberations to work out an amicable solution to the problem.Also read: Appeal to farmers to resolve crisis, agitation impacting national security, Punjab economy: Amarinder 'Khalistani elements' hijacking farmers’ agitation, Amit Shah must act fast: Ravneet BittuDelhi police suggest alternative routes as farmers protest enters 8th dayPunjabi singers enliven atmosphere at farmers' protest in Haryana's BahadurgarhFarmers' sit-in at Noida-Delhi border continues; key route to Delhi closed for vehiclesFarmers protest: Heavy security cover at Delhi borders, traffic snarls reportedMeanwhile, regarding their meeting with the Union ministers, farmer leaders say they are concerned only with the Centre. It is not about any political party or the Punjab CM, it is about farmers of the entire country, and not just Punjab, they add.Sources say the government wants to resolve the issue as soon as possible.With farmers deciding to intensify the agitation, ahrtias, who are under constant attack from the Centre, have also decided to increase their participation in the agitation against the farm laws.Ahrtia Association president Ravinder Singh Cheema said an emergency meeting of the state body had decided that 100 buses of farmers, ahrtiyas and labourers would be brought to Delhi in the coming week. Every mandi president has been instructed to make arrangements to supply the buses.Earlier, it was decided that rations will be provided but with Haryana farmers and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee pitching in, the supply of food items from Punjab has been stopped.Apparently the government is also considering linking MSP to acreage. Farmers with smaller landholdings may be treated differently and there may also be some change in dispute redressal.Sources say the government is intent on a breakthrough on Thursday and Amit Shah may also join the meeting at some point.It remains to be seen whether farmers are ready to accept a somewhat softer approach by the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-shah-meets-amarinder-govt-contemplating-new-offer-to-farmers-179360
03-12-2020||Sunny Deol has tested positive for coronavirus and is currently in self-quarantine. The actor took to Twitter and shared the news with fans on Wednesday morning. He requested everyone who is in close quarantine with him to get self-tested. Fans have quickly sent him messages and prayers for a speedy recovery.||Sunny Deol tests Covid-19 positive||Later, a statement was issued by his team which read, “Sunny Deol got tested himself for Covid-19 yesterday (December 1) in Manali before coming back to Mumbai. He has tested positive but is asymptomatic and feeling absolutely alright. He would be under home quarantine in Manali till he recovers completely. He is following all the instructions given by the authorities and taking necessary precautions. He had gone to Manali a few days back to recoup from a shoulder surgery that took place last month.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunny-deol-tests-covid-19-positive-179330
03-12-2020||Kullu||Sunny Deol on Manali visit, tests +ve||Bollywood actor and BJP MP from Gurdaspur Sunny Deol tested positive for Covid-19 in Manali on Tuesday. The 64-year-old actor had undergone a shoulder surgery in Mumbai and was recuperating at his rented cottage at Dashal village near Manali.Dr Ranjit Thakur, Block Medical Officer, Naggar, said the sample of the actor was taken along with those if his three associates on Tuesday. While two samples were found positive, the other two were found to be inconclusive in reports, he added.Sunny got himself tested for Covid before going back to Mumbai. He had come to Manali along with his family with Corona-negative reports. His family returned earlier while he was to return today. The actor wrote on his Facebook page that he is healthy and has isolated himself in the cottage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunny-deol-on-manali-visit-tests-ve-179210
03-12-2020||Sameer Singh||Twitter campaign  to drum up support||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 2To mobilise support for farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws, an online campaign — Tractor2twitr — is exhorting farmers to create maximum accounts on the microblogging and social networking website to raise awareness and seek support for the agitation at the domestic and international levels.The online campaign was originally started by an engineer from Jartuali village in Ludhiana district around three days ago. It has garnered massive support in India and overseas. Its Twitter handle is trending on the top of the microblogging website.Bhavjit Singh (38), brainchild of the online campaign who himself comes from a family of farmers said, “A Jat or a farmer in Punjab is not so tech-savvy while standing for or against any government policy. He can start a movement at the ground-level, but the lack of presence on digital platform often fails to build momentum for such campaign. So I decided to do my bit and started a campaign that can garner support for the farmers’ agitation.”Gurlabh Singh Mahal, president of Sanvidhan Bachao Manch, said, “Our members and other farm organisations have been conducting door-to-door activity as well as exhorting people online. We believe that even if we manage create 25,000 accounts as part of the campaign, it will leverage unprecedented support for our cause.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/twitter-campaign-to-drum-up-support-179213
03-12-2020||---||Mansa protester dies at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border||Jhajjar, December 2Another farmer from Punjab died during the agitation at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Gurjant Singh (72) of Bachaona village in Mansa district. His was the third death at the border during the agitation.Sources say Gurjant was taken to the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh on Tuesday after he complained of pain in the abdomen. As his condition was critical, doctors referred him to the PGIMS, Rohtak.The farmer was admitted to the PGIMS at night. He died on Wednesday when his family was bringing him back to Bahadurgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-protester-dies-at-tikri-bahadurgarh-border-179041
03-12-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Bowing to private players, govt restores old urea distribution ratio||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2Succumbing to the pressure of private fertiliser traders, the Punjab Government has rolled back its orders to allocate 80 per cent urea to cooperative societies.The government has now issued fresh orders, stating that “Since the normalisation of supplies of urea, the original ratio of distribution between the private and cooperative sector be restored.”The original orders, a copy of which is with The Tribune, were issued in September, just before the farmer agitation gathered steam. The orders clearly specify that 80 per cent of the urea that arrives in the state will have to be allocated to the 3,500 odd cooperative societies for sale to farmers. However, after rail services were resumed last week, the new orders were issued by the Chief Minister, who also heads the Agriculture Department, on November 28, reversing the earlier orders. Though the ratio of distribution is not specified, the precedence is to distribute maximum urea through private traders.At a time when farmers have faced urea shortage throughout last month because of the ‘rail roko’ stir, the orders weighing heavily in favour of private traders have raised many eyebrows.The orders do not augur well for farmers as the private traders not only sell the urea at higher rates but also saddle the farmers with sulphur, wheat seeds and other slow selling agro chemicals as a precondition to selling urea. Farmers can also get urea on loan from societies, unlike private distributers. The manufacturers, too, prefer private traders as retail partners rather than the cooperative societies as their profit margins are better.It may be noted that about 13.50 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of urea is required in the Rabi season for 35 lakh hectares under wheat and 6 lakh hectares under other crops, like oil seeds, potato, maize etc.Punjab Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the orders to restore the original ratio for distribution of urea were issued by the Agriculture Department. “But I have had detailed meetings and issued orders today that 70 per cent of the urea will have to be distributed through cooperative societies only to assuage fears that the private traders could hoard the urea and create artificial shortages to maximise profits,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bowing-to-private-players-govt-restores-old-urea-distribution-ratio-179152
03-12-2020||ibune News Service||Hotelier’s son kidnapped, rescued||Ludhiana, December 2The Ludhiana Police Commissionerate, led by Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal, today cracked the kidnapping case of a two-and-half-year-old child in less than 20 hours and arrested one of the accused.The victim, identified as Vinamr, is son of Pankaj Gupta, owner of Keys Hotel, Pakhowal road. The arrested accused has been identified as Rashpal Singh, a resident of Moga. The other three accused, including the kingpin, who is the driver of the hotelier, identified as Harjinderpal Singh of Fazilka, and his two accomplices, identified as Lal Singh of Zira and Sukhdev Singh of Fazilka, are absconding.The police have also recovered two cars, a Maruti Swift Dzire (of the hotelier) and Volkswagen Polo, .32 bore revolver, single barrel gun, .12 bore double barrel gun, air pistol, besides a huge amount of ammunition from Rashpal Singh.The CP said during a press conference today, Gupta, a resident of SBS Nagar, lodged a complaint that his son, who had gone for a ride with his driver Harinderpal Singh in his white Maruti Swift Dzire had been kidnapped. His wife got a call on her mobile phone. The caller told her that her son had been kidnapped, and demanded Rs 4 crore for his release, failing which he threatened to kill the child.Harinderpal had been working as a driver with the hotelier for the past three years.Agrawal said the kidnapper forbade the parents from informing the police. The police immediately brought the matter into the notice of Dinkar Gupta, DGP, Punjab, and started the search operation.The DGP asked Ishwar Singh, ADGP, Law & Orders, Punjab, to put up a naka throughout Punjab and all districts were put on high alert, while RN Dhoke, ADGP, Internal Security, Punjab, personally supervised the operation.The Police Commissioner said during the investigation it came to light that the driver, along with three accomplices, had conspired the kidnapping of the child. In 2010, Harinderpal was also involved in a kidnapping-cum-murder case of a child in Fazilka.“Moga was traced as the driver’s last location, so the police had cordoned off the entire city. The child was rescued from Moga in an abandoned Volkswagen Polo near the Dagru railway crossing, while one of the kidnappers was nabbed near the car.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hoteliers-son-kidnapped-rescued-179153
03-12-2020||Amritsar||Revamping publication dept priority: SGPC chief||The ‘disappearance’ of 328 Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’ has compelled Bibi Jagir Kaur, the newly appointed president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), to make the revamping of its publication department a top priority.Accompanied by senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad and the general secretary, Kaur took the first meeting of officials after assuming the charge of the Sikh body. She also met Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and Takht Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh.She said that the officials would now be held accountable for their duties and there would be no tolerance for any lapse.Talking to The Tribune, Kaur termed the ‘saroops’ going missing from the possession of the SGPC a matter of administrative lapse. She said that the functioning of the publication department, that is solely authorised to publish, store and issue the ‘saroops’ from the premises of Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib here, was the need of the hour.The Akal Takht had appointed a probe panel that had submitted a 1,000-page report. The report had indicted 16 persons for misappropriation of the ‘saroops’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revamping-publication-dept-priority-sgpc-chief-179154
03-12-2020||---||Will take first shot of Covid vaccine, says Punjab CM||Chandigarh, December 2With the Covid-19 vaccine in the final stages of operationalisation in India, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder on Wednesday announced that he will take the first shot of the vaccine in Punjab, once it is cleared by the Indian Council of Medical Research.The Chief Minister made this announcement at the virtual Cabinet meeting, during a presentation to discuss the pandemic situation in Punjab and the state’s preparedness to roll out the vaccine.In line with the Government of India strategy for vaccination, Punjab has prioritised healthcare and frontline workers, the elderly population (over 50 years of age), and people with co-morbidities, the meeting was informed.Punjab Health Secretary Hussan Lal said the state had compiled data of 1.25 lakh government and private healthcare workers to be vaccinated in the first phase. Approximately 23 per cent (70 lakh) of the state’s population, estimated at around 3 crore, would be vaccinated in terms of the Centre’s guidelines on vaccine prioritisation, he added.To ensure seamless rollout of the vaccination, the State Steering Committee is coordinating closely with the National Steering Committee, while the State Task Force will work in tandem with the district and block-level task force committees.24 Covid deaths||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-take-first-shot-of-covid-vaccine-says-punjab-cm-179155
03-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Three of family found dead||Three members of a family of the local Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar died under mysterious circumstances today. The deceased have been identified as Geetinder Kaur (35), her mother Pritam Kaur (60) and her daughter Gurnoor Kaur (10).  Geetinder was a Roadways employee, posted at the local depot. Gurnoor was her daughter from her first marriage. They were taken to the local Civil Hospital in a serious condition by Rajbir Singh, Geetinder’s husband. The doctors there referred all of them to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, where they were declared brought dead.  DSP Sucha Singh Bal said the bodies had been sent to the Civil Hospital for postmortem. Poisonous pills were found from one of the deceased's body. The police are waiting for the parents of Geetinder, who were to come from Malout, to initiate further proceeding, he said. Rajbir Singh said it was a case of suicide. The police probe is on. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-of-family-found-dead-179156
03-12-2020||Ferozepur||8 booked for attacking cop||The police have booked eight persons, including three women, for allegedly attacking a Sub-Inspector of the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA). As per details available, SI Pippal Singh from the CIA had received inputs that one Pawan Singh was involved in selling drugs. Following the information, a trap was laid near Hamad village to nab the accused.   Giving the details, the SI said the police nabbed Pawan while he was providing intoxicating tablets to a customer. “When the accused saw the police, he started shouting, following which his accomplices Amrik Singh, Santokh Singh and others reached there and allegedly threatened to kill us. Santokh also tried to damage the police vehicle with his tractor and snatched the bag containing intoxicating tablets,” said the policeman. Later, a case under Sections 307, 353, 332, 225, 186, 148, 149, IPC, was registered against the accused. One Jarnail Singh has been arrestred while others are absconding. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-booked-for-attacking-cop-179158
03-12-2020||Reacting to the farmers’ protest over the Central agriculture laws||Farmers’ MSP demand just, govt must be more sensitive||How do you view the ongoing farmers’ agitation on the Central farm laws?I am concerned. My understanding is that the agriculture laws were passed without much consultation either with farmer organisations or state governments. Agriculture is a state subject.Are the demands of farmers justified?Farmers are justified in asking for the continuation of minimum support price (MSP) and mandis. This system of MSP and mandis has served the country for more than 50 years. Why change the system that has served the farming community and the country well?Farmers from other parts of the country are also taking part in the protest, but why has Punjab become its face?Farmers all over the country are unhappy with the agriculture laws. Since Punjab farmers have taken the lead in articulating their concerns, it has been labelled as Punjab farmers’ agitation. Now farmers from other states have also joined the protest.Has the government responded appropriately?I wish the government could be more sensitive in handling the agitation. Initially, the government ignored the protest, thinking it would peter out by itself. When the protest continued, it invited the farmer representatives to Delhi for discussion. Only the agriculture secretary met farmers and they returned empty handed. This shows that the exercise had not been fair.What’s the way out for both farmers and the Centre?Only solution to the present impasse is the government must listen to farmers and understand their viewpoint and then negotiate sincerely. The Home Minister and the Agriculture Minister should meet the farmer representatives and arrive at a negotiated settlement. A give and take on both sides would be helpful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-msp-demand-just-govt-must-be-more-sensitive-179159
03-12-2020||---||Ludhiana hosiery units struggle to meet demand||Ludhiana, December 2The manufacturers of woolen products in the city are trying hard to meet the demand of buyers from all over the country, but with the early onset of winters the gap between demand and supply is definitely hitting the market this time.There was no production of hosiery products in April, May and June as units were shut due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Moreover, the imports from China and other countries were also stopped. As a result, the production came down to just 50-60 per cent. However, the demand is huge this season, leading to the huge gap in market.Talking to The Tribune, Sudershan Jain from Oner Knitwear said production for winter wear usually started from March-April but it started almost three months late this year. “And with limited capacity, even if we wish, we cannot meet the demand so soon,” he said.The manufacturer said that no winter material came from countries like China this year. Even the “repeat” orders would not be executed well because from next month onwards, sampling for summers would start.Varinder Bharti from Satyam Knitwear said there was a huge demand for woolens but because the manufacturers were not able to come up with full production, the supply was hit.“The China effect is also there. We are executing only those repeat orders for which material is available with us. Seeing the huge demand for hosiery products, even the yarn dealers have increased the prices by up to Rs 20-30 per kg,” Bharti rued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-hosiery-units-struggle-to-meet-demand-179160
03-12-2020||---||Treatment of protesting farmers undemocratic: Former judges||Chandigarh, December 2Making it clear that peaceful protest against a grievance was constitutionally protected right of every citizen, three former judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a joint statement asserting that the treatment meted out to the farmers peacefully moving to Delhi by the Haryana Police was not only undemocratic, but brutal as well.Former Acting Chief Justice, Justice Mehtab Singh Gill, Justice Ranjit Singh and Justice Nawab Singh asserted the indiscriminate use of water cannons in harsh cold winter, batons and other means would put any democratic government to shame. In return, the farmers could be seen offering water and food to the baton-yielding police.Questioning the urgency displayed by the Central government in introducing the farm laws by first issuing the ordinances, the former judges asserted the whole nation was then in lockdown condition and fighting the serious pandemic engulfing the entire world.“Was there any urgency or emergency to take the route through ordinances? We see none. Such law could have waited for consideration in detail during the Parliament session. The government then bulldozed it way through to pass these laws in Parliament. The Bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha in a very questionable manner by voice vote against the demand of division,” the judges asserted.They added it was imperative for the government to take into consideration the concern of the farmers before enacting these laws. Their apprehension that these laws would benefit the corporates could not be easily discounted. As such, the government was required to realise the difficulty of the small and marginal farmers to deal with the big corporates. “Corporates, maybe a few, would benefit. But struggling farmers burdened with unending debts would lose their land and livelihood”, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/treatment-of-protesting-farmers-undemocratic-former-judges-179161
03-12-2020||Kuldip Bhatia||Several trains in Amritsar cancelled, short-terminated||Ludhiana, December 2Several trains would continue to be cancelled, short-terminated and diverted as protesters continue to block railway tracks at Jandiala Guru and a few other places near Amritsar.Northern Railway has said Amritsar-Ajmer Express (on December 2 and 3), Dibrugarh-Amritsar Express Special (on December 3) and Bathinda-Varanasi Express Special (till further notice) will remain cancelled.Trains to short-terminate and short-originate from Ambala Cantt from December 2 to 4 are Amritsar-Korba Chhattisgarh Express, Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Karambhoomi Express; and Amritsar-Jaynagar Humsafar Express.From New Delhi, Chandigarh and Saharanpur, Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express, Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Pashchim Express, Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Humsafar Express, would short-terminate and short-originate from December 2 to 4.Mumbai Central-Amritsar Golden Temple Mail; Amritsar-Jaynagar Saryu Yamuna Express and Amritsar-Jaynagar Shaheed Express were diverted to run via Beas-Tarntaran-Amritsar on December 2. Jammu Tawi-Durg Express would be diverted to run via Ludhiana-Jallandhar Cantt- Pathankot Cantt from December 2 to 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/several-trains-in-amritsar-cancelled-short-terminated-179162
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Will alienate BJP from masses: BKU||With the fourth round of talks between farm unions and the Centre remaining inconclusive, farmers back home have intensified agitation against Punjab BJP leaders. After farmers started preparations for Delhi agitation, the number of protesters outside residences of BJP leaders witnessed a decline. Now,  the number of protesters has started increasing. Sukhdev Singh Kokri, general secretary of BKU (Ugrahan), said the BJP  leadership must understand that people would not forgive them if they did not agree to the demands of farmers. He said if the government does not repeal the three Acts, they would not only intensify the struggle, but would also alienate the saffron party from masses in Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-alienate-bjp-from-masses-bku-179163
03-12-2020||---||Tax exemption for pvt bus operators||Chandigarh, December 2Benefitting nearly 8,000 private bus operators, including those operating buses for educational institutions on state carriage permits, the Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday allowed 100 per cent exemption to them from the Motor Vehicle Tax till December 31, effective from March 23.The Cabinet decision taken due to Covid-19 also included extending an amnesty scheme on deferring payment of arrears of taxes, without interest and penalty, till March 31, 2021. The exemptions would cost the state exchequer about Rs 66.05 crore.JS Grewal, general secretary of the Small Scale District Bus Operators Association, said the decision would benefit bus operators whose earnings had stopped and were being pressurised by political bigwigs to sell their buses. “The buses operated by political bigwigs did not suffer losses compared to the small operators,” he said.The Cabinet also gave ex-post facto approval to the notification dated June 1, 2020, reducing Motor Vehicle Tax of Stage Carriage Buses (Ordinary Buses) from Rs 2.80 to Rs 2.69 (per km, per vehicle, per day). It further gave ex-post facto approval to another notification dated June 2, 2020, by which Motor Vehicle Tax exemption was given to buses of educational institutions, schools and colleges, mini buses, maxi cab and three wheelers from March 23 to May 19, 2020.It may be recalled that during a meeting with the Chief Minister on October 30, the private bus operators, including stage carriage operators and mini bus and school bus operators, had sought extension of the amnesty scheme issued on June 1, 2020, as they could not avail the benefits due to Covid-19. Under the scheme, the transporters were liable to pay tax on their vehicles from June 1 to June 30, 2020, without any interest and penalty.The transporters had also apprised the Chief Minister that fewer people were travelling nowadays due to the pandemic, which led to huge financial losses as their buses were not plying to full capacity. Hence, it was decided in the meeting to grant 100 per cent tax exemption to all types of stage carriage buses and educational institutions (schools and colleges) buses from May 20 to December 31, 2020.Cabinet nod to amity campus at MohaliThe Cabinet gave its approval to the Amity Education Group to establish a university campus on 40 acres in Mohali’s IT city. The Cabinet approved the draft of ‘The Amity University Ordinance 2020’ and authorised the Chief Minister to approve the final draft prepared by the Legal Remembrancer, without placing it again before the Cabinet. An investment of Rs664.32 crore would be made over five years for the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tax-exemption-for-pvt-bus-operators-179164
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 150 cr innovation fund for startups||Punjab will set up Rs 150 crore Punjab Innovation Fund for investment in early-stage startups in the state.  The Council of Ministers today cleared setting up the fund that would have government’s participation up to a maximum of 10 per cent of the corpus, i.e. Rs 15 crore. The fund shall be managed by an asset management company, comprising investors of global repute, and the first chairperson of the mission and the fund would be Clix Capital chairman and Genpact founder Pramod Bhasin. Bhasin told the virtual Cabinet meeting that he would raise the remaining Rs 135 crore investment amount from Punjabi businessmen, investors, diaspora as well as public and private financial institutions. The establishment of ‘Punjab Innovation Mission and Punjab Innovation Fund’ was one of the key recommendations of the Group of Experts to develop a medium-term and long-term post-Covid economic strategy for Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-150-cr-innovation-fund-for-startups-179165
03-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Liquor tragedy probe pending, cops reinstated||The reinstatement of police officials, who were suspended for negligence of duty in the spurious liquor tragedy, has raised eyebrows.  A DSP, two SHOs and four ASIs are among those who have been reinstated.  In the tragedy, about 144 deaths were reported in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts in July. Officials of the police and the Excise Department were also suspended. Sources said  the officers were reinstated though the inquiry was pending. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-tragedy-probe-pending-cops-reinstated-179166
03-12-2020||---||Kejriwal cornered, says Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, December 2In a scathing response to his Delhi counterpart’s attack on him over the farmers’ issue, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday lashed out at Arvind Kejriwal for indulging in “double-speak”.Slamming the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader for undermining the farmers’ fight by notifying one of the Central laws in Delhi, Captain Amarinder trashed Kejriwal’s assertion that states were helpless against the Central laws. He said it was clear that the AAP leader did not even want to try to fight the draconian legislations.“Why else did he not bring any legislation in the state Assembly to at least try and negate some of the ill-effects of the Central laws?” asked Captain Amarinder.Instead of just notifying the Central laws, Kejriwal could have tried to make some effort to counter these and protect the rights of the farmers, said Captain Amarinder, adding that it was evident that he had been now completely cornered on the issue.As for the legality of the state’s amendment Bills, the Chief Minister pointed out that these were valid under the Constitution and had a strong precedent in the Bills that were passed by the Gujarat Government in 2015 under Article 254 (II) of the Constitution to oppose the Centre’s land acquisition laws. In fact, the then President Pranab Mukherjee had cleared those Gujarat Bills, he added.Reacting to Kejriwal’s comment on the Centre being angry with him because his government did not allow Delhi’s stadiums to be used as jails for farmers, Captain Amarinder said the AAP leader was more worried about angering the latter than about the plight of the farmers.The Delhi Government notified the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 on November 23. The state development department is currently examining the remaining two agriculture laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-cornered-says-capt-amarinder-179168
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||SAD flays Delhi CM for notifying new farm laws||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today lashed out at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for “stabbing the beleaguered farmers in the back with implementation of the three anti-farmer acts brought by the BJP government at the Centre.”  “This is not just political dishonesty in the extreme but also an inhuman betrayal of the simple hearted and trusting farmers,” he said.  Stating that Kejriwal’s betrayal had exposed him as well as the Aam Aadmi Party, he said the Delhi Chief Minister should withdraw the notification immediately. “Kejriwal should also announce that the Delhi Government will not implement the three agri laws and will ensure assured government marketing at minimum support price (MSP),” Sukhbir added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-flays-delhi-cm-for-notifying-new-farm-laws-179169
03-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Home-cooked makki di roti, sarson da saag for protesters||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 2After seeing no breakthrough at the meeting yesterday, Punjab farmers have increased the supply of essential commodities to New Delhi to prepare for a long fight. Apart from sugar, flour, ghee, many villages have started sending cooked food items such as ‘makki di roti’ and ‘sarson da saag’ in huge quantities.“We have sent thousands of rotis and many drums of saag today, as the meeting has made us realise that this fight will continue for long. The BJP government will take time to budge,” said Gurpal Kaur, one of the protesters at the toll plaza near Ladda village of the district.Balvir Kaur, another protester, said though their family members, who had gone to New Delhi, already had ration for many months, but they had started sending cooked food to render more help to them.“In winter, cooked food can be preserved for 24 hours without refrigerator. We have decided to send them continuous supply of cooked items, so that they can concentrate on the protest,” she said.Sukhchain Singh, a farmer from the area, said they announced through the village gurdwara public address system that they required milk and other items, and within a short time, residents reached there with all required items.Many tractor-trailers are coming back to Punjab from the New Delhi border, while trailers loaded with milk and cooked food have been leaving for there. After the failed meeting yesterday evening, announcements were made in many villages through the public address system to increase their support to teach the BJP government a lesson.“Many families have increased the contribution of items today after the meeting ended inconclusive. Residents from other areas have also started moving towards New Delhi to support their family members, who are already there,” said Makhan Singh, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/home-cooked-makki-di-roti-sarson-da-saag-for-protesters-179170
03-12-2020||---||Sportspersons to join stir on December 5||Jalandhar, December 2Upset over the treatment being meted out to farmers, nation’s renowned sportspersons from the state, who have won prestigious awards like Padma Shri, have decided to return their awards. They would write to the President that they were coming to Delhi to return the awards.The sportspersons have decided to go to Delhi on December 5 and join the farmers in their protest. Arjuna awardee Sajjan Singh Cheema said more than 100 national and international sportspersons were expected to join them in the agitation. Even young sportspersons from Punjab were showing their support to the cause.Olympian Cheema said around 50 cars would leave from Punjab for the capital. “Until now, the players who have given confirmation to return their awards are Padma Shri Kartar Singh, Olympian hockey players Rajbir Kaur and Gurmel Singh, Arjuna awardee shotput player Balwinder Singh, Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee Premchand Dogra (bodybuilding) and Arjuna awardee weightlifter Tara Singh, besides me,” Cheema said.Kartar Singh said, “I belong to a family of farmers too, so I couldn’t see the pain they have gone through in recent days. The farmers provide food to us and water cannons and teargas is what they get in return?” he asked.The Centre must look into the matter seriously. “I don’t understand why the farmer has to suffer this. They were holding a peaceful protest. What wrong did they do? This has hurt us a lot,” he added.Olympian Rajbir Kaur said: “There are several young players, too, who want to go with us to support the farmers. We are shocked to see the farmers suffering. What will we do with the awards if our farmers are forced to face such torture?” she asked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sportspersons-to-join-stir-on-december-5-179171
03-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Row over Rs 1L donation by Cong MLA to BKU||Fazilka, December 2 A donation of Rs 1 lakh offered by Jalalabad Congress MLA Raminder Singh Awla to Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) has run into controversy. Awla had visited the dharna site at the Mammu Joiya toll plaza on the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway on Tuesday to express his solidarity and support to the striking farmers.  At the dharna site, Awla announced to give Rs 1 lakh and was issued a receipt by the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan). The receipt was even uploaded on the social media.  Awla said he had extended full support to the farmers’ agitation and would continue to do so. He confirmed donating Rs 1 lakh.  When contacted, Gurwinder Singh, president, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), Fazilka unit, who is presently attending the dharna at the Tikri border denied having received any donation. “We won’t accept any donations from any politician,” said Gurwinder Singh. However, he feigned ignorance about the donation receipt.  The BKU president also issued a recorded mobile call he made to the MLA in which Gurwinder Singh and other farmer leaders were heard complaining of uploading of the receipt on social media. However, Awla rejected their allegations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/row-over-rs-1l-donation-by-cong-mla-to-bku-179172
03-12-2020||---||Don’t belittle us, says protester whom actor Kangana mocked||Bathinda, December 2Mohinder Kaur, a resident of Bahadurgarh Jandian village, on Wednesday, lashed out at actor Kangana Ranaut for commenting on her without even knowing her.In conversation with The Tribune, the 73-year-old says: “Kangana kaun hai, kyu mainu badnaam kar rahi hai, main ta kheti-badi kardi haan, main aap khet wich fasal katdi haan (who is Kangana, why is she defaming me… I do farming and harvest crops on my own).“We have 12 acres of land. After my husband (Labh Singh) was diagnosed with asthma, my son, his wife and children and I take care of the fields. I still visit the fields and do the farming. What Kangana has said is undignified,” she says.Mohinder Kaur’s husband Labh Singh says: “We are upset over the remarks made by Kangana. We are not labourers. We eat food by doing hard work, who can give us Rs 100 for joining the protest.” Kangana should take her words back, he adds.In a lighter vein, the woman farmer says she gives Rs 500-600 per quintal to a labourer for picking cotton in her fields, while Kangana can give her Rs 700-800.Mohinder Kaur stresses she is part of Delhi protest as she is a farmer herself, adding she had also participated in the dharnas at petrol pumps and Dabwali interstate border.Jagdev Kaur, her neighbourer, says: “Whatever Kangana said is unacceptable. We will give her Rs 1,000; she should come and sit with us in the protest”.Swaranjit Kaur, another neighbourer of Mohinder Kaur, lashed out at the actor for belittling the farmers’ protest. Sharing a photo of the woman in the farmer’s protest, Kangana had tweeted: “Ha Ha she is the same Dadi who had featured in Time Magazine for being the most powerful woman. And she is available for 100 rupees.” The actor later deleted the tweet after it invited the backlash.Legal notice to actorZirakpur-based advocate Hakam Singh has sent a legal notice to actor Kangana Ranaut for hurting the sentiments, image and repute of an elderly woman, Mohinder Kaur (pic), protesting in Delhi and hurting the sentiments of farmers with her photo recently. He has sought an apology from the actor on social media within a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-belittle-us-says-protester-whom-actor-kangana-mocked-179173
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Impasse will end soon: BJP in charge for Punjab Dushyant Gautum||Newly appointed BJP in charge for Punjab Dushyant Gautum today lashed out at the Congress over the protest against the Central farm laws.Addressing the office-bearers and state leaders at party headquarters, he said the Congress was responsible for the mess in governance. “It’s unfortunate that the Congress is misleading and spreading misinformation against the farm laws,” said Gautam.He expressed his confidence that very soon the issue will be resolved. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has promised that the economic conditions of the agriculture sector will be improved and the duress the agrarian sector was facing since decades will translate into remunerative advantage,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/impasse-will-end-soon-bjp-in-charge-for-punjab-dushyant-gautum-179174
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Stop making wild charges: Delhi CM||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today accused his Punjab counterpart of siding with the Modi government instead of holding hands of the farmers during this distressing time when they were demanding repeal of farm laws. He slammed Captain Amarinder Singh for his wild accusation that the Delhi Government had cleared the passage for implementation of the three laws, which, he said, was nothing but a false propaganda.He said the people of Punjab and the country knew well that the contentious laws brought in by the Centre, which were deemed to be in force after these getting the assent of the President of India.“How can Delhi Government or any other state government, for that matter, can amend the Central laws passed by Parliament?” asked Kejriwal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stop-making-wild-charges-delhi-cm-179176
03-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Ludhiana farmer hit by vehicle in Pipli dies||Mandi Ahmedgarh, December 2A young farmer of Jhammat village in Payal subdivision of Ludhiana district, who had been participating in ‘Delhi Chalo’, died following a road accident at Pipli in Haryana on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.Baljinder Singh Golu (34), only male member of peasant family of Jhammat was taken by the Haryana Police to a private hospital at Pipli where he succumbed to injuries sustained after an unknown speeding vehicle hit the motorcycle he was riding.Declaring him a martyr, village panchayat and NGOs of the region have demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a job for his widow, besides the waiver of institutional and private loans. Pritpa Singh Jhammat, the village sarpanch, said Golu had been active in the “Delhi Chalo” since November and was on way back to meet his family on motorcycle when tha accident occured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-farmer-hit-by-vehicle-in-pipli-dies-179177
03-12-2020||Fazilka||Safai karamchari dies at work||Members of the Safai Sewak Karamchari Union gheraoed the office of the Municipal Council, Jalalabad, today demanding compensation and job for kin of a sanitary worker who died while on job. Sources said Veeru was working with contractors LKK Sehkari Kirat and Sehkari Sabha Limited. Ramesh Kumar, general secretary of state unit of the union, said Veeru was bitten by a poisonous pest on November 30. The family members have demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh from the contractor and a job from the Municipal Council but their demand was allegedly turned down. — OCKahlon declared POMohali: A special CBI court has declared Anoop Singh Kahlon, an accused in the Jagdish Bhola drug case, a proclaimed offender. Sources say Anoop is in jail in South Africa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/safai-karamchari-dies-at-work-179191
03-12-2020||Jhajjar||Farmers plan to seal all Delhi entry points||Agitating farmers camping at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border have chalked out plans to seal all nearby entry points to Delhi.“After talking to local people, we have identified various roads being used by commuters as alternative routes for going to Delhi from Jhajjar, Rohtak and surrounding areas. We plan to block all these routes as and when our committee asks us to do so. We have done our groundwork,” a farmer said.The routes identified by farmers include Bahadurgarh-Jharoda-Najafgarh road, Badli-Dhansa road, Jargadpur chowk-Mundela road, Balor-Kair road, Gubahan-Bakargarh road, Devarkhana-Galibpur road, Badsha-Galibpur road and Luksar-Mundela road.The farmers maintained they were also contemplating getting support of residents of villages concerned so that the strategy could be executed effectively, if the government doesn’t accept their demand. “We are prepared to seal all entry points to Delhi to mount pressure on the Centre, but are waiting for directions from our top leaders in this respect. Till then, we will continue to camp at the border and raise slogans against the Centre,” said Purushottam Singh Gill, a leader of BKU (Lakhowal).Another farmer leader said two more dharna spots had been finalised on the Bahadurgarh bypass to step up the agitation against farm laws.Meanwhile, All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) activists, led by its vice-president Inderjit Singh, took out a march from Bahadurgarh (Sector 9) bypass to Tikri border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-plan-to-seal-all-delhi-entry-points-179047
