13-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 20 more deaths, 627 new cases recorded in Punjab||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 5,077 on Sunday with 20 more fatalities, while 627 new cases took the infection tally to 1,60,200, a medical bulletin issued here said.Five deaths were reported from Mohali, four from Gurdaspur, two each from Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Rupnagar while one each from Pathankot, Sangrur and Faridkot, it said.There are 7,076 active COVID-19 cases in the state currently, as per bulletin.Mohali reported 102 new cases, Ludhiana 89 and Jalandhar 75, among fresh cases recorded in the state.A total of 616 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 1,48,047, the bulletin said.Seventeen critical patients are on ventilator support while 129 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 35,22,061 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-20-more-deaths-627-new-cases-recorded-in-punjab-183850
13-12-2020||New Delhi||IRCTC sends out nearly 2 crore emails in 5 days highlighting Modi’s relationship with Sikhs||IRCTC sent out nearly two crore emails between December 8 and December 12 to its customers listing 13 decisions taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to support the Sikh community, amidst farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three farm laws.Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation, (IRCTC), a railway PSU, emailed to its customers the 47-page booklet—‘PM Modi and his government’s special relationship with Sikh”—as part of the government’s ‘public interest’ outreach to make people aware of the bills and also to squash myths about them, officials said.The booklets are in Hindi, English and Punjabi.The emails, which were discontinued on December 12, were sent to the entire database of IRCTC, where passengers key in their details while booking tickets, the officials said.The PSU denied reports that the emails had been sent to only members of the Sikh community. “The mails have been sent to all, irrespective of any particular community. This is not the first instance. Earlier also such activities have been undertaken by IRCTC to promote government welfare schemes in public interest,” an official statement from IRCTC said.“IRCTC sent out 1.9 crore emails in five days till October 12,” a source in the national transporter said.Officials also said that the move to send out the emails was a conscious choice as part of a communication strategy for public interest.“Which professional company or corporate doesn’t analyse the demographic profile of the audience where the communication is to be delivered to? Why are some surprised if a government organisation is able to do as much or even better than what the corporates do day in and day out? One should be happy that the government of the day is as good in disseminating information in public interest,” said an official.The booklet speaks of the justice given to the 1984 riot victims, FCRA registration granted to Sri Harmandir Sahib, Jallianwala Bagh Memorial, no taxes on langar, the Kartarpur corridor among other things under 13 heads.The booklet was released by Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Hardeep Singh Puri on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti on December 1.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws.The Centre’s offer to amend the contentious laws has failed to cut ice with the protesting farmers who have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the legislations. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/irctc-sends-out-nearly-2-crore-emails-in-5-days-highlighting-modis-relationship-with-sikhs-183832
13-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Are you joking?' reacts Navjot Singh Sidhu in video message on farmers' income||Cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday slammed the NDA government, in a video message, 'for no resolution in the ongoing farmers' protest'.Sharing a 2-minute clip on the microblogging website, Sidhu wrote: "Farmers are not seeking loan waiver nor subsidy, they are fighting for rightful Income and fair prices. Instead of fully implementing Swaminathan’s C2 Formula, govt is taking away their assured income. They promised to double farmers' income but gave 6000 Rs (500 Per Month) lollipop."In the clip, Sidhu said: "The MSP for farmers has increased by 19 %, what's their mistake," adding "Are you joking by giving farmers Rs. 6,000.""You will give Rs 450 a month to a farmer? He (farmer) should get Rs 1,000 a day."Watch video:Farmers are not seeking loan waiver nor subsidy, they are fighting for rightful Income & fair prices. Instead of fully implementing Swaminathan’s C2 Formula, Govt is taking away there assured income. They promised to double farmers income but gave 6000 Rs (500 Per Month) lollipop pic.twitter.com/IkYhsahlMb||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/are-you-joking-reacts-navjot-singh-sidhu-in-video-message-on-farmers-income-183792
13-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Pyar ka andolan': Punjabi actor Gippy Grewal shares video to counter 'luxury at farmers' protest site' jibe||After Diljit Dosanjh and Ammy Virk, Punjabi singer-actor Gippy Grewal joined the farmers' protest in Delhi. On Thursday, the singer and actor shared an IGTV clip on his verified Instagram account.  Along with the clip, he wrote: "Delhi Farmer protest live".In the first half of the clip, Gippy was seen having a conversation with a Khalsa Aid volunteer over the backlash received on social media regarding the "luxury" being provided to the farmers.The volunteer revealed, that several men have brought a gym from the village. Kabaddi players have brought washing machines, and that the Khalsa aid organisation has installed leg massage machines. Despite this, geysers and shelter homes have also been provided.A post shared by Gippy Grewal (@gippygrewal)  To this, the volunteer said in Punjabi: "Several are questioning why luxury is being provided to farmers, but they don't understand the history of our luxurious hearts"."Khalsa Aid men have gone on many missions, had several 2-day langars, we find bright faces and people in high spirits. It doesn't appear like a protest site", the volunteer added, that "not only Khalsa Aid, but everyone is doing his best to contribute. Some are making tea with desi ghee and distributing pinnis. This is a protest of love. With love, we can win the battle( pyaar ka andolan)".Gippy concludes the conversation by thanking the Khalsa Aid volunteer for their service.In the second half of the clip, Gippy also introduced a reporter, who has been working around the clock. At the end, Gippy says, "this is a peaceful protest".Gippy arrived from Canada on Sunday morning to attend the farmers' protests. WaheGuru Mehar Kare 🙏 pic.twitter.com/zqHhcKsg46||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pyar-ka-andolan-punjabi-actor-gippy-grewal-shares-video-to-counter-luxury-at-farmers-protest-site-jibe-183784
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Fog engulfs Punjab, Haryana||A thick blanket of fog enveloped Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on Sunday, the Meteorological Department said.Fog was dense in the morning at many places, including Amritsar, Ludhiana, Bathinda, Pathankot and Bhiwani. The night temperatures hovered close to normal at most places, the officials said.Chandigarh recorded a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 11.1 degrees Celsius, Karnal registered 10.5 degrees, while Rohtak’s minimum settled at 11.6 degrees.However, Bhiwani and Narnaul experienced a cold night, recording respective minimums of 6.7 degrees and 7.3 degrees.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a low of 8.3 degrees, followed by 10.5 degrees in Ludhiana, 11.3 degrees in Patiala and 8.6 degrees in Bathinda. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fog-engulfs-punjab-haryana-183767
13-12-2020||New Delhi||Homemaker, farmworker and now protester, hundreds of women join farmers' agitation||They have long juggled the demands of field and family, making sure both are tended to, and now hundreds of women from Haryana and Punjab have added another dimension to their busy lives – the protest grounds at the various gateways into Delhi.As their husbands, sons and brothers leave home to demand a rollback of the Centre's new agri laws, many women are joining them too, making the trip from the village towards the national capital even if for only a few days at a time. For these women, who describe themselves as homemakers, farmworkers and protesters all rolled into one, any suggestion that farmers are about being alpha males because it requires physical labour is met with scorn.  "The profession of farming is not defined by gender. Our fields don't produce crops differently if tended by women and men. Many male farmers are here protesting. Why should we sit at home?" asked 53-year-old Mandeep Kaur, a farmer from Ludhiana who refuses to be stereotyped into any one role.Mandeep took a bus to the Singhu border, a major protest site of the farmers' agitation that has been going for more than two weeks, spent a night and returned home. “But I will be back,” she said. “We have to look after both our homes as well as our fight. I watered the fields before I came here. It will sustain the land until I return home.” While the men have been camping at the Tikri and Singhu border, the main access point into the city from Punjab, many of the women have been travelling back and forth, balancing the jobs of taking care of their homes and fields and also participating in the agitation.Mandeep's companion on the five-hour bus ride from Ludhiana to Singhu was her neighbour Sukhwinder Kaur.  The 68-year-old widow said she was tired of sitting at home while the men in her family were out protesting, and decided she needed to come down, even if it was for a short visit."I wasn't being able to sleep at night properly. I couldn't sit back at home while my brother and nephew, and all our farmer brothers, are fighting here. I had my first good night of sleep after I came here,” Sukhwinder added. It wasn't the epitome of comfort and toilets were a problem but that didn't matter, said the feisty women. Sukhwinder and Mandeep, with several other women protestors, slept in a waterproof tent provided by Khalsa Aid, an international NGO.  Sukhwinder said she was aware of the fight the farming community had undertaken but didn't realise what it actually took to keep the fight going until she came here. "We are 'gharelu' women, don't know much about the world, but after coming here I have realised how big this fight is. We are prepared for it, however long it takes. The kind of help we are getting for the protest shows the entire country is with us. I have heard that people from Australia, Canada and America are also with us,” she said.  The farmers, with help from various organisations and generous donors, have pulled out all the stops to sustain their agitation. The site is seeing a constant supply of cooked meals, fruits, dry fruits, and even ‘chaat'. There's also chai-pakora, cold drinks, kheer and other sweet treats.   Arrangements for laundry service, and medical facilities, including regular health check-ups and a dental camp, have also been taken care of.Sukhwinder only had one complaint. “The toilet is a little too far,” she said.Staying on the Haryana side of the border, she said she had to take a bit of a stroll to find a toilet, which was on the Delhi side.Inadequate sanitation facilities are one reason why many women have to go back and forth, managing to stay at the protest sight only for a few days at a time. But 75-year-old Daljinder Kaur takes it all in her stride, like many others. She is Mandeep's aunt and insisted on accompanying her to Singhu despite her age. Daljinder said she is positive her farmer brothers and sisters will convince the government.“‘Modi ko mana ke jaenge. Apne haq lene aaye hain, peeche nahi hatenge' (We will convince Modi. We won't go back until we get our rights),” she said. “'And if needed, we will die here too, she said. The farmers have called for a hunger strike on December 14, when they have called for a nationwide protest. Refusing the government's requests to make amendments to the new farm laws, the farmers are insisting that they should be repealed. On Saturday, farmers picketed highway toll plazas in Haryana, UP, and Rajasthan.They are apprehensive the new legislation will eventually do away with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of the corporates. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/homemaker-farmworker-and-now-protester-hundreds-of-women-join-farmers-agitation-183765
13-12-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Capt Amarinder Singh’s mother-in-law passes away||Chandigarh, December 13Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday took to Twitter to convey the passing away of his mother-in-law.“Deeply pained and saddened at the passing of my mother-in-law Sardarni Satinder Kaur Kahlon ji. A pious soul who always wished well for all,” he wrote.Deeply pained and saddened at the passing of my mother-in-law Sardarni Satinder Kaur Kahlon ji. A pious soul who always wished well for all. ਵਾਹਿਗੁਰੂ ਜੀ ਅੱਗੇ ਅਰਦਾਸ ਹੈ ਕਿ ਉਹ ਉਨ੍ਹਾਂ ਨੂੰ ਆਪਣੇ ਚਰਨਾਂ ‘ਚ ਨਿਵਾਸ ਬਖਸ਼ਣ। 🙏🏻 pic.twitter.com/PfujC47EBp  “I pray to Waheguru that He may bless her departed soul,” he added in Punjabi.He also posted the same on his Facebook handle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singhs-mother-in-law-passes-away-183761
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||DIG Lakhwinder Jakhar resigns 'in protest against farm laws'||DIG (Jails) Lakhwinder Singh Jakhar on Sunday submitted his resignation claiming that he was doing so protest against the contentious farm laws.Jakhar said he would join the farmers' protest. ADGP (Jails) P K Sinha confirmed the development.The government is yet to accept the resignation.Jakhar was suspended a few months ago for allegedly taking money from jail officials on a monthly basis. He was re-instated later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dig-lakhwinder-jakhar-resigns-in-protest-against-farm-laws-183731
13-12-2020||Neha Saini||‘Akhar’ back on path of revival||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12One of the most prominent Punjabi literary journals of the state — Akhar — has stood the test of time.A writer’s take‘Akhar’ is one of the few Punjabi magazines that are published today, after Preetlari (a newsletter published from Preet Nagar) and Kahani Punjab (published from Barnala). The magazine has contributors spread across the globe. We did have financial and creative challenges earlier, but we are glad that the magazine is being revived to its former gloryThe 42-pages Akhar's circulation included 600 to 800 copies, 15 per cent of which were circulated outside India. Parminderjit has once shared that the publishing cost of the magazine came to be anything between Rs22,000-Rs40,000 depending on the content and number of pages. Japan-based writer Parminder Sodhi is the current international editor of the magazine and its distribution is across Canada, US, UK, Australia. The magazine has been publishing 500 copies on an average in each edition.Started by noted Punjabi poet late Parminderjit, in 1975, the 42-page magazine was counted among the few Punjabi literary magazines to survive the digital age. It was published and edited by Parminderjit until 2015, when the untimely demise of the writer suspended the magazine’s publication for almost a year. It was republished in 2016, with a special dedication to its founder editor, but soon it was a challenge to support publication cost and find readers.The bi-monthly magazine featured poetry, short stories and social commentary by prominent writers and literary figures. Akhar has charted its own literary history being part of significant movements in Punjab. It was discontinued for publication during the Emergency and struggled through some financial constraints during the late ’80s and was restarted in 1992. The magazine has contributors spread across the globe. Over 30 Punjabi literary personalities, including Punjabi poet Karnail Singh from the UK, Paramjit Singh, Surjit Patar, Swarajbir and many others were regularly featured in Akhar.But after the demise of Parminderjit, the magazine struggled for revival. Its literary legacy being passed on to Parminderjit’s family, his wife Surinderjit and son Ravjit Singh. The magazine has now been revived by Akhar Sahit Manch, the creative team of Akhar, that includes local as well international editorial and publishing partners.“Akhar has a history of four decades behind it and so, we wanted to maintain the creative standards. We ensured that the hiatus was the end of it. So, we revived with limited edition release in 2016 and our editions for 2020 resumed the earlier status of Akhar now being published as a quarterly magazine,” said Dr Vikram, a writer and member of Akhar’s editorial team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akhar-back-on-path-of-revival-183712
13-12-2020||---||Headed for Delhi, farmers foil bid to block NH at Haryana border||Sangrur, December 12State farmers today foiled another attempt of the Haryana Government to prevent them from going to New Delhi to participate in the protest against the Central agriculture laws.Last night, the Haryana Government reportedly tried to block the national highway (NH) at the Punjab-Haryana border near Khanauri by placing big stones, but locals removed all before the arrival of the state farmers on tractor trailers.After getting the information about the blockade, announcements were made from the public address system of gurdwaras to reach at the border with tractors to remove it. A large number of farmers from nearby villages with their tractors reached the spot. Soon, they cleared the national highway of big stones. They also raised slogans against the Haryana and Central governments.Cops stayed awayWe removed big stones placed by the authorities to block the NH to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi. After seeing the number of farmers swell, Jind policemen didn’t interfere and went back. —Rashpal Singh, A farmer“Last month, farmers removed all barricades from various parts of Haryana despite stiff resistance from the state government. On Saturday morning, we removed many big stones, which were placed by the authorities to block the NH to prevent farmers from reaching New Delhi. After seeing the number of farmers swell, Jind cops didn’t interfere and went back,” said Rashpal Singh, a farmer.Gagan Sharma, a BKU (Ugrahan) member from Moonak, said today more farmers went to Delhi from their area. “In coming days, more farmers will join protesters in Delhi to pressure the Central Government to roll back the farm laws,” said Sharma.The SHO of the Garhi police station in Jind, Bijender Singh, said they did not block any road, but NHAI employees, who were involved in the transportation of stones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/headed-for-delhi-farmers-foil-bid-to-block-nh-at-haryana-border-183504
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cong wants to weaken movement, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, has termed the dharna proposed to be staged by the Congress at the Shambhu border on December 14, as a deep-rooted conspiracy to torpedo the farmers’ movement at the behest of the ruling BJP.In a statement issued by the party headquarters on Saturday, state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann said the Congress was working as the B-team of the BJP to benefit the corporate houses, adding that it was going the whole hog to torpedo the farmers’ movement before it reached a conclusive end.Taking an exception to the remarks made by Congress Lok Sabha member Ravneet Bittu against the struggling farmers, Mann said the Congress MP, in cahoots with the Centre, was indulging in passing offensive comments against the farmers with an intent to derail the movement.Mann questioned as to why only the Congressmen were indulging in finding faults with the protesters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-wants-to-weaken-movement-alleges-aap-183506
13-12-2020||Sameer Singh||Stir hits fuel sales, dealers urge govt to end impasse||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 12The sale of petrol and diesel has come down considerably after the farmers’ stir began over two months ago. With a restricted vehicular movement due to the ongoing agitation and farmers staying put at the Delhi borders, the sale of fuel has declined in the state.Petroleum dealers rued that earlier the Covid-induced lockdowns impacted the sales and now the farmers’ agitation had affected their business adversely.In Bathinda district alone, there are 220 petrol stations, selling approximately 4 lakh litres of petrol and diesel on a daily basis. According to the Bathinda Petroleum Dealers’ Association, the sales have come down to 2.5 to 3 lakh litres, a decline of 30 per cent. There are approximately 3,269 petrol pumps operating in the state currently.“Our sales have dipped more than 30 per cent since the farm agitation started. The vehicular movement, including that of tractors and heavy vehicles, has decreased significantly. The transportation of grocery, veggies, industrial goods and other essential items by heavy vehicles has been hit hard due to the protest. The losses are mounting on a daily basis,” Vinod Bansal, a Bathinda-based petrol dealer, said, stressing the government must break the deadlock at the earliest.A state-level executive committee member of the Punjab Petroleum Dealers’ Association said the dip in sale of fuel is causing a heavy revenue loss to the state and Centre Government on account of VAT and excise duty.In Bathinda, 30% declineAs per the Bathinda Petroleum Dealers’ Association, the daily fuel sale at 220 petrol stations in the district has come down to 2.5 to 3 lakh litres, registering a 30% decline. Before the stir began, the stations were selling approximately 4 lakh litres of petrol and diesel on a daily basis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stir-hits-fuel-sales-dealers-urge-govt-to-end-impasse-183507
13-12-2020||Manav Mander||Songs, bolis at weddings new mode of protest||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 12Be it any occasion, songs and bolis are an integral part of Punjabi culture. Singers are now venting out their feelings and anger against the three farm laws through them. Weddings and stage shows have become the new venues of protest these days while songs are depicting the dark times that people of Punjab are going through.Pained at the plight of the farmers protesting in Delhi, Ravinder Ranguwal, Ludhiana-based media director and president of Punjab Cultural Society, who is also a singer and a lyricist, has written a song. “The farmers themselves are singing boliyaan and tappe against the PM. I also went to the Singhu border and shared my song with the protesting farmers. It was liked by everyone present there,” said Ranguwal.Farmers creativeFarmers themselves are singing boliyaan and tappe against the Prime Minister. I shared my song with the protesting farmers at Singhu. It was liked by everyone present there. —Ravinder Ranguwal, Singer“Farmers are serving the community at large by providing food and my heart bleeds at seeing their plight,” he added. Not only this, even marriages and stage shows in Punjab are incomplete without a boli or two on Modi and Amit Shah these days.Recently, during a wedding ceremony at a village near Machhiwara, a group of professional artistes was invited, who sang bolis on the protest. A member of a local orchestra group said: “Songs are a representation of our lives. If we are passing through difficult times, it is also depicted in the songs. We have prepared few boliyaan and tappe on the struggle of the farmers and sang them during a sangeet night recently.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/songs-bolis-at-weddings-new-mode-of-protest-183508
13-12-2020||Bathinda||Bikers’ group from Bathinda reaches Capital||A bikers’ group, ‘Punjabi Adventurers, Bathinda’, which had embarked on a motorcycle march from Gurdwara Quila Mubarak here on Friday, has reached Delhi in support of the farmers’ movement.Group’s vice-president Sukhmander Singh Chatta said the Central Government has cheated the farmers by passing the new agriculture laws. The corn purchased from farmers at Rs 7 per kg was still being sold in malls for Rs 85. In the days to come, the corporates would hike it further. He called on people of all classes to join the just fight of the farmers.A group member, Jaswant Kaushik, said each Punjabi should make his presence felt in the just struggle of farmers to save their livelihood and the agriculture sector at large. Kaushik stressed it was important for each and every person to register his presence at protest site, because if the voice was not raised against injustice, he would repent it all his life. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikers-group-from-bathinda-reaches-capital-183510
13-12-2020||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Dharna at Rajasthan toll plazas||Farmers from Sriganganagar on Saturday staged dharna peacefully at toll plazas for seven hours and didn’t allow the staff to collect toll tax. Hundreds of vehicles passed through toll points. Police and administration officials were present there, but they did not intervene.Gramin Kisan Mazdoor Samiti block president Harjinder Singh Mann said that peaceful protests were organised at toll points near Netewala and Hindaur on Sriganganagar-Bikaner NH-62. The farmers reached Netewala at 9 am along with MLA Raj Kumar Gaur and the protest continued till 5 pm.Farmer activists such as Gurlal Singh Brar, Ranbir Bhangu, Gurmeet Singh Mann, Kamla Bishnoi and Banwari Lal Bishnoi, Janta Morcha convener Om Prakash Rajpurohit, Raziasar Block Congress Committee president Banwari Lal Thori, Thermal Plant Employees Union members led the dharna at the toll plaza near Rang Mahal on Suratgarh-Hanumangarh four-lane road.In Karadwala near Sadulshahar town, farmers led by Kaur Singh Sidhu staged a sit-in and did not allow the collection of tax. The area had received rain till late in the night. The farmers staged dharnas in the cold and fog. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharna-at-rajasthan-toll-plazas-183512
13-12-2020||Amritsar||Agencies plotting to defame stir: SAD||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal today took part in the ‘Akhand Path’ initiated to mark the centenary of the party, which falls on December 14, at the Golden Temple.Sukhbir appealed to all Punjabis to reject the attempts to create a communal wedge in the state. He said a conspiracy was afoot to turn the ongoing farmer agitation into a religious war. He claimed that “agencies are plotting to defame the agitation in various ways, including painting the farmers as terrorists and separatists. We need to reject such forces and ensure peace and communal harmony is not disturbed in any manner”.Sukhbir said the agitating farmers were nationalists and not separatists. He asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to disclose what transpired between him and Home Minister Amit Shar recently. — TNSDamdami Taksal takes a dig at akalisThe Damdami Taksal Sangrawan has said the SAD is not the true representative of Sikhs as a party. Damdami Taksal Sangrawan head Baba Ram Singh said SAD transformed itself from a Panthic organisation into a political party of Punjabis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agencies-plotting-to-defame-stir-sad-183513
13-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||Flags, badges of farmer unions also in demand abroad||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12Flags and badges of various farm unions have become a new craze, not just in India but abroad too. By a conservative assessment, over 5 lakh flags and 10 lakh badges of different farmer unions have been sold in the past six months.The trend of flags and badges started picking up in June when the unions started their campaign against the farm laws. Jhanda Singh Jaithuke, senior vice-president of BKU (Ugrahan), said: “In the past six months, we have sold 1.30 lakh flags and 2.11 lakh badges. A flag is sold for Rs 30 and badge for Rs 10.” Same is with other organisations, such as BKU (Dakaunda), which has sold 28,000 flags and 50,000 badges.Balwant Uppali, press secretary of the union, said: “Now, it is a trend to hoist kisan union flags atop their houses and youngsters proudly wear the badges. We have never seen this before.”A farmer leader said the flags give a distinct identity to people. Police and other officials don’t trouble, if the flag is hoisted on the vehicle. The trend is equally picking up abroad also. “Last month, we sent hundreds of flags and badges to Canada,” Uppali said. Large consignments of flags are being sent to Europe and North America by farmer organisations and local businessmen. “Recently, a group of Punjabis settled in Surrey asked me to send 20 flags and badges,” says Varinder Diwana, a bookseller from Diwana village in Barnala.Kushpreet Kaur, an online bookseller, said an organisation called the Sikh Community of Greater Gelong in Australia had placed a large order of badges and flags. “We are regularly getting such queries and people are asking for small orders, which are not viable to send. So we asked them to get them printed in their respective countries,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/flags-badges-of-farmer-unions-also-in-demand-abroad-183515
13-12-2020||---||Police unearth drug cartel run by jailed gangsters||Chandigarh, December 12With the arrest of two persons and seizure of 4 kg heroin, the Punjab Police have busted a major drug cartel with an international trail as well as links to gangsters and terrorists.Initial investigations have exposed a powerful nexus of the accused, identified as Jaswinder Singh alias Jass and Ramesh Kumar alias Kesa, both natives of Jalandhar Rural district, with some gangsters lodged in Punjab jails as well as a Dubai-based smuggler.According to DGP Dinkar Gupta, the investigations so far suggest that the proceeds generated from the sale of the drugs, smuggled into Punjab from Kashmir, were probably being used to fund terror activities. Further investigations are in progress to unravel the full international conspiracy and network, complete with backward and forward linkages, he said.‘Funded terror acts’The investigations so far suggest that the proceeds generated from the sale of the drugs, smuggled into Punjab from Kashmir, were probably being used to fund terror activities. Further investigations are in progress to unravel the full international conspiracy and network. —Dinkar Gupta, DGPBesides the heroin, two ‘desi’ .32 bore pistols (with 10 live rounds) and a car have also been seized from the accused who used to bring drugs from Srinagar on instructions from imprisoned gangsters in Punjab. The drug cartel’s links have been traced to a Dubai-based individual who is allegedly involved in networking with the drug smugglers in Kashmir for supply of drugs to drug smugglers and traffickers based in Punjab.The DGP said that the Jalandhar (Rural) Police had received inputs of Jaswinder Singh, Ramesh Kumar and Gursewak Singh operating a drug network under instructions from one Palwinder Singh alias Pinda, who is currently lodged in Ferozepur jail.Following the tip-off, the police conducted intelligence-led raids under the direct supervision of Sandeep Garg, SSP Jalandhar, leading to the arrest of Jaswinder Singh and Ramesh Kumar from the former’s house in Lohian village in Jalandhar (Rural) district. Their accomplice, Gursewak Singh, is absconding and a manhunt has been launched for him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-unearth-drug-cartel-run-by-jailed-gangsters-183516
13-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Four held for illegal sand mining in Fazilka||Fazilka, December 12 Four persons have been arrested for excavating sand from the panchayat land, near the seepage drain of Salemshah village in Fazilka district.  On getting information, the police conducted a raid and arrested Gagan Chopra and Rajesh Kumar, residents of Fazilka, Shiv Kumar, a resident of Khui Khera village, and Amritpal Singh, a resident of Jandwala Kharta village. The police also confiscated three sand-laden tractor trailers and a JCB machine from the site. Five persons including the four arrested accused and another person, identified as Rajinder Kumar, have been booked under Section 379 of the IPC and the Mining and Mineral Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-held-for-illegal-sand-mining-in-fazilka-183517
13-12-2020|| Amritsar||Statements of 1984 riot victims recorded||A police team from Kanpur today visited the city to record the statements of victims of 1984 anti-Sikh riots that had erupted in Kanpur following the assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.   The Uttar Pradesh Government had constituted a four-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe into the circumstances that the led to the riots in Kanpur. According to information, five witnesses recorded their statements before the SIT.  Around 125 people had lost their lives and over 1,200 FIRs were registered in Kanpur following the assassination of Indira Gandhi. The SIT members who recorded the statements included SIs Suraj Partap Singh, Punit Kumar and Sunil Kanojia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/statements-of-1984-riot-victims-recorded-183518
13-12-2020||---||Covid sampling to be raised above 30K per day||Jalandhar, December 12Punjab Chief Secretary (CS) Vini Mahajan today said the state government intends to enhance Covid testing by increasing the daily sampling from the current rate of 30,000 tests per day.In a media interaction here, the CS said that attempts were being made to evolve ways so that the reports of the RT-PCR tests are made available to the patients within 24 hours to check further spread. Vini was in Jalandhar as a part of ongoing field visits to further improve governance, speed up development projects and ensure complete accountability, responsiveness and transparency in the delivery of public services at the grassroots level.Chairing a review meeting of Deputy Commissioners of Jalandhar division, she directed them to enforce the fresh restrictions imposed on social gatherings and not to let the guard down in the state. The districts of which the development projects and administrative working was reviewed at today’s meeting included Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran.The projects of key importance that came up for review at today’s meeting included the approach road of Adampur civil airport, functioning of the DAC in Amritsar, preparations for commencing Tarn Taran Law University, progress on the Delhi-Katra expressway project and Smart City works.She said the aim behind holding such meetings with the officials was to get feedback on ongoing works and schemes of the government and to resolve any issues or constraints that are being faced by the districts.She was accompanied by Financial Commissioner (Taxation) A Venu Prasad, Principal Secretary Housing and Urban Development Sarvjit Singh, Principal Secretary Planning Jaspal Singh, Principal Secretary Industries and Commerce Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary PWD Jaspreet Talwar, and Secretary Local Government AK Sinha. Divisional Commissioner Raj Kamal Chaudhuri also attended the meeting. Deputy Commissioners Ghanshyam Thori (Jalandhar), Apneet Riyait (Hoshiarpur), Deepti Uppal (Kapurthala), Mohamad Ishfaq (Gurdaspur), Sanyam Aggarwal (Pathankot), Kulwant Singh (Tarn Taran), Amritsar ADC Himanshu Aggarwal and Jalandhar Municipal Commissioner Karnesh Sharma attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-sampling-to-be-raised-above-30k-per-day-183521
13-12-2020||---||Week on, students of Class XII await smartphones in Muktsar||Muktsar, December 12The state had sent a fresh lot of smartphones to the District Education Officers last week, for distribution among the students enrolled in Class XII in the government schools. However, the distribution process has not started. The phones have been kept in a store room and two police officials have been deployed for security purpose.A government schoolteacher said house tests of classes IX to XII had started, but the phones had not been distributed among the students. “Normal classes could not be held during the present academic session due to the pandemic, so the students need these phones. The state should distribute them at the earliest,” the teacher said.Did not get scheduleWe have distributed 1,853 smartphones so far and 2,089 more have come last week. As soon as we get the schedule from the head office, the phones will be distributed. —Kapil Sharma, Deputy DEOMalkit Singh, DEO, who holds the charge of Muktsar and Sangrur, said, “In Sangrur, we have got 4,000 smartphones and the distribution work will begin after we get the list of schools from the high-ups.”A student said, “It is surprising that the phones have come to the District Education Office, but the officers are unable to distribute them. We are facing problems in accessing the content online.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/week-on-students-of-class-xii-await-smartphones-in-muktsar-183522
13-12-2020||---||Farmer dies in road accident while returning home from Delhi||Amritsar, December 12Balbir Singh (57), a farmer and resident of Bagga village, lost his life when he was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Tangra here today.He was returning home from Delhi after participating in the farmers' agitation against the three controversial farm laws. He had returned for the marriage of his son. As he alighted from a truck along with other farmers to have tea, he was hit by an unidentified vehicle, said farmer leader Harjit Singh Jheeta.After post-mortem examination at Baba Bakala civil hospital, farmers took the body of Balbir Singh outside BJP MP Shwet Malik’s house in the evening where an agitation was going on.Balbir was an activist of Kisan Sangharsh Committee. The farmers demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation and a government job for a family member.An SDM reached the spot and announced Rs 5 lakh compensation and assured to send his case to state government for a job to a family member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-dies-in-road-accident-while-returning-home-from-delhi-183523
13-12-2020||Mansa||Nine held with opium, liquor||Free travel facilityChandigarh: The state has decided to provide free travel facility to all eligible family members of the freedom fighters up to the third generation, including their widows, unmarried and unemployed girls, boy/ girl,grandson/granddaughter/granddaughter, who could avail the benefit in the normal/AC buses of the Punjab Roadways and the PRTC. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nine-held-with-opium-liquor-183524
13-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Kidnapped boy’s body found in field||A 15-year-old boy was murdered yesterday, after the family allegedly failed to contact the kidnappers to pay the ransom they had demanded. The body from a sugar cane field in the adjoining Ghel village.Jaspal Singh, uncle of the victim, identified as Sahil, said the night before, at 7.30 pm, the boy was sitting outside his house in Duffehra village. At 7.55 pm, his grandfather got a call from the phone of Sahil, and the speaker told him that they had kidnapped the boy and demanded Rs 2 lakh by 9 am the next day. When they redialed the number, the phone was switched off. They briefed the village sarpanch. A complaint was lodged at 10.30 pm. The next day, at 11 am, the police got a call from a farmer of Ghel village that a body of a boy was found in his sugar cane field. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kidnapped-boys-body-found-in-field-183526
13-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Vehicle overturns, four killed||Abohar, December 12Four persons were killed and 18 were injured as a pickup van that was ferrying farm workers from Ladhuka, Fazilka, to Panjkosi to pluck kinnow in some orchards turned turtle today. The driver tried to prevent collision with a biker and lost control near Danewala Satkosi village, 20 km from here.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar’s nephew, Sandeep Jakhar, who was coming from Panjkosi to Abohar, contacted Senior Medical Officer Dr Gagandeep Singh and arranged for the ambulance to shift the victims to the Civil Hospital. Even when the Indian Medical Association had given a countrywide call for strike against the Centre, SMO Dr Gagandeep, orthopedician Dr Sanman Mazi and Dr Pulkit Thatai, Dr Sahib Ram and Dr Sonima were present in the emergency ward to attend to the victims along with paramedics.Doctors declared Prakash Kaur (34), Santo Bai (31), Sukhwinder Kaur (40) and Kala Singh (35) dead.Chhinderpal Singh, Sheela Rani, Rachhpal Singh, Kajal, Shanti, Mukhtiar Singh, Shinderpal and Manjit Singh, who were critically injured, were referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College Hospital, Faridkot. Karmo Bai, Sumitra Bai, Praveen, Feroz Singh, Suman, Kulwant, Sunita, Balbir Kaur, Amarjit and Satya Rani were responding to treatment, doctors said.Sub-Divisional Magistrate Jaspal Singh Brar said free treatment would be provided to all. “We are submitting a report to the Deputy Commissioner, so that people killed and seriously injured in the accident can get financial assistance," he said.Jakhar said he would take up the matter with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.Legislator Arun Narang also visited the hospital and urged the government to release Rs 5 lakh as assistance to the next of kin of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vehicle-overturns-four-killed-183532
13-12-2020||---||Bid to portray farmers as anti-national: Manjinder Singh Sirsa||New Delhi, December 12Sikh leaders in the national Capital on Saturday said an attempt was being made to give the farmer agitation a bad name and added that this was reminiscent of the 1980s when the Sikh community was targeted.Addressing a press conference, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said: “It is sad that farmers are being called anti-nationals even as they are fighting for their rights. Their movement is being portrayed as a Sikh movement.”Rahul Gandhi, Cong leaderHow many sacrifices will farmers make?Eleven protesting farmers have lost their lives in the last 17 days due to various reasons. How many more sacrifices will the farmers have to make to get the agri laws repealed?“Protests in favour of Indian farmers in the UK were called Pakistan-sponsored. This shows that efforts are being made to target the community and create the fearful atmosphere of 1980s again,” he alleged.Sirsa said the government was acting as a mute spectator and no action was taken against purveyors of fake news. The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president said this was a movement of farmers of the entire nation and not only of Punjab.Besides Punjab, farmers and their family members have converged on the outskirts of the national Capital from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-portray-farmers-as-anti-national-manjinder-singh-sirsa-183411
13-12-2020||IN 1927||Why ‘The Protester’ deserves to be person of the year||It is also worth bearing in mind that many, if not most, of the Punjab farmers came from Pakistan, after the subcontinent was partitioned in 1947. They arrived from across the border, often on foot, traumatised and usually penniless, having lost their land and worldly belongings, amidst horrific bloodletting. A majority of them were Sikhs. Yet, leaving the bitter past behind, they rose phoenix-like, and made Punjab the most prosperous and thriving state in a remarkably short time. They also ushered in the Green Revolution, turning a famine-prone land into a food self-sufficient one. And they freed us from the humiliating PL-480 Act, whereby we were importing American foodgrains for our survival. The nation has much to thank them for. It is another matter that the indiscriminate use of water, pesticides and fertilisers degraded the soil, and that the gains from the Green Revolution are now being widely questioned by environmentalists. The state has also suffered from maladministration in recent years. That, along with the twin menace of militancy and the ruinous use of narcotics, blighted Punjab, bringing it several notches down from its earlier primacy. Nevertheless, the resilience and enterprise of the Punjabi farmers remains embedded in the national consciousness.The voice of dissent also made itself heard in the beginning of the year. On December 11, 2019, Parliament passed the Citizen Amendment Act (CAA). Three days later, a movement began that soon snowballed into thousands of protesting women — mostly Muslim — in a Delhi locality called Shaheen Bagh. The protesters claimed that the CAA unfairly targeted Muslims, as did the National Population Register (NPR), which is due to be implemented. As proof, they held up the relevant passages of the Constitution. The protest movement lasted from mid-December up to March 24, after the lockdown announcement. It captured the imagination of the nation, with many thoughtful Indians, not just Muslims, wondering why one particular community was being singled out for citizenship. Shaheen Bagh became a symbol of protest against an Act that reeked of sectarianism.The lockdown became the occasion for more protests. Somehow, the Prime Minister and his government had overlooked the plight of millions of migrant labourers, left stranded far away from their homes, with no work and hence no food or roof over their heads. It was a monumental mistake and a little like the PM’s disastrous demonetisation, another measure the consequences of which had not been thought through. Yet, with his legendary communication skills, he was able to put a spin on it and make both measures sound positive. We now know that they caused immense suffering. Yet, the protesters and the dissenters were labelled “anti-national”.Let us now turn not to individuals but to institutions that have become a focus of dissent — our law courts. Though he has been mentioned before, the example of Justice Siddharth of the Allahabad High Court needs re-telling. He highlighted the misuse by the UP government of the law banning cow slaughter. He questioned the credibility of the state police in making arrests under this law — mostly of Muslims, needless to say. After the same state government had passed an ordinance against inter-faith marriages — targeting Muslims, yet again — that very High Court rendered another stinging judgment. Its strong wording bears repetition: “The right to choose a partner, irrespective of caste, creed or religion, is inherent under the right to life and personal liberty.” Yet, other BJP-ruled states intend to pass a similar law. The huge irony is that soon after the infamous ordinance, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had the gall to visit Mumbai to try and persuade Bollywood to set up a ‘film city’ in his state. Somebody there should have told him that, contrary to his sentiments, Bollywood shines in inter-faith unions. One also wonders whether once the Yogi’s ‘film city’ comes up, it will have a prominent sign at the entry: “Inter-faith couples not permitted”.Very few governments, even the most democratic ones, are comfortable with dissenters and protesters. Like Indira Gandhi, especially during her Emergency rule, the present government is behaving no differently, except for its marked anti-Muslim leaning. Hence, it takes guts to dissent, or to protest, thereby taking on the powers-that-be. You risk being called unpatriotic, or an “urban naxal”, especially when there is a majoritarian government in power, with a leader who is charismatic and still hugely popular. But dissent is the very essence of democracy, its lifeblood. And the Constitution should be one’s guiding spirit. The Bhagvad Gita put it another way: “Do your duty, no matter the consequences.”— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-the-protester-deserves-to-be-person-of-the-year-183503
13-12-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Labour-land owner barriers blur at Singhu protest site||Tribune News ServiceSinghu border, December 12It’s 2.30 pm. Bakhshish Singh (55), a farm labourer from Thakar Sandhu village in Gurdaspur, is busy in the community kitchen, preparing chapatis for fellow villagers who have returned after a hectic day of sloganeering and listening to speeches of farm leaders at the protest venue, a few km away.Bir Kaur, Farm labourer from GurdaspurFight to finishTomorrow, when the farmers see victory in getting the farm laws repealed, we will also be remembered for being part of the struggle.After a short while, he is seen getting a nap, sharing a mattress with Rajinder Singh, a fellow villager in whose field Bakhshish Singh has been working for years. A large number of farm labourers, both men and women, have been doing their bit to keep the “Kisan Andolan” kicking.In fact, a new social order has come into existence here. Driven by camaraderie and threat to their existence, farm labourers have joined farmers in their “fight-to-finish”.“We are integral part of farmers’ arduous lifestyle in the fields. We are also part of their good and bad times. If the livelihood of farmers is at stake, it’s our moral duty to be here with them,” says 50-year-old Kashmir Kaur, a farm labourer.She is here as part of a Majha Kisan Sangharh Committee jatha from Gurdaspur. Her concerns are echoed by Rajinder Singh, who owns 40 acres in the village.A few metres away, the same phenomenon is witnessed as Satnam Singh, a farmer from Kurdan village in Phillaur, joins hands with Surjit, a farm labourer from the same village, to broom the area littered with empty water bottles and paper plates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labour-land-owner-barriers-blur-at-singhu-protest-site-183437
13-12-2020||---||For 3rd time, Punjab cadet bags Sword of Honour||Chandigarh, December 12For the third time this year, a cadet from Punjab has bagged the prestigious Sword of Honour for being adjudged as the overall best during pre-commission training in an Army institution.Hails from LudhianaThe Sword of Honour for the Autumn Term-2020, comprising 147th Regular Course (RC) and 130th Technical Graduate Course (TGC), was awarded to Lt Watandeep Singh Sidhu during the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, today.The gold medal for standing first in the order of merit went to Lt Majji Giridhar, also the parade commander, while the silver medal for standing first from TGC went to Lt Jasminder Pal Singh Sidhu, who hails from Threeke near Ludhiana and is an alumnus of the Rashtriya Indian Military College.“It’s a matter of great pride for our family. I am overjoyed at my son’s achievement,” Watandeep’s father, Baljinder Singh Sidhu, who works with the Punjab State Electricity Board, said.Flying Officer Anurag Nain, who hails from Hisar but studied in Delhi, had bagged the Sword of Honour at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, in June.As many as 325 Gentlemen Cadets, in addition to 70 from nine friendly countries were formally commissioned today.With 50 officers, Uttar Pradesh had the highest tally amongthe states followed by Haryana with 45 and Bihar with 32. Punjab shared the seventh place with Kerela with 15 officers each. Among foreigners, 41 were from Afghanistan and 17 from Bhutan.The parade was reviewed by Vice Chief of the Army Staff Lt Gen SK Saini.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-3rd-time-punjab-cadet-bags-sword-of-honour-183538
13-12-2020||Given below are the three bare Acts related to farming and agriculture marketing that have led to the farmers' agitation||Read the full text of the three bare Acts related to farming and agriculture marketing||(For a brief explanation of the three farm laws, click here: Decoding farm Bills provisions & apprehensions)The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/read-the-full-text-of-the-three-bare-acts-related-to-farming-and-agriculture-marketing-182924
