21-12-2020||Chamkaur Sahib||Centre trying to defame farmers: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday accused the Centre of the bid to “defame” agitating farmers by raising the “bogey of talks” to create an impression that it is reasonable and farmers are wrong, according to a statement.After paying obeisance at Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib on the occasion of Shaheedi Jor Mela, Badal said, “The Centre is trying to tire out farmers by starting talks from the very beginning again. This is a futile exercise when the farmer organisations have already rejected the three agriculture laws and want them repealed.”         Prime Minister Narendra Modi should call an emergency Parliament session and repeal these acts, said the SAD chief, adding that people have the final say in a democracy.“People have made Narendra Modi the prime minister and it is his duty to listen to the voice of people, said Badal, whose party earlier pulled out of the National Democratic Alliance over the farm laws.He said instead of doing this, the Centre first “linked the agitation to religion and separatists and now pitting brother against brother”.“We have always fought for the rights of farmers and the downtrodden. We are also assisting the farmer agitation but are pained that the Union government is unmoved by the suffering of farmers,” said Badal.The SAD chief further accused the Centre of “misusing” the Income Tax Department to target “arhtiyas” (commission agents).“I warn the Centre that the more it tries to suppress the ongoing agitation, the more it will be strengthened,” he said.Later, Badal after his party’s core committee meeting in Chandigarh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should not “shirk” from holding a special session of Parliament to repeal the three laws.“Scrapping the winter session of Parliament has already sent a very wrong message that the Central government is running away from discussing the three Acts which were forced through in the last session. The government should hold an emergency session to resolve all grievances of farmers,” he added. In the meeting, it was decided that the party’s sub-committee comprising senior leaders Balwinder Singh Bhundur, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Sikander Singh Maluka will meet like-minded parties in coming days to make a joint strategy to force the Centre to repeal the three laws.The sub-committee will also initiate discussions with other parties to ensure implementation of a federal structure in which the powers of the states were not “abrogated” by the Union government, according to a party statement.The SAD has also decided to hold “akhand paths” (continuous recitation of religious texts) from January 2 to commemorate the “sacrifice” of Sikh preacher Sant Ram Singh and others who died during the ongoing farmers’ agitation. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-trying-to-defame-farmers-sukhbir-badal-187608
21-12-2020||Bathinda||Two youth open fire, badly beat up youth in Bathinda||Two youths fired shots on a car and afterwards brutally beat up a young man travelling in a car with sharp-edged weapons in broad daylight in Ajit road in the city on Monday. The injured has been identified as Gursimranjit Singh Dhillon of Model Town Phase-2.The injured youth was admitted to civil hospital for treatment. The police arrested both the accused from the spot.SHO of Civil Line police station, Ravinder Singh, said the attackers said that the injured youth used to tease their sister. The police have registered a case against two youths on the statement of the injured youth.Injured Gursimranjeet said he came to Ajit road in a car with his cousin Vijay at around 12 noon on Monday. During this time, Ranjit Singh, a resident of village Puree, was already present on Ajit road along with one of his companions Prithpal Singh. Ranjit suddenly fired on his car. When he got out of the car to save his life, both of them attacked him with a sharp weapon.The entire incident was captured in the CCTV cameras installed nearby. The police arrested Ranjit Singh, and his partner Prithpal Singh on the spot. The police have started investigation after taking the statement of the injured youth.When the assailants were attacking the youngster, people gathered on Ajit road and kept seeing hooliganism before their eyes, but no one came forward to intervene.The attackers kept attacking the young man with a foot on his neck and people stood watching him. Then a policeman came forward and he was the one who rescued the young man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-youth-open-fire-badly-beat-up-youth-in-bathinda-187603
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab arhtiyas to keep shops shut for four days against IT raids||Arhtiyas in Punjab will keep their shops shut for four days from Tuesday in protest against income tax raids allegedly conducted to intimidate them for supporting the farmers’ stir against the Centre’s agriculture laws, according to a body representing them.The Federation of Arhtiyas said income tax raids have been conducted on the premises of six commission agents in the past a few days.“We have decided to shut our shops for four days to protest the action of the Income Tax Department against arhtiyas,” said Vijay Kalra, president of the federation.Kalra is among the six commission agents whose premises was raided by the Income Tax Department.Earlier, 14 commission agents in Punjab had received notices from the department.Kalra said the department took action to “browbeat” them for supporting agitating farmers against the Centre’s three farm laws.On Saturday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh too had accused the Centre of indulging in “intimidatory tactics” against commission agents by conducting income tax raids on their premises. The CM had termed the I-T raids as “motivated” and a “pressure tactic” to curb their democratic right and freedom. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-arhtiyas-to-keep-shops-shut-for-four-days-against-it-raids-187593
21-12-2020||New Delhi||Tent city: The new go-to lodging spot for protesters at Singhu border||A dip in the capital’s minimum temperature and scores of women joining the ongoing farmers’ protest has resulted in a make-shift ‘tent city’ propping up at a petrol pump in the Singhu border area.While tractor trolleys continue to be the first choice to sleep in for the majority of farmers camping at the Delhi-Haryana highway, the insulated tents are proving to be a welcome addition in providing protection from the winter chill and probable rain.The tents, which more often than not are booked to the capacity, have already crossed the figure of 200 from just 50 on December 12. They come in three different sizes, depending on which they are available for two, three or five adults along with children.While the biggest available tent is said to accommodate five people, the farmers, after staying in trolleys for over three weeks, have now learnt the skill of squeezing in and don’t mind sharing it with more people if required.“We knew we had to pitch in the tents. The issue was always about the space required. That is when we had a word with the owner of the petrol pump, and he readily agreed. The very next day — December 12 — we had installed close to 50 tents and from then on the number is only increasing,” said Jatin Singh, who is managing the space with his team of six people.He said they now have 200 tents which they provide to protesters who pitch them up wherever they find space. A tent is available upon providing a refundable security fee of Rs 1,000, Singh said.The water-proof tents, given by NGO Hemkunt Foundation, come with a set of mattress and blanket. Also, the petrol pump provides water for bathing and has a facility for charging phones or laptops too.Though there is no check-out time, the check-in time set for availing the shelter of the tents is 6 pm.Balveer Singh, 65, who has come from Moga district of Punjab, said it has been a week now since he has been staying here in these tents and has nothing to complain about.“Sona langi jaanda hai aje tak (It has been comfortable so far). I did stay in the trolley also, and then I got to know about these tents and came here. Since it is all covered, you don’t feel very cold here.“I keep my luggage here, go eat langar, meet people putting up in trolleys, talk to them and come back for rest in the afternoon and at night,” said Singh, who is happy to put up with four people in a tent basically meant for two.These tents are also a great boon to the many women protestors who admitted to getting a sense of privacy in them—something which they say was amiss in the tractor trolleys.Ramanpreet Kaur (29) and Sukhwinder Kaur (53), both hailing from Punjab’s Bathinda, were visibly happy to find lodging at one of the tents and said now they can get dressed without worrying about privacy and don’t have to carry their luggage everywhere.“Of course, it is less windy (in the tents) and you don’t get bitten by mosquitoes as you are all covered. More importantly, you can zip this tent up and change your clothes here without worrying about anything,” said Ramanpreet, who has been protesting here since November 30.“This gives you a sense of privacy and safety, which is very important. So yes, I am indeed happy to find myself a tent here,” she said.Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are staying put at the national capital’s border points since late November to protest against the three contentious agriculture laws introduced recently by the Central government. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tent-city-the-new-go-to-lodging-spot-for-protesters-at-singhu-border-187588
21-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||As stir nears one month, more farmers to head to Delhi from Punjab||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 21With the protest against the Centre’s farm laws in Delhi set to complete one month, farmer unions have decided to intensify the stir as more farmers from Punjab will head to Delhi under ‘Dilli Chalo’ call.BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said “A group of 15,000 farmers from Amritsar would leave to Delhi through Singhu border on December 25. A same number of farmers would leave from Khanouri border on December 26 and 15,000 more farmers would leave from Dabwali border to Delhi on December 27.”Thousands of farmers have been staying put at several Delhi border points for the last 26 days, demanding a repeal of the new agri laws.Apart from stir at the Delhi border, farmers’ protests are going on at toll plazas, outside Best Price wholesale store at Bucho, Reliance Market in Bathinda, Talwandi Sabo power plant at Baniwala in Mansa and at many places in the region.The farmers also staged protests and sit-ins outside residences and offices of BJP leaders in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-stir-nears-one-month-more-farmers-to-head-to-delhi-from-punjab-187585
21-12-2020||Sonepat||65-year-old farmer tries to kill himself at Singhu border||A 65-year- old farmer tried to commit suicide by drinking poison at the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Singhu border on Monday, sources said---the third such instance in a week and the second in two days.The victim, identified as Niranjan Singh from Punjab’s Taran Taran, was first admitted to a general hospital but was later moved to Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute Medical Science.Not much else is know about specifics of the case, however.This is the third such instance in one week. A Sikh priest from a gurdwara in Haryana who joined the protests shot himself over what he saw was “injustice” to Sikh farmers last week. Head of a gurdwara in Karnal, the priest, Baba Ram Singh, left a suicide note that said he couldn’t see the plight of the protesting farmers.A 22-year-old farmer from Bathinda’s Dayalpura Mirza village who was part of the prolonged protest killed himself when he returned home on Saturday. Not much else is known about the reason for his death.Farmers mainly from Punjaba and Haryana have laid siege to Delhi and have been holding protests on the borders of the city, including the Singhu border, for nearly a month now against the central government's controversial agriculture reforms. The protests began in September when Parliament passed the three controversial laws but have since escalated, especially when farmers decided to march to Delhi in November. The agitation has been steadily getting support from other parts of the country as well, and has increased pressure on the central government to give in. The Centre and farmer unions have since held several rounds of talks amid a growing chorus of criticism of the government's handling of the situation. Neither party however has yet climbed down from their demands---farmers want a complete repeal of the laws, while the central government remains firm on offering concessions that are just short of rescinding the laws entirely.Farmers' primary objection to the law is their fear that the law will weaken the existing APMC system that assures them a minimum support price for their produce, and leave them at the mercy of private and corporate interests. They also fear that the clause allowing contract farming will give major corporations greater control over their lands. The central government denies these allegations and maintains that the laws are in farmers' interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/65-year-old-farmer-tries-to-kill-himself-at-singhu-border-187558
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||11 grenades dropped by Pakistan drone recovered near IB in Punjab's Gurdaspur||Punjab Police on Monday said it seized 11 hand grenades, suspected to have been dropped by a drone flying in from Pakistan, from a field near the International Border (IB) in Gurdaspur district.The consignment was found in a field in Salach village, located about 1 km from the border, in Gurdaspur district, Gurdaspur Senior Superintendent of Police Rajinder Singh Sohal told PTI over the phone.The grenades were hidden in a box and it was attached to a wooden frame, he said, adding the recovery was made Sunday evening.Sohal said the Border Security Force had seen the movement of a drone on the intervening night of December 19 and 20 and had even fired at it.“We conducted a search operation with the BSF personnel on Sunday and recovered grenades,” he said.The first incident of dropping arms and weapons through drones from Pakistan came to light in Punjab in August 2019 when police recovered AK-47 rifles, magazines and rounds of ammunition, hand grenades, fake currency and other items in Tarn Taran district. Since then there have been several instances when security forces seized arms and ammunition dropped by drones flying in from across the Pakistani border. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-grenades-dropped-by-pakistan-drone-recovered-near-ib-in-punjabs-gurdaspur-187535
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cold wave continues in Punjab and Haryana, Adampur coldest at 3.2 deg Celsius||The ongoing cold wave conditions sweeping Punjab and Haryana for the past few days continued unabated on Monday with Adampur recording the lowest minimum temperature of 3.2 degrees Celsius, Meteorological Department officials said.Amritsar, too, reeled under an intense chill, recording a low of 4.8 degrees Celsius.Minimum temperatures in Faridkot, Gurdaspur and Bathinda settled at 4 degrees Celsius, 6.2 degrees Celsius and 5.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.Cold weather conditions also prevailed in Ludhiana and Patiala, which recorded a low of 5.7 degrees Celsius and 6 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh recorded a low of 5.8 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala experienced a cold night at 3.3 degrees Celsius, while Hisar registered a low of 5.5 degrees Celsius.Karnal recorded a low of 5.5 degrees Celsius, Narnaul's minimum settled at 4.3 degrees Celsius, while Rohtak and Bhiwani recorded respective lows of 5.8 degrees Celsius and 5.3 degrees Celsius.Fog reduced visibility in the morning at Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Karnal and Ambala, the officials said.The severe cold weather conditions are likely to abate in Punjab and Haryana from Tuesday, the Met department officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-wave-continues-in-punjab-and-haryana-adampur-coldest-at-3-2-deg-celsius-187530
21-12-2020||Ludhiana||Tributes paid to farmers who died in protest||Residents paid tributes to farmers who have died during the ongoing agitation against the three farm Acts. Residents in a large number gathered on the Railway road outside the district office of the BJP where tributes were paid to them.Members of the Shiv Sena Hindustan, Congress Kisan Cell, Jan Shakti Morcha and several other social groups took part in the event.Krishan Sharma and Chandarkant Chadha of the Shiv Sena Hindustan said two-minute silence was also observed at the site for the departed souls.They said despite the fact that the BJP was claiming that these Acts were in favour of the farmers, its leaders were not able to hold talks with the farmers to prove their point.They said over 30 farmers have sacrificed their lives in the ongoing agitation and now, the Central Government should withdraw these Acts and should provide Rs 1-crore compensation to kin of the farmers died in the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tributes-paid-to-farmers-who-died-in-protest-187477
21-12-2020||---||Unions pay homage to deceased farmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20While the number of farmers who died during the Delhi protest has reached 35, people across the country paid homage to the deceased farmers today.Jagmohan Singh, general secertary of the BKU (Dakaunda), speaking on the behalf of the Sanjyukta Kisan Morcha, said on a call given by 32 farmer organisations, people paid tributes to the deceased at 380 places in Punjab. These meetings were organised at the protest sites. He said at the national level, around 90,000 memorial meetings were organised in 22 states.In Amritsar. as a part of farmers’ call, several social, religious, public welfare and trade organisations observed a ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ (Homage Day) to pay tributes to farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing agitation.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), representing farmers from the holy city, paid homage to the departed souls at the Kundli-Singhu border. Sarwan Singh Padher, general secretary of the KMSC, said prayers were read out before the posters of around 30 persons who reportedly died during the course of the agitation. “The Modi government has been adopting tactics to justify their move but we will not rest before achieving what the ‘shaheed’ lost their lives for,” he said.Activists of the Chief Khalsa Diwan, Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Mission Society, Hawara Committee, Sri Sukhmani Sahib Sewa Society, Voice of Amritsar, Mission Aagaaz, Sri Akhand Path Sahib Society, Mata Kaula ji Bhalai Society and Amritsar Vikar Manch demanded repeal of the farm laws. Dhan Dhan Baba Deep Singh Lok Sewa Society activists held protests by putting iron chains around their necks. They alleged the Centre had framed these laws to rob farmers of their land and profession at the hand of corporate houses.Similar events were also held in Sangrur and Barnala districts. “In the coming days, we will launch an agitation for financial compensation and government jobs to the families of the victims,” said Bhupinder Singh Longowal, a leader of the Kirti Kisan Union.Meanwhile, bhog was performed in the memory of Balbir Singh, 57, who died in a road accident on December 12 while on way back from Delhi, at his native Bagga Kalan village in Ajnala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unions-pay-homage-to-deceased-farmers-187378
21-12-2020||---||Under debt, farmer hangs self to death||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, December 20Iqbal Singh (31), a farmer of Lalpur village, 15 km from here, ended life by hanging himself in his house on Saturday night. Iqbal was unable to repay loans of Rs 19 lakh.The mater came to light on Sunday morning. Paramjit Singh, a cousin of the deceased farmer, said Iqbal had taken a loan of Rs 12 lakh from a branch of Punjab National Bank, Kallha, besides he had borrowed Rs 7 lakh from a commission agent. The farmer was the holder of just three acres of land. His wife died some time ago, leaving a three-year-old daughter.His father Kabal Singh too had committed suicide in 2013 as he was also under debt, but the state government had not released the due compensation to the family due to some technical hitch. Iqbal failed to pay the loan instalment of the bank as he could not get reasonable rate for his basmati crop.The Goindwal Sahib police have lodged a report under Section 174, CrPC, on the statement of Paramjit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/under-debt-farmer-hangs-self-to-death-187379
21-12-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Poets capture spirit of farm struggle||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Punjabi poetry lighting the flame of “never say die spirit of our freedom movement” is best captured in Bankey Dyal’s poem ‘Pagdi Sambhal Jatta’.Reacting to the farm laws enforced by the BJP-led Central Government, now poets have taken to their pen, once again, to castigate the Centre and inspire the revolt in a new collection which has gone online on punjabi-kavita.com.Underlining the tone and tenor of the reactive collection, Dr Azeem Shekher says: “Jithe raaje ullu thape hunde ne, Uss jungle vicch roz syape hunde ne.” This is one among more than 200 poems on the farmer agitation which have been put online on Punjabikavita.com. Website director Karamjit Singh Gathwala says: “Our eight-year-old website is a special corner for the ongoing farmer agitation. We started last week. More than 100 poets have contributed and the list is growing”.Divided into four sections of about 50 poems each, the collection features leading lights of Punjabi poetry including Surjit Patar, Sukhwinder Amrit, Gurbhajan Gill, Ajaib Hundal, Waryam Singh Sandhu, Surjit Judge, Sukhwinder Kamboj, Balwinder Sandhu and Sarbjit Kaur Jass.Referring to the context of farmers struggle against its own government, Gurbhajan Gill says: “Dashera de arth badal gayee ne.” Navgeet Kaur adds: “Sometimes you compare us to Khalistanis, sometimes refer to us as separatists. How can you forget history where we have stood like walls against all invasions for your safety?”Naming his poem a “Mail to the Kisan Morcha’, Patar says: “Eh mela hai, Iss vicch dhart brikh, paani paun shamal ne. Jithe takk nazar jaandi, jithe takk nahin jaandi (The horizon till where I can see and also beyond, this ‘mela’ has participation of the soil, trees, water and winds).”Poems hint at the lacunae in contract farming which have an inbuilt scope for land of farmers being confiscated by the corporate. The new mandis which will be better equipped than old mandis will finish an established system of life for thousands of farmers.Capturing the picture on ground, Harmit Vidyarthi touches an emotional chord when he says “sadakkan, chaurahhian, rail pattrian te likhi ja rahi hai saade sammian di asal kavita (The poetry of our times is being written on rails, roads and crossings”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poets-capture-spirit-of-farm-struggle-187380
21-12-2020||Ferozepur||More BJP leaders leave party||The “exodus” of BJP leaders continues unabated in this border district. Several leaders, including three sitting municipal councillers (MCs) and former PA of former state BJP chief Kamal Sharma, besides few other workers, announced their resignation from the party today in support of the farmers’ agitation.Amongst the leaders who quit were Jaspal Sandhu alias Jimmy, presently holding the position of district media in-charge. He was once considered a close aid of former Punjab BJP president Kamal Sharma and served as his PA too. His mother Ravinder Kaur, sitting MC from ward No. 16, has also resigned. The other two BJP MCs who resigned are Sukhwinder Singh Sukha from Ward No. 18 and Ashok Sachdeva from Ward No. 11.Jimmy said earlier Prime Minister Modi used to talk about implementation of Swaminathan Report, but now he was bent upon destroying farming on the pretext of the agri laws. “Since the time the farm laws have been passed, I have not joined any party activity. The state leadership has also failed to convey the concern of local leaders at the national level. Now, we are left with no choice but to leave the party,” Sandhu said. Two days ago, 12 BJP workers, including a member of the state executive committee and two “mandal” presidents, had resigned. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-bjp-leaders-leave-party-187381
21-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||At Tikri border, trailers turn study rooms||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 20Without classrooms and usual comfort, youngsters at Delhi borders can be seen studying on roads or in modified trailers. They are balancing time between protests and academics.“I have been here since November 26. As it doesn’t seem that the agitation would end anytime soon, I ensure that I don’t suffer academically. I devote two hours daily in the morning and evening to prepare for MA (political science) exams,” says Jagmeet Singh from Muktsar Sahib.Like Jagmeet, there are many other youngsters who convert trailers in study rooms whenever they get time. Though children have ample time to study, youth have other responsibilities too. “Many times when elders face problems or they need any help, I along with other youngsters help them,” says Kulwinder Singh, a BA final year student from Barnala.Harpreet Singh from Abohar says he has become more disciplined. “At home, I never woke up early for study. But here, youngsters like me wake up early with elders and get ready on time. The present agitation is also teaching us a lesson in punctuality,” he says.Apart from Punjab, Haryana residents have brought their children and books with them.“My son Mohit is a student of Class 5. He has been here with me to support the agitation. But he also devotes time for study. I have brought him here to make him aware about the ground realities. This experience will definitely enrich him,” says Dinesh Kumar, a resident of Jhajjar from Haryana.Apart from study, many children have made new friends and are unwilling to leave the protest site. “My both kids, including three and a half years old son and 6-year-old daughter, have made new friends here. Though we will return as new members take our place, kids are unwilling to leave the site,” says Kamaljit kaur, a woman from Barnala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-tikri-border-trailers-turn-study-rooms-187383
21-12-2020||---||Long-route trains cancelled, diverted||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, December 20Even though the Railway authorities claimed that the movement of trains in the region was limping back to normalcy, some long-route trains still remain cancelled, partially cancelled (short-terminated) and diverted via alternate routes. Further, cancellation of nine trains and reduction in frequency of a long-route train due to foggy weather conditions and poor visibility has added to the woes of rail travelers.With regard to the disruption of rail traffic, purportedly due to the farmers’ agitation in Punjab, the Railways have further extended cancellation and partial cancellation of trains till December 22.Accordingly, the 05531/32 Saharsa-Amritsar-Saharsa Jansadharan Express train would remain cancelled on December 20 and 21. The 02715/16 Nanded-Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express would short-terminate at and short-originate from New Delhi on December 21 and 22. The train would remain partially cancelled between New Delhi and Amritsar.The trains that would be diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas are the Mumbai Central-Amritsar-Mumbai Central Golden Temple Mail (on December 20); Jaynagar-Amritsar Saryu Yamuna Express (on December 21); Jaynagar-Amritsar-Jaynagar Humsafar Express (on December 21); Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Pashchim Express (on December 21).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/long-route-trains-cancelled-diverted-187384
21-12-2020||Bathinda||Farmer unions slam I-T raids on arhtiyas||Farmer unions and other associations have strongly condemned the raids conducted by the Income Tax Department on arhtiyas in the state amid the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws. They warned of serious consequences if raids continued in the future.Leaders of different unions said arhtiyas and traders had stood shoulder-to-shoulder with farmers in their movement against the farm laws and the raids were an attempt to divide the farmer and arhtiya unity to sabotage their movement.Punjab Kisan Union’s state press secretary Balkaran Singh Balli said, “Owing to massive support of people from almost every sector both in the country and overseas, the farmers’ movement against contentious farm laws has gained unprecedented momentum now. This has certainly not gone down well with the Union Government so it has started resorting to tactics to sabotage the movement now.Conducting raids on premises of arhtiyas at this juncture when they are supporting farmers in the stir, clearly points at pressure tactics of the government. Arhtiyas not only assisted our movement against farm laws financially, but they have travelled to Delhi and participated in the protests. Gurlabh Singh Mahal, a leader of Samvidhan Bachao Manch, said, “ If such raids are not stopped unions will be forced to gherao IT Department officials.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-unions-slam-i-t-raids-on-arhtiyas-187385
21-12-2020||Bathinda||13-year-old’s poems inspire Tikri protesters||A 13-year-old girl, Khushbir Kaur Mattu from Bir Khurd village in Mansa, has become a centre of attraction at the Tikri border for her poems in support of the farmers’ stir. The huge gathering breaks into applause when she recites her poems with progressive and revolutionary slant.A student of Class VIII, Khushbir took part in the ‘rail roko’ and Bharat Bandh call given by farmer unions. Her poems, ‘Pagdi Sambhal Jatta’, ‘Kisan’ and ‘Sun Dilhiye’ among others touch upon various aspects of the agrarian crisis. Her poems have been getting an overwhelming response from the protesters. Her videos on social media platforms have also been getting a tremendous response.Talking to The Tribune, Khushbir said: “I will continue to raise my voice against injustice and harassment of people. I stand by farmers in their struggle against the new farm laws. The agitation by farmers is not just about protecting the peasantry, it’s a battle for their existence and future. It is of paramount significance that we win this battle.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/13-year-olds-poems-inspire-tikri-protesters-187386
21-12-2020||---||Jobless teachers spend night near CM’s house, detained||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 20Braving the chill and taking a cue from the farmers’ stir, unemployed ETT-TET teachers staged a sit-in near the CM’s residence throughout the night on Saturday in support of their demand of jobs.The Patiala police had registered a case against the teachers on Saturday and detained them on Sunday afternoon. They were, however, released in the evening.The ETT-TET pass teachers had been protesting outside the residence of CM Capt Amarinder Singh since Saturday, demanding the creation of jobs in the state.They said the state government failed to provide them with enough opportunities due to which many of them were out of jobs. Despite verbal assurances of meetings, some of them tried to scale the barricades after which they were canecharged. A police case was also registered against them for misbehaving with a police officer and harming public property among other charges.On Sunday morning, the protesters said police officials, including DSP Yogesh Sharma, met them in an attempt to resolve the matter.Deepak Kamboj, state president, Unemployed ETT TET Pass Union, said, “Officials of the administration demanded that we vacate the site but we didn’t budge. Later, the police detained us forcefully and took us to various police stations.”The DSP said, “The protesting teachers dispersed from the site on Sunday afternoon while some of them were detained as a preventive measure.”Meanwhile, Kamboj said SDM Charanjit Singh, in a letter, assured us of a meeting with Education Secretary Krishan Kumar and OSD to the CM Sandeep Sandhu on December 23. “We will hold a meeting among the members and decide about our future course of action,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-spend-night-near-cms-house-detained-187387
21-12-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Govt may hire private firms to collect property tax in 13 MCs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20The Local Government Department is contemplating to privatise the collection of property tax in 13 municipal corporations (MC) in the state.3.86 lakh residential houses exemptedThe move follows only 63 per cent collection of the targeted property tax recovery and that too from 38 per cent of the total taxable properties in the state for the fiscal year 2019-2020, with an abysmally low 40 per cent recoveryfrom residential properties compared to 70 per cent recovery from commercial and industrial properties.With 45.7 per cent recovery rate, Amritsar stands at the lowest ebb followed by Patiala with 57.74 per cent recovery rate. Incidentally, Patiala MC also has areas represented by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra.The issue to boost tax collection figured in a recent meeting on tax reforms and experience of private agencies in improving recovery rate. To finalise its strategy to enhance the recovery of property tax in the urban local bodies, the department had also invited an Expression of Interest (EOI). At least eight companies participated in a presentation-cum-meeting chaired by the minister last month.A senior government functionary said the privatisation of the tax collection was one of the proposals, the other being deputing regular staff to improve the recovery. The final decision is pending with the government.The department has also proposed to bring rationalisation in the evaluation of the properties. In case of residential properties, it has been proposed to do away with self-assessment system or make it optional and come up with fixed monthly tax.For self-occupied commercial property, it has been proposed to be charged based on collector rates and in case of rented commercial units, it has been proposed to charge on the basis of 7.5 per cent of the annual rental value subject to the condition that it cannot be less that the tax collected on the basis of collector rate for the self-occupied properties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-may-hire-private-firms-to-collect-property-tax-in-13-mcs-187388
21-12-2020||---||Admn fails to give records  to police, probe ‘hampered’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20The “failure” of the Tarn Taran administration in providing arms licence records to the police has been “hampering” investigations in the ‘fake’ arms licencecases registered with it during the past four years.Despite serious concerns expressed by senior police authorities as the matter concerns national security, the DC office has failed to provide the records till now. Four cases are pending with the Punjab Police in this regard, including one with the Vigilance Bureau.Police authorities claimed they had repeatedly issued reminders to the DC office for providing the records, but had not received them. A reminder was given to the DC office on Thursday as well.The first case of fake arms licence was registered with the Tarn Taran police in 2016 which is still under investigation with the SIT formed by the then SSP, Tarn Taran.Karwinder Singh, the prime suspect, had applied for bail in the Punjab and Haryana High Court earlier this month. The police have filed a reply in the court and the next date of hearingfixed for February 2, 2021.Another case was slapped by the Vigilance Bureau, Amritsar, after a fire gutted the records in the arms licensing branch in Tarn Taran. A report from Powercom officials had revealed that the fire was not caused due to a short circuit as being alleged.Another case was registered with Patti police station in June this year wherein five weapons and four fake arms licences were recovered.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale said he had given another reminder to the DC office for providing the records for speedy investigations into the cases.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the information available with the branch had already been provided to the police. He said the records which were being sought by the police pertained to previous cases and those were being sought from the Director, e-governance. “We have already written to the authorities concerned and the records are likely to be available with us within a couple of days. These will be provided to the police,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/admn-fails-to-give-records-to-police-probe-hampered-187389
21-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Back on track, Punjab Mail to get hi-tech LHB coaches||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 20The 108-year-old ‘Punjab Mail’, one of India’s oldest trains, is back on the track once again and is all set for a makeover. The train runs from Ferozepur to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CST), Mumbai, and is known as the lifeline for passengers from the Malwa region going to Delhi or cities on its route till Mumbai.The train was suspended during the lockdown, but has restarted from December 1. The Railways has decided to replace its rakes, made by the Integral Coach Factory (ICF), Chennai, with Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches, which are faster and more efficient.A senior Railways official said ICF coaches were conventional passenger coaches used on a majority of the mainline trains in India. The LHB coaches were developed by Linke Hofmann Busch in Germany, but mostly produced by the Rail Coach Factory in Kapurthala, Punjab.The LHB coaches can travel at a much higher speed than ICF coaches. The maximum permissible speed for LHB coaches is 160 kmph, while ICF coaches run at the speed of 110 kmph. Moreover, LHB coaches are equipped with controlled discharge toilets and bio-toilets. They also use Advanced Pneumatic Disc Brake system for efficient braking at a higher speed.The Punjab Mail was earlier called ‘Punjab Limited’ and was steamed out on June 1, 1912, from Mumbai, heading for Peshawar, now in Pakistan. Before the Partition, the train ran from Ballard Pier Mole station in Mumbai all the way to Peshawar, covering a distance of2,496 km in 47 hours.British officers, civil servants and their families were brought from the South Hampton Port of England to Ballard Pier Mole Station in their ships and then it was run on the tracks up to Peshawar via Manmad, Bhopal, Jhansi, Gwalior, Mathura, Delhi, Ferozepur and Lahore.In 1914, the train started departing from Victoria Terminus, presently known as CST, and after the the Indo-Pak Partition, Ferozepur Cantt railway station was made as the terminal station. It was known to be the fastest train of British India. The train was the subject of a couple of movies released at that time, besides featuring in several stories andsome Indian novels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-on-track-punjab-mail-to-get-hi-tech-lhb-coaches-187390
21-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur AAP appoints third chief in 2 months||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 20The appointment of Devinder Singh Badesha as the third district chief of AAP in Sangrur in the last two months shows that all is not well here, where the party has a strong foothold. It has given enough reasons to opponents to criticise the AAP leadership.Chadha is co-in-charge of state unitChandigarh: Senior AAP leader and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha has been assigned additional responsibility as party’s state unit co-in-charge, said Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday. Chadha said, “Our focus in the state will be on education and prosperity. Farmers have been facing severe problems. I vow to change these circumstances.” TNSState AAP chief and MP Bhagwant Mann, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and senior leader and Sunam MLA Aman Arora belong to this district.“The AAP had won the last Assembly poll by fooling the state residents. But many MLAs have expressed their displeasure openly with the working of their own party leaders. It has lost base across Punjab while the appointment of three district chiefs in Sangrur during the last two months has confirmed that it’s crumbling here also,” said Winnerjit Singh Goldy, SAD spokesperson from Sunam.In October, Mahinder Singh Sidhu was appointed AAP district in-charge, but it caused a division in Sangrur as many workers launched a campaign against him. To express his dissatisfaction with the appointment of Sidhu, Avtar Ealwal, district secretary of the party, resigned from his post and announced to work as a volunteer for the party.“AAP stands exposed as its leaders have taken U-turn on a majority of promises they had made before winning the poll. They won the poll to fight for the public, but have failed on all fronts,” said Anil Kicha, chairman of the Sangrur Market Committee.But after opposition, Sidhu was appointed the kisan cell state secretary and Gurdev Singh Sangala, district vice-president, was given the additional charge of district chief. On Saturday, Badesha was appointed the district chief.“There is no factionalism in the party. I’ve been appointed with the consent of all workers. The party has a strong foothold in Sangrur and has also been gaining strength across the state. Our opponents are scared of us, thus giving baseless statements.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-aap-appoints-third-chief-in-2-months-187391
21-12-2020||Faridkot||MBBS result held up as student moves HC||A two-week delay by the Director, Medical Education and Research (DMER), in deciding a representation given by a student for admission to MBBS course has not only entangled Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) in a litigation but also led to delay in medical admissions in the state.On December 3, an aspirant had given a representation to the DMER, raising issues regarding the consideration of candidature for admission to medical colleges in the state contrary to the rules framed by the state relating to the residence category and criteria.The aspirant claimed to have placed a list of 106 candidates, alleging they had staked claim on MBBS seat in more than one state. The aspirant said these candidates were ineligible in respect of the residence criteria rules laid down by the state.As there was no decision for two weeks, the candidate moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which on December 16 directed the DMER to scrutinise the representation for appropriate action within two-three days before finalising the MBBS admission process.While the BFUHS was scheduled to display the result of counselling for MBBS and BDS on December 18, it is now withholding it and waiting for the DMER’s decision on the representation.While the office of the DMER didn’t respond to repeated calls, the BFUHS authorities said the result would be declared in 12 hours.The authorities said during the scrutiny, it was found that only 10 candidates had availed the benefit of the Punjab residency of total 106. If at any stage these candidates are found to have violated the rules, they will be prosecuted as per law and their admission shall be cancelled, an official at the BFUHS said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mbbs-result-held-up-as-student-moves-hc-187392
21-12-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Parties gear up for Batala MC election||Tribune News ServiceBatala, December 20Political parties have started preparation in right earnest to grab power in the first-ever elections to the Batala Municipal Corporation (MC) slated to be held before February 13.Past experience shows that it will be easy going for the Congress, which is also the ruling power in the state. Less than nine months after it swept to power in the state in March 2017, the Congress won the Patiala, Jalandhar and Amritsar civic bodies. So much so in the CM’s home town of Patiala, it won 59 of the 60 seats. Likewise, the SAD ruthlessly demolished all its opponents in all urban local body polls held during its tenure from 2007 till 2017.“This phenomenon is the result of the government machinery at the local level working in favour of the ruling dispensation in the state,” admitted a Cabinet minister.Going by this barometer, residents are sure that this time it will be the Congress, which will assume power in the newly formed corporation that was upgraded from a committee in 2018. From 2015 till 2020, it was the BJP that controlled the proceedings. Post the farm Acts, the BJP has lost its foothold in the city while the Akalis are yet to pull up their socks, thus leaving the field open for the ruling party. The AAP is a non-starter. The House now has 50 wards, which is an increase of 15 when the 2015 polls were held.Parties have a knack of announcing the names of its mayoral candidates even before the first vote is cast. “Sukh Teja, a staunch loyalist of Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, is being projected as the first mayor of the city,” said a senior Congressman. Bajwa, who is eyeing the Batala Vidhan Sabha seat for the 2022 poll, and three-time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri are the key players for the Congress.Politicking apart, residents are talking about the numerous developmental initiatives Tript has brought to the city.For the Akalis, sitting MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal is the man who will take all decisions. “The party has already received 250 applications. More are expected in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-gear-up-for-batala-mc-election-187393
21-12-2020||Chamkaur Sahib||3-day Shaheedi Jor Mela begins at Chamkaur Sahib||A large number of devotees paid obeisance at Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib as the three-day Shaheedi Jor Mela started here on Sunday.The mela is organised every year in the memory of two elder Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh and other Sikhs who had attained martyrdom while fighting the Mughal forces. While ‘nagar kirtans’ from various villages started arriving in the town, religious diwans were started in gurdwaras.Residents of various villages have set up community kitchens (langars) on roads leading to Chamkaur Sahib.The Congress, SAD and AAP have decided not to hold political conferences on the occasion due to the Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-day-shaheedi-jor-mela-begins-at-chamkaur-sahib-187394
21-12-2020||---||Ferozepur first in aspirational district ranking, gets Rs 7 cr||Our CorrespondentFerozepur, December 20The border district of Ferozepur has ranked first amongst 112 aspirational districts in the country under the ‘Champions of Change’ programme of the NITI Aayog. Following this, it has been given an additional grant of Rs 7 crore for various development schemes.As per information, the ranking is based on performance indicators and other parameters developed by the Aayog in the fields of health and nutrition, education, agriculture and water resources, financial inclusion and skill development, besides basic infrastructure.It is pertinent to mention that the Aayog had earlier identified 112 aspirational districts all over the country to develop them at par with the best districts in the state and eventually in the country, for which special funds had been provided.As per a communiqué issued by Amitabh Kant, CEO of Niti Aayog, the district had performed excellently in September and October, due to which it had been provided additional funds. Gurpal Singh Chahal, Deputy Commissioner, said he had received the information and the administration was preparing a plan of action and project proposals to utilise the funds as per the guidelines of the programme. Various innovative measures had been taken to improve the district’s performance in various parameters, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-first-in-aspirational-district-ranking-gets-rs-7-cr-187395
21-12-2020||Fazilka||Expedite cancer centre work: Jyani to minister||Ex-Health Minister Surjit Kumar Jyani has demanded that a medical college be set up in Fazilka district.Jyani, along with BJP leader Harjit Singh Grewal, met Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in Delhi on Saturday and said in the absence of a medical college here, students had to go to far-flung areas and other states for studies.Jyani also urged the minister to intervene and get the work on Tertiary Cancer Care Centre (TCCC), trauma ward and a 100-bed hospital expedited, the construction of which was started during the previous SAD-BJP government and was hanging fire.“No headway in construction of the building has been made by the present government as it has failed to provide requisite funds.” Jyani, who laid the stone of the centre six years ago, said the government was fooling the border belt residents by announcing to allocate funds in every budget but never acting upon it. Meanwhile, Fazilka Civil Surgeon Dr Kundan K Paul said 85 per cent work on the hospital was completed and it would be handed over to the authorities in March 2021. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expedite-cancer-centre-work-jyani-to-minister-187396
21-12-2020||---||BJP claims credit for stadium,  Congress hits back||Our CorrespondentAbohar, December 20The Congress today sought an apology from BJP leader and legislator Arun Narang for “misleading” people over the development of a stadium here.A report circulated on Saturday through Narang’s official social media account quoted him claiming at a workers’ meeting that a stadium was being developed at Azeemgarh under the BJP-led NDA government’s ‘Khelo India’ programme but the Congress was trying to claim credit for it.Today, former District Youth Congress president Sandeep Jakhar slammed the BJP leader for spreading “false information” to mislead people ahead of the Municipal Corporation poll.He said BJP leaders had made it a habit to grab credit for development work done by others. Jakhar said a cheque of Rs 1.5 crore was released by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh from the CM’s Discretionary Fund to develop the stadium in Azeemgarh, a project that was in limbo due to denial of funds by the previous government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-claims-credit-for-stadium-congress-hits-back-187397
21-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Mission Cleanliness at border||Achieving excellence in NCCAbohar: Lt Anita Raj, incharge of the NCC unit and HoD of the Hindi Department at Gopichand Arya Mahila College has won distinctions in the three-month camp that was organised at the Officers’ Training Academy in Gwalior. She represented the 6th Punjab (Girls) Battalion of the NCC. Anita won gold medals in drill as individual and as commander in the inter-company competition, silver medals in badminton and throw ball competition besides certificates of excellence in other events. She was decorated with the title ‘First in Order of Merit: Pre-Commission Parade Commander December-2020’. She was selected as the Parade Commander to lead the convocation parade.A helping hand from DubaiGurdaspur: Dubai businessman Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi has decided to back the protesting farmers with financial support. He has decided to pay Rs 10,000 every month to each of the families of the 20 farmers who lost their lives in the agitation. Earlier, he had rushed a team of 18 doctors and as many as five ambulances, including one fitted with a ventilator, to the Singhu and Tikri borders. “Farmers and agriculture are the backbone of our society. If we do not stand by them in his hour of need, we do not deserve to live,” he said.Honouring selfless serviceFerozepur: Around 90 NGOs were honoured for their efforts during the Covid-19 pandemic. The event was organised by the ‘Anti-Corona Task Force’ along with Rotary Club. Sumer Singh Gurjar, Commissioner, Ferozepur Division, honoured the representatives and members of various NGOs. Ashok Kumar Behal, president of the task force, said the effort was aimed at giving recognition to the selfless services done by the NGOs. “The NGOs set an example for residents of other districts also. When everyone was scared of stepping out of their homes, these NGOs came forward and helped the people during the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mission-cleanliness-at-border-187398
21-12-2020||New Delhi||Gatka among four indigenous games approved||The Sports Ministry has approved the inclusion of four indigenous sports, including Gatka (Punjab-origin) and Kalaripayattu (Kerala), in the Khelo India Youth Games 2021, scheduled to take place in Haryana.The other two games are Thang-Ta (Manipur) and Mallakhamba (MP and Maharashtra). Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju said Khelo India Games was a perfect platform for these games. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gatka-among-four-indigenous-games-approved-187342
21-12-2020||---||Centre asks unions to pick date for talks as Modi visits Delhi gurdwara||New Delhi, December 20The Centre on Sunday wrote to the protesting farm unions, inviting them for the next round of talks and asking them to choose a date. In a letter to the union leaders, Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal wrote, “I request those previously invited protesting union leaders to provide details of their remaining concerns and doubts and suggest a date as per convenience for the next round of talks.”The earlier five rounds of formal talks between the government and 40 farmers’ unions failed to break the impasse, with the farmers insisting that the Centre’s recent farm laws be repealed.The government intends to convene the next meeting at Vigyan Bhawan here “for resolving the issue so that the ongoing protests end at the earliest,” Aggarwal said.Even as the protesting farmers paid homage to those dead during the stir, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday paid a surprise visit to Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib and paid tributes to Guru Teg Bahadur for his supreme sacrifice. The Ninth Sikh Guru’s death anniversary was observed on Saturday.The PM tweeted after his visit, “This morning, I prayed at the historic Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib, where the pious body of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur ji was cremated. I felt extremely blessed. I, like millions around the world, am deeply inspired by the kindnesses of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur ji (sic).” He also tweeted in Punjabi. The PM’s visit amid the stir by farmers, especially from Punjab, is significant.Meanwhile, the unions announced to observe a daylong relay fast on Monday at all protest sites and to halt toll collection on highways in Haryana from December 25 to 27. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, addressing the media at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border, said: “Protesters are being threatened by the Haryana Government. This is against the direction of the Supreme Court. I urge them not to do so.” Senior BKU member Rakesh Tikait announced that December 23 would be celebrated as Kisan Diwas in memory of Chaudhary Charan Singh. “We request the people not to cook lunch for a day”.The protesting farmers paid tributes to the farmers who died during the agitation and lit candles in their memory even as the AIKSCC wrote to various traders’ associations for their support.Centre seeking info on funds, claims BKUChandigarh: Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) on Sunday said it had been asked by a central agency to submit registration details which allow it to receive foreign funds. “The Centre is using every tactic to defeat our agitation,” union president Joginder Ugrahan claimed. The FCRA stipulates mandatory registration for organisations receiving foreign funds. PTIAlso read:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-asks-unions-to-pick-date-for-talks-as-modi-visits-delhi-gurdwara-187344
21-12-2020||Vishav Bharti & Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farmers set up IT cell to counter fake news||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Bathinda, Dec 20Farm unions have set up a dedicated information technology (IT) cell to counter fake news and “negative” propaganda against the farmers’ protest on the social media, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) secretary Shingara Singh Mann said.Baljit Singh, who heads the IT cell, said they had created accounts under the name of ‘Kisan Ekta Morcha’ on various social media platforms, including Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, Instagram and Snapchat. From having their own IT cell to training leaders to speak English, the unions are trying to counter the “propaganda war” on three agriculture laws.Kirti Kisan Union vice-president Rajinder Singh delivered his address in English on Sunday. Also, the unions have come out with six posters, explaining in detail how these laws would “finish” the farmers.“We decided to have our own IT cell to abort repeated attempts to defame us by dubbing us as Maoists or anti-national,” said Rajinder Singh. The Bharti Kisan Union on Saturday posted an online advertisement inviting volunteers for video-editing and content writing. “The response has been overwhelming,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokri, general secretary of the union.Back from Singhu, Farmer kills selfBathinda: Gurlabh Singh, a 22-year-old farmer from Dyalpura Mirza village in Bathinda district, whose family was reportedly under debt, consumed poison on his return from the Singhu border. He was taken to a hospital in Bathinda where doctors declared him ‘brought dead’. Gurlabh was a state-level player of tug of war. TNSAlso read:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-set-up-it-cell-to-counter-fake-news-187339
