01-12-2020||Business||Sensex surges 506 points to new closing high||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 506 points to close at a fresh lifetime high on Tuesday, backed by gains in IT and financial stocks amid persistent foreign capital inflows. A strengthening rupee and positive leads from other Asian markets too influenced market sentiment, traders said. The 30-share BSE index ended 505.72 points or 1.15 per cent higher at 44,655.44. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 140.10 points or 1.08 per cent to close at 13,109.05. Sun Pharma was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 5 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Tech Mahindra, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, Infosys, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Nestle India, Titan, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and NTPC were among the laggards. Sector-wise, BSE realty, telecom and tech indices rose up to 3.49 per cent. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital markets as they purchased shares worth Rs 7,712.98 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. The rupee strengthened 37 paise to close at 73.68 against the US dollar. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading mixed in early deals. India's economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent, official data showed on Friday. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.10 per cent lower at USD 47.83 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
01-12-2020||Business||Deepak Kochhar denied bail in money laundering case||A Mumbai court on Tuesday rejected a bail plea of businessman and the husband of former ICICI Bank CEO, Deepak Kochhar, in a money laundering case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had arrested him in September in the alleged ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Special PMLA judge P P Rajvaidya rejected the `regular' bail application of Deepak Kochhar, filed on merits of the case as against technical grounds. The court had dismissed his ‘default’ bail plea in November,  filed on the ground that the ED had failed to file a charge sheet in the case within the stipulated period. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had registered an FIR against the Kochhars, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and others, pertaining to money laundering, following which the ED arrested Deepak. The central agency slapped money laundering charges against the couple as well as their business entities for "illegal sanctioning of loans amounting to Rs 1,875 crore to the Videocon Group of companies". “From a Rs 300 crore loan sanctioned by a committee headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Ltd, Videocon Industries Ltd transferred Rs 64 crore to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL) on September 8, 2009, only a day after the disbursement of the loan by ICICI Bank,” the ED said. “NRPL, earlier known as Nupower Renewables Ltd (NRL), is owned by Deepak Kochhar,” it informed. A "net revenue of Rs 10.65 crore was generated by NRL from these tainted funds...Therefore, proceeds of crime amounting to Rs 74.65 crore were transferred to or generated in NRPL," the ED further alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
01-12-2020||Business||GST revenue just over Rs 1 lakh crore in November||Revenue from Goods and Services Tax (GST) stood at over Rs 1.04 lakh crore in November as against Rs 1.05 lakh crore collected in the previous month, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. This is the second straight month in the current fiscal when GST revenue has topped Rs 1 lakh crore. The collection in November 2020 is 1.4 per cent higher than in November 2019 when the GST mop-up was Rs 1,03,491 crore. "In line with the recent trend of recovery in the GST revenues, the revenues for the month of November 2020 are 1.4 per cent higher than the GST revenues in the same month last year. "During the month, revenues from import of goods were 4.9 per cent higher and the revenues from the domestic transaction (including import of services) are 0.5 per cent higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year," the ministry said in a statement. The gross GST revenue collected in November 2020 is Rs 1,04,963 crore, of which Central GST is Rs 19,189 crore, State GST is Rs 25,540 crore, IGST is Rs 51,992 crore (including Rs 22,078 crore collected on import of goods) and Cess is Rs 8,242 crore (including Rs 809 crore collected on import of goods), the Finance Ministry said. GST revenue had topped Rs 1 lakh crore in 8 out of 12 months of 2019-20. However, in the current fiscal, the revenue has taken a hit due to the lockdown and the consequent slowdown in the economy. Revenue in April was Rs 32,172 crore, May (Rs 62,151 crore), June (Rs 90,917 crore), July (Rs 87,422 crore), August (Rs 86,449 crore), September (Rs 95,480 crore), October (Rs 1,05,155 crore) and November (Rs 1,04,963 crore).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||SC rejects Chanda Kochhar’s plea against Bombay HC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed Chanda Kochhar’s appeal against the Bombay High Court’s order that had rejected her application against her termination as the CEO and the managing director of the ICICI Bank. It said that the matter falls within the domain of a private bank and its employee. “Sorry, we are not inclined to interfere with the high court order,” said a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said. “This falls within the realm of private banks and employees,” it added. The SC was hearing Kochhar’s plea against the high court’s March 5 direction, which had dismissed her appeal against termination as managing director and CEO of ICICI Bank, while noting that the dispute arises from a contract of personal service. It had accepted the bank’s argument saying that the plea was not maintainable as the dispute was contractual and concerns a private body. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Kochhar, said before the apex court that the HC had rejected her plea on the grounds of maintainability. “I (Kochhar) was the MD of ICICI bank but the bank recalled my earlier resignation and converted it into termination,” he said. “This was wrong as it was against the norms,” Rohtagi added. The advocate stressed that there was no prior approval before the bank changed Kochhar’s resignation to termination. “The RBI was under obligation. You cannot convert resignation into termination. There is no question of termination as there was no previous approval as per the clause,” he said. “As far as we understand, it is the RBI who can raise the issue with the bank. You were in service with a private bank. RBI has to deal with the bank saying that no approval was taken,” the bench observed. Rohtagi contended that prior approval is needed for certain loss of employees. “You show us a judgement which says that you have a role, then your writ petition will be maintainable,” the bench said. Rohtagi then referred to some past judgements. To this, the SC replied, “ RBI has given post-facto approval. You are saying there was no prior approval. You are saying that it is not the proper manner. Your whole grievance is against the private bank. There cannot be grievance with RBI.” Rohtagi said that Kochhar’s whole grievance was against the RBI, as had it not given its approval, then she would not have been terminated at all. “What about my (Kochhar's) reputation,” he argued. “You can claim damages if your reputation is tarnished and if it was wrong,” the bench observed. “Everything cannot be about damages and RBI can be asked to explain its approval as RBI has no jurisdiction to give post-facto approval,” Rohtagi said. Kochhar was terminated from the ICICI Bank months after she had voluntarily left the second largest private sector lender. The former banker had moved the Bombay High Court on November 30, 2019, challenging the "termination" of her employment by the ICICI Bank. She had contended before the high court that the bank also denied her remuneration and clawed back all the bonuses and stock options between April 2009 and March 2018, for her alleged role in granting out of turn loans to the Videocon Group which purportedly benefitted her husband Deepak Kochhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Sensex rises over 120 point in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex climbed over 120 points in opening trade on Tuesday, as better than expected GDP data strengthened market sentiment amid unabated foreign capital inflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 126.62 points or 0.29 per cent higher at 44,276.34. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 32.45 points or 0.25 per cent to 13,001.40. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising about 2.5 per cent, followed by Infosys, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto PowerGrid, ICICI Bank and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, ONGC, M&M, Nestle India, Axis Bank and HDFC were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 110.02 points or 0.25 per cent lower at 44,149.72, and NSE Nifty slipped 18.05 points or 0.14 per cent to 12,968.95. Equity markets were closed on Monday for Guru Nanak Jayanti. India's economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent, official data showed on Friday. Meanwhile, the output of eight core infrastructure sectors dropped by 2.5 per cent in October, mainly due to a decline in production of crude oil, natural gas, refinery products and steel. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 7,712.98 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended lower in overnight sessions. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark fell 1.22 per cent to USD 47.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Growth projections hampered by contradicting sectoral data||Growth projections have been hampered by sectoral data that appear to contradict one another. Household spending is expected to rise 6.6 per cent in 2021 according to Fitch Solutions whereas credit to industry has contracted 1.7 per cent in October, according to the Reserve Bank of India. This was largely due to contraction in credit to large industries by 2.9 per cent during the month compared with  a growth of 4.2 per cent a year ago. However, credit to medium industries registered a strong growth of 16.7 per cent, up from 1.2 per cent a year ago. In consumer spending, Fitch Solutions said it expected recovery in 2021 after a projected 12.6 per cent contraction in 2020 but will be slower than most countries. “Unemployment will remain heightened, while the effectiveness of government support measures is questionable. As such, most indicators will only return to pre-Covid-19 levels over the second half  of 2021 and 2022,” Fitch Solutions said. However, in nominal terms, total household spending will only be 1.2 per cent higher than in 2019. In loans, personal loans registered lower growth of 9.3 per cent in October compared with 17.2 per cent growth in October 2019. Within this sector, vehicle loans continued to perform well, showing higher growth of 8.4 per cent against a growth of 5 per cent in October 2019. Overall, non-food credit growth decelerated to 5.6 per cent during the month compared with  a growth of 8.3 per cent in the same month of the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Indian Hotels Company Ltd says leisure travel has emerged as a revenue driver||Hospitality major Indian Hotels Company Ltd, which runs the Taj branded luxury hotels, on Monday said that leisure travel has emerged as a revenue driver amid the Covid pandemic but resumption of business trips and international travel is key to bringing the hospitality business back on track. While announcing a partnership with the Ambuja Neotia group to expand in eastern India, IHCL managing director and chief executive officer Puneet Chhatwal said: “In some of the leisure markets such as Goa, Jaipur and Coorg, revenue has already crossed more than half of last year’s business.” “Towards the end of October the industry has shown a good pickup and if we discount the period of lockdown we are already in some markets north of 50 per cent of revenue of last year. “In some markets which are leisure driven like Goa, Jaipur and Coorg or for some of our resorts we are even 70-80 per cent of last year’s revenue in November and also how the business looks on the books for the month of December,” Chhatwal said. But business travel has taken a major hit with meetings, conferences and trade events moving to digital platforms, resulting in low occupancy in business destinations.  Moreover, factors such as restrictions on international travel and deteriorating air quality in key markets such as Delhi have been a deterrent for the industry. “If Delhi and Mumbai pick up, the industry will be back. Because of historical reasons, we have a large presence in both these cities. But that has to be supported by international travel. At some point, this will kickstart. If a few international dignitaries start coming in and if there are a few international events then business will come from that,” Chhatwal told The Telegraph. The company has signed 8 new hotels across cities and brands in the first half of the year despite the depressed demand, with more in the pipeline. "A key learning in the global hotel industry is that the best investments are anti cyclical. In a soft market, it is possible to get a good project whether alone or with a partner. And if one can engineer the project well, then it is possible to actually build a good asset for the long term which can withstand the test of time," Chhatwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Indian Hotels Company Ltd pact with Ambuja Realty for 5 properties||Indian Hotels Company Ltd, South Asia’s largest hospitality chain, is set to become the biggest hotelier in Bengal, too. The Tata-owned company, which manages properties under Taj, Vivanta and Ginger brands, will have over 800 keys under its fold two years down the line in the state. Four more properties will be operational by 2022 — three in Calcutta and one in Darjeeling — adding another 401 rooms to its existing kitty of 426 rooms, which are split into two properties, Taj Bengal and Vivanta Calcutta (formerly Taj Gateway). Three of the four upcoming properties will be owned by Ambuja Realty Group, which is going to have five hospitality assets sporting Taj brands. An announcement to this effect was made on Monday. Apart from three in Bengal — two in Rajarhat and one inside Makaibari tea estate near Kurseong in Darjeeling district — IHCL will operate a property each in Sikkim and in Patna, Bihar, on behalf of Ambuja. Puneet Chatwal, managing director of IHCL, underlined the strategic importance of Calcutta and Bengal in the context of the East and Northeast, where the company will double its presence. Pointing out that Taj has done ‘very well’ in the last 30 years in Calcutta, Chatwal said: “It is important to have the right dots in the right spots. Having Darjeeling, Patna, Sikkim, Guwahati, Shillong serviced mainly through Calcutta is an important part of the strategy. If you have a good presence in Bengal and then servicing these cities and states, it makes life easier for distribution purposes.” While IHCL will take on the new assets under a management contract, earning a fee for operating these properties, the investment risk will be borne by Ambuja. Despite the setback suffered by the hospitality industry during the pandemic, Ambuja and IHCL hoped that business would come back over time as there would always be the urge to meet people socially. Harsh Neotia, chairman and managing director of Ambuja Realty, hoped that pre-Covid activities may return by winter of next year. Calcutta, which is primarily a MICE (meetings, incentives, conference and exhibition) and wedding destination, has suffered more than leisure spots such as Goa, Rajasthan or Coorg. Moreover, the supply of rooms are ahead of demand. Marriott and ITC are two other dominant players in Calcutta. Neotia’s Ambuja operates four boutique properties, including one at Raichak and another in Siliguri. An investment of Rs 800 crore is being made in developing five properties with IHCL. “Due to Covid-19, we have deferred some of the projects by a year or so. But even then, Rs 650 crore has already been spent,” Neotia explained. While the City Centre II property, which was being operated by Accor of France under Swissotel brand, will be refurbished and thrown open by next Puja, a convention centre at Eco Park will be ready by February. However, the 57-key low- rise resort type development in the park would not welcome guests before 2022. The Darjeeling property will open in two weeks from now. The Patna and Sikkim properties will also be ready over the next 12-18 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Corporate ownership of banks is credit negative for governance: Moody’s||The corporate ownership of banks is credit negative for governance because of the inherent conflict of interest, rating agency Moody’s Investors Service said in a report. “High non-performing loans in the corporate segment over the past few years partly reflect weak governance at both banks and corporate houses. Given this track record, the more direct involvement of corporate houses in the banking space will increase risks to the sector,” the rating agency said. The critical comment comes after former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan and Viral Acharya, the former deputy governor, called the key proposal “a bombshell”. The rating agency said the report recommends that corporate houses be permitted to own banks only after the Banking Regulations Act is amended to deal with connected lending and exposures and after stronger supervisory mechanisms for large corporates are put in place. But it will be difficult to mitigate these risks in practice. “The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Internal Working Group (IWG) report also recommended increasing the maximum promoter-1 stake in banks to 26 per cent from 15 per cent at present. As conflict of interest risks are inherent in any large ownership stake by investors with multiple businesses, an increase in the cap is credit negative. “However, the change in the recommended allowed maximum ownership stake would make it easier to raise capital in times of market difficulty,” Moody’s said. A tighter bank-like regulatory framework for large NBFCs is also recommended. If implemented, this would incentivize conversion to banks because of reduced opportunity for regulatory arbitrage. "This is credit positive for NBFCs because, after converting to a bank, they can accept deposits, which would improve funding at the same time as complying with high statutory liquidity requirements. Funding and liquidity are the key credit weaknesses of NBFCs," the rating agency said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||CAIT urges finance minister to stop banks from offering cashbacks on online purchases||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has urged the finance minister to stop banks from offering cashbacks on online purchases in collusion with e-commerce companies as it went against the ‘Fair Practices Code’ of the Reserve Bank of India. Praveen Khandelwal, national secretary-general, CAIT, said in the letter: “In the present case, it has been noticed that several banks, including State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Citi Bank, HDFC Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, HSBC Bank, RBL Bank and others have entered into an unholy alliance with e-commerce companies, prominently with Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart, forming a cartel and thereby granting 10 per cent cash back and other incentives in lieu of making payments using respective bank cards while purchasing goods from online portals.” The traders’ body, which is said to be supported by the ruling BJP, asked the FM to take immediate steps to stop the practice and order a thorough probe into why banks were extending discounts only on purchase from designated e-commerce portals. CAIT termed the arrangements as an “unholy nexus” and “cartelisation of banks”. It alleged that banks have partnered with multi-national companies to “destroy indigenous businesses”. It added that banks were partnering to flout policies and government rules which has caused “mass scale damage to small Indian businesses against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for Atmanirbhar Bharat.” Khandelwal added that it has reason to believe that the banks, in collusion with e-commerce companies, are continuously conducting unfair business practices, which went against the ‘Fair Practices Code’ of banks. “Surprisingly, till date, no auditor or competent authority has ever questioned this discrepancy and neither the Reserve Bank of India has questioned such a brazen unethical irregularity of business by the banks,” the letter stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Indian lenders to recover entire exposure to Kesoram Industries||Indian lenders will recover their entire exposure to Kesoram Industries as part of a one-time settlement plan. The cash component of the recovery would be 84-85 per cent, while the rest will be paid by issuing optionally convertible preference shares. As an additional sweetener, a minor part of the loan would be converted into equity. The proposal, as part of the RBI’s resolution plan for stressed assets, has got an in-principle approval from the Indian lenders. The board of Kesoram Industries, which formally okayed the proposal on Monday, called an extraordinary general meeting to carry out the exercise. As part of the resolution plan, Rs 2,200 crore of non convertible/optionally convertible debentures would be raised via private placement to a clutch of overseas investors. The overseas debt will be utilised to pay off domestic lenders and leave some cash on the books. The Kesoram board also approved the conversion of debt to equity of up to Rs 100 crore and issuance of zero coupon optionally convertible redeemable preference shares of up to Rs 500 crore. “The exercise will improve the tight working capital position by infusing liquidity. We are hoping to complete the process by the end of December,” wholetime director and CEO, P. Radhakrishnan, said. Kesoram, the flagship of the Basant Kumar Birla group, operates 7.25-million-tonne cement capacities in the southern market, apart from the rayon business. It has been unable to operate the plan for want of working capital. In the past, the company took a series of measures to strengthen the balance sheet but with little success. It sold off a tyre unit located in northern India to pare debt, which was later followed by hiving off the entire tyre business, a loss making venture, into a separate company. Promoters have also infused cash in the form of equity to strengthen the financial condition. With this debt-swap deal, the management hopes it would be able to operate the plants fully and generate enough cash to sustain business. The company management has earlier guided that the medium-term target would be to bring down debt to Rs 1,600 crore and then to Rs 1,300 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||Opec agrees to extend existing oil production cuts: Abdelmadjid Attar||Opec members have reached a consensus on the need to extend existing oil production cuts for three months from January and will work on convincing their allies in the wider Opec+ group to support such a move, Algeria’s minister said on Monday. Algerian energy minister Abdelmadjid Attar, holder of Opec’s rotating presidency, was speaking shortly before Opec ministers began talks on production levels. “There is consensus at the Opec level on extending the current 7.7 million barrels per day (bpd) cuts until ... the end of March,” Attar said. Opec+ had been due to ease production cuts by 2 million bpd from January. But, with demand still under pressure, Opec+ has been considering extending existing cuts into the first months of 2021, a position backed by Saudi Arabia, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-218
01-12-2020||Business||High food inflation impedes RBI to boost economy||High food inflation has made the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) “helpless” in taking measures to boost the economy that is now technically in the midst of a recession. With inflation restricting the apex bank in pursing its growth agenda, the six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) is widely expected to leave policy rates unchanged later this week. A rare indication to this effect was given last week when Mridul Saggar, RBI executive director and an MPC member, said that the room for another interest rate cut can be created only if inflation softens. Saggar said the RBI was helpless in controlling food prices, particularly under pandemic conditions. He indicated that the MPC lacked the firepower to tackle food prices though they ended up influencing the headline inflation numbers by driving up wages and costs. Retail inflation in October touched a six-year high of 7.61 per cent. It has  remained above the central bank’s medium term target (4 per cent with a band of +/-2 per cent) for seven months in a row. The major factor responsible for the spike in inflation is food prices. In October, food and beverage price inflation rose to 10.2 per cent against 9.8 per cent in the previous month, with vegetable prices rising 10.3 per cent month-on-month. Speaking at a virtual banking summit organised by Washington-based Institute of International Finance last week, Saggar, who is widely seen as a dove, said that the MPC has cut rates significantly and that more policy space can open up only after inflation eases Though members of the MPC have in the past alluded to this point, it is rare for an MPC member to voice such an opinion days ahead of a meeting. In the October meeting, Saggar had said that while inflation is above the upper tolerance band, it is not monetary in nature and that supply disruption in food, increase in taxes on fuel and liquor and a surge in gold rates have lifted prices. He had then hoped that headline inflation should start softening from October because of favourable base effects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
01-12-2020||Business||S&P Global Inc to buy IHS Markit Ltd for $44 billion||Data giant S&P Global Inc has agreed to buy IHS Markit Ltd in a deal worth $44 billion that will be 2020’s biggest merger, creating a heavyweight in the increasingly competitive market in financial information. The mega deal, which includes $4.8 billion of debt, is a sign that deal-making activity is accelerating as breakthroughs in developing Covid-19 vaccines improve the economic outlook. Deals touched a record high in the September quarter, with more than $1 trillion worth of transactions, mostly focused on coronavirus-resilient sectors such as technology and healthcare, according to Refinitiv data. Under the terms of the deal, each share of IHS Markit will be exchanged for a fixed ratio of 0.2838 shares of S&P Global stock, the two companies said in a statement. Once the deal is completed, S&P Global shareholders will own roughly 67.75 per cent of the combined company on a fully diluted basis, while IHS shareholders will own about 32.25 per cent. S&P Global is renowned for providing debt ratings to countries and companies, as well as data on capital and commodity markets worldwide. It became a standalone business in 2011 when its then parent McGraw-Hill separated S&P from its education business. IHS Markit was formed in 2016 when IHS, whose businesses range from data on automotive and technology industries to publishing Jane’s Defence Weekly, bought Markit for around $6 billion. Markit, founded by former credit trader Lance Uggla, provides a range of pricing and reference data for financial assets and derivatives. IHS has a market value of around $36.88 billion based on the stock’s last close on Friday, a Reuters calculation showed, with its share price up around 22 per cent so far this year. S&P’s market value was about $82 billion. The transaction is likely to face close scrutiny from competition watchdogs as the market for financial information becomes increasingly concentrated. The Wall Street Journal reported news of the deal earlier on Monday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was financial adviser to S&P Global and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz served as its legal adviser. Morgan Stanley was financial adviser to IHS Markit and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP was its legal adviser. The London Stock Exchange is in the final stage of trying to win clearance for its planned $27 billion acquisition of data provider Refinitiv, which has been through a long review process by the European Union’s competition commissioner. Refinitiv was carved out of Thomson Reuters by private equity giant Blackstone in 2018, when it bought a 55 per cent stake in the business in its biggest bet since the 2008 financial crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
01-12-2020||Business||Opinions divided over economic recovery||A less than expected contraction in the economy in the second quarter at 7.5 per cent has generated expectations that the economy is on the mend but there are still many imponderables such as any possible rise in infections and fears over the adverse consequences over the severe squeeze in government consumption expenditure that have prompted analysts to be more circumspect in their outlook. While some are projecting a recovery in the fourth quarter, others reckon that the third quarter will show a negative trend: -1 per cent to -2 per cent. The fiscal spending (consumption + investments) posted its first major contraction since 2014-15 and is the worst on record; on the contrary, decline in private spending narrowed to -9.2 per cent in the second quarter from -35.4 per cent  YoY in the first quarter, Motilal Oswal said in its Ecospace report. In its November bulletin, the RBI has said October data has stirred up consumer and business confidence. “If this upturn is sustained in the ensuing two months, there is a strong likelihood that the Indian economy will break out of contraction of the six months gone by and return to positive growth in Q3 of 2020-21.” Analysts at Nomura have said contraction in the current fiscal will be 7 per cent against it earlier projection of 9 per cent to “reflect the outturn and faster normalisation”. Global ratings agency S&P on Monday retained its forecast of 9 per cent contraction in the Indian economy for the current fiscal, saying even though there are now upside risks to growth it will wait for more signs that Covid infections have stabilised or fallen. “Much would depend on the sustainability of the consumption demand seen in the month of October .  Therefore, these are still early days and the data for a few more months will  have to be watched,” Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
