02-12-2020||Business||Sensex dips 37 points on profit-booking||The BSE Sensex retreated from record highs to close 37 points lower on Wednesday due to profit booking in banking and infrastructure stocks by cautious investors after the recent rally. The 30-share barometer closed lower by 37.40 points or 0.08 per cent at 44,618.04. The broader NSE Nifty edged higher by 4.70 points or 0.04 per cent to end at its fresh record high of 13,113.75. Banking stocks bore the brunt of profit selling ahead of the RBI policy announcement this week. Kotak Bank was top loser among Sensex stocks, dropping by 3.28 per cent. HDFC Bank declined by 1.86 per cent, HDFC by 1.28 per cent and ICICI Bank by 0.99 per cent. SBI fell 0.5 per cent while Bajaj Finance by 0.72 per cent. Larsen & Toubro dropped 0.16 per cent. Markets had opened with losses as investors were cautious over a possible US stimulus package. However, the UK's approval for the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine cheered investors helping the indices to limit losses, analysts said. Among major gainers, ONGC rose the most by 4.11 per cent, followed by Asian Paints (3.74 per cent) and Titan (3.48 per cent). Auto stocks gained after the companies reported sales growth in the domestic market in November, aided by robust offtakes amid the festival season. Bajaj Auto rose by 2.86 per cent, Mahindra and Mahindra by 2.53 per cent and Maruti Suzuki by 1.47 per cent. IT major TCS and Infosys recovered from early lows to close higher by 0.81 per cent and 0.33 per cent, respectively. Other Asian markets were mixed, with the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo and the Shanghai Composite index in China edging 0.1 per cent higher, and South Korea's Kospi gaining 1.6 per cent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng dropped 0.2 per cent while Australian shares closed almost flat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
02-12-2020||Business||Sensex drops by 60 points in early trade on profit booking||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped by 60 points in opening trade on Wednesday due to selling in financial, IT and energy stocks as investors booked profit after sharp gains in the previous session. The 30-share BSE index opened lower by 60.37 points or 0.14 per cent at 44,595.07. The broader NSE Nifty was down by 15.30 points or 0.12 per cent at 13,093.75 in opening trade. Tech Mahindra was the biggest loser among 30 Sensex stocks, dropping by 0.74 per cent. Among other IT stocks, TCS and Infosys declined up to 0.46 per cent. HDFC twins dropped up to 0.64 per cent in opening trade, dragging the index down. Index major Reliance Industries fell 0.21 per cent. Among gainers, Tata Steel rose the most by 1.49 per cent, Titan by 1.41 per cent and Asian Paints by 1.29 per cent. Auto, FMCG and Infra stocks were trading in the positive territory with L&T rising by 1.23 per cent. Equity benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty had rallied to fresh lifetime highs on Tuesday, backed by gains in IT and financial stocks amid persistent foreign capital inflows. The 30-share BSE Sensex zoomed 505.72 points or 1.15 per cent to end at its fresh closing record of 44,655.44. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 140.10 points or 1.08 per cent to close at its all-time high of 13,109.05. Meanwhile, other Asian markets shed early gains due to profit booking. Tokyo stocks dropped by 0.17 per cent and China by 0.22 per cent. Australian stocks also dropped 0.38 per cent. Oil prices dropped in Asia with the benchmark, Brent Crude, falling by 0.53 per cent to USD 47.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
02-12-2020||Business||Himadri Group to launch lithium battery powered cycles in Bengal||Co-founders of Himadri Group, which has aggregate revenues of Rs 2,000 crore, are jumping on to the electric mobility bandwagon. The Calcutta-based group, which has Himadri Speciality Chemicals as the flagship, will launch lithium battery powered cycles in the Bengal market by the middle of December. Priced between Rs 25,000 and Rs 40,000, these cycles are capable of running between 20-70 km without charge, depending on the capacity of the battery, Tushar Choudhary, founder of Motovolt Mobility, said. While the battery cells are being imported from China, Korea or Taiwan, the company claims that it is building the battery management system and the rest at Taratolla, Calcutta. Himadri’s founders, who have committed an investment of Rs 100 crore in the venture, will be pitted against Hero Cycle and scores of other companies who are assembling electric cycles in the country. While working with lithium ion battery makers — Himadri exports carbon which goes into the battery — the founders stumbled upon the idea to venture into e-mobility. Having spent the last three years on experimenting with the final product, which they hope will withstand the rugged roads of India, it is finally ready for a commercial roll out. “Our initial target is to make 50,000 cycles a year in the first year. Going forward, we hope to come up with two-wheelers and three-wheeler in 2021,” Choudhary said. The company expects governments, at the states and at the Centre, would provide fiscal incentives to bring down initial cost of ownership and make electric mobility popular among masses. “Once there is scale, batteries can be manufactured in India, driving down cost,” he added. There is a 5 per cent import duty on cells, which account for 40 per cent of the cycle cost. Some of the cycles will be fitted with a GPS system and they can be tracked by app. The company expects demands coming from e-commerce delivery and food aggregators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
02-12-2020||Business||Pandemic-hit states staring at record 36 per cent jump in indebtedness||The pandemic-hit states are staring at a record 36 per cent jump in their indebtedness to Rs 68 lakh crore, which will be a decadal high this financial year as their revenue is seen plunging 15 per cent, according to a report. This will have their economic output shrinking by at least 2-4 per cent this financial year, Crisil said in the report on Tuesday. This is mainly attributable to the falling goods and services tax (GST) collections and sticky revenue expenditure of the states that has gone up massively after the lockdowns, which began in late-March, the report said. The report is based on the state of finances of the top-18 states, including Goa and excluding Delhi, which account for 90 per cent of the aggregate gross state domestic product (GSDP). The states are set to face a revenue deficit of 6 per cent this fiscal, up from 1.5 per cent last year, it said. Capital outlay will fall to 2.7 per cent from 3.8 per cent, increasing their gross fiscal deficit to 8.7 per cent from 5.3 per cent in 2019-20 and total debt to Rs 68 lakh crore from Rs 58 lakh crore in 2019-20. Crisil director Ankit Hakhu said the overall debt of the states, including guarantees and loans provided by the Centre to partly compensate for the GST shortfall, will increase sharply by Rs 10 lakh crore this year. Manish Gupta, a senior director at the agency, said amid falling revenue receipts, the states’ revenue expenditure would remain  sticky.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
02-12-2020||Business||Reliance Capital defaults on interest payments on loans from HDFC and Axis Bank||Reliance Capital, the Anil Ambani firm, has defaulted on interest payments on loans from HDFC and Axis Bank. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges on Monday, Reliance Capital said it could not make interest payments of Rs 4.77 crore to HDFC and Rs 71 lakh to Axis Bank. The company had borrowed Rs 523.98 crore from HDFC at an interest rate of 10.60-13 per cent per annum for tenures between six months to seven years and  Rs 100.63 crore from Axis Bank at an interest rate of 8.25 per cent per annum for a period of 3-7 years, the filings showed. Shares of Reliance Capital on Wednesday ended nearly 5 per cent down at Rs 9.23 on the BSE. Reliance Capital said it is unable to proceed with its asset monetisation plans resulting in delay in debt servicing because of the prohibition to dispose of any assets except in the ordinary course of business such as payment of salary and statutory dues following an order dated November 20, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
02-12-2020||Business||Yes Bank aiming at Rs 10,000 crore disbursal in current quarter||Yes Bank is aiming at a disbursal of Rs 10,000 crore in the current quarter in retail and small business credit. The bank has also set a target to raise its deposits book to Rs 2 lakh crore by the end of March and increase the overall share of retail and MSME books to 60 per cent of the total loan book by 2023. “We are targeting a fresh disbursal of Rs 10,000 crore in the current quarter, which is a sizeable growth. Over a period of time we aim to increase the retail and MSME book to 60 per cent of the total loan book from the current 45 per cent,” said Rajan Pental, global head — retail banking, Yes Bank. As of the September quarter, total advances of the bank was Rs 166,923 crore, of which 55-56 per cent was corporate credit and around 44-45 per cent was MSME and retail credit. Gross retail disbursement was Rs 3,764 crore and SME disbursement was Rs 2,900 crore. “The bank is aiming to raise deposits to Rs 2 lakh crore by March 2021 and from a medium to long term strategy, by 2023, we aim to double the overall retail bank business from its current level. Unveiling Yes Premia, a premium wealth management programme of the bank on Tuesday, Pental said the bank is looking to touch 1 lakh savings accounts by March, having already reached 70,000. “The bank has the right platform, people and customers. We have a good distribution available. Within retail we are not too ambitious like going down the segments of consumer durables. We want to stick to the secured lines to augment our growth ambitions,” said Pental. The bank has also received a limited response on loan restructuring with the overall request not exceeding Rs 200 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||DHFL creditors to vote on proposal to seek fresh bids||Creditors to Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) will conclude voting on a proposal to seek fresh bids for the insolvent housing financier on Wednesday. If the proposal gets the support of at least 66 per cent of creditors by value, fresh bids will be invited by December 13 instead of the earlier deadline of December 10. It is learnt that the lenders are not against the proposal and, therefore, it is expected to get the green signal. Voting was expected to end last Saturday but it has been extended because of the weekend and holiday on Monday. Adani Properties, Piramal Group, Oaktree Capital Management and SC Lowy had submitted bids for DHFL in October. While the Adani Group had initially bid only for DHFL’s wholesale and Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) portfolio, it submitted a revised offer for the entire book on November 17. Its Rs 33,000 crore bid was more than the Rs 28,300 crore offered by Oaktree. The Piramal group had quoted Rs 23,500 crore for the retail portfolio of DHFL while SC Lowy had bid Rs 2,350 crore for the SRA assets. The Adani group’s move had led to a protest from rival bidders who claimed that its bid was submitted after the deadline and that it cannot make revisions to its original plan. With the lenders also wanting the suitors to revise their bids, they are now proposing to give them more time to submit fresh bids. They have now allowed the existing participants to bid for any option instead of their earlier stand on only allowing to revised bids for any of the option that was submitted on November 17. They have proposed that the potential resolution applicants may submit “revised and duly executed resolution plans which have improved commercial terms”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea announces tariff hike on two postpaid plans||All eyes are now on Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio after Vodafone Idea (Vi) announced a much awaited tariff hike on two of its postpaid plans. The telcos had hiked mobile and data tariffs by up to 42 per cent in December last year. Since then, there have been talk of another round of price increases with industry circles pointing out that the current structure is unviable and that such increases are needed to invest in infrastructure and restore their bottomline. Recently, Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal had said the present tariff is unsustainable and that it will look at the market conditions before hiking prices. He had hinted that the telco would follow Jio in taking such a step. In August, he had said that 16 gb data consumption a month for Rs 160 was a “tragedy”. The Bharti Airtel chief has maintained that the average revenue per user (ARPU) should be Rs 200 and eventually it should rise to Rs 300 for the industry to have a sustainable business model. For the September quarter, Bharti Airtel’s mobile ARPU stood at Rs 162. Vi on Tuesday hiked tariffs of its Rs 598 and Rs 749 family postpaid plans by Rs 50 with immediate effect. The Rs 598 plan offers 80 gb data with 50 gb coming for the primary member and the rest for the other user. The Rs 749 plan is now priced at Rs 799, which offers 120 gb for three connections has 60 gb for the primary user and 30 gb for the other two connections. Both these plans come with rollover of 200 gb of data along with free one year subscription to Amazon Prime, Zee5, Vi movies & TV.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||Board of Trade meeting scheduled for Wednesday||Measures to boost exports, manufacturing and the new foreign trade policy will be discussed at the Board of Trade (BoT) meeting to be chaired by commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday. The board, which includes members from the public and private sector, advises the commerce and industry ministry on policy measures related to Foreign Trade Policy.  “A meeting of the BoT will be held on Wednesday,” an official statement said on Tuesday. The meeting will be also addressed by ministers of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash and Hardeep Singh Puri. The meeting will be held through video conference; attendees will include senior officials from various central ministries and departments, government bodies and state governments, the CEO of NITI Aayog and representatives of apex industry bodies and export promotion councils, according to an official statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||SC rejects Chanda Kochhar’s job termination petition||The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected Chanda Kochhar’s appeal against the Bombay High Court order which had dismissed her plea against her termination as the managing director and CEO of ICICI Bank, saying the issue falls within the realm of a private bank and employee. “Sorry, we are not inclined to interfere with the high court order,” a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said, adding, “this falls within the realm of private bank and employee”. The top court was hearing Kochhar's appeal against the March 5 order of the high court which had dismissed her plea against the termination notice served by ICICI Bank. The high court had accepted the bank's contention that Kochhar's plea was not maintainable. Kochhar had challenged her termination by ICICI Bank in January last year despite the fact that bank had earlier accepted her resignation in October 2018. “How can my resignation be converted to a termination?” senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi appearing for Kochhar said. When the bench said it was her own decision to leave the bank, Rohatgi countered : “But what about my reputation? I worked in this bank for 30 years and now there is sacking involved?” “Then you are entitled to damages Mr. Rohatgi,” Justice Kaul said suggesting that she can file a separate suit for compensation. Bail rejected A Mumbai court on Tuesday rejected a  bail plea of businessman Deepak Kochhar, husband of Chanda Kochhar and an accused in a money laundering case.   He was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in September under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the alleged ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. Special PMLA judge P P Rajvaidya rejected the `regular' bail application of Deepak Kochhar, filed on merits of the case as against technical grounds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||Key manufacturing index dips to 3-month low; GST collections grow||A mixed set of data points for some high-frequency indicators have pointed to the challenges the economy may face as it looks to quickly regain normalcy from the ravages of the pandemic amid fears over a fresh wave of infections. A key index of manufacturing has dipped to a to 3-month low, while GST collections grew for the third month in a row. Diesel sales fell 7 per cent on an annual basis, while the country's top car maker also reported a dip in sales a possible sign of the festive season fizzling out. Manufacturing activity failed to pick up pace and dropped to a three-month low of 56.3 in November because of slower increases in factory orders, exports and buying levels, prompting firms to cut jobs for the eighth month in a row, a survey showed. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) fell from over a decade high of 58.9 in October to a three-month low of 56.3 in November. GST mop-up GST collections crossed the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark for the second month running at Rs 1.04 lakh crore in November. Collections were higher than Rs 1.03 lakh crore reported a  year ago but marginally lower than Rs 1.05 lakh crore collected last month. Diesel sales fall India’s diesel sales fell 7 per cent year-on-year in November after rising for the first time in eight months in October, industry data showed on Tuesday.  Sale of diesel, the most used fuel in the country, was, however, 8 per cent higher month-on-month. Maruti in reverse gear Maruti Suzuki suffered a 4.7 per cent fall in car sales in November but the other players in the industry fared well. The mini-segment cars of Maruti, comprising the Alto and S-Presso, reported a 15 per cent fall in sales, while compact segment cars comprising Swift, Baleno, Celerio, Dzire and Wagon R reported a decline of 1.8 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||Equity benchmarks surge to lifetime closing highs||Equity benchmarks surged to lifetime closing highs on Tuesday as better than expected GDP data and progress on the Covid-19 vaccine front gave fresh impetus to investor bullishness. A strengthening rupee and persistent foreign capital inflows further boosted market sentiment, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex zoomed 505.72 points or 1.15 per cent to end at its fresh closing record of 44655.44. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 140.10 points or 1.08 per cent to close at its all-time high of 13109.05. Sun Pharma was the top performer in the Sensex pack, spurting 5.51 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Tech Mahindra, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, Infosys, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Nestle India, Titan, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and NTPC were among the main laggards, shedding up to 1.40 per cent. Barring consumer durables, all BSE sectoral indices finished in the green, led by realty (3.49 per cent), telecom (2.52 per cent), teck (2.42 per cent) and IT (2.39 per cent) World equities perched near all-time highs as strong factory output figures from China bolstered expectations of a swift economic recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
02-12-2020||Business||RBI Monetary Policy Committee meet to begin||The six-member interest rate setting panel of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will begin its three-day meeting on Wednesday where the members will have to grapple with the problem of liquidity slosh in the system even as an elevated inflation has almost ruled out  the possibility of a repo rate cut. The liquidity overhang is a result of the RBI buying dollars and selling rupees amid foreign portfolio investors parking their funds in the country — inflows touched a record Rs 63,000 crore in November — and the apex bank resorting to open market purchases. An estimated liquidity surplus of anywhere between Rs 5 lakh crore and Rs 6 lakh crore has led to the overnight inter-bank call money rate falling even below the reverse repo rate, which is the lower band of the policy rate corridor, and certain companies raising funds through commercial paper at rates that are below the reverse repo. With MPC widely expected to hold the policy repo rate constant, the focus has shifted to the steps it will take to manage liquidity. This comes at a time banks are parking more than Rs 5 lakh crore in the RBI’s reverse repo window, making it the benchmark rate. The central  bank could make it unattractive for banks to access the the reverse repo window. It has tried that before: on April 17, after an unscheduled review without MPC members, the RBI cut the reverse repo by 25 basis points to 3.75 per cent and followed that up with a 40 basis point cut to 3.35 per cent after the MPC review on May 22. The rate cuts have been paused since then. At the same time it could also take steps to mop up the surplus liquidity to preserve the sanctity of the policy rate corridor while retaining the accommodative stance. “The MPC’s views on liquidity will assume more importance, as the transient surplus has pushed down short-term/overnight rates sharply…Strong and prolonged liquidity surplus has also raised concerns at over risk mispricing and potential asset-liability mismatches for financial institutions,” Radhika Rao, economist at DBS Bank, said in a note. The expectation is that the central bank may allow more players such as mutual funds to tap the reverse repo window, limited only to banks at present, or that it could also revive the standing deposit facility under which banks can park funds with the RBI without any collateral. In a recent paper titled “Four years of the inflation targeting framework”, published a fortnight ago, Ila Patnaik and Radhika Pandey of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, commented on the MPC’s April reverse repo rate cut saying amid the Covid-19 crisis, the RBI unilaterally decided to reduce the rate. “Moves such as these could raise questions on the relevance of the monetary policy committee. During this period, the reverse repo rate has been changed more frequently than the repo rate. Some members of the MPC raised question on whether the reverse repo rate has become the new effective policy rate,” they said. The MPC meeting also comes at a time credit offtake has not shown any meaningful signs of a pick up though banks have seen an uptick in retail loans during  the festival season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-217
