03-12-2020||Business||SC tells fund house to seek investors' consent before closing schemes||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund to initiate steps within one week for calling a meeting of unit holders to seek their consent for the closure of six mutual fund scheme and said that for the time being, there will be a stay of redemption payment to the unit holders. The top court also agreed to hear an appeal filed by Franklin Templeton against the Karnataka High Court order which stopped the fund house from winding up its debt fund schemes without the prior consent of the investors. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna observed that the issue is big and people wanted a refund. In the meanwhile, without prejudice to the rights and contentions of all parties, the trustees are permitted to call a meeting of unit holders to seek their consent/approval. Steps in this regard should be taken within a period of one week from today, the bench said in its order. Advocate Pratap Venugopal, appearing for Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), submitted that the market regulator has no role in the winding up process but had written to Reserve Bank of India in this regard. The bench posted the matter for further hearing next week and directed the Registry to also list all connected/cross special leave petitions filed by the SEBI and other parties. A spokesperson for Franklin Templeton said that they believe that the Supreme Court order will be helpful in ensuring orderly monetization and distribution of scheme assets. The spokesperson further said that they will issue the notice for seeking the consent of unit holders shortly and deeply appreciate the support of investors and partners till date and hope to commence distribution of investment proceeds at the earliest. On October 24, the Karnataka High Court had said that the decision of the Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Private Limited to wind up six schemes cannot be implemented unless the consent of the unit holders is obtained. The six schemes are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. Franklin Templeton MF closed these six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, citing redemption pressure and lack of liquidity in the bond market. Till November 27, the six schemes received total cash flows of Rs 11,576 crore from maturities, pre-payments and coupon payments since April 24, 2020. The cash available stands at Rs 7, 226 crores as of November 27 for the four cash positive schemes, subject to fund running expenses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
03-12-2020||Business||Sensex ends marginally higher to finish at 44,632 points||Domestic equity benchmarks ended marginally higher on Thursday, with the Nifty settling at a fresh record, amid mixed cues from global markets. After scaling an all-time intra-day peak of 44,953.01, the 30-share BSE Sensex pared some gains to end 14.61 points or 0.03 per cent higher at 44,632.65. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a fresh intra-day high of 13,216.60, before settling 20.15 points or 0.15 per cent up at 13,133.90 -- its lifetime closing high. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 7 per cent, followed by ONGC, Asian Paints, NTPC, SBI, Bajaj Finserv and Tata Steel. On the other hand, HDFC Bank, TCS, Bajaj Auto, Infosys and M&M were among the laggards. "Indian market opened mixed following mixed global market cues in Asian markets. Trades in the global markets also remained lacklustre...," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session, markets briefly traded in the negative territory but later scaled back to trade in the positive zone. On the sectoral front, the gains were led by metals, financials and bank stocks while the auto sector traded marginally negative. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.68 per cent to USD 47.92 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||HDFC shares down by 1 per cent after RBI stalls new activities||Shares of HDFC Bank declined over 1 per cent in early trade on Thursday after the company said that the Reserve Bank has asked it to temporarily stop all launches of its upcoming digital business-generating activities and sourcing of new credit card customers. Erasing all its early gains, the stock dipped 1.33 per cent to Rs 1,388.20 on the BSE. At the NSE, it declined at 1.28 per cent to Rs 1,388.85. "RBI has issued an order dated December 2, 2020, to HDFC Bank Ltd with regard to certain incidents of outages in the internet banking/ mobile banking/ payment utilities of the bank over the past two years, including the recent outages in the bank's internet banking and payment system on November 21, 2020, due to a power failure in the primary data centre," HDFC Bank said in a regulatory filing on Thursday. HDFC Bank said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) order "has advised the bank to temporarily stop all launches of the digital business-generating activities planned under its program Digital 2.0 and other proposed business generating IT applications and sourcing of new credit card customers". In addition, the order has directed the bank board to examine the lapses and fix accountability, HDFC Bank added. The lender said the above measures shall be considered for lifting, upon satisfactory compliance with the major critical observations as identified by the RBI. HDFC Bank said "over the last two years, it has taken several measures to fortify its IT systems and will continue to work swiftly to close out the balance and would continue to engage with the regulator in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points to scale fresh intra-day peak||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in early trade to hit its fresh intra-day record on Thursday tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Maruti amid largely positive cues from global markets. After scaling a peak of 44,953.01, the 30-share BSE index was trading 176.87 points or 0.40 per cent higher at 44,794.91. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a peak of 13,216.60 before trading 59.05 points or 0.45 per cent up at 13,172.80. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Maruti, ONGC, HDFC Bank, Tech Mahindra, L&T, HCL Tech and SBI. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Infosys, TCS, Bharti Airtel and M&M were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex finished at 44,618.04, down 37.40 points or 0.08 per cent, while the Nifty edged higher by 4.70 points or 0.04 per cent to end at its fresh closing record of 13,113.75. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 357.35 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic markets look to be relatively better than yesterday at the moment. However, the market may trade sideways ahead of the outcome of Reserve Bank's policy meeting, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Having witnessed sharp run over last one-month, Nifty valuations appear to be stretched and any negative development may lead to a sharp sell-off, he said, adding that midcap and small-cap stocks should continue to outperform large caps in the near term due to improved earnings visibility and wider valuations gap. "US equities closed modestly higher led by improved prospects of the announcement of fiscal stimulus before the year-end. "Statement from the House Majority leader that Congress hopes to reach an agreement on a fiscal package over the weekend and likely to vote on it next week lifted sentiments. However, the quantum of fiscal stimulus would be something, which the market would be keenly watching out for," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.10 per cent higher at USD 48.30 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Bank stocks under stress||Benchmark indices on Wednesday ended flat as investors resorted to profit booking in banking and finance stocks as the monetary policy committee (MPC) began a three-day meeting even as the Supreme Court resumed hearing on petitions seeking interest waivers on loans under moratorium. Investor sentiment, however, was positive as the UK approved Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine. The Sensex saw some volatility as it opened at a record 44729.52. However, profit booking saw the gauge hitting a low of 44169.97. The index closed at 44618.04 — down 37.40 points or 0.08 per cent. The Nifty edged up to a fresh closing record amid profit-booking in financial stocks and muted global cues. It finished marginally higher by 4.70 points, or 0.04 per cent, to end at a fresh closing record of 13113.75. Bharti Airtel on Wednesday said its subsidiary Nettle Infrastructure Investments has acquired an additional 4.94 per cent stake in Bharti Infratel for Rs 2,882.32 crore. With this transaction, Bharti Airtel’s total direct and indirect stake in its mobile tower arm Infratel has increased to 41.66 per cent, according to a regulatory filing. Banking and finance stocks bore the brunt of profit selling ahead of the RBI policy announcement this Friday. While the RBI is expected to widely hold the policy repo rate, it is expected to take some liquidity absorption measures. Observers are divided on the guidance that will given by the interest rate setting panel. Market mavens point out that stocks are set to touch higher ground on robust FPI inflows and more good news on the Covid vaccine front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Ant Group looks to exit Paytm||Chinese fintech giant Ant Group is considering selling its 30 per cent stake in Indian digital payment processor Paytm amid tensions between the two Asian neighbours and a toughening competitive landscape, people with direct knowledge of the matter said. Financial details of the possible transaction have not been firmed up and Ant, the Alibaba-backed payments-to-consumer credit behemoth, has not launched a formal sale process yet, four people told Reuters. Paytm, which is also backed by SoftBank Group Corp among others, was valued at about $16 billion during its latest private fund raising round a year ago. At that valuation, Ant’s stake in the Indian firm is worth about $4.8 billion. Both Ant and Paytm said the information was incorrect. A Paytm spokesperson said, “There has been no discussion with any of our major shareholders ever, nor any plans, about selling their stake.” Ant’s possible exit from Paytm would mark another reversal for the Chinese company hot on the heels of the dramatic suspension of its $37-billion stock listing last month, which would have been the world’s largest. It also would be a step back from its ambitions of becoming a global payments leader. Sources said in October that Ant was cutting its financial support to many of the overseas affiliated e-wallet firms. The main trigger for Ant to consider the divestment of its stake in Paytm is the worsening diplomatic relations between India and China in the past few months, said the people, who declined to be named as the deliberations are confidential. Relations between the countries are at a nadir, with troops locked in a border face-off in the western Himalayas for months after a clash in June in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Since the clash India has tightened rules for investments from China and banned dozens of Chinese mobile apps, including from tech giants Tencent, Alibaba and ByteDance. It banned 43 more apps late last month. “There is a growing realisation within Ant management that it would not be able to raise its stake in the company,” one of the people with direct knowledge said, adding senior managers at Ant have discussed the idea recently. Even so, Ant was in the middle of an investment review and it could still decide to shelve a divestment if it failed to get the desired valuation, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Supreme Court stays order for probe against Flipkart ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the March 4 order of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) asking fair trade regulator CCI to initiate a probe against e-commerce major Flipkart for an alleged use of its dominant position. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde issued notices to the Competition Commission of India (CCI) and the All India Online Vendors Association (AIOVA) for their response on the appeal filed by Flipkart challenging the NCLAT order. “In the meantime, there shall be a stay on the operation of the impugned order,” the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said after briefly hearing senior advocate Harish Salve representing Flipkart. Salve told the court that the NCLAT had passed an erroneous order directing a probe against Flipkart as neither was the e-commerce major in a dominant position as alleged nor was there any prima facie finding of abuse of the said dominant position. On March 4, NCLAT had asked the CCI to initiate a fresh probe against Flipkart on the basis of a complaint lodged by the online vendors accusing it of abusing its dominant position and indulging in unfair trade practices detrimental to their interests. The NCLAT had passed the impugned order after setting aside an order passed by the CCI which on the basis of an earlier complaint from AIOVA had ruled that there was no abuse of dominant position. The AIOVA had alleged that Flipkart was using its dominant position to eat into the sales of smaller e-commerce players who are into different online trades of computers, accessories, books, mobiles etc by offering huge discounts and other unfair trade practices. Ends||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Limited loan relief outcry||Various industrial lobbies on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre and the RBI to extend the moratorium on loans till March 31, 2021; continue the stay on declaring default loans as NPA; besides extending the waiver of compound interest on all sectors instead of just those in the Rs 2 crore bracket because of the unprecedented pandemic. The submissions were made during the inconclusive arguments on a batch of applications filed by different sectors complaining that the decision of the government to waive compound interest during the six-month moratorium period which ended on August 31 for only those in the Rs 2 crore bracket smacked of discrimination prohibited under Article 14 of the Constitution. This was because other sectors such as real estate, power, educational institutions, shopping malls were also severely affected by the Covid-19 crisis. Senior advocate Ravindra Srivastava arguing for some industrial groups pleaded that the government should adopt the role of a parens patriae —government acting as a guardian — to help all the other sectors affected by the crisis. The three-judge bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah pointed out that the government has to arrange its affairs only on the basis of its economic capacity. However, the senior counsel submitted that the decision to extend the interest waiver only to those within the Rs 2 crore ceiling was discriminatory and violated Article 14, which mandates prohibition of discrimination between two groups of citizens. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for real estate body Credai said the government has not done anything for most of the sectors. “The stand of the government of India is very clear. That they are not going to do anything… For the Union of India, the disaster has changed nothing,” Sibal said. Arguing that banks should not be allowed to declare default accounts as NPAs, Sibal said “eligible borrowers’ accounts should continue to be classified as standard”. On September 3, the court had directed that “till further orders” banks and financial institutions shall not declare any account as NPA (non-performing assets), if the same had not been done prior to August 31, 2020, the day the six months moratorium announced by the RBI on all outstanding loans in the country ended. The arguments will continue on Thursday when the consortium of banks, RBI and Centre will make their submissions. The RBI had taken the decision in view of the hardships being faced by general public and various sectors due to the present pandemic. The senior counsel rued that certain sectors like IT, pharma, mobile phones, digital platforms are prospering but not others. “They (Govt) say 70 per cent have not asked for moratorium & 30% has - this 30% is distressed. How has the Govt. balanced the two? Complete violation of Article14, Sibal argued. Another advocate appearing for an individual real estate developer argued that his fundamental right to carry any profession guaranteed under Article  19(1)(g) stood suspended during lockdown as such it was the government’s duty to provide succor to all sectors affected by the pandemic. An advocate appearing for some educational institutions said they do not come under MSME's who have been extended the reliefs. “The specific needs of educational institutions have not been taken into account by any circulars of RBI. All Engineering colleges run on non-profit basis”, the counsel said to which Justice M.R.Shah quipped “Who said so?” Advocate Abhimanyu Bhandari for Shopping Centers Association of India (SCAI) said unlike other manufacturing sectors, the shopping malls in the country were completely shut down. People were not allowed to visit the malls as such it was one of the worst sector affected due to pandemic. He said even today footfall in malls is now below 10 per cent. The arguments will continue on Thursday when the consortium of banks, RBI and Centre will make their submissions. Ends||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Three in race for Bharat Petroleum Corporation||The government has received three preliminary bids to buy a controlling stake in India’s second-largest fuel retailer Bharat Petroleum Corporation, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said at a webinar on Wednesday. Vedanta had on November 18 confirmed putting in an expression of interest (EoI) to buy the government’s 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL. The other two bidders are said to be global funds, one of them being Apollo Global Management. “A lot of interest is there...Dipam has recently informed the market... I think three parties have given EoIs,” he added but did not give the details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Exxon Mobil eyes oil, gas blocks||Global energy giant Exxon Mobil Corporation is in talks to buy stakes in producing oil and gas fields in the country, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said here on Wednesday. “Exxon Mobil is in active discussion with some of our companies to participate in some of our producing fields,” Pradhan said at a webinar. Exxon Mobil in October last year had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) to offer its expertise and technology to develop resources in offshore blocks. The MoU said ONGC and ExxonMobil would jointly bid for exploration assets in India. ONGC is developing deepwater oil and gas blocks on the east coast, which is expected to produce more than 15 million standard cubic meters per day (mmscmd) of gas. Exxon had also signed another MoU with the country’s biggest refiner Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) to explore ways to supply liquefied natural gas. Analysts said global energy firms were keen to add clean energy to their portfolio. Also, the US-China trade war and geopolitical uncertainty with Beijing has forced them to look at India for investments. Besides, rising cost of shale gas exploration has made India an attractive destination. Pradhan said the government wanted to encourage small and mid-sized players in oil and gas through appropriate incentives, citing similar policies adopted in Texas to encourage shale production. “Small companies have developed the Texas shale oil and gas sector. We are envisaging a similar scenario in India by involving a lot of small and mid-sized companies,” he said. Pradhan said India wants the new US administration to allow the resumption of oil supplies from Iran and Venezuela to give the country more options to meet its requirements. “As a buyer, I would like to have more buying places. I should have more destinations to go to purchase (oil),” he said. Iran was India’s second biggest supplier after Saudi Arabia till 2010-11, but Western sanctions over its suspected nuclear programme have led to reduced volumes. Venezuela was India’s fourth-biggest supplier but imports dwindled after the Trump administration’s sanctions in January 2019. The minister said the privatisation of state-owned Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) has received three preliminary bids. Mining major Vedanta has confirmed it has bid for the 53 per cent government stake. The other two bidders are said to be global funds, one being Apollo Global Management, reports said. H-Energy has entered into a contract with Hoegh Giant, provider of floating LNG infrastructure services, under long-term contracts,  for a floating storage and regasification unit to be deployed at H-Energy’s Jaigarh LNG regasification terminal for 10 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||Welcome The Next Normal||Covid-19 has emerged as the biggest disruptor globally, affecting individuals, enterprises and the economy. As the world looks at ways to emerge from the clutches of the pandemic, the 19th edition of Infocom, the flagship event of ABP Group, will deliberate on how corporate houses and enterprises can transform themselves. While on one hand the pandemic has emerged as the biggest threat, it has also offered an opportunity for change. In this context, the three-day event starting Thursday is themed around “The Next Normal”, marking an era where organisations globally build resilience and reimagine the post-Covid world. Coming out from the pandemic, enterprises that are able to adapt and transform themselves through innovation, speed, collaboration, resilience and technology stand to win big and the virtual conference this year will cover many related topics on the subject. Infocom, which acts as a forum of one of the largest congregations of technology professionals, corporate leaders, academics, visionaries and policy makers, will go truly digital through this virtual conference in its 2020 edition. The conference will bring together over 500 delegates from large corporate houses, IT, small and medium enterprises and the government. There will be 35 speakers from business, IT, government and SMEs across 20 sessions covering subjects such as strategy and leadership, technology and information security, customer experience and digital, education, healthcare and Covid-19 vaccine, government perspectives and new age initiatives. The department of IT and electronics of the Bengal government and Webel are partnering Infocom 2020 as the host state. The event will also see the participation of leaders from the rest of India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan and other SAARC countries. The event can be watched live on all the three days (December 3-5) on the YouTube channel INFOCOM Connect. The link to the channel is https://www.youtube.com/user/ABPINFOCOM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-215
03-12-2020||Business||US court rejects visa curbs||A federal judge in the US has struck down two Donald Trump administration rules designed to drastically curtail the number of visas (H-1B) issued each year to skilled foreign workers. The ruling would provide a much needed relief to India’s IT sector. These changes, introduced weeks before the US elections, included raising the minimum wage levels and tightening eligibility requirements. The court has now ruled that the Trump administration had not justified the choice to skip key procedural steps and also pulled up the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Labour for flouting procedures. US district judge Jeffrey S. White of the Northern District of California ruled that the changes were introduced in a hurry and did not abide by  transparency obligations. Information technology lobby Nasscom said in a statement that the court decision  clearly recognises the importance of high-skill visa programmes to the United States and this will help the US businesses access talent critical to  economic recovery in the post-Covid world. Studies have suggested that the H-1B programme plays an essential role in helping US enterprises secure skill sets that they cannot find locally. Even during the height of the unemployment spike this year created by the pandemic, unemployment in IT remained extremely low — from 3 per cent in January to 3.5 per cent in September 2020, the statement said. NASSCOM said it had submitted comments on behalf of thousands of our member companies, objecting to both procedural and substantive grounds. “We viewed the rule as unjustified and had sought for rescinding the interim final rules (IFR’s) in its entirety, given the significant harm it would do to American businesses, American workers, and to the United States’ economy as a whole. It clearly was not supported by statute or procedure. By failing to permit public review and comment, DOL did not receive stakeholder input that would have pointed out the flaws in the new calculations for wage rate determinations, and the reliance interests affected by the sudden imposition of this IFR, it said. In October, the administration announced two rules - one of them went into effect immediately raised salaries for H-1B to match those of Americans workers with similar qualifications, which was intended to deny companies from hiring foreign workers only because they were cheaper. The second rule was to go into effect from December 7, which sought to narrow the eligibility for H-1B aspirants. A basic bachelor’s degree in anything would not be enough. For instance, a foreigner being hired for a job in computer engineering had to be a computer engineer. The US issues 85,000 new H-1B visa every year and more than 70% of them go to Indian professionals hired by American companies such as Facebook, Google and Microsoft, and Indian IT services companies such as TCS, Wipro and Infosys.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
03-12-2020||Business||Queries on Future group and RIL deal  ||Sebi has sought a clarification from the BSE on the no-objection certificate given by the exchange to the Rs 24,713-crore deal between the Future group and RIL. The BSE had given the clearance on November 6. The market regulator’s move comes at a time the Future Group and Amazon are locked in a legal battle after the US-based retailing giant took Future Retail into an emergency arbitration over alleged breach of contract. In October, the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) had passed an interim order in favour of Amazon barring Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets to secure funding from a restricted party. Subsequently, Amazon had written to Sebi, the stock exchanges and the Competition Commission of India, urging them to take into consideration the SIAC’s interim decision. It had also asked Sebi to investigate FRL for alleged insider trading Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent of Future Coupons with the right to buy into FRL after a period of three to 10 years. Future Coupons holds 7.3 per cent equity in FRL. In August, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), a subsidiary of Reliance Industries ahad entered into a deal with the Future group to acquire the retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing business as a going concern on a slump sale basis for lumpsum aggregate consideration of Rs 24,713 crore. FRL had recently disclosed that it is received a communication that the SIAC Court is prima facie satisfied that under Rule 28.1 of the SIAC Rules 2016, the arbitration will proceed and following this an arbitrary tribunal would be constituted in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
03-12-2020||Business||Steel stocks surge to a year’s high||Frontline steel stocks surged to a year’s high on Wednesday on the back of a record price of the alloy in the local market. Scrips of Tata Steel, JSW Steel, Jindal Steel and Power and state-run SAIL hit their 52-week peak even as the benchmark indices closed marginally in the red. For the three private sector firms, investors have not seen such levels in the last 24-30 months, underlining the demand for the scrips. Observers say the performance reflects the strengthening of the alloy’s price in India. Steel firms have hiked prices in the recent months. Benchmark hot rolled coil steel price was raised by Rs 2,500-2,700 per tonne on Tuesday by major players, taking the ex-factory rate to Rs 47,000 per tonne in Mumbai. Retail prices have now topped Rs 48,000 a tonne, a range never seen before. Steel prices have risen more than 35 per cent year-on-year. Analysts feel prices may go up as December-March is the peak sale period. Moreover, domestic steel is available at a 5 per cent discount to the landed price of imported steel. High prices coupled with affordable coking coal from Australia would translate into more profits for large firms, despite a rise in ore prices. India Ratings & Research in a note said spread for the steel companies improved despite the increase in iron ore prices due to a combination of higher domestic steel realisations and lower coking coal prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
03-12-2020||Business||Rolls-Royce and Infosys sign deal||Rolls-Royce and Infosys have signed a strategic partnership for sourcing engineering and R&D services for Rolls-Royce’s civil aerospace business. As part of the partnership, Rolls-Royce would transition a significant part of its engineering centre capabilities for civil aerospace in Bangalore to Infosys, a joint statement said. Infosys did not disclose the number of people who will move to the company as part of the exercise. Rolls-Royce will continue these complex engineering activities in India in partnership with Infosys. Kishore Jayaraman, president of Rolls-Royce India & South Asia, said India has grown to become a key contributor to the Rolls-Royce global engineering ecosystem. Wipro on Wednesday  announced that it has won a multi-year contract from Verifone, a global leader in payments and commerce solutions, to drive agility across its cloud services offerings. Wipro said it would develop new features, capabilities and interfaces for Verifone’s cloud service offerings, enabling seamless and flexible transaction processing for the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
03-12-2020||Business||Larsen & Toubro sells UK unit||Larsen & Toubro (L&T) is divesting its UK unit Servowatch Systems to Rolls-Royce for a consideration of around Rs 89 crore. L&T on Wednesday said through its wholly owned subsidiary, Larsen & Toubro International FZE, it has signed definitive agreements with Rolls-Royce’s power systems division for the strategic divestment of integrated marine automation solutions provider Servowatch Systems. Servowatch is a supplier of advanced and innovative integrated ship control systems and it now provides marine automation platforms over the past eight years of L&T’s ownership. The company, based in Heybridge, Essex, United Kingdom, has 44 employees in the UK and India. “The divestment of Servowatch Systems is as per our stated goal of unlocking value within the existing business portfolio by divesting non-core units. L&T facilitated the business to develop an award-winning software platform for the latest generation of marine integrated platform management systems that are sold globally to many navies and commercial operators. We believe its partnership with Rolls-Royce and its product and solution brand MTU will pave the way for its further growth,” S.N. Subrahmanyan, CEO & MD, L&T, said. In August this year, L&T had concluded the strategic divestment of its electrical and automation business to Schneider Electric, a global player in energy management and automation. L&T said that it continuously evaluates its business portfolio and takes capital allocation decisions from a long-term perspective and that the exit from the electrical and automation business as well as Servowatch Systems is a part of the strategic portfolio review process. Servowatch Systems posted revenues of Rs 50.42 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020, which constituted around 0.03 per cent of the consolidated revenue of L&T.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-216
