04-12-2020||Business||Fraud-hit PMC Bank gets positive response from investors ||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday said the response from potential investors for the reconstruction of crisis-ridden Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank looks "positive" so far. Last month, the fraud-hit multi-state urban cooperative bank sought Expression of Interest (EoI) from potential investors for investment or equity participation in the bank for its reconstruction. The deadline for issuing Information Memorandum (IM) was November 20 and for seeking pre-bid clarifications was November 30. "The response looks positive at this point in time. The bank and its management are fully engaged with the investors who had purchased the information memorandum," Das told reporters after announcing the monetary policy. The last date for submission of EoI by potential investors is December 15, he said, adding "let us see what is the response and after that we can take a view on this". In September 2019, the RBI had superseded the board of PMC Bank and placed it under various regulatory restrictions after detection of certain financial irregularities, hiding and misreporting of loans given to real estate developer HDIL. The central bank appointed A K Dixit as the new administrator of the bank in September this year. While announcing the monetary policy on Friday, Das said, "With the preservation of financial stability and depositors' interest being uppermost in our agenda, we could swiftly resolve the situation at two scheduled commercial banks." Two private lenders – Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank were rescued in 2020. When asked about the reasons for delay in finding a resolution for PMC Bank, the governor said PMC Bank's situation was completely different from the two banks that the RBI has resolved this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
04-12-2020||Business||Sensex breaches 45,000 mark for the first time||Equity benchmark Sensex hit record-breaking numbers as it crossed the 45,000 mark for the first time on Friday, tracking strong buying sentiment in financial stocks after RBI's policy outcome. Earlier in the day, the Reserve Bank of India left interest rates unchanged for a third straight meeting as inflation stayed stubbornly high, and said the economy was recuperating fast and would return to positive growth in the current quarter itself. The Sensex rallied 447 points on Friday. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a new high of 13,280.05 during the session, before finishing 124.65 points or 0.95 per cent higher at 13,258.55 -- its record closing high. The top gainer of the Sensex pack was the ICICI Bank, which rose around 4 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, Sun Pharma, Bharti Airtel, HUL, SBI, L&T, Axis Bank and IndusInd Bank. Among the laggards were Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finserv, HCL Tech and HDFC were among the laggards. The RBI's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) "decided to continue with the accommodative stance of monetary policy as long as necessary - at least through the current financial year and into the next year," Governor Shaktikanta Das said. The central bank’s aim is "to revive growth on a durable basis, and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward," he added. According to Gaurav Dua, SVP, Head - Capital Market Strategy and Investments, at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, growth remains high on the priority of RBI. "The commentary is dovish in spite of the elevated level of inflationary pressure. It essentially means the liquidity situation would be comfortable and interest rates likely to remain soft in the near term. However, we see limited scope for further easing of interest rates by banks to borrowers given the tapering of growth in retail deposits and rising credit demand in the economy," he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
04-12-2020||Business||RBI keeps repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday left interest rates unchanged for a third straight meeting as inflation stayed stubbornly high, and said the economy was recuperating fast and would return to positive growth in the current quarter itself. The benchmark repurchase rate will be maintained at 4 per cent, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) retained its accommodative stance, signalling its intentions to cut interest rates whenever the situation eases. A spike in consumer prices forced RBI to pause after cutting rates by 115 basis points this year. The central bank, which had previously expected the economy to shrink 9.5 per cent in the year to March, revised its forecast after a shallower-than-expected decline in the gross domestic product (GDP) in the July-September quarter. Das said high-frequency indicators point to a recovery gaining traction, with double-digit growth in passenger vehicles and motorcycle sales, railway freight traffic, and electricity consumption in October. The GDP, he said, will grow by 0.1 per cent in the October-December quarter and by 0.7 per cent in the following three months. Overall, 2020-21 fiscal will end with a (-) 7.5 per cent degrowth. The economy had contracted by a record 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter and by 7.5 per cent in the following three months. The two successive quarters of contraction pushed the economy into a technical recession. This is the first recession since quarterly records started in 1996. RBI had previously forecast a 5.6 per cent contraction in the quarter through December, followed by a return to growth in the three months to March. Das said inflation continues to be sticky. Headline retail inflation at 7.6 per cent in October was well above the upper end of the central bank's 2-6 per cent target band. For H1 2021-22, RBI projected growth of 21.9 per cent to 6.5 per cent. RBI saw inflation in the fiscal third quarter at 6.8 per cent and easing a bit to 5.8 per cent in January-March. It is projected to be in the range of 5.2 to 4.6 per cent in the first half of the 2021-22 fiscal. "Inflation is likely to remain elevated," he said, adding that this constrains the monetary policy at the current juncture from using the space available to act in support of growth. Stating that RBI was ready to take further measures to ease liquidity, he said the central bank will use various instruments at the appropriate time to ensure ample liquidity is available in the system. He also announces measures to deepen the corporate bond market and supervisory measures for the shadow banking sector. RBI raised the limit of contactless card transactions to Rs 5,000 per usage from the current Rs 2,000, with effect from January 1. Also, real-time gross settlement systems (RTGS) will be available 24x7 in the next few days, he said. "The MPC decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary at least during the current financial year and into the next financial year to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
04-12-2020||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points ahead of RBI policy outcome||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Friday tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, L&T and ICICI Bank ahead of the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy outcome. The 30-share BSE index was trading 202.71 points or 0.45 per cent higher at 44,835.36. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was trading 66.10 points or 0.50 per cent up at 13,200. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by L&T, M&M, Maruti, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid and ITC. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Infosys, Reliance Industries and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 14.61 points or 0.03 per cent higher at 44,632.65, while Nifty settled 20.15 points or 0.15 per cent up at 13,133.90 -- its lifetime closing high. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,637.42 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities continue to look resilient and firm. A continued foreign fund flow remains a key driver for markets, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Outcome of the Reserve Bank's policy meeting would be crucial for the day. While RBI is broadly expected to maintain status quo, any sort of hawkish commentary, given the concerns over inflation due to excess liquidity, might result in hardening of bond yields and BFSI may come in pressure," he noted. Given current valuations, a sharp up-move in broad indices looks difficult, he said, adding that midcap and smallcap outperformance should continue to persist in the near term. US markets finished mostly higher as investors continued to focus on renewed hopes on fiscal stimulus. "However, benchmark indices came off day's highs after Pfizer announced that it will be able to ship only 50 per cent of targeted vaccines in 2020 due to supply chain issues. "A record surge in new COVID-19 cases, which touched 2 lakh on Wednesday, is being overshadowed by increasing possibility of agreement on COVID-19 relief package in coming days. However, the quantum of fiscal aid might not excite the street," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading with gains. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 1.81 per cent higher at USD 49.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
04-12-2020||Business||Post-Covid data consumption per person rose two-fold in India||Data consumption per person has seen an almost two-fold rise in India following the Covid pandemic with the increasing adoption of digital services. Speaking at Infocom 2020, an ABP Group initiative, Sanjay Gupta, country manager and vice-president, Google India said the digital economy had become more accessible and digital services were playing a bigger role in people’s lives. “Back in 2014, monthly data consumption per Indian user was just a mere 86MB. By 2018, that had risen to 8GB, helped by the steeply falling data prices. But in just a few months since Covid struck, monthly data consumption has soared to 14GB per user per month, almost doubling versus 2018,” Gupta said, adding that at 500 million, India is already home to the world’s second largest online population . Rising adoption of digital payment services by small SMEs and video conferencing, particularly in education, have been among the key drivers towards the adoption of digital services during the pandemic. Citing an example, Gupta said local grocers had started using digital payments during the lockdown offering safety and convenience to their customers. “Many even put their inventory and catalogues on Google Sheets to share with their customers in the absence of e-commerce options.” He said that the pace and scale of technology adoption brought on by the pandemic was unprecedented. “In some ways in the past 10 months, we have squeezed in potential changes for the next 10 years,” he said. Realising further potential, Google in July had said it will invest USD 10 billion in the country through a mix of equity investment, partnerships and operational infrastructure and ecosystem investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
04-12-2020||Business||Accenture expects companies to adopt hybrid model to manage workforce||Global professional services major Accenture expects companies to increasingly adopt a hybrid model to manage its workforce in the post Covid era. In a hybrid model, employees can work remotely; employers, thus, do not have to recruit keeping their own location in mind. “After the vaccine comes, are we going to go back to offices or stay in this mode? It will depend on different industries and different businesses, but I am sure that this would be a hybrid model,” said Bhaskar Ghosh, chief strategy officer, Accenture, at Infocom 2020, the flagship event of ABP Group. Citing an example, Ghosh said IT players, like many other industries, usually recruit from Bangalore if there is an opening in Bangalore; or if the recruitment is from another city, the employee is transferred to Bangalore. But in the future, it will be possible to recruit from different parts of the world and India, without the need to transfer the employees to Bangalore. From an employee perspective, technology will make it possible for individuals in Calcutta to apply for a job outside the city without the need to relocate on their part. Ghosh said after the disruption by the pandemic, companies have accelerated the pace at which technology is being adopted into businesses. “During the last nine months, the progress companies have made in terms of their digital journey may be equivalent to a three years or five years’ journey. That is a huge acceleration,” he said. Ghosh also shared two personal experiences — how he moved to buying fish online during the pandemic instead of the traditional market and how video calls have strengthened joint family bonds during this period  — as key leadership lessons to grow business in the post-Covid period. The first lesson Ghosh said is to learn to develop trust, retain clients and grow business. He said that Accenture which sells professional services, found that clients were willing to buy services remotely instead of the earlier way of sealing the deal only after conferences and meetings. “In this new world, client experience has changed the way they buy services and what is most important now is building trust.” The second lesson is unlocking the untapped potential of technology to create exponential value in business. “What we see today, tons of technology are available — whether it is blockchain or AI or robotics etc. It is important to use the technology to create the right value,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Maruti to not get Vitara Brezza manufactured at Toyota plant||Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) on Thursday said it will not get its compact SUV Vitara Brezza manufactured at Toyota Kirloskar Motor’s manufacturing plant in Karnataka as was decided earlier. Maruti said it will allot some other model, in place of Vitara Brezza, to be manufactured at the Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) plant. It, however, did not disclose the name of the model which will now be produced at the TKM plant. TKM on Thursday said it has resumed production at its two plants at Bidadi in Karnataka even as a group of workers continue with a sit-in strike. Audi push Audi AG will invest 35 billion euros in pushing ahead its transformation to a provider of networked and sustainable premium mobility.  Some 17 billion euros, amounting to half of the investment sum, is allocated to future technologies. Like the Volkswagen Group as a whole, Audi is reinforcing investments in electromobility. The premium manufacturer has earmarked approximately euro 15 billion for this and the future topic of hybridisation. BMW launch BMW Group India launched the new BMW 2 Series Gran Coupé ‘Black Shadow’ edition on Thursday. Locally produced at the BMW Plant in Chennai, the exclusive edition will be available at the BMW digital shop from December 7 onwards. Vikram Pawah, president, BMW Group India, said, “The first-ever BMW 2 Series Gran Coupé blends the comfort of a sedan and the sportiness of a coupé.” Tata Nexon milestone Tata Nexon EV has crossed the 2000 sales milestone in 10 months since its launch. Till November 2020, the Nexon EV had sold 2200 units, indicating the rapid demand for the EVs. After rolling out its 1000th Nexon EV in August this year, the car clocked in another 1000 sales units in three months (Sept-Nov 2020).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Indian economy witnessing V-shaped recovery||The Indian economy is witnessing a V-shaped recovery as the gross domestic product (GDP) has recorded a quarter-on-quarter growth of 23 per cent in the July-September quarter of this fiscal, according to the finance ministry’s latest monthly economic review. The decline in GDP narrowed to 7.5 per cent in the second quarter of this financial year, over 23.9 per cent in April-June quarter. “The year-on-year GDP contraction of 7.5 per cent in Q2 of 2020-21 underlies a quarter-on-quarter surge in GDP growth of 23 per cent. “This V-shaped recovery, evident at the half-way stage of 2020-21, reflects the resilience and robustness of the Indian economy,” the Monthly Economic Review for November said. Services PMI dips in November The dominant services sector growth lost some momentum in November as demand weakened, a private survey showed on Thursday, clouding hopes of a quick economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic’s blow. IHS Markit Services Purchasing Managers’ Index dipped to 53.7 in November from October’s 54.1 but still held well above the 50-mark separating growth from contraction for a second month. Though the sector activity rose for the third straight month in November, but the pace of growth softened from October’s near nine-year high.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Jharkhand only state yet to accept Centre’s GST compensation formula||Jharkhand remains the only state yet to accept the Centre’s compensation formula to meet the GST cess shortfall. The formula mandates the Centre to borrow on behalf of the states. With Chhattisgarh communicating its acceptance of the formula on Wednesday, all the remaining 27 states and the three Union Territories with legislative assemblies — Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry — have opted for the plan. “I can let you know only after I discuss the matter with the departmental officers and also consult the finance ministers of Bengal and Chhattisgarh,” Jharkhand finance minister Raneshwar Oraon told The Telegraph when asked what would be the state’s stand at this juncture. “There were certain issues relating to the principle amount of the loan and its interest that needed to be sorted out,” he further said,  adding that could not be done as he had to be hospitalised after he tested positive for Covid-19 last month. The minister was released from hospital after he tested negative and he is recuperating at his residence. The Centre since October 23 has borrowed Rs 30,000 crore on behalf of the states in five instalments till December. The states, are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of gross state domestic product out of 2 per cent additional borrowings permitted by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Flipkart announces a 'partial spin-off' of PhonePe||E-commerce major Flipkart on Thursday announced a “partial spin-off” of PhonePe as the digital payment firm raises $700 million in funding — valuing it at $5.5 billion. In this financing round, PhonePe is raising $700 million (about Rs 5,172 crore) in primary capital at a post-money valuation of $5.5 billion from existing Flipkart investors, led by Walmart, a statement said. Flipkart will remain PhonePe’s majority shareholder, and the two businesses will retain their close collaboration, it added. “Recognising the momentum that has been achieved, as well as PhonePe’s significant growth potential, Flipkart’s Board determined that this was the right time to partially spin-off PhonePe so it can access dedicated capital to fund its long-term ambitions over the next three to four years,” the statement said. PhonePe has crossed the 250 million registered user milestone, with over 100 million monthly active users (MAU) generating nearly one billion digital payment transactions in October 2020. “Flipkart and PhonePe are already among the more prominent Indian digital platforms with over 250 million users each. This partial spin-off gives PhonePe access to dedicated long-term capital to pursue our vision of providing financial inclusion to a billion Indians,” PhonePe founder and CEO Sameer Nigam said. Kalyan Krishnamurthy, CEO of Flipkart Group, said the move will “help PhonePe maximise its potential as it moves to the next phase of its development, and it will also maximise value creation for Flipkart and our shareholders”. PhonePe was founded by ex-Flipkart executives Nigam, Rahul Chari and Burzin Engineer, and was acquired by Flipkart in 2016. In 2018, Flipkart was acquired by Walmart, and PhonePe was part of the transaction as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Centre raises cap on domestic flights by 10 percentage points||The Centre has raised the cap on domestic flights by 10 percentage points to 80 per cent of pre-coronavirus level as the airlines look to do better business during Christmas and New Year. “Domestic operations re-commenced with 30,000 passengers on May 25 and have now touched a high of 2.52 lakh on November 30, 2020. Ministry of Civil Aviation is now allowing domestic carriers to increase their operations from the existing 70 per cent to 80 per cent of pre-Covid approved capacity,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said in a tweet. The government had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25 after a gap of two months because  of the coronavirus lockdown. Since then, air passenger traffic has gradually picked up. Airline bookings have risen, with daily domestic passenger count touching about 2,50,000. The numbers, however, are still way below pre-pandemic figures. Heavy loss: Icra Rating agency Icra said it expected profitability of the  industry to be adversely impacted in this fiscal due to lower revenues and high fixed costs. It estimates the industry  to report a significant net loss of Rs 21,000 crore in this fiscal, against net loss of Rs 12,700 crore in 2019-20, with the industry debt level increasing to Rs 50,000 crore (excluding lease liabilities) over 2021-22 and the industry requiring additional funding of Rs 35,000-37,000 crore 2020-21 to 2022-23. It expects 2020-21 to witness a higher decline of 62-64 per cent in domestic passenger traffic, than its earlier estimates of 41-46 per cent decline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||RBI can roll back 100 basis points cut in cash reserve ratio||The RBI could roll back the 100 basis points cut in the cash reserve ratio (CRR) and come out with various other measures as it looks to soak up surplus liquidity that has resulted in money market rates slipping below the reverse repo rate. The apex bank is set to announce its monetary policy on Friday where it is widely expected to hold the policy repo rate at four per cent because of  elevated inflation. However, the focus has shifted to the liquidity management measures that it could take with risk averse banks parking close to Rs 6 lakh crore at the its reverse repo window. Experts say the monetary policy committee (MPC) could reverse the reduction in CRR that was done in March. The RBI had then brought it down to 3 per cent which resulted in releasing liquidity of more than Rs 1 lakh crore into the system. However, this might signal the RBI withdrawing its accommodative policy stance particularly after the economy has shown strong recovery signs.  The apex bank therefore will have to toe a careful line to continue with its growth agenda while mobilising the surplus liquidity. The interest rate setting panel could look at other options as well. Analysts at Emkay said the RBI may consider introducing Standing Deposit Facility (SDF) by which participants can park surplus funds without any collateral. They added that RBI can fix this rate a tad above reverse repo and that the facility can even be extended to non-banks such as  mutual funds and insurance thus creating an effective floor for the money markets. Additionally, the RBI may also consider longer tenor term reverse repos.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||Siemens India reportedly fires CEO and CFO||The Indian subsidiary of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy has reportedly fired its chief operating officer and chief financial officer after an internal investigation found he failed to conduct appropriate due diligence when engaging a consultancy that had political connections. A Reuters report said that the unit’s former chief operating officer and chief financial officer, R. Venkatesh, is alleged to have disregarded corporate governance processes when dealing with UAP Advisors LLP. This is according to a June 28 filing in a case where Venkatesh is challenging his dismissal. Siemens Gamesa reportedly said in the filing that significant sums of money were paid to UAP without any diligence whatsoever and without even ascertaining proof of performance, while adding that UAP had strong links with “politically exposed” persons. The size of the payments made was not disclosed. According to the UAP Advisors’ website, while Uma Prabhu (wife of former railway minister Suresh Prabhu) is the managing partner, Ameya Prabhu (son of Suresh Prabhu) is a partner at the firm. It provides strategic advisory, financial services, principal investments and India market entry partnerships Venkatesh, who was fired in May, said in a statement to Reuters he was removed as the company owed him “a large amount of money” and that he will legally contest attempts to hurt his reputation. In court filings, he has called the internal inquiry “a sham” and said thousands of pages of UAP’s findings were shared with the management over time. Siemens Gamesa said in a statement its dispute with the former executive was private and it would not comment further as the matter was before the court. It said it does not intend to initiate proceedings against UAP. In a statement sent by Ameya Prabhu, UAP said it had “the highest quality of corporate governance”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
04-12-2020||Business||RBI prohibits HDFC Bank from issuing new credit cards||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday barred HDFC Bank from issuing new credit cards and launching fresh digital banking initiatives, delivering one of the harshest regulatory penalties to any banking entity for a breakdown of services during which customers were unable to transact on its platforms. The banking regulator was responding to expressions of customer outrage over service outages — with the most recent episode occurring on November 21 when a power outage knocked out its primary data centre. HDFC Bank is the country’s largest credit card issuer with close to 1.5 crore credit card consumers — far ahead of SBI’s 1.1 crore consumers and ICICI Bank’s 92.7 lakh users. The regulator also asked HDFC Bank to ensure that its board “examines the lapses and fixes accountability”. This is the first time that the RBI is cracking down on any bank for lapses in service and it does raise questions about whether the severity of the penalty is proportionate to the magnitude of the deficiency. One must wait to see whether this is a veiled warning to other banks that have also witnessed similar outages. Until now, the RBI has always preferred to slap monetary penalties for lapses and irregularities and rarely resorted to regulatory action that has the potential to interfere with market outcomes. The penalty is certain to strangle HDFC Bank’s aspirations to grow its digital footprint at a time the pandemic has ignited a tsunami of digital transactions through cards and payment apps. There was no word on when the curbs would be lifted which would give its rivals the opportunity to overhaul the market leader in digital transactions. The bank tried to play down the wider implication of the penalty on market competition. Sashidhar Jagdishan, HDFC Bank’s new MD & CEO who recently took over from Aditya Puri, put out an apology to the customers. “We take this opportunity to assure our existing customers that there is no reason to worry. You can continue to transact with the bank without any concern. We realise that as our valued customer, you expect us to maintain a very high standard of service quality and experience. And sometimes, we have not been able to live up to your expectations. For that, please accept our sincere apologies,” he said. “We will work with the experts and the regulator to fortify the identified areas for improvement. Internally, we are looking at this as an opportunity to further improve ourselves and emerge stronger,” he said in a message that was put up on the bank’s website. Two outages HDFC Bank has been penalised for two major outages: one in November 2018 and the other in December 2019. “Unexpectedly, another incident happened on November 21 and the primary reason for the same is the power outage in our primary data centre. We are working on a war footing to strengthen this area also now,” Sashidhar added. Card customers had complained that they were stuck at merchant establishments with payments not going through. Customers of other banks have also been left out in the cold on a few occasions. Rival State Bank of India had to face the ire of customers earlier this week because of transaction failures. The SBI had faced technical glitches in the previous month as well. Customers of the SBI also faced difficulties with Yono app which was impacted by a system outage. Many customers had complained that the application showed an error M005. At that time, SBI had sent out a tweet to its customers requesting them to use onlineSBI or the Yonolite app for their banking needs. The RBI has also directed HDFC Bank to temporarily stop all launches of its digital business generating activities under its programme ‘Digital 2.0’ and other proposed business-generating IT applications. Under this initiative, HDFC Bank was looking to upgrade its net banking and mobile banking mediums to offer a better experience to users. A senior banker, who did not wish to be identified, said that while the system has witnessed a rapid growth in transactions via digital channels, the lenders have only resorted to minor upgrades to their infrastructure, which clearly have been inadequate. However, Suresh Ganapathy of Macquarie said in a note that when a bank is growing at a rapid pace and a way faster than the system, challenges are bound to crop up. “While the system loan growth has been at 5 per cent, HDFC Bank has grown its loan book at a level of 16-17 per cent, almost three times and this comes on the back of a 10 per cent market share. Added to that, it has a market share of 35-40 per cent in payments. While a market share in credit cards on an outstanding basis was 26 per cent, on an incremental basis, it was 31 per cent in the calendar year till date. Against this backdrop,  technology is unable to keep up with the pace of growth." He added that today’s move by the RBI would have only a limited impact on HDFC Bank’s profitability vis-à-vis issuing new cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-214
