05-12-2020||Business||UltraTech Cement shares closes with over 4% gain||Shares of UltraTech Cement on Friday closed with an over 4 per cent gain after the firm announced an investment plan worth Rs 5,477 crore. The stock, which zoomed 6.25 per cent to a one-year high of Rs 5,198.30 during the day on the BSE, later closed at Rs 5,092.90, a gain of 4.10 per cent. On the NSE, it gained 4.01 per cent to settle at Rs 5,089.80. The country’s largest cement maker on Thursday announced a Rs 5,477-crore investment to add 12.8 million tonnes (mt) capacity, taking its overall output to over 136 mt per annum. In a statement, the company said its board in a meeting approved capacity expansion to the tune of 12.8 mt per annum with a mix of brown-field and green-field expansion. Upon completion of the latest round of expansion, UltraTech’s capacity will grow to 136.25 mt per annum, reinforcing its position as the third-largest cement company in the world, outside of China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
05-12-2020||Business|| Uday Shankar named president-elect of Ficci for 2020-21||Media executive Uday Shankar has been named as the president-elect of industry chamber Ficci for 2020-21. Shankar will be succeeding Sangita Reddy, president of Ficci and joint managing director, Apollo Hospitals Group, during Ficci’s 93rd annual general meeting scheduled to be held on December 11, 12 and 14, 2020. “Shankar is the president of The Walt Disney Company for Asia Pacific and the chairman of Star and Disney India. “He is the first-ever media and entertainment executive in India to lead a national industry chamber such as Ficci, which is India’s oldest industry body,” the chamber said on Friday. The Walt Disney Company had recently said Shankar will step down from his role with effect from December 31. After quitting, Shankar will pursue entrepreneurial interests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
05-12-2020||Business||RBI to review guidelines on credit default swaps (CDS) ||The RBI on Friday said it will review the guidelines on credit default swaps (CDS) to facilitate the development of the credit derivatives market. A derivative is a product whose value is derived from the underlying assets. This can be stocks, commodities or currency and even interest rates. An over-the-counter derivative is that which is traded between two parties without going through an exchange or other intermediaries. A CDS is an OTC derivative in which a protection seller commits to compensate the protection buyer for any loss resulting from a credit event with respect to a reference entity or an obligation and in return, the latter makes periodic payments to the protection seller until the maturity of the contract or the credit event, whichever is earlier. “It has been decided to review the extant guidelines on CDS and issue draft directions for public comments shortly,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. He added that the revised directions are expected to facilitate the development of credit derivatives market and a liquid and vibrant market for corporate bonds, especially for low-rated issuers. The RBI also announced draft norms for market-makers or entities who provide bid and offer prices to users in order to provide liquidity to the market. Here, the central bank said that the board of directors or equivalent forum of the market-maker should approve written policies which define the overall framework within which the derivative business shall be conducted and the related risks managed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
05-12-2020||Business||CCI to commence study on private equity investments in India||Fair trade regulator CCI will shortly commence a study on private equity (PE) investments in the country to look at various aspects, including whether PE investors’ rights in invested companies could lead to decisions that can impact competition. Ashok Kumar Gupta, chairman of the the Competition Commission of India (CCI), on Friday said that in the current year, PE investments have surpassed strategic investments in the country due to the pandemic situation. According to Gupta, a new trend has emerged where FDI and other foreign investments have been overtaken by PE investments. The regulator has been examining sub-10 per cent investments in target enterprises by PE investors where they have a board seat. As many of these investments are in multiple firms of the same industry, the issue of common ownership by minority shareholders across firms and its impact on competition needs to be understood, Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
05-12-2020||Business||Number of Indian unicorns can increase to 52 in next two years||The number of Indian unicorns — start-ups valued at $1 billion and above — could increase to 52 in the next two years. The country at present has a little over 30 unicorns. “The start-up ecosystem, which started with one unicorn in 2012, has grown to 30 unicorns by now and we foresee that we will be able to create about 52 unicorns by 2022. This gives assurance and hope that in times to come India would actually become a software product nation and give a much-needed leadership to the rest of the world,” Onkar Rai, director-general of Software Technology Parks of India, said at Infocom 2020, the flagship event of ABP Group. Data from Venture Intelligence show there are 33 unicorns in the country across segments. The largest unicorn in terms of valuation is Paytm estimated at around $16 billion, while Byju’s is valued at $10.8 billion. A key trend in the start-up segment this year is the continuous rise in the number of unicorns in India despite the pandemic. Six start-ups have crossed the $1-billion valuation this year. The rise in the number of large start-ups could also give a fillip to the software products market in India, which is at present a fraction of the global industry. This is unlike the outsourcing market where the country has a 56 per cent share globally. “In terms of software products, we are still at infancy. We have about $10-billion revenue in the software product market in India whereas world over the market stands at $520 billion which is expected to grow to $1 trillion by 2025. “A national policy on software products has already come out in 2019 and we want to take the software product industry in India to be somewhere between $70-80 billion by 2025,” Rai said. He added that STPI is collaborating with the Union ministry of electronics and information technology, state governments, academia and industry leaders for its centre of excellence initiative focussing on the access to mentor pool, seed capital, market access, laboratory and standards for the benefit of the start-ups. Rai said during the lockdown, the demand for made-in-India products and technology services has gone up, resulting in a growth of the digital profile of the country. “As the world is moving towards industry 4.0, the focus is on software and IT products. We are trying to build on talent and cost arbitrage and capitalise on the indigenous demand,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
05-12-2020||Business||Jharkhand govt to accept Centre GST compensation formula||The Jharkhand government has finally decided to accept the Centre’s compensation formula to meet the GST cess shortfall. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon told The Telegraph: “We have decided to accept the first option.” Other states, including Bengal and Chhattisgarh, also did the same, he added. The state had certain issues relating to the principal loan amount and its interest that needed to be sorted out,  he had said on Thursday, adding he could not do it as he had to be hospitalised after he tested positive for Covid-19. “We decided to choose the first option as both the principal and interest are to be paid by the GST Council (out of the GST compensation cess),” Oraon said, adding the state would not be burdened with paying the interest on the loan amount. “Our decision is being conveyed to the Centre,” he said when asked if the state had already informed the Centre about its willingness to accept the first option of the compensation package.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
05-12-2020||Business||Shaktikanta Das defends penalties against HDFC Bank||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday justified the stern action taken against HDFC Bank, saying a lender cannot put thousands of customers under difficulty and that there is a need to maintain people’s confidence in digital banking. He also disclosed that the RBI is examining the outage at State Bank of India’s Yono app on Thursday, though it is too early to say whether any action will be taken against the country’s largest bank. On Thursday, the banking regulator had barred HDFC Bank from launching new digital banking initiatives and onboarding fresh credit card customers as it cracked down on various service outages at the country’s most valuable lender over the last two years. The RBI action led to questions on whether it was taking a harsh measure against a bank while usually it imposes monetary penalty for any deficiencies by such entities. Replying to a question on the action taken, Das asked banks to beef up their legacy systems and invest more in infrastructure. Das also defended the RBI’s decisions to write-off bonds and shares of lenders during rescues of Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank as legal ones taken in depositors’ interest. Das said there cannot be a fixed template while dealing with cases of stress experienced by banks and working out solutions. “The actions we take are in the best interest of the depositors and taken in compliance with legal provisions and regulatory guidelines,” he said. He added that the RBI is “not indifferent to any segment of the economy or financial markets”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
05-12-2020||Business||RTGS to be available at all times||The RBI on Friday took more steps to make the payment ecosystem more efficient and push digital transactions in the country. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das announced that real time gross settlement (RTGS) — an electronic fund transfer system  used for large value transactions — will be made available round-the-clock within the next few days. In December 2019, the National Electronic Funds Transfer (NEFT) system was made available on a 24x7x365 basis. At present, RTGS is available to customers from 7am to 6pm on all working days of a week, except the second and fourth Saturdays of every month. In another move, the RBI has enhanced the limit for contactless card transactions and e-mandates for recurring transactions through cards and UPI from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 from January 1. Contactless cards use near-field communication (NFC) technology and enable customers to make payments at terminals without swiping the card. Friday’s relaxation will mean customers need not enter PIN for transactions of up to Rs 5,000 if they are using a contactless card. It may be recalled that in January this year, the RBI had told banks that they have to give card holders the facility of enabling or disabling their cards for various use like online or physical facility and it also give users the facility of setting transaction limits within the overall card limit Contactless card transactions and e-mandates on cards (and UPI) for recurring transactions have enhanced customer convenience in general while benefitting from increased use of technology, the RBI said. It added that these are also well-suited to make payments in a safe and secure manner, especially during the current pandemic In the last few months, there has been an exponential growth in contactless digital payments. This is because consumers are increasingly choosing to pay in a safe and hygienic way for their day to day needs. Mastercard welcomes the RBI’s decision to increase the limit from Rs 2000 to Rs 5000 without entering a PIN on contactless transactions through NFC cards…The RBI’s decision will further encourage consumers to use digital payments over cash and expedite India’s cash-to-digital journey’’, Vikas Saraogi, Vice President, Merchant Acceptance, South Asia, Mastercard said. In order to deepen financial inclusion and protect customers by promoting financial literacy, a community led participatory approach through Centres for Financial Literacy (CFL) was implemented by the RBI through select banks and non-governmental organisations as a pilot project in 2017. It is now proposed to expand the reach of the CFLs from 100 blocks currently to every block in the country in a phased manner by March 2024, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
05-12-2020||Business||RBI announces stricter NBFC audit rules ||The RBI is stepping up its scrutiny of non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) and urban co-operative banks (UCBs), particularly the larger ones. The central bank on Friday announced a host of steps in this direction that included the strengthening of their audit systems and framing a dividend distribution policy. The banking regulator also announced plans to bring in a scale-based regulatory framework for the NBFCs. In audit, the RBI announced the introduction of risk-based internal audit in large UCBs and NBFCs and the harmonisation of guidelines on the appointment of statutory auditors for commercial banks, UCBs and NBFCs to improve the quality of financial reporting. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said that a review of the way NBFCs were functioning was needed because of their growing significance and rising inter-linkages with other segments in the financial system. “There is, therefore, a need to review the regulatory framework in line with the changing risk profile of NBFCs. It is felt that a scale-based regulatory approach linked to the systemic risk contribution of NBFCs could be the way forward,” the RBI said while adding that it will carry out consultations with stakeholders before finalising such a regulatory framework. The RBI is also set to bring out guidelines for dividend distribution by NBFCs. Unlike banks, currently there are no guidelines in place with regard to the distribution of dividends by these entities. In a separate move, the regulator reiterated that banks cannot give dividends from their profit for this fiscal. Regional rural banks (RRBs) have now been allowed to access the RBI’s liquidity window. RRBs are currently not permitted to tap the liquidity windows of the RBI as well as the call money market. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is stepping up its scrutiny of non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) and urban cooperative banks, particularly the large ones. The central bank on Friday announced a host of steps in this direction, including strengthening of their audit systems and framing a dividend distribution policy. The regulator also announced plans to bring in a scale-based regulatory framework for the non-banks. RBI governor Shakikanta Das said its supervisory focus has been on improving the governance functions in these entities. As part of this process, the RBI announced the introduction of Risk based Internal Audit (RBIA) in large UCBs and NBFCs and harmonisation of guidelines on appointment of statutory auditors for commercial banks, UCBs and NBFCs to improve the quality of financial reporting In view of the economic shock caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the RBI on Friday asked scheduled commercial banks and co-operative banks not to make any dividends for the financial year ended March 2020. The RBI said it is imperative that banks continue to conserve capital to support the economy and absorb losses, if any. In another step that widened the borrowing option of  regional rural banks (RRBs), the RBI allowed them to access its liquidity window. RRBs are currently not permitted to tap the liquidity windows of the RBI as well as the call money market. These banks can now participate in the call money market both as borrowers and lenders. They can also tap the repo and reverse repo windows of the RBI and also get access to the Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) wherein entities can borrow emergency funds from the RBI at a rate which is higher than the repo rate. This now stands at 4.25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
05-12-2020||Business||Inflation forces RBI to keep policy interest rates unchanged ||The Reserve Bank of India once again chose to leave its key policy interest rates unchanged because of elevated inflation but persisted with an accommodative policy without devising any new measures or instruments to soak up the excess liquidity sloshing around in the system. “The monetary policy committee decided to maintain status quo on the policy rate and continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary — at least during the current financial year and into the next— to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy,” the RBI said in a statement. Since the pandemic hit the economy in March, the RBI has cut the repo rate by 115 basis points. The repo rate, at which banks borrow short-term money from the RBI, will remain at 4 per cent. The reverse repo, at which they park excess funds with the central bank, will stay pegged at 3.35 per cent. The RBI acknowledged the need to manage the surge in domestic liquidity arising from strong foreign capital flows. “Surges of capital flows have flooded into India. The RBI has been taking measures to dampen volatility and enable orderly evolution of the exchange rate... the injections of liquidity through forex interventions are being sterilised by absorptions through the reverse repo,” Das said. The pressure to soak up liquidity would probably explain why the policy makers chose not to tinker with the reverse repo rate; a cut may dissuade banks from parking excess funds with the RBI which could potentially destabilise bond yields. Surplus liquidity of more than Rs 5 lakh crore has driven down interest rates for short-term government bonds and corporate commercial paper, with some instruments being issued below the repo and reverse repo. However, the policymakers — who have stayed pat on interest rates since May 22 — revised their outlook for the pandemic-ravaged economy by forecasting a slightly less pessimistic contraction of 7.5 per cent this fiscal. Back in October, it had projected a contraction of 9.5 per cent. The central bank’s wise men had said in their November bulletin that the economic revival would start sooner in the third quarter. They have now backed up that forecast with a number: they expect to see a 0.1 per cent growth in the third quarter ending December 31 and 0.7 per cent in the fourth quarter ending March 31. For the first half of the next fiscal, growth has been projected in a wide range of 6.5 per cent to 21.9 per cent. But inflation remains the big worry as the outlook “had turned adverse relative to expectations in the last two months”. Retail inflation in the third quarter has been projected at 6.8 per cent, down from 7.61 per cent now — a six-year high. At the October review, the policy makers had expected inflation to cool because of a base effect. The statement said inflation in the fourth quarter would taper down to 5.8 per cent, just below its tolerance limit of 6 per cent on the upside of its policy mandate. Inflation in the first half of next year will remain sticky with the forecast set at a range between 4.6 and 5.2 per cent. Equity benchmarks led by rate sensitive stocks rallied to record highs on Friday. Breaching the 45000-mark for the first time, the Sensex surged 446.90 points, or 1 per cent, to finish at 45079.55. Intraday, it touched a lifetime peak of 45148.28. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a new high of 13280.05 during the session, before finishing 124.65 points or 0.95 per cent higher at 13258.55 —  its record closing high. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said she was not worried about the current high level of inflation as it is seasonal in nature.  “Rise in prices in commodities are largely seasonal.  The government is very frequently looking at changes and taking conscious calls for imports, and sorting out logistical issues. The blip in inflation will ease out. I don’t see food item inflation continuing,” she said at a media event. Outgoing Ficci president Sangita Reddy said: “There has been a substantial upgrade to the overall growth forecast for the second half of the current fiscal. This is encouraging but given the stress the economy had faced, we anticipate policy support, both from the RBI and the government, will be required well into the next year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-213
