06-12-2020||Business||Two public sector banks to get new heads||The Banks Board Bureau (BBB), the headhunter for state-owned banks and financial institutions, on Saturday recommended S. Ramann and Shivendra Tomar for the posts of chairman and managing director and managing director of Sidbi and IFCI, respectively. The members of the Banks Board Bureau interviewed 20 candidates on December 4 and 5 for the vacancy of chairman and managing director (CMD) of Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi), the BBB said in a statement. “Keeping in view their performance in the interview and their overall experience, the bureau recommends S. Ramann for the position,” it said. Ramann, a 1991-batch Indian Audit & Accounts Service officer, is currently CEO of National E-Governance Services Limited (NeSL), India’s first Information Utility. The Bureau has recommended Shivendra Tomar for the post of MD and CEO of IFCI. Tomar is now the managing director of IFCI Venture Capital Funds, a subsidiary of IFCI. As many as five candidates appeared for the position of the managing director of IFCI. BBB is headed by B.P. Sharma, former department of personnel and training secretary. The government in 2016 had approved the constitution of BBB as a body of eminent professionals and officials to make recommendations for appointment of whole-time directors as well as non-executive chairpersons of public sector banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
06-12-2020||Business||Jharkhand to get Rs 1689cr to bridge gap in GST revenue||Jharkhand will get Rs 1,689 crore through a special borrowing window to meet the GST implementation shortfall after it accepted the first borrowing option to bridge the gap in the Goods and Services Tax revenue receipts. “All the 28 states and three Union Territories with legislature have decided to go for option 1 to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of the GST implementation. Jharkhand, the only remaining state, has now communicated its acceptance of option 1. All the three Union Territories with Legislative Assembly that are members of the GST Council have already decided in favour of option 1,” the finance ministry said in a statement. The ministry said the state has been given “permission to raise an additional Rs 1,765 crore through borrowings also issued to Jharkhand”. The Centre has set up the window to borrow on behalf of the states the shortfall arising out of the GST implementation. The window has been operationalised since October 23 and the Centre has borrowed an amount of Rs 30,000 crore so far in five instalments. Jharkhand will receive funds raised through the window from the next round of borrowing on December 7. That day the Centre will borrow Rs 6,000 crore for all states and three UTs. The states who opt for the special window also get permission from the Centre to borrow 0.5 per cent of their respective gross states domestic product (GSDP) from the markets. As such, Jharkhand has been given permission to borrow an additional amount of Rs 1,765 crore. Under the terms of Option 1, besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, the states are entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) out of the 2 per cent additional borrowings permitted by the Government of India, under Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan on May 17, 2020. This is over and above the special window of Rs 1.1 lakh crore. Recently, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Bengal also accepted the Centre’s proposal after much opposition. In all, 27 states and three Union Territories have accepted Option 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
06-12-2020||Business||Pilot unions oppose bid for Air India||Air India employees are divided over their participation in the divestment process of the cash-strapped national carrier. While a section of the employees, led by the top management of Air India, plans to bid for the Maharaja, two pilot unions have jointly opposed the move. The last date for submitting the expressions of interest is December 14. Two Air India pilot unions have asked its members not to be part of the employee  consortium to bid for the airline. The Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association (IPCA) and the Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) pointed to a letter by Air India’s commercial director, Meenakshi Malik, asking the airline’s employees to submit documents and contribute Rs 100,000 each towards acquiring a 51 per cent of the company. The Telegraph has a copy of both the letters. In a letter to the team members of Air India, Malik said, “The ownership of the company is what we are bidding for and, thus, we are negotiating with our financial partner so that our employee-management consortium will collectively own and control 51 per cent (that is majority) of our airline. The financial partner will hold the balance 49 per cent of the company,” she said. “In order to acquire this 51 per cent of the company... each of us will have to make a contribution of no more Rs 1,00,000 to bid for the company... Until we cross Stage 1 (EOI stage), no monies are needed to be collected from the employees,” Malik said. Malik did not respond to several attempts made to get her version. However, the pilots’ unions opposing the move asked its members not to acknowledge Malik’s letter until the issue of pay cuts and withholding of 25 per cent arrear is cleared by the top management. “All pilots are advised not to acknowledge or participate in the process initiated by the management official till the disproportionate 70 per cent pay cut for pilots vis-à-vis Air India’s top management officials (10 per cent) is addressed,” the unions said. “Also, there is no clarity on the payment of the illegally withheld 25 per cent arrears due to the pilots to date while we approach the deadline of December 14 for the submission of bids for Air India,” they added. While other major airlines in India have revised the pay cut for its pilots, Air India being a PSU is yet to address the ordeal faced by us. We would like to once again reiterate NOT TO take any part in the process of employee bids in the strategic sale initiated by the top management official till further communication from us,” they added. “Broadly, the project itself entails participating in a bid process along with all the other participants who wish to take charge and ownership of AI and its assets. If the media reports are true, we will be bidding against, presumably, some of the largest corporate houses in India who will be just as keen and interested in the airline and bid,” Mallik said. After extending the EoI deadline multiple times, the government has substantially eased the sale terms for the national carrier in favour of prospective acquirers. An inter-ministerial panel headed by home minister Amit Shah had last month cleared a proposal to sell Air India on the basis of enterprise value instead of the previous equity and pre-fixed debt value. The change in the sale terms allows bidders to value Air India’s debt instead of the government’s fixed amount. According to the revised criteria, prospective bidders will also have to offer 15 per cent of the value as cash to the airline, while the remaining 85 per cent will remain as debt with Air India. The government in January this year restarted the divestment process and invited bids for selling 100 per cent of its equity in the state-owned airline, including Air India’s 100 per cent shareholding in Air India Express Ltd, which is the international budget arm and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
06-12-2020||Business||Bengal FM Amit Mitra banks on old normal||Bengal finance and industries minister Amit Mitra on Saturday said he expects businesses to return to 90 per cent of their pre-Covid mode of operations, but expressed concern about structural challenges to the economy and inadequate central government initiative in spurring demand. “My considered view is unless some new viruses appear and again we need to go back to social distancing and wearing masks, we will return to 90 per cent of how businesses were done before the pandemic struck. By and large I am hoping this is a blip and that blip will create its own dynamics but is not something that we can call completely a new normal,” Mitra said. He was speaking at the valedictory session of Infocom 2020, the flagship event of ABP Group. The event this year is themed “The Next Normal” in the context of the pandemic. “This is not a new normal. It may be an upgraded normal where people may be using virtual conferences rather than travelling across the world all the time. But it is certainly not something that will be abundant. We can have a virtual lounge today. But it is not the same as having a real lounge where you exchange ideas and challenge each other and watch each other’s body language,” he said. Mitra said that certain activities and businesses such as manufacturing and tourism cannot shift to virtual. Mitra feels critical board meetings cannot meaningfully take place without key board members meeting in person. “Can the boardroom environment be reproduced for complex decisions, big ticket changes?” Mitra asked. He said the minute a vaccine is available and things become normal, the unorganised sector will go back to their pre-covid mode of working. However, structural issues in the economy are yet to be addressed, according to Mitra. He said for seven quarters before Covid 19, GDP growth was on a decline, clocking a growth of only 3.1 per cent in the January-March quarter. He said that demonetisation and a hasty introduction of GST had its impact but more granular studies are needed. “I am really disappointed that when Covid hit, what should have triggered in the mind of the government of India is a great depression is about to happen. In the first quarter, GDP shrank 23.9 percent and the second quarter was also negative, which means we are now in recession. That was known when the lockdown was imposed,” Mitra said. He added that the Centre should have taken a cue from neoclassical Keynesian synthesis and stepped up spending to stimulate demand. Economies such as the US and Japan had significantly increased their spending and in the UK there was a furlough of 80 per cent of the salary being paid by the government if not called to work. “In India, the Keynesian multiplier works out to be a figure of 4. This means if we spend Rs 100 from the government, particularly in capital expenditure and consumer activities, you will get a 4 time benefit from that,” Mitra said. The minister also pointed to the low attrition rates in the IT sector in Bengal as a key differentiator compared with  Bangalore and Hyderabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
