07-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty hit fresh lifetime highs in opening session||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points and Nifty crossed the 13,300 level to touch their fresh lifetime peaks in early trade on Monday tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, ITC and HUL amid persistent foreign fund inflow. After touching a record intra-day high of 45,245.30, the 30-share BSE index was trading 150.78 points or 0.33 per cent higher at 45,230.33. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 48.35 points or 0.36 per cent up at 13,306.90. It touched its lifetime intra-day peak of 13,310.85 in early trade. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by ITC, ICICI Bank, Bharti Airtel, HUL, UltraTech Cement and Asian Paints. On the other hand, HDFC Bank, Titan, Kotak Bank, HCL Tech and TCS were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 446.90 points or 1 per cent higher at 45,079.55, while Nifty finished 124.65 points or 0.95 per cent higher at 13,258.55 -- its record closing high. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,969.59 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. The Reserve Bank's commitment to ensure a broad-based growth by maintaining a dovish tone continued to bode well for equities, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, positive progress on COVID-19 vaccination and increased visibility of fiscal stimulus in the US may continue to attract FPIs into emerging markets including India, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.41 per cent lower at USD 49.05 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Firms take 5-year digital leap due to pandemic||The demands of Covid-19 on the workplace — on account of employees being forced to work from their homes because of the lockdown — have accelerated the course of digital adaption among companies with as much as 80 per cent of their incremental expenditure in the near term being utilised on this count, a Nasscom report said. The report, titled “Future of Technology Services – Navigating the New Normal”, prepared by McKinsey for Nasscom, said there had been an extensive acceleration in digital adaption by enterprises and that there was a potential increase in outsourcing intensity because  of remote working. The report said digital transformation deals had seen a 30 per cent jump; cloud spending by 80 per cent; along with a  15 per cent rise in customer experience. The outsourcing budget, especially in digital and cloud, is expected to increase in the next 12-18 months as enterprises look to rebalance their technology priorities. These are contributing to the faster than expected recovery for the technology services industry, and top Indian technology service providers have performed better than analyst estimates in the second quarter of 2020-21. A class of operators, referred in the report as Tech Natives and Digital Reinventors, with revenue of over $3 billion, have driven 65 per cent of the about $6 trillion growth in market capitalisation between January and July 2020, highlighting that technology is now core to future business recovery. Nasscom president Debjani Ghosh said “the next 10 years will be different from the past and require all stakeholders to develop strategies and insights to identify new opportunities and mitigate the risks. To ensure faster recovery, companies need to develop a two-part response to the evolving landscape: near term plan of action and long-term strategic rethinking.” “The report suggests that the world has leapfrogged on digital adaption by 3-5 years in the last 9 months. We are seeing an increased emphasis on digitisation across verticals and our analysis shows that 80 per cent-plus of the near-term spending may be driven by Covid-19 resilient digital offerings,” McKinsey & Company Senior Partner and Global Leader (Analytics) Noshir Kaka said. The strategic gameboard has changed tremendously in the last nine months and agile companies have made the most of this by reimagining the way they look at growth (micro verticals, customer segments, geographies etc.) and are re-wiring their operating models for the new normal, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Health insurance is a viable financial risk mitigation tool||Health insurance as an annual investment tool is gaining prominence among Indians. The ones with health cover benefitted from its coverage during the Covid-19 phase. For the others, the risk of incurring out-of-pocket expenses drove them to the realisation that health insurance is a viable financial risk mitigation tool. As people realise that against a nominal premium, they can save themselves financial liabilities running up to a few lakhs, insurance companies are witnessing a surge in health insurance related inquiries. With changing market dynamics, health insurers are coming up with several coverage options that one must consider before getting themselves a health insurance. Here are the top five options. Super cumulative bonus Health insurance is usually an annual policy. In case one does not make a claim during the policy period, the insurance company offers a reward at the time of renewal by increasing the policy coverage limit by a certain percentage, called the cumulative bonus. Earlier, it used to be 10-15 per cent every policy year but given the medical inflation, these days insurance companies are offering much higher percentages. Let’s understand this with an example. Mr X had opted for a coverage limit of 5 lakh for his health insurance policy and started at an early age. He incurred no claims in the first year, and so earned a super cumulative bonus of 50 per cent on the base amount, thus increasing his coverage up to Rs 7.5 lakh. He did not face any claims in the second year also and so he again received a 50 per cent super cumulative bonus on the original coverage limit, thus increasing it to Rs 10 lakh. This is double of what he had opted for while buying the policy. In the event of claim, his cumulative bonus may get reduced by 10 per cent of the basic sum insured at the subsequent renewal. Recharge option This is a benefit that will help one if they have exhausted the coverage limit of their health insurance policy in the event of a claim. For example, Mr X had opted for a sum insured limit of Rs 5 lakh at the time of buying a policy. He then faced a health emergency and the bill amount from the hospital exceeded the sum insured and amounted to Rs 6 lakh. Here, since his policy offered a recharge benefit, the same got triggered. This benefit is expressed as a percentage. Let’s say for this particular policy, the recharge benefit was 20 per cent. So, once the Rs 5-lakh benefit was exhausted, Mr X got an additional recharge of 20 per cent of Rs 5 lakh, that is Rs 1 lakh without any additional premium. This facility cushioned him when his hospital expenses exceeded his coverage limits. Thus, the client’s claim for Rs 6 lakh gets covered here at no extra cost at point of claim. Reinstatement benefit This is like opting for a back-up insurance within one’s existing insurance plan. This benefit comes at an added cost, but is immensely helpful in case one exhausts all his or her opted coverage amount. For example, Mr X opts for a coverage of Rs 5 lakh and exhausts the policy limit while treating a serious injury from an accident. Later in the year, he gets hospitalised for Dengue, but since he had exhausted his limit, he would have to incur the expenses from his pocket for any further medical treatments. Here, the reinstatement benefit, if already opted/covered at the time of policy inception, is a great boon. With this facility, even after one exhausts the entire sum insured limit, the policy coverage gets restored back to Rs 5 lakh. However, one should check if the same illness is covered and is there’s any waiting period on the reinstatement. Infinite sum insured Sum insured is the health insurance coverage limit that one opts for in his or her health insurance policy. As Mr X chose Rs 5 lakh as his coverage for health insurance, this is his sum insured. Now there are policies in the market where one gets an option to choose an infinite sum insured. For this, one has to first choose a coverage limit according to the per day room rent option which may range from Rs  3,000-Rs 50,000. The policy then offers 100 times of the chosen per day room rent limit as the coverage limit. So, if Mr X chose Rs 10,000 as the per day room rent, the coverage will be up to 100 times, that is up to Rs 10 lakh. However, in this policy the coverage and the claim amount doesn’t end there. If Mr X’s claim amount exceeds beyond the limit of 100 times, then he has to share a certain percentage for the remaining claim amount with his insurance company. This sharing of claim amount is call “co-pay” and it is usually a percentage. A co-payment of 15 per cent, 20 per cent, or 25 per cent may be opted for an infinite sum insured policy, and this co-payment percentage has to be chosen by the insured at the time of policy purchase. Wellness benefits Insurers reward their customers in various ways such as discounted outpatient consultations or treatments, health check-ups and also membership in fitness centres. This additional feature not only encourages customers to lead a healthy lifestyle, but also enables them to monetise the reward points earned by following the wellness regime. This helps one to achieve the twin objectives of good health and an affordable insurance. The writer is MD & CEO, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Work from home suits introverts more||Startek, an NYSE-listed BPO company, is exploring the possibility of factoring in the personality traits of employees as part of a transition to a hybrid model of both brick-and-mortar offices and work-from-home option. Startek had taken over the operation of Indian BPO firm Aegis in 2018. Speaking at Infocom 2020, the flagship event of ABP group, Mario Baddour, global chief operating officer, Startek Inc, said though firms have implemented a work-from-home model, not every employee is thriving at the home environment. “There is an increase in an awareness of where our team members stand in terms of who is an introvert and who is an extrovert. Based on that we are making assessments on whether these types of employees will continue to work from home or come back to a brick-and-mortar offices as we build the hybrid setup. I think introverts are thriving, they are self learners and like to be at home and we are seeing the performance of that group that we have not seen in the past in a brick-and-mortar environment,” Baddour said while speaking at a session in conversation with Ambarish Dasgupta, senior partner and founder, Intueri Consulting LLP. Baddour said that remote work requires a significant amount of self motivation for individuals accustomed to 8-9 hours of office work, without the social aspects of working in a team and without a manager to prioritise schedules. “Extroverts are struggling a bit and we are helping them cope in that setup,” he said, adding video sessions on coping mechanisms and split shifts with breaks in routine to help employees socialise are among some of the solutions the company is considering. The company is also using technology based solutions available to gauge the mood of the employees throughout the day. “One of the things that we use is a sad face, happy face and neutral face and the employee can click on that in the pop-up screen. This gives us feedback on our different centres and leaders can see the level of mood for each team and each employee and can act on that,” said Baddour. But critics point out that compartmentalisation of employees based on personality may turn out to be effective in the short run, but cannot constitute a sustainable human resource policy. “This could be a kind of implicit and even explicit branding of employees and sending such a signal to the larger workforce will be detrimental. Sensitive people will react in a manner that might even be a productivity debilitating shock,” KR Shyam Sundar, professor at XLRI, Jamshedpur, told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Mittal wins reprieve in payment to OSPIL||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has stayed a lower court order which had directed ArcelorMittal India Pvt Ltd (AMIPL) to pay Rs 1,308.87 crore to Odisha Slurry Pipeline Infrastructure Ltd (OSPIL) in a matter related to the insolvency case of Essar Steel India Ltd. A bench comprising Justice Bansi Lal Bhat, the acting chairperson of NCLAT, and Justice Anant Bijay Singh granted an ad-interim stay on Friday on the payment which had to be made by December 15, 2020, till the next hearing. The case will be listed “for admission (after notice)” on January 22, 2021. Senior advocate Harish Salve appeared for AMIPL, which was the successful resolution applicant for Essar Steel, and the 60 per cent shareholder of ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India Ltd (AMNS), the present avatar of ESIL. Salve argued that in terms of the impugned order, the appellant has been directed to make the payment of the aforesaid charges as CIRP (corporate insolvency resolution process) costs to an entity which had not claimed it during the CIRP of ESIL or even thereafter. The Ahmedabad bench of NCLT had passed the order in favour of Calcutta-based Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd which litigated the matter. Srei was a creditor to OSPIL and a fund managed by an entity linked to Srei is the majority shareholder of the pipeline company too. A Srei spokesperson said: “Everyone has the right to appeal against a judgment. However, even in the higher court, the final decision is always taken based on the merit of the matter. We are confident that NCLAT shall be appreciating the relevant facts in its proper light during the course of the proceedings.” OSPIL owns a 253-kilometre pipeline connecting an iron ore beneficiation plant at Debuna to a pellet plant at Paradip in Odisha. It is a critical infrastructure to source raw material for Essar Steel, now AMNS India. After OSPIL failed to make the payments to its creditors because of the default in payment by erstwhile Essar Steel, it also faced bankruptcy. AMIPL became the successful resolution applicant of OSPIL by paying Rs 2,350 crore in March this year. Srei has challenged the AMIPL plan and the matter is pending before NCLAT. AMIPL had taken over Essar Steel in December last year by agreeing to pay Rs 42,000 crore to the lenders and then forged a joint venture with Japan’s Nippon Steel. The Srei spokesperson further added: “Srei has always maintained that Essar should have paid the outstanding RTU (right to use) charges to OSPIL. Consequent to Essar’s resolution, the successful resolution applicant ought to have paid the outstanding RTU charges as CIRP cost in terms of its own approved resolution plan. “If the payments were made in a timely manner, OSPIL would have serviced its debts due to its lenders and there would have been no occasion for it to be taken for insolvency as the lenders/shareholders of OSPIL would not have suffered any losses. The NCLT judgment simply recognised this reality in a fair and balanced manner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Vivad Se Vishwas: tax amnesty leeway||Entities filing declaration under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme “Vivad Se Vishwas” can revise them till the time tax authorities issue certificate mentioning details of tax arrear and the amount payable, the income tax department has said. Issuing a set of FAQs on “Vivad Se Vishwas” scheme, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) also said the scheme cannot be availed in a case where proceedings are pending before Income Tax Settlement Commission (ITSC) or where writ has been filed against the order of ITSC. The CBDT also clarified that in a case where Mutual Agreement Procedure (MAP) resolution is pending or the assessee has not accepted MAP decision, the related appeal shall be eligible under “Vivad se Vishwas”. “In such case, the declarant will be required to withdraw both MAP application and appeal,” it added. The I-T department also clarified that a taxpayer would be eligible for making declarations in cases where the Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR) has ruled in favour of the taxpayer and the department has filed appeal before the High Court/Supreme Court and the total income of the taxpayer was quantified before AAR. “Yes, the taxpayer is eligible since the income is quantifiable. In such case, since the issue is covered in favour of taxpayer, only 50 per cent of the disputed tax is payable,” the CBDT said. The latest deadline for making payment under the Vivad Se Vishwas scheme is March 31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Red flag over Indian start-up status||In perhaps the first warning by a significant start-up curator against “flipping”, a Naukri.com and Zomato investor has said foreign funds are the new East India Company that are colonising successful start-ups in India by transferring ownership overseas to skip Indian regulations and taxes. Internet entrepreneur Sanjeev Bikhchandani says an estimated Rs 17 lakh crore of market cap has been transferred abroad after young Indian start-ups were forced to shift their company domicile overseas by foreign investors promising the funds they need for growth. “Shades of the East India Company type of situation here — Indian market, Indian customers, Indian developers, Indian workforce. However 100% foreign ownership, foreign investors. IP and data transferred overseas. Transfer pricing issues foggy,” he tweeted. “Basically institutionalised transfer of wealth away from India while living off the Indian market and Indian labour somewhat like the days of the Company rule.” Profits from such “global exploitation” of intellectual property (IP) created in India by Indians retained overseas. “Tax to Indian govt on such profits??? Indian investors shut out,” he tweeted. Reached for comments on his tweets, Bikhchandani, whose BSE-listed firm Info Edge (India) owns job search portal naukri.com, matrimony site jeevasathi.com and real estate search engine 99acres.com, said flipping is externalising a company. “You take an Indian start-up and transfer ownership of all its shares to an overseas company that has been usually freshly floated just for this purpose. So now the Indian company becomes a 100 per cent subsidiary of the overseas entity,” he said. All shareholders will own shares in that overseas company, including the founders, employees and current and past investors. This is accompanied by transfer of all IP and data hitherto owned by the Indian company. “All IP developed and all data captured by the Indian entity in the future will also belong to the overseas entity,” he said. “This overseas company is substantially outside of Indian jurisdiction and the influence of Indian regulators.” While foreign funds are most welcome, the government and its regulations must insist that data and the IP belong to the Indian subsidiary and cannot be owned by the overseas entity, particularly in sensitive sectors, he said. Bikhchandani, a Padma awardee whose company also owns stakes in online food delivery outfit Zomato and insurance marketplace policybazaar.com, said if this flipping option was not available, most investors would invest in Indian start-ups regardless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||India is set for a fintech boom over the next 10 years||India is set for a fintech boom over the next 10 years, propped by factors such as its demography, improving digitisation trends, tech savviness and enablers such as Aadhaar or the Unified Payments Interface (UPI). Fintech. which refers to the use of technology in financial services, has witnessed robust growth over the past few years following the extensive use of internet and smartphones. The segment initially offered services such as mobile or DTH recharges or digital wallets. The service bouquet has now extended to lending, insurance and even wealth management. According to a BofA Securities report, the solid growth rate seen so far will sustain over the next decade because of factors such as low per capita (which will grow as the economy recovers), the demographic dividend in the form of more than 400 million millenials, more and more people taking to digitisation, a maturing ecosystem and enablers such as Aadhaar. The brokerage estimates the transaction volume in the digital payment market to grow 3.8 times to around $300 billion in 2024-25 from $80 billion in 2020-21 . Within fintech, in the B2C (business to consumer) segment, there are three categories. The first category comprises close to 25 million of the workforce who fall in the top bracket. Most of them are early adopters and are less price sensitive. The next 25 million workforce are gradually adopting technology and transacting online. Of the rest, there are 200-300 million people who may transition into middle-class and then there are those who rely on direct benefit transfer which are unlikely to be the target market for fintechs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||2-wheelers ride to recovery||The two-wheeler industry seems to be on a steady path of recovery as companies post double-digit growth year-on-year in November preceded by a good show over the past few months. Need for personal mobility in the face of the pandemic has fuelled demand for two-wheelers, a sector that had been adversely affected by several factors since last year such as price hike under the new emission regime, technology change and hike in insurance charges. Leading the charge is Hero MotoCorp Ltd, the world’s largest two-wheeler manufacturer, that sold 5,91,091 two-wheeler units in November 2020, a growth of 14.4 per cent over the corresponding month of the previous year. The company sold more than 14 lakh units in the 32-day period starting from Navratri till Bhai-Duj. Honda, which has the second-largest market share in two-wheelers, saw its total sales grow 9 per cent to 4,33,206 units in November 2020 compared with 3,96,399 units a year ago. Bajaj Auto posted a growth of 12 per cent year-on-year in November at 3,84,993 units against 3,43,446 units in the corresponding month a year ago. Domestic sales were up 7 per cent at 1,88,196 units compared with 1,76,337 units a year ago. Exports has grown 18 per cent. Yamaha Motor India announced that total sales have increased 35 per cent to 53,208 units in November this year compared with 39,406 units  in November 2019. The company has been reporting growth in its sales volumes consecutively over the past four months, following the lifting of the Covid-19 induced lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
07-12-2020||Business||Prashant Jhawar pares Usha Martin stake||The Prashant Jhawar family, the aggrieved promoter group of steel wire rope maker Usha Martin Ltd, has offloaded a fresh lot of shares in the open market, widening the gap with the other faction of the family. The company informed the bourses last week that Peterhouse Investments Ltd, based in Guernsey, UK, sold 750,000 shares, paring the family faction’s stake by 0.25 per cent. Peterhouse is a promoter group company linked to Prashant Jhawar. After the latest share sale, the Prashant Jhawar-Basant Jhawar camp’s holding has dipped to around 22 per cent. Sources said this meant that the promoter group headed by Rajiv Jhawar-Brij Jhawar now has a clear margin of around 9 per cent. Prashant Jhawar could not be reached for comment on the latest development. The father-son duo has been paring their stake in UML shortly after the company sold the steel plant to Tata Steel and Basant Jhawar was ousted from the board in March-April 2019. Basant Jhawar, who is credited with setting up the enterprise, was the chairman emeritus of UML. His son Prashant Jhawar, who lives in London, was a director before stepping down in September last year, shortly before the annual general meeting when his reappointment was due to come up. Rajeev Jhawar is the managing director of the company and is firmly in control of the affairs of UML. His father Brij Jhawar, brother of Basant, also stepped down from the board later, leaving only Rajeev as the promoter family representative on the board. Before two sides of the family became embroiled in a very public spat, Prasant-Basant had an edge over the other side, owning about 25.5 per cent of the company with Rajeev-Brij holding around 24.5 per cent. Prashant blamed his cousin’s poor management for UML’s troubles that were exacerbated by a ballooning debt which eventually led to the sale of the steel unit to Tata Steel. While Prashant-Basant periodically sold shares, Rajeev bought from the market to shore up his holding in the company. He is understood to have scooped up 4.8 per cent in UML in the last financial year alone. Entities controlled by him bought shares this fiscal too. The promoter holding in UML stood at 50.66 per cent as on March 31, 2019. Despite one section of the family diluting its position, promoter holding went up to 53.52 per cent as on June 30, 2020. It came down marginally to 52.83 per cent as on September 30, 2020. The widening gap between the two sections of the family, who have fallen out of each other, will shift the balance of power in favour of Rajeev Jhawar further and may come in handy to pass special resolutions at the shareholders’ meeting. Even as the company has turned profitable post debt reduction — billed as one of the successful turnarounds of stressed assets — there are challenges galore before the MD and the company. The Central Bureau of Investigation has filed a First Information Report (FIR) against Rajeev Jhawar, the company and certain other individuals for alleged offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Prior to that the Enforcement Directorate attached land parcels under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in connection with export and domestic sale of iron ore worth Rs 190 crore in contravention of the mining lease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-212
