08-12-2020||Business||Markets scale new peaks as Sensex jumps 182 points||Rising for the fourth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 182 points to end at its fresh lifetime peak on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, TCS and Infosys amid persistent foreign fund inflows. After touching a record intra-day high of 45,742.23, the 30-share BSE index climbed 181.54 points or 0.40 per cent to finish at 45,608.51. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose for the sixth consecutive day, up 37.20 points or 0.28 per cent to 13,392.95 -- its new lifetime closing high. It touched its intra-day record of 13,435.45 in early trade. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by TCS, Reliance Industries, HCL Tech, Infosys and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Tech Mahindra, ONGC and Asian Paints were among the laggards. "Domestic equities continued to defy weak global markets by registering gains. Financials (mainly supported by PSU banks), IT and Reliance Industries supported market today, while profit bookings were seen in pharma and metal packs," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Continued foreign portfolio investment flows remained a dominant factor and given the consistent weakening of dollar along with the increased possibility of new fiscal stimulus, domestic equities are expected to continue getting support from FPIs in the near term, he added. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,792.06 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.35 per cent to USD 48.62 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
08-12-2020||Business||Jio plans to roll out 5G by 2021, says Ambani||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani on Tuesday hinted at rolling out 5G telecom services in the second half of 2021 and said policy steps are needed to accelerate the early rollout of ultra-high-speed 5G services that are affordable and available everywhere. Ambani, whose four-year-old telecom venture Jio has captured the No.1 spot offering free voice calling and data at dirt-cheap rates, also pitched for developing hardware manufacturing in India, saying the nation cannot rely on imports in such a critical area. 5G is the 5th generation mobile network that enables connecting virtually everyone and everything together including machines, objects, and devices. India, he said, is today among the best digitally connected nations in the world. "In order to maintain this lead, policy steps are needed to accelerate the early rollout of 5G, and to make it affordable and available everywhere," he said. "I assure you that Jio will pioneer the 5G Revolution in India in the second half of 2021." Jio's 5G will be powered by the indigenously-developed network, hardware and technology components. "Jio's 5G service will be a testimony to your inspiring vision of AtmaNirbhar Bharat." Jio and other service providers such as Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea offer 4G services. The country however also has a 2G network that supports only voice calling and text messaging. "As many as 300 million mobile subscribers in India are still trapped in the 2G era. Urgent policy steps are needed to ensure that these underprivileged people have an affordable smartphone so that they too can benefit from direct benefit transfer into their bank accounts, and actively participate in the digital economy," he said. India has over a billion phone users. His company offers low-priced smartphones that allow internet access. "I can say with utmost confidence that 5G will enable India to not only participate in the Fourth Industrial Revolution but also to lead it," he said. As the digitalisation of the Indian economy and Indian society picks up speed, the demand for digital hardware will grow enormously. "We cannot rely on large-scale imports in this area of critical national need," Ambani, Chairman and Managing Director of Reliance Industries Ltd, said. Stating that many leading global companies are coming to India to set up manufacturing facilities, he said the country has developed world-class strengths in chip design. "I clearly foresee India becoming a major hub for the state-of-the-art semiconductor industry," he said. "When all the stakeholders work together, we can surely ensure that India's success in hardware will match our success in software." Jio Platforms, with its family of over 20 start-up partners, has built world-class capabilities in artificial intelligence, cloud computing, big data, machine learning, the internet of things and blockchain. "We are creating compelling home-grown solutions in education, healthcare, agriculture, infrastructure, financial services and new commerce," he said. "Each of these solutions, once proven in India, will be offered to the rest of the world to address global challenges." Ambani said India has the historic opportunity to become the world's pre-eminent digital society with ease of living for all. "My conviction comes from the enormous transformative power of the digital technologies," he said. India, he said, has two unique strengths - the confluence of three D's vibrant democracy, young demography and digital transformation, and the visionary and dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While the outbreak of COVID-19 posed life-threatening challenges, high-speed 4G connectivity infrastructure has proved to be India's Digital Lifeline, he said. Throughout 2020, India worked online, studied online, shopped online, received healthcare online, socialised online, played online. "Simply put, India thrived online." With the coronavirus induced recession behind, Ambani said the Indian economy will not only bounce back but will also grow with unprecedented acceleration. "India can and India will prove cynics wrong by becoming a USD 5 trillion economy," he said. "It will be a more equal India, with increased incomes, increased employment, and improved quality of life for 1 billion Indians at the middle and bottom of the economic pyramid."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
08-12-2020||Business||Market opens at fresh high as Sensex jumps over 150 points||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points to touch its fresh lifetime peak in early trade on Tuesday tracking gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC Bank and Maruti amid persistent foreign fund inflow. After touching a record intra-day high of 45,582.83, the 30-share BSE index was trading 150.72 points or 0.33 per cent higher at 45,577.69. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 44.90 points or 0.34 per cent to 13,400.65. It touched its lifetime intra-day peak of 13,402.70 in early trade. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, M&M, HCL Tech, UltraTech Cement, HDFC and ONGC. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Sun Pharma, IndusInd Bank, Asian Paints and ICICI Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex soared 347.42 points or 0.77 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 45,426.97, and Nifty rose 97.20 points or 0.73 per cent to an all-time closing high of 13,355.75. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,792.06 crore on a net basis on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. "Continued FPI flow remained as dominant factor to drive the market and given consistent weakening to dollar along with increased possibility of new fiscal stimulus, we believe domestic equities will continue to get support from FPIs in the near term," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, irrational exuberance is quite visible in many counters given a sharp rally seen in small cap stocks as investors are pouring money in all stocks irrespective of earnings potential, he said, adding that this could lead to a sizable erosion of wealth especially for retail investors when the cycle turns. He further stated that US equities closed mostly lower as a continued spike in COVID-19 cases and ambiguity over the quantum of fiscal stimulus led to profit booking. Additionally, the emerging possibility of no trade agreement deal for Brexit after discussion with European Union leaders and UK officials led to unease about global political development among investors. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.82 per cent lower at USD 48.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
08-12-2020||Business||NTPC to buy back its masala bonds worth Rs 4,000 crore||State-run power giant NTPC has made an offer to buy back its masala bonds worth Rs 4,000 crore from bondholders or lenders. Masala bonds are issued outside India but denominated in Indian rupees, rather than the local currency. NTPC has launched a cash tender offer to buy the bonds worth Rs 4,000 crore. According to the company statement, the offer includes the rupee-denominated Rs 2,000-crore 7.375 per cent notes issued on August 10, 2016, payable in dollar and due on August 10, 2021 (“2021 notes”). The offer also includes rupee-denominated Rs 2,000-crore 7.25 per cent notes issued on May 3, 2017, payable in dollar and due on May 3, 2022. The company had issued the 2021 notes, which are at present listed on Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (SGX-ST), the London Stock Exchange’s Professional Securities Market, the NSE IFSC Limited and the India International Exchange (IFSC) Limited. The 2022 notes are at present listed on SGX-ST, the London Stock Exchange’s International Securities Market, NSE IFSC and India INX. The average spot power price dropped 4 per cent to Rs 2.73 per unit in November compared with the year-ago period at the Indian Energy Exchange. The day-ahead market (DAM) volume at 4,860 MU (million units) recorded a 43 per cent YoY (year-on-year) growth in November. The DAM market continued to see high sell-side liquidity with total sell bids at 9,778 MU being twice that of the cleared volume (sales). This enabled the market to maintain an attractive average market clearing price at Rs 2.73 per unit during November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Cafe Coffee Day picks Malavika Hegde as CEO||Coffee Day Enterprises Ltd, the owner of the Cafe Coffee Day chain, appointed founder and former chairman V.G. Siddhartha’s wife Malavika Hegde as its chief executive officer on Monday, more than a year after the coffee baron was found dead in a river in Southern India in an apparent suicide. In July last year, Coffee Day Enterprises named independent board member S.V. Ranganath as interim chairman, after authorities here recovered Siddhartha’s body floating in a river near the port city of Mangalore, two days after his disappearance sparked speculation that he was under intense financial strain. Malavika Hegde was appointed as the CEO with immediate effect, the company said in a filing to the exchanges. The company’s board in a meeting held on Monday also approved the appointment of C. H. Vasudhara Devi, Giri Devanur and Mohan Raghavendra Kondi as independent directors. The appointment is for five years, effective from December 31, 2020. Bangalore-based Cafe Coffee Day runs hundreds of coffee shops across India that brew cappuccinos and lattes for India’s booming moneyed class and compete with the likes of Starbucks, Barista and Coca-Cola Co-owned Costa Coffee. Siddhartha, 59, was recognised for having brought the coffee shop culture to a largely tea-loving country, while also being hailed as one of India’s early venture capital investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Jet Airways could fly again in 2021||Jet Airways could fly again in 2021 with the consortium, which won the bids to revive the carrier, holding talks with the ministry of civil aviation and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to reinstate airport slots and bilateral traffic rights of the airline. The consortium of UAE-based businessman Murari Lal Jalan and London’s Kalrock Capital said they are awaiting NCLT and other regulatory approvals, including reinstatement of slots and bilateral traffic rights. The talks with the government have been “extremely positive”, they added. The consortium in a statement said it wants to revive the airline, which had stopped flying in April 2019, as a full-service carrier and was also planning to launch dedicated freighter services once the carrier takes off the ground again. The consortium said it had evaluated an option to start a new airline. “But some of the inherent strengths of Jet Airways like the optimal flight slots, brand value and reputation for best-in-class in-flight service and safety, giving Jet 2.0 an edge over others, were too tempting to resist,” it said. The statement comes just days before the resolution plan submitted by the consortium is to be heard at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on December 11. The plan has to get the approval from the NCLT, before the consortium can set the ball rolling. The committee of creditors (CoC) has already approved the airline's revival plan submitted by the consortium in October. Jet Airways was grounded on April 17 due to liquidity crisis and subsequently went into administration in June 2019. The Jet 2.0 hubs will remain in Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru like before as the revival plan proposes to support tier 2 and tier 3 cities by creating sub-hubs in such cities. This would boost the economy in these cities, help Jet Airways stand back on its feet fast and support the overall vision of the government to promote aviation business through tier 2/ tier 3 cities in India, the consortium said. Besides, the consortium is also planning to increase cargo services to include dedicated freighter service, a market currently under-served by any Indian carrier, the release said, adding given India's position as a leading centre for global vaccine manufacture, cargo services have never been more required. "Jet Airways has been a brand with a glorious history of over 25 years, and it is the vision of the Consortium to put Jet Airways back in the skies at the earliest opportunity," Manoj Madnani, board member of the Jalan-Kalrock consortium said. "As per the resolution plan, Jet Airways intends to operate all of its historic domestic slots in India and restart international operations. The Jet 2.0 program is aimed at reviving the past glory of Jet Airways, with a fresh set of processes and systems to ensure greater efficiency and productivity across all routes. "If everything goes as per plan and the Consortium receives the NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) and regulatory approvals on time, Jet Airways would be back in the skies by the Summer of 2021," the consortium said in a release. The consortium has decided that it would be advantageous to re-energise and start Jet Airways on a clean slate with an established brand, it said, adding the vision is to regain the lost ground, set new benchmarks for the airline industry with the tag of being the best corporate full-service airline operating on domestic and international routes. "We aim to re-energise the brand by infusing energy, warmth, and vibrancy into it while making it bigger and better," Manoj Narender Madnani, Board Member of Jalan Kalrock Consortium, said. Over the years, the brand has created loyal customers and the consortium wish to bring in freshness by adding value – an Indian brand with a global outlook, he said, adding "with the revival of Jet Airways, it will restore the confidence among the Jet customers to fly again and experience its world-class facilities". The aviation sector was deeply hit by COVID-19, but that helped the sector as it underwent substantial correction and created that opportune time for the consortium members to enter the sector. The consortium's biggest strength is human capital, and it is putting together the best of aviation professionals with Global experience for running and managing the operations of Jet 2.0, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||IndiGo refunds by January 31||IndiGo on Monday said it would refund all credit shell sum by January-end and have already processed close to Rs 1,000 crore of refunds so far — a sign that things may be looking up for the airline industry. “IndiGo has been rapidly refunding amounts to customers whose flights had been cancelled during the lockdown. The airline has already processed close to Rs 1,000 crore of refunds, which are approximately 90 per cent of the total amount it owes customers. “IndiGo is committed to complete payments against all pending credit shells latest by January 31, 2021,” the airline said in a statement. Ronojoy Dutta, chief executive officer of IndiGo, said: “Covid-19 and the resulting lockdown brought our operations to a complete halt... As our incoming cash flow dried up, we were unable to immediately process refunds. However, with the resumption of operations, our priority has been to refund the credit shell amounts in an expedited manner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Nissan bets on  its recently launched Magnite ||Nissan India has received 5,000 bookings for its recently launched compact SUV Magnite that it has aggressively priced in the range of Rs 4.99 lakh to Rs 9.35 lakh. These are introductory prices for buyers this year. From January 2021, the SUV will retail at Rs 5.44 lakh, which will make it the most affordable B-segment SUV with rivals such as Kia Sonet priced at Rs 6.71 lakh, Maruti Vitara Brezza retailing at Rs 7.37 lakh and Hyundai Venue selling for Rs 9.98 lakh. “The Magnite marks the beginning of a new chapter in the Nissan Next strategy for both the Indian and the global market,” said Sinan Ozkok, president, Nissan Motor India. Nissan, which has had a poor run in the country, is betting big on the Magnite, which enters the most competitive segment of compact SUV, and hopes to sell around 2,000 units a month, said an industry source. Its only other offering in recent years has been the Nissan Kicks which sold over 6,331 units in 2019. Its economy brand Datsun has also flopped. KTM, the premium motorcycle brand, has announced the launch of the MY21 KTM 125 Duke. The design of the KTM 125 Duke is based on the KTM 1290 Super Duke R. It has a 125cc liquid cooled fuel injected engine. It will retail at Rs 1,50,010 (ex-showroom Delhi). The model will be available in two colours - electronic orange and ceramic white. Nissan has less than 1 per cent market share, selling just 18,000 vehicles in the last business year. Its production facility in Chennai, co-owned with Renault, was operating at 43 per cent of its production capacity in January this year, before the pandemic. Nissan exported 80,000 vehicles in the last financial year. The company does not intend to quit the market where it has invested 800 million dollars but it needs to succeed with the Magnite.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Gems and jewellery industry seeks exemption from equalisation levy of 2%||The gems and jewellery industry has sought exemption from the equalisation levy of 2 per cent that has impacted the procurement of rough diamonds through online auctions. The Finance Act 2020, through section 165A, has introduced this levy on the consideration received by an e-commerce operator from the e-commerce supply of goods made or facilitated by it to an Indian resident. This has led to a confusion with global miners looking to amend contract terms with Indian businesses. A few auction houses/trading companies have even barred India-based customers from participating in the spot auction process earlier in June. According to the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council, the competitiveness of Indian goods will suffer as other rough diamond importing countries do not have such a levy. Colin Shah, chairman of GJEPC, on Monday said the levy is more aimed at e-commerce operators but has affected the jewellery industry, which has requested the government for a clarification that the levy is applicable only on business to consumer and not business to business. “We are hopeful that this will come within the budget,” said Shah. Procurement of diamond through online auction is a preferred choice for the industry amid the Covid pandemic that restricts travel to physical auctions. The government in a meeting with the industry in August had been appraised of the issue. A reduction in import duty on cut and polished diamond from 7.5 per cent to 2.5 per cent, a reduction in import duty on precious metals including gold from 12.5 per cent to 4 per cent, amendment in taxation provision to enable sale of rough diamonds in special notified zone in Mumbai, extension of common facility centre scheme for five years, technology upgradation fund scheme for gems and jewellery industry are among the other issues the industry has included as part of its pre budget proposal. GJEPC estimates that lowering the import duty to 4 per cent will help in freeing up working capital to the tune of around Rs 600 crore on the import of gold bars for export purposes. GJEPC said that there has been a significant improvement in the declining exports from India. Gross exports at USD 2.48 billion was down 3.88 per cent in November 2020 compared to November 2019. The year on year decline in October was 19.02 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Hindalco Industries plans new unit||In an indication of how the commodity cycle is starting to bounce back as the economy recovers, Hindalco Industries has announced plans to set up a 34,000-tonne aluminium extrusion plant at Silvassa in Dadra and Nagar Haveli Union Territory at an investment of Rs 730 crore. In a communication to the stock exchanges, the AV Birla group firm said that the new plant will service the fast growing market for extruded aluminium products in the western and southern regions. Hindalco said the Rs 730-crore project in Silvassa signals a big step forward in its downstream strategy as the company revives its long-term downstream investment plan. The company added that its intent is to build a larger value-added product portfolio over the next few years. The company pointed out that the investment indicates confidence in the economic revival, which in turn will grow the demand for downstream value-added products. It comes at a time industries such as automobiles and construction are witnessing better activity as the unlock continues and the economy is in for a turnaround. The aluminium extrusion market in India is expected to grow exponentially — from the current level of around 373,000 tonnes to  about 850,000 tonnes by 2030. “The western and southern regions of the domestic market account for over 60 per cent of the extrusion market,’’ the company added. “We are seeing a revival in the economy, with demand picking in the building and construction and automotive sectors. This has given us the confidence to move forward. The Silvassa facility will enable us to service our customers faster with an offering of high-end quality aluminium products,” said Satish Pai, managing director of Hindalco Industries. He added that over the next few years, the plan is to enhance the capacity to more than 6,00,000 tonnes from over 3,00,000 tonnes at present with investments of around Rs 7,000 crore. Hindalco disclosed that commercial production at the plant is expected to start in 24 months Shares of the company today ended marginally lower at Rs 251.35 in the BSE. Since its 52 week lows in March, the stock has risen by over 195 per cent. Amid signs of an economic recovery, non-ferrous metal firms are expected to announce more investments as they brace for a surge in demand. Hindalco is one of the largest integrated primary producer of aluminium in Asia. It a pan-Indian presence covering the entire gamut of operations, from bauxite mining, alumina refining, aluminium smelting to downstream rolling, extrusions and recycling. Its copper division, operates one of the largest single location custom copper smelters in the world. The custom copper smelter at Dahej in Gujarat houses three copper smelters, three refineries, two rod plants, a captive power plant, a captive oxygen plant, phosphoric acid plant, di-ammonium phosphate plant, precious metal recovery plant, captive jetty and other utilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Franklin Templeton calls windup vote of six fixed income schemes||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund on Monday said that it has sought the consent of unitholders for the orderly winding up of its six fixed income schemes. Electronic voting to seek their approval will take place between December 26 and December 28 and the meeting of unitholders of relevant schemes on December 29. The fund, however, warned investors that if the decision to wind up schemes in an orderly manner is not implemented, “it would precipitate a rush of redemptions, which would force a distress sale of the portfolio securities, likely resulting in a reduction in the net asset value (NAV) of the schemes and substantial losses for unitholders’’. Franklin Templeton MF had wound up the six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, citing redemption pressure and lack of liquidity in the bond markets. The schemes are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, Franklin India Short-Term Income Plan, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. In the voting, the unitholders will have to take a call on whether to give consent to the winding up or withhold it, which would allow the schemes to reopen for purchase and redemption. The latest move comes after the Supreme Court last week asked Franklin Templeton MF to initiate steps within one week for calling a meeting of unitholders to seek their consent for closure of the six mutual fund schemes. Franklin Templeton MF said the objective of the voting exercise is to seek, by “simple majority”, consent of the unitholders for the decision made by the trustee of the fund house. Consent will be sought from unitholders for each scheme separately. Franklin Templeton MF believes that it will be beneficial for unitholders to vote ''Yes'' to the proposed resolution as this will allow schemes to monetise assets without resorting to distress sales and will maximise value to them. From April 24 to November 27, the schemes under winding up have received over Rs 11,576 crore from maturities, pre-payments, and coupons. Out of this, the schemes have received Rs 2,836 crore in the month of November itself. The cash available stands at Rs 7,226 crore as of November 27 for the four cash positive schemes, subject to fund running expenses. `We seek unitholders’ consent for the orderly winding up and believe this will result in the best possible outcome for unitholders in these schemes. "Unit-holders'' vote in favour of the orderly winding up will allow us to maximise return of investment value without resorting to an emergency liquidation of securities. The opportunity to liquidate assets at fair value will increase with time in a normal market environment’’, Sanjay Sapre, President, Franklin Templeton – India, said. He assured that an orderly winding up does not mean a lengthy wait for return of money. Here he added that once the fund house receives a majority “Yes” vote in favour of the orderly winding up of the schemes, it will immediately proceed with a second vote to seek approval of the unitholders to authorize the trustee, or any other person, to proceed with winding up of the schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Sensex peaks on vaccine expectation||Domestic equity indices sprinted to a fresh lifetime high on Monday as investor sentiment got a lift after Pfizer and Serum Institute applied for emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccines in India. Robust buying in finance, FMCG and banking counters offset weak global cues and a depreciating rupee. Rising for the third straight session, the Sensex soared 347.42 points or 0.77 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 45426.97, after touching a record intra-day high of 45458.92. Similarly, NSE Nifty rose 97.20 points, or 0.73 per cent, to an all-time closing high of 13355.75. It touched its record intra-day peak of 13366.65 in early trade. The Nifty has now made fresh lifetime highs for five straight sessions. Hindustan Unilever was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping 3.09 per cent, followed by Airtel, HDFC, ITC, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Sun Pharma, ONGC, Tech Mahindra, L&T and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Nestle India, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finance and HDFC Bank were among the laggards, dropping up to 1.37 per cent. Vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII) on Monday said it has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation for the AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country. Earlier on Saturday, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer became the first company to seek a similar approval from India’s drug regulator for its coronavirus vaccine in the country, after securing such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. “News of progress in the Covid vaccine and healthy inflows by FIIs helped markets to continue the upward trend... We are seeing buying interest emerging on every dip, thanks to rotational participants across the sectors. “Technically, Nifty could face a hurdle around 13,450. The stock-specific trading approach is yielding decent returns so far and we suggest continuing with the same,” said Ajit Mishra, VP — Research, Religare Broking. BSE telecom, FMCG, healthcare, oil and gas, industrials, tech and capital goods indices climbed up to 2.78 per cent, while consumer durables and realty closed with losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Gas price discovery made more transparent||Reliance Industries and other producers of natural gas will no longer need government approval for gas price if it is arrived at using the new guidelines for the discovery of market price, an official order said. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas last week notified guidelines for the discovery of market prices for domestically produced natural gas through e-bidding. The government has since 2017 given pricing freedom for natural gas produced from all fields other than the old fields of state-owned ONGC and Oil India Ltd in nomination blocks. Firms such as Reliance Industries-BP combine as well as ONGC (for non-nomination blocks) have been auctioning gas to users. They would typically devise a formula and seek bids from users. They will continue to devise a pricing formula, but will now have to seek bids on the electronic-platform of five pre-selected agencies, the notification said. The agencies are SBI Capital Markets Ltd, mjunction Services Ltd, RITES, MSTC and CRISIL Risk and Infrastructure Solution Ltd. This follows the Union Cabinet in October allowing marketing freedom for blocks where pricing freedom already existed. Alongside, it approved standardised bidding for price discovery. Petrol and diesel prices have risen to a two-year high as the state-owned oil firms have raised fuel prices for the sixth day in a row. While the price of petrol has increased 33 paise per litre, diesel prices have been hiked by 29 paise per litre. Petrol prices in Calcutta rose to Rs 85.19 per litre on Monday from Rs 84.86 litre, while diesel prices rose to Rs 77.44 a litre from Rs 77.15 per litre. This is the sixth straight day of hikes and the 15th increase since November 20, when oil companies resumed daily price revision after nearly a two-month hiatus. Rates are now at the highest level since September 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-210
08-12-2020||Business||Flipkart prepares for $10bn IPO||Online retail giant Flipkart is making preparations for an initial public offer — after some years of swarming speculation on its on-again, off-again fund-raising plans through this route. Media reports said the Walmart-owned company is reportedly eyeing a $10 billion IPO and has hired Goldman Sachs for the exercise. A statement from Flipkart said while an initial public offering has always been part of its long-term strategy, the focus at present is on growth and democratising commerce in India through technology, while continuing to unlock customer value. This possibility comes just days after it announced a “partial spin-off’’ of PhonePe. A statement from the firm said that in the latest funding round, PhonePe is raising $700 million (about Rs 5,172 crore) in primary capital at a post-money valuation of $5.5 billion from existing Flipkart investors, led by Walmart. It added that Flipkart will remain PhonePe’s majority shareholder, and the two businesses will retain their close collaboration. In 2018, Walmart had announced that it was acquiring a 77 per cent stake in Flipkart, valuing the latter at around $21 billion. In a regulatory filing, Walmart had said it was open to an initial public offer in Flipkart in four years if demanded by the minority shareholders. In India, Flipkart competes with Amazon and Mukesh Ambani led JioMart. In July, it had raised $1.2 billion from Walmart and other existing investors, which had then valued the e-tailer at $24.9 billion. According to a BofA Securities report, the online retail market is worth $33 billion, where Amazon and Flipkart hold an 80 per cent market share, with Reliance gradually emerging as a competitor. The report said the battle for market share will focus on how the big players can bring the small grocers within their fold. Flipkart last week had launched the 2GUD Local platform to bring small and traditional retail businesses as its partner. The new format will offer offline stores, brands and shopping destinations an opportunity to unlock the benefits of technology and a hybrid retail model. “In our view, digitalising these kiranas (small grocers) is a gradual process and could take five--plus years. Amongst all companies, we find RIL’s strategy well-articulated and clear. But even it has to build on trust,” the analysts of BofA Securities said. “Amazon and Flipkart are currently looking at the kiranas (small grocers) as a last-mile delivery place. As things stand now, the online commerce competition is largely between Amazon, Walmart-backed Flipkart... Reliance is emerging as a formidable competitor in the online space,’’ the analysts said. They added that each of the companies bring their own strength —  Amazon has global expertise with better technology, and Flipkart  is strong in fashion and electronics. RIL could leverage its offline presence to deliver an omni-channel experience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-211
