09-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies 495 points, crosses 46,000 mark for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 495 points to cross the 46,000-level for the first time on Wednesday amid persistent foreign fund inflows and positive cues from global markets. After touching a record intra-day high of 46,164.10, the 30-share BSE index ended 494.99 points or 1.09 per cent higher at 46,103.50. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rallied 136.15 points or 1.02 per cent to its new record high of 13,529.10. It touched its lifetime peak of 13,548.90 during the day. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Infosys, Reliance Industries and ITC. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel, Maruti, SBI and Bajaj Auto were among the laggards. "Domestic equities remained buoyant with Nifty and Sensex recording fresh highs today mainly supported by a sharp rebound in global markets," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. The favourable progress on COVID-19 vaccine approvals and distribution across the globe has overshadowed the concerns over a sharp rise in new cases and resultant lockdowns in various countries, he said. Indian equities emerged as a preferred destination for foreign investors given the government's strong commitment to reviving the economy, he said, adding that prospects of corporate earnings recovery have emerged strongly, which is much evident from key economic data and management commentaries. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,909.60 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai finished in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.96 per cent to USD 49.31 per barrel. In the forex market, the rupee settled 3 paise higher at 73.57 (provisional) against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies 300 points to hit fresh high in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 300 points to touch its fresh lifetime peak in early trade on Wednesday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, TCS and Infosys amid persistent foreign fund inflow and positive cues from global markets. After touching a record intra-day high of 45,908.08, the 30-share BSE index was trading 285.62 points or 0.63 per cent higher at 45,894.13. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 78.25 points or 0.58 per cent to 13,471.20. It touched its lifetime intra-day peak of 13,475.05 in early trade. ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, TCS, Sun Pharma, Asian Paints, HCL Tech, Bajaj Finserv and NTPC. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement and Maruti were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex climbed 181.54 points or 0.40 per cent to finish at its fresh lifetime high of 45,608.51, while Nifty rose 37.20 points or 0.28 per cent to 13,392.95 -- its new closing record. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,909.60 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, said domestic markets saw a gap-up opening on Wednesday taking cues from positive global markets. "Persistent FPI flow remains a dominant factor for the markets. Given strong visibility of sustained earnings growth in 2HFY21 led by continued traction in business activities for many sectors, markets are likely to remain buoyant. "However, high valuations of markets will continue to pose a risk. We believe midcap and small-cap stock may continue to see traction in the near term," he said. US equities finished higher with key indices recording new highs mainly on satisfactory progress on vaccine approvals and distribution, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.51 per cent lower at USD 48.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Titan axe on Favre Leuba||The Tatas are wielding the axe on cash-draining or loss-making operations as they look to make businesses competitive and profitable in a post-Covid environment. On Monday, Titan Company announced that it is scaling down operations of Favre Leuba. Analysts gave the move a thumbs-up as there would be lower losses from the venture in the future. In October this year, Titan had announced that it will end its five-year joint venture with Montblanc in December to focus on its primary business and proprietary brands. Titan holds a 49 per cent equity stake in the joint venture — Montblanc India Retail. Titan entered into the JV with Montblanc Services BV, the Netherlands, to operate retail boutiques in India for Montblanc products. Shares of Titan on Tuesday closed marginally higher at Rs 1,427.25 — a gain of 0.15 per cent over the last close. Favre Leuba AG (FLAG) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Titan and it was incorporated in 2012. It had acquired the Swiss watch brand a year earlier for up to 2 million euros or nearly Rs 14 crore to expand the product portfolio. FLAG is now based in Solothum, Switzerland and it owns the Favre Leuba brand. Titan said that Favre Leuba is amongst the oldest watch brands in the world, and considering the rich heritage of the brand, it had incorporated FLAG, acquired the brand and presented it in a contemporary form. “While the company has been continuously supporting FLAG, and has made a series of investments aggregating to approximately Rs 275 crore over a period of time for the revival of the Favre Leuba brand and its growth plans, the current Covid-19 pandemic has severely impacted these revival plans and prospects,’’ the company said. It added that the board of the company decided to request the FLAG management to scale down its operations substantially with immediate effect so that further investments from Titan to FLAG cease as early as possible. “Consequently, this will lead to Titan making provisions in the current financial year for additional impairment pertaining to its investments in FLAG, in addition to the impairment of Rs 145 crore already made in earlier years,’’ Titan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Steel exports from Bengal hit hard||The lockdown at the beginning of the year coupled with an ongoing shortage of iron ore have dented steel export out of Bengal. Data available with the Exim Bank, the public sector lender which facilitates overseas trade for the domestic industries, recorded iron and steel exports from Bengal fell  almost 4.6 per cent during April-October compared with the corresponding period of last year. In absolute terms, iron and steel exports stood at $695.3 million during April-October 2020-21, down from $728.5 million in April-October 2019- 20. Further, the exports of ‘products of iron and steel’ were down at $278.6 million in April-October 2020-21, from $404.2 million a year ago. Nepal and Bangladesh are among the major export markets out of Bengal for iron and steel, which import semi finished items such as sponge iron and billets. Indian companies compete with Chinese players in these markets. Some quantities are exported to China and the UAE also. The state also exports finished products (tube, pipe, screws, bolts) — categorised as products of iron and steel — to destinations such as the US, Qatar, and UAE. “We could hardly operate our plants in the first two months of the year due to the lockdown. After capacities were ramped up from June, the plant faced shortage of iron ore, crippling our ability to scale up,” a leading producer of primary steel from Bengal said. The number of merchant mines in Odisha and Jharkhand, from where the small steel mills of Bengal used to source their iron ore, are closed, squeezing out supplies in the market. According to one estimate, annual supply of close to 90 million tonnes has gone out of the market. While leases of some of the mines have expired, the ones which found new owners by an auction process, did not start operations. Steel mill owners say only 12 merchant mines in Odisha are operational at present, while at least 20 are closed. All 11 such mines in Jharkhand are not in production as well. Moreover, exports of iron ore and pellet are on the rise, creating further shortage. Data shows iron ore exports from India during April to October 2020 grew by 60 per cent. An Exim Bank official backed the call made by Bengal based steel makers to put a temporary ban on export of iron ore as well as pellets. The demand has been raised with Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Plea on Vodafone case||The Centre on Tuesday told the Delhi High Court that it was entitled to the relief of restraining telecom major Vodafone from initiating a second international arbitration against India in connection with a tax demand, irrespective of the outcome of arbitration proceedings under the India-Netherlands Bilateral Investment Protection Agreement (BIPA). The Centre urged the high court to sine die adjourn its appeal against the single judge’s verdict permitting consolidation of two international arbitrations initiated by the company against India under the India-Netherlands and India-UK BIPA. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon said it would pass an order on the appeal and indicated that it will give an option to the Centre to revive the appeal later. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma submitted, “Let the appeal be deferred sine die. Our suit, according to us, shall be decreed. They cannot put the India-UK BIPA gun on my head and say you have to do this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Rate reliefs ruled out||The Centre on Tuesday ruled out in the Supreme Court the waiver of interest on loans availed during the six-month moratorium period ending August 31, saying it would cost the bank Rs 6 lakh crore and any such move would raise serious questions on their survival. Appearing for the Union finance ministry, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that if the interest is waived off on all the types of loans the amount forgone would be over Rs 6 lakh crore and this was precisely the reason why interest waiver was not even considered by the government. The bench was dealing with a batch of petitions filed by various business sectors seeking waiver of interests on loans in view of the pandemic as according to them the government cannot be discriminatory by waiving of only compound interests on those who had availed loans worth Rs 2 crore or less.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
09-12-2020||Business||Bids sought for Pawan Hans||The Modi government on Tuesday invited bids to sell its stake in state-owned helicopter services operator Pawan Hans, its second attempt at sell-off in three years. The earlier attempt in 2018 did not find any suitors. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) on Tuesday issued a fresh request for proposal (RFP) to invite bids for Pawan Hans. Any domestic or global player registered with Sebi can submit its bid by January 19, while shortlisted bidders will be intimated about selection by February 17. The government and ONGC will sell their entire stake in the unlisted company. ONGC holds a 49 per cent stake in Pawan Hans with the remaining 51 per cent being held by the Centre. Dipam on behalf of the central government will conduct the transaction and has appointed SBI Capital Markets Limited (SBICAP) as its adviser to manage the strategic disinvestment of the company. “The GOI has ‘in-principle’ decided to disinvest its entire equity shareholding in PHL by way of strategic disinvestment along with transfer of management control. ONGC has also decided to offer its entire shareholding of 49 per cent in PHL to the successful bidder at the same discovered price per share and on same terms & conditions as agreed by the GOI,” the RFP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||Indian economy to shrink by 9.4%: Fitch||Fitch Ratings on Tuesday has lowered its forecast of contraction of the Indian economy for the fiscal to 9.4 per cent against 10.5 per cent contraction earlier, taking note of the sharper than expected growth in the second quarter of the current fiscal. Fitch kept its forecast for the next fiscal and the following year unchanged at 11 per cent and 6.3 per cent growth, respectively. The report said the coronavirus-induced lockdown has inflicted severe economic scarring and the country needs to repair balance sheets and increase caution about long-term planning. The projections compare to a GDP growth of 4.2 per cent in 2019-20 fiscal and 6.7 per cent annual expansion between 2015 and 2019. Fitch said the Indian economy staged a sharper rebound in the July-September quarter from the coronavirus-induced recession. GDP fell 7.5 per cent year-on-year, up from -23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter. Manufacturing enjoyed a sharp rebound and its output in the second-quarter reached the levels before the pandemic, with the autos and pharmaceuticals leading the revival. The rebound in the services sector was more muted amid continued social distancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||SBI goes easy on plan to spin off Yono||State Bank of India (SBI) is going slow on its plans to divest its stake in digital platform Yono, which has around 28.5 million registered users. This was disclosed by SBI chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara to Bloomberg Television in an interview on Monday. Pointing out that the country’s largest bank will at some stage consider such a divestment, he said the lender is not in a tearing hurry to take this step. In October, Rajnish Kumar, the former chairman of SBI, had said that it is looking to hive off the integrated digital and lifestyle platform into a separate subsidiary. He had then disclosed that SBI was in discussions with all its partners to hive it off as a separate subsidiary. Kumar had said that after Yono becomes an independent entity, SBI could even become one among its users even as he admitted that discussions in this regard were at a preliminary stage and that a valuation exercise for the entity was pending. Earlier, Kumar had said that Yono’s valuation could be around $40 billion. Launched three years ago, the app, which has crossed more than 65 million downloads, sees more than 5.5 million logins per day along with over 4,000 daily disbursals of personal loans and 16,000 Yono Krishi Agri Gold loans. Use of the app has gone up amid the pandemic. While declaring the second quarter numbers, SBI had said that digital transactions now form 65 per cent of the total transactions. The platform has also been successful so far in generating a loan portfolio of Rs 25,000 crore and liabilities portfolio of Rs 60,000 crore. Its estimated contribution to the profit before tax of SBI is put at Rs 1,000 crore for the current fiscal. SBI has also been looking to establish a digital payments entity under the New Umbrella Entity (NUE) framework for retail payments. In August this year, the RBI had released a framework for authorisation of a pan-India umbrella entity for retail payments. The last date for submitting the application to the banking regulator is February 26, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||Mistry stake value slashed||Tata Sons on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that  the Pallonji group’s shareholding in the company was not more than Rs 80,000 crore, contrary to group head Cyrus Mistry’s claim that its value was over Rs 1.75 lakh crore. “As per our calculations, the Pallonji Group shareholding in Tata Sons is worth not more than Rs 70,000 crore to Rs 80,000 crore. Pallonji Group claims value of over Rs 1.75 lakh crore of its 18 per cent shareholding in Tata Sons,” senior advocate Harish Salve told a bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde during the day-long inconclusive arguments. He made the submission while asserting that the NCLAT had no power to direct Mistry’s reinstatement as the executive chairman of the company. It is not clear as to how Salve cited the nearly Rs 1 lakh crore difference in valuation between that made by the Mistry camp and the Tatas. However, it is learnt this has  came from an internal estimate done by the Tata group. This, however, could not be confirmed as a spokesperson of the Tatas declined to make any comments. Back in 2016, chartered accountant Y. H. Malegam had valued the Mistry stake in Tata Sons at Rs 58,000 crore. The bench also comprising Justices A.S.Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian  was dealing with an appeal filed by Tata Sons challenging the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal’s (NCLAT) order of December 18, 2019 directing the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the company. Salve said the event which triggered the present proceedings was primarily on October 24, 2016 when Cyrus Mistry was removed as the executive chairman, months before his term was to end in March 2017. “Original appointment of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman was to end in March 2017. It was not a lifetime appointment.” The bench asked whether the tribunal can explore possibilities of running the company even if it concludes that there is oppression and mismanagement, under Section 242. Salve said that in such cases the test would be whether there is lack of probity in running of company. “Sale of Rs 1 lakh car takes downturn, or issues faced by company due to problems in distribution of spectrum by government cannot be reasons for winding up on lack of probity,” he said. The arguments would continue tomorrow. Senior advocates C.A.Sundram, Shyam Divan and Janak Dwarkdas would be arguing for Cyrus Mistry and the Pallonji group after Salve’s submission. The development has however, led to apprehensions that the two sides could see fresh differences crop up over valuation of the 18.37 per cent stake held by the Mistry family in Tata Sons. They had earlier ascribed a value of Rs 1.78 trillion for their shareholding With 18 percent, in normal corporate democracy, Mistry would not even be able to get one director on the board and the 68 percent shareholder will be able to pack the board, Salve argued. “The 18 percent (shareholder) will be entitled to get dividends. As long as TATA sons is distributing huge amounts as dividends, where is the question of winding up. That is the long and short of this matter,” he said. The bench also comprising Justices A.S.Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian  was dealing with an appeal filed by Tata Sons challenging the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal’s (NCLAT) order of December 18, 2019 directing the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the company. The controversy relates to Mistry’s removal on October 24, 2016 as Executive Chairman by the Tata Sons. In response to Justice Bobde’ query as to whether the post of the Executive Chairman is created by the company’s board, Salve said “It is a designation. Many times companies don't have executive chairperson and senior-most director presides over board. It is not a post but only a designation.” He explained that Tata Sons was a company created in 1917. It was never a public company. Tata Sons always had a provision in its articles which restricts the transfer of its shares and provisions relating to stringent control on shareholding. According to Salve it also has an unusual article which empowers the Board to compel shareholder to sell his/ her share. “These articles have been in play all along even when Companies Act was amended and section 43A inserted,” the senior counsel said. He assailed the NCLAT for arriving at the finding that Tata Sons remained a public company despite Registrar of Companies approving the change in certificate of incorporation of Tata Sons from public to private. Salve submitted that the major shareholder of Tata Sons is Tata Trusts which holds 68 percent stake. The trustees controlled Tata Sons and nominated people to Board of Tata Sons. It was a matter of prestige to be nominated to the Board of Tata Sons, he said. Tata Sons in turn control a slew of listed companies including Tata Steel, Tata chemicals, Tata Motors, Indian Hotels and prestigious companies in Europe like Jaguar Land rover and Corus group, Salve said and remarked “It is a matter of pride that Jaguar cars are manufactured by Tata owned company,” Salve said. He said Pallonji Mistry, Cyrus Mistry's father was included in Tata Sons as non-executive Director in 1980. Cyrus Mistry joined Tata Sons in 2006. Between 1965 and 1980 none from Pallonji group was on the Board of Tata Sons. He said appointment of Cyrus Mistry as Executive Chairman was only until March 2017 “It was not a lifetime appointment.” “If instead of October 2016 we had reached March 2017 and he was not reappointed, then there would be no right on the part of minority shareholders to claim he shod be reappointed,” Salve said. He submitted that Cyrus Mistry and Pallonji group had never raised issues about appointment of N Chandrasekaran who had replaced Mistry, yet the NCLAT went ahead and struck that down. He said Ratan Tata wanted to do it in a quiet manner. So he had met Mistry and told him that Board had lost confidence in him and he should consider stepping down. But he did not and then there was leaking of letter. Eventually he was removed from Board. According to the counsel The Articles of Association of Tata Sons was amended in 2000 which gave affirmative voting rights on “Trust nominated directors.” These amendments were voted in affirmation by Pallonji Mistry, father of Cyrus Mistry, he said. These amendments created a structure such that resolutions etc had to be run past the trust before placing before the board. Otherwise, the nominated directors might say they will have to take instructions from nominator. “There is nothing wrong in it. But it is for this that they (Pallonji group) have called them stooges etc…The NCLAT has also picked out these articles to say they interfere in operation of minority,” Tata’s counsel said. He submitted that Mistry was not appointed as Executive Chairman not under any right of minority shareholder. Even otherwise, only Mistry personally can have grievance (due to removal) and not minority shareholders. “What NCLAT has done now is vest the control of the company with minority. Minority with 18 percent holding has been effectively given power to rule over all the Tata Companies,” Salve said. He submitted that under Section 241 of the Companies Act, the NCLAT can be moved only when the affairs of the company is conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest or in a manner oppressive to any member of the company. To a query from the CJI, Salve remarked: “Yes, it might at the most be a bad decision but not mismanagement. There has never been a single allegation of mismanagement of TATA Sons… “The company has been run amazingly. During the tenure of Mr. Ratan Tata between 1991 and 2012, the market cap of Tata went up 500 times. When there is a growth story of 500 percent, there will be some winner projects and some losers,” he said. Tata Sons said there was not a single resolution brought by Mistry,  when he was Executive Chairman, which was defeated by the board. For 20 years, veto was in place but never exercised. That was how this company was run, he said. The bench asked whether the tribunal can explore possibilities of running the company even if it concludes that there is oppression and mismanagement, under Section 242. Salve said that in such cases the test would be whether there is lack of probity in running of company. “Sale of Rs 1 lakh car takes downturn, or issues faced by company due to problems in distribution of spectrum by government cannot be reasons for winding up on lack of probity,” he said. Being outvoted in board meeting or personal lives of directors cannot be reasons to invoke just and equitable ground for winding up, Salve submitted. “The judge has to see whether oppression is of such degree and accompanied by lack of probity to such an extent that the judge has to either wind up the company or pass such orders to remedy the situation. Is that your submission?” Justice Bobde asked to which Salve answered in the affirmative. “Can there be a finding of oppression and mismanagement on the basis of articles of association of the company or should there be acts of oppression by the management?” the CJI asked prompting Salve to say “it should come out of the acts of management.” The arguments would continue tomorrow. Senior advocates C.A.Sundram, Shyam Divan and Janak Dwarkdas would be arguing for the Cyrus Mistry and Pallonji group after Salve’s submission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||Nokia ready with equipment ||Telecom gear maker Nokia on Tuesday said it has begun the production of 5G equipment at its manufacturing site in Chennai. The Finnish firm was the first to manufacture 5G New Radio in the country and is now producing the Nokia AirScale massive Multiple Input Multiple Output (mMIMO) solution. The equipment is already being exported to many countries in advanced stages of 5G deployment, the company said. The roll out of 5G services in India is dependent on spectrum auction as telecom operators need suitable wireless frequencies to start 5G in the country. Sanjay Malik, senior vice-president and head of India market, at Nokia, said “Our Chennai factory has emerged as a benchmark of India's manufacturing capabilities, bringing an entire range of telecom technology to operators in India and the rest of the world. ”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||PM offers incentives||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday made a strong pitch to make the country a global hub for telecom gear design, development and manufacturing by leveraging the over Rs 12,000-crore productivity linked incentive scheme (PLI) for telecom equipment. Addressing the India Mobile Congress, Modi said India was emerging as one of the most preferred  destinations for manufacturing. “We have also come up with the PLI scheme to promote telecom equipment manufacturing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
09-12-2020||Business||Telecom czars at odds over 5G rollout||Mukesh Ambani and Sunil Mittal have differed over the rollout of 5G services in the country and the need to hold early spectrum auction. At the India Mobile Congress on Tuesday, Ambani said Reliance Jio would roll out 5G by the second half of 2021 using indigenous technology only to be contradicted by Mittal who said the country would be ready for 5G tech in the next two-three years even as his deputy Gopal Vittal chipped in with his view that local 5G technology posed an existential threat. The Centre is yet to clear the air on the timing of India’s much awaited maiden 5G spectrum sale or the bands likely to be on offer. Airtel had earlier said it would refrain from bidding for 5G spectrum if the reserve price was high. Telecom regulator Trai has recommended a floor price of Rs 492 crore per Mhz for spectrum in the 3,300-3,600 Mhz band. Speaking at the inaugural event of the mobile congress, Ambani said policy steps were needed to accelerate the early rollout of 5G in the country and to make it affordable and available everywhere. “I assure you that Jio will pioneer the 5G revolution in India in the second half of 2021. It will be powered by an indigenous-developed network, hardware and technology components. Jio’s 5G service will be a testimony to your inspiring vision of Atma Nirbhar Bharat… The 5G would enable India to not only participate in the Fourth Industrial Revolution but also to lead it,” Ambani said. Ambani’s Jio Platforms had already partnered Qualcomm Technologies to fast-track the deployment of 5G mobile internet based on home grown technology. However, Bharti Enterprises chairman Sunil Mittal said at the event that it would take to 2-3 years to roll out 5G. “As world settles down on 5G space, pricing of the equipment comes down and importantly the devices start getting available in plentiful, I think India in two-three years' time will be ready to receive the benefit of the investments that the globe would have made on 5G standard and 5G ecosystems,” Mittal said. Bharti Airtel South Asia CEO Gopal Vittal called for embracing global 5G standards’ in India as the idea to develop country specific 5G standard was an existential threat and will lock the country out of the global ecosystem. “There are sometimes talks that India must have its own 5G standard. This is an existential threat which could lock India out of the global ecosystem and slow down the pace of innovation. We could have let our citizens down if you allow that to happen,” Vittal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-209
