10-12-2020||Business||Sensex snaps 5-day winning run, ends 144 pts lower||Snapping its five-session winning run, equity benchmark Sensex ended 144 points lower on Thursday, tracking losses in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank. The 30-share BSE index settled 143.62 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 45,959.88. The broader NSE Nifty fell 50.80 points or 0.38 per cent to 13,478.30. UltraTech Cement was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by M&M, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Nestle India, ITC, HUL and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. According to traders, profit-booking emerged at higher levels, dragging benchmark indices lower. The broader indices traded weak along with selling seen in basic materials, public sector and capital goods counters. "During the afternoon session, markets scaled back from lows as traders took some relief from reports that the Asian Development Bank (ADB) raised the growth forecast for India in the current fiscal year to (-) 8 per cent from the (-) 9 per cent projection in September while keeping the outlook for the next fiscal year at 8 per cent," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red, while Shanghai was in the positive territory. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.76 per cent to USD 49.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Sensex drops over 250 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 250 points in early trade on Thursday tracking losses in index-heavyweight HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and Infosys amid weak trend in global markets. According to traders, profit-booking emerged at higher levels, dragging benchmark indices lower. The 30-share BSE index was trading 254.72 points or 0.55 per cent lower at 45,848.78. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 79.60 points or 0.59 per cent to 13,449.50. UltraTech Cement was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, ONGC, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank, M&M, Infosys and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Maruti, Nestle India, Titan and PowerGrid were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 494.99 points or 1.09 per cent higher at its lifetime high of 46,103.50, while Nifty rallied 136.15 points or 1.02 per cent to its new record high of 13,529.10. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,564.23 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. "Domestic markets do not appear inspiring at the moment as global markets are trading in red," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US equities finished lower mainly led by selling pressure in technology stocks, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the positive territory. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.53 per cent higher at USD 49.12 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Burmans may run Eveready if Khaitans exit||The Burman family may consider taking control of Eveready Industries Ltd (EIL), the dry cell battery maker, if the Khaitans decide to exit the company. The Burmans hold close to 20 per cent stake in the Calcutta headquartered EIL, nearly four times more than the existing promoters who manage the company now. Amritanshu Khaitan is the managing director of EIL while his uncle Aditya Khaitan is the chairman of the board. The Burmans, who are promoters of Dabur India Ltd, have also confirmed their intention to corner more shares in EIL but ruled out buying at the current market prices. EIL rose 6.94 per cent to close at Rs 195.75 on the BSE on Wednesday after a media report suggested that the Burmans were getting ready to buy out the remaining shares of the Khaitans. Both sides denied the development. The stock closed at Rs 195.65 on the NSE, after hitting a 52-week high of Rs 206. The average cost at which the Burmans have built up their stake over the past 18 months is between Rs 80 and Rs 100 per share. “(We will buy) at an appropriate price…not at this price!” Mohit Burman, vice-chairman of Dabur, told this newspaper when asked if the Burman family intended to acquire more shares in Eveready. Asked if the Burman family would take control of Eveready going forward, he added: “Only if the Khaitans decide to exit.” The Khaitans have disclosed no plans to move out of the company that the late Brij Mohan Khaitan acquired in 1993. But their options are becoming limited as their equity holding in the company has fallen dramatically. The Khaitans own around 4.4 per cent stake in EIL, down from the 44.11 per cent that they held on March 31 last year. The situation arose after promoter group companies that held shares in EIL defaulted on creditor agreements, prompting the lenders to invoke the Eveready shares that had been pledged with them as collateral. Ironically, Eveready did not have any blotches on its own balance sheet. But the toxic debt had piled up in group firm McNally Bharat Engineering. The promoter group companies pledged their holdings in EIL and bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd to raise funds and funnelled the cash to mitigate the crisis at McNally Bharat. At one stage, there were several reports that suggested global giants Energizer and Duracell were eyeing EIL’s battery business. While none of these deals materialised, the Burmans started picking up shares from the market. Mohit Burman, who spearheaded the family’s entry into the financial sector (it had partnered Aviva of the UK for its life insurance foray in India), said Eveready was a strong brand with a national presence and this is what attracted them to the company. Unless the Khaitans find ways to creep back into the company, it might become difficult for them to carry on for the long to medium term now that the Burmans have articulated their desire to acquire more shares and take control if the situation turns favourable. So far, however, the relation between the two camps have been extremely cordial. If the Burmans cross the 25 per cent stake threshold, they will mandatorily be required to make an open offer for another 26 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Go-ahead to public Wi-Fi||In a move to drive broadband penetration in the country, the government on Wednesday approved the setting up of public Wi-Fi networks through public data offices that will not involve any licence, fee or registration. The public Wi-Fi Access Network Interface will be known as PM-WANI. The cabinet approved the setting up of these public Wi-Fi networks involving multiple players — Public Data Office (PDO), Public Data Office Aggregators and app providers. Speaking to reporters after the cabinet meeting, communication minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that businesses can take services from Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio or any such internet service provider (ISP) and use their physical location to provide Wi-Fi to anyone who happens to be nearby. “The Cabinet has cleared the PM-WANI public WiFi project that will unleash a broadband revolution in India and empower the lives of ordinary Indians, much like the PCO model of past decades that drove mass proliferation of basic telephone services,” Communication Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters after the Cabinet meeting. "No licence, no registration, and no fee would be applicable for the PDOs, which could be small shops or even Common Service Centres," Prasad said. The minister also said that businesses can take services from Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio or any such internet service provider (ISP) and use their physical location to provide Wi-Fi to anyone who happens to be nearby. The policy comes at a time when there mounting data demand from consumers strains the telecom networks. Telcos have been complaining that they do not have the spectrum necessary to provide high speeds and serve large amounts of data demand. A high number of public WiFi hotspots could serve increased demand from mobile internet users who do not have fixed broadband connections. Prasad said the Public Data Office (PDO) will establish, maintain and operate Wi-Fi Access Points and deliver broadband services to subscribers, while Public Data Office Aggregator (PDOA) will act as an aggregator of PDOs and perform the functions relating to authorisation and accounting. App providers will be responsible for developing applications to register users and discover WANI compliant Wi-Fi hotspots in the nearby area and display the same within the app for accessing the internet service. A Central Registry will maintain the details of app providers, PDOAs, and PDOs. "To begin with, the Central Registry will be maintained by C-DoT," an official release said. No registration would be required for PDOs, while PDOAs and app providers will get themselves registered with the telecom department through the online registration portal without paying any fee. The registration will be granted within seven days of applying. "This is expected to be more business-friendly and in line with efforts for ease of doing business. COVID-19 pandemic has necessitated delivery of stable and high-speed Broadband Internet (data) services to an increasingly large number of subscribers in the country, including areas which do not have 4G mobile coverage. This can be achieved by deployment of Public Wi-Fi," the release said. Further, the proliferation of public Wi-Fi will not only create employment, but enhance disposable income in the hands of small and medium entrepreneurs and boost GDP (gross domestic product) of the country, it added. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) had held two sets of consultations way back in 2016 - one on a policy for proliferation of public WiFi hotspots, and another on an interoperable framework for these hotspots, involving Aadhaar authentication for users. The Cabinet has also approved the laying of undersea submarine optical fibre cable to provide high-speed broadband to Lakshadweep, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Cabinet approves job scheme ||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a previously announced job scheme that seeks to encourage businesses to hire new employees. Under the Rs 22,810-crore scheme, the government will provide for two years both the employee and employer contribution to the retirement fund of the recruits. The cabinet approved an expenditure of Rs. 1,584 crore for the current financial year and Rs 22,810 crore for the entire scheme period — 2020-2023, a release said. Employees hired between October 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021 will be  eligible. The government will pay both 12 per cent  of employees’ contribution and 12 per cent employers’ contribution, which .is  24 per cent of wages towards EPF,  in establishments employing up to 1,000 workers. It will pay only employees' share in establishments employing more than 1,000 employees. Employers working with 50 employees or less must hire two recruits to be eligible, while those working with more than 50 employees must hire at least five recruits. An employee drawing a monthly wage of less than Rs. 15,000, who was not working in any establishment registered with the EPFO before October 1, 2020, and did not have a Universal Account Number (UAN) or EPF Member account number before October 1, 2020, will be eligible for the benefit. Any EPF member with UAN drawing a monthly wage of less than Rs. 15,000, who exited employment during Covid pandemic from March 1, 2020, to September 30, 2020, and did not join employment in any EPF covered establishment up to September 30, 2020, will also be eligible . “It is a good step towards supporting the formal sector which is struggling with a cash crunch. A large number of organizations have put off their hiring plans this year because they are wary of taking up fresh monetary commitments,” according to Vivek Bindra who heads start-up Bada Business. “The government’s pledge to bear the EPFO contributions of new employees will encourage many organizations to resurrect their recruitment plans,” he said. Vivek Bindra, Founder & CEO Bada Business, a start-up said. Under the scheme, the government will provide subsidy for two years in respect of new employees engaged on or after October 1, 2020, and up to June 30th, 2021. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as part of the "Atmanirbhar Bharat Package 3.0" had announced the scheme aimed to incentivize the creation of new employment opportunities during the COVID-19 recovery phase. The Cabinet nod would result in the implementation of the scheme. "The scheme will provide benefits to lakhs of people in the formal/organised sector," Gangwar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||RBI rules out more waivers||The RBI on Wednesday ruled out in the Supreme Court any further extension of moratorium on loans which ended on August 31, even as State Bank of India told the top court that any reliefs for distressed sectors can be mutually decided by banks and borrowers. “The prayer for extension of date is not feasible…” senior advocate V. Giri appearing for the RBI told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, while referring to the plea by several distressed sectors for extending the moratorium on loan till March 31, 2021. Giri, however, told the court that in terms of the RBI circular on loan moratorium the distressed sectors/individuals can approach the banks with their requests, including on personal loans which would be honoured. He said the eligibility of the borrower is clearly mentioned in clause 3 of the circular and stipulates that the eligibility would be on account of stress due to Covid-19. In other words, he said the borrowers need not even carry with them the actual resolution plans for availing the benefit. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for SBI however, questioned the maintainability of the batch petitions seeking reliefs from banks. According to him the court should not interfere in the issue was it would entail over Rs 6 lakh cr to banks if the plea of the petitioners are entertained. “My submission is that these are issues which cannot be decided by hearing parties in the courtroom.  A large number of people have deposited their money. Under Article 32(for enforcement of fundamental right) restructuring of loans cannot be asked for by the petitoners,” Rohatgi argued. The senior counsel noted that banks have complied with the various other directives of the RBI and Finance Ministry as such cannot give any further concessions to the different sectors. He was referring to the waiver of compound interests to borrowers of Rs two crore and below, besides the six months loan moratorium ending August 31. “We have complied with the directives…you (court) have to leave it to the banks, because these are economic policies and I do not think that either the RBI or the Union of India could have done more than this. “There are lakhs and lakhs of small depositors for every big borrower and this court must not lose sight of it,” Rohatgi argued. The court later adjourned the matter to December 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Sensex crosses 46000, while Nifty breaches 13500||The Sensex on Wednesday scaled the 46000-mark and settled at a new peak, while the Nifty breached 13500, buoyed by progress on the Covid-19 vaccine and hopes of a new stimulus package in the US amid strong portfolio flows. The 30-share Sensex began on a positive note and crossed the 46000-level for the first time. After touching a record intra-day high of 46164.10, the gauge ended 494.99 points, or 1.09 per cent, higher at 46103.50. The broader NSE Nifty rallied 136.15 points, or 1.02 per cent, to its new high of 13529.10, thus extending its record setting run for the seventh straight day. During the session, the index touched its lifetime peak of 13548.90. The gains tracked those in Asia where the Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo stock indices ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in early deals. This came on optimism over the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine in more countries, despite the disappointing news of rising numbers of cases in the UK and some other countries that  are battling the second wave of the pandemic. There are also expectations that there could be another stimulus package in the US. Another key factor that contributed to the stock market rally has been the spike in FPI investments after October. They invested a massive Rs 60,358 crore in equities last month. So far this month, their net investments stand at Rs 26,217 crore. So far during 2020, they have made net purchases of over Rs 1.34 trillion due to the accommodative policy followed by various central banks. ``Global cues were positive as Pfizer started to roll out its coronavirus vaccine in the UK and as investors tracked the ongoing efforts in the US on additional fiscal stimulus. European markets too hit February highs, joining the global market rally while investors kept an eye on the make-or-break Brexit talks.. Going ahead, the overall structure of the market continues to remain positive given abundant liquidity, developments on the vaccine front and signs of economic recovery. Technically too, Nifty formed a bullish candle on daily scale and continues forming higher highs’’ Siddhartha Khemka, Head - Retail Research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services said. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting 3.37 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Infosys, Reliance Industries and ITC. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel, Maruti, SBI and Bajaj Auto were among the laggards, falling up to 1.29 per cent. The rally was also broad-based with BSE small cap and mid cap indices rising upto 0.49 per cxent whereas Bankex, energy, realty, finance, IT, FMCG and teck indices jumped up to 1.47 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||One coal auction for all grades||The coal ministry is considering the consolidation of all types of electronic auctions done by Coal India to enable a better discovery of prices. Speaking at a session organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Wednesday, Union coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain said the reforms were not yet over. “The grant of mining leases is one reform that has already happened. The next reform that we need to do is in marketing of Coal India’s production,” said Jain. At present, Coal India has four windows for e-auction — spot auction, special spot auction, exclusive non-power sector auction and special forward auction for the power sector. In addition, a fifth window was provided in October to importers. “We want to bring it all into one bucket. Let there be a market discovery of prices. These little buckets are no longer serving the purpose. They are in fact enhancing the price to some sectors,” Jain said adding that the move to put all of them together could bring some sense of “balance and satisfaction” in the market. But industry sources point out that different consumers may have different preferences for coal grades and mines and those necessities have to be taken into consideration while consolidating the auction windows. Incidentally volume booking in e-auctions for the first seven months of the ongoing fiscal ending October at 59 MTs, increased by 28 MTs translating into a growth of 90 per cent and the trend sources indicate has continued in November. Sales through e-auction commands a better premium compared to supply through agreements. E-auction booking during the first seven months of the current fiscal ending October fetched a premium of 10 per cent over the notified price. Jain also said that the government collects around Rs 800 crore per annum into the National Mineral Exploration Trust. The leaseholders contribute 2 percent of royalty to the trust. Coal is the biggest contributor and with the production likely to go up to 1 billion tonnes, with commercial mining coming in and also the mineral sector closely following, Jain said that contributions to the trust can cross Rs 1000 crore which can then be deployed for gathering baseline geoscientific data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Heritage Foods exits Future Retail ||Heritage Foods has sold its entire holding of over three per cent in Future Retail (FRL) at close to half the price when these shares came under its kitty. Heritage, which is promoted by the family members of former Andhra Pradesh chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, sold its stake in FRL for around Rs 132 crore in the open market to mainly repay its long-term debt. In 2016, FRL had acquired the retail business of Heritage Foods in a share-swap deal following which it issued over 1.78 crore shares to Heritage, which  gave it a 3.65 per cent stake in the Kishore Biyani-led retail firm. These shares were then valued at almost Rs 270 crore. “The company has disposed off its entire holdings/investment of 1,78,47,420 equity shares held in Future Retail. These shares were sold through stock exchange in open market in various tranches and the net amount of Rs 131.94 crore was received by the company,” Heritage Foods said in a regulatory filing today. Heritage Foods disclosed that the sale proceeds shall be mainly utilised to repay the term loans of the company. At the time of acquisition, Heritage Foods ran 124 retail outlets under the brand name Heritage Fresh in Hyderabad, Bangalore and Chennai. Shares of Heritage Foods on Wednesday zoomed over 18 per cent or Rs 50.50 to close at Rs 330.45 on the BSE. Its retail business had posted a turnover Rs 629.70 crore in 2015-16 while the net profit stood at around Rs 110 crore. As part of the acquisition plan, Heritage Foods spun off its retail, bakery, agri-sourcing and veterinary care businesses to a fully owned subsidiary. Subsequently, all these businesses, except veterinary care, was merged with Future Retail. Shares of Heritage Foods on Wednesday zoomed over 18 per cent or Rs 50.50 to close at Rs 330.45 on the BSE. For the quarter ended September 30, the company had posted standalone revenues of Rs 593.32 crore which was lower than Rs 665.91 crore in the year-ago period. Its net profit fell to Rs 99.28 lakh against Rs 14.04 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. In August this year, Reliance Industries had announced the acquisition of retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing business from the Future Group as going concerns on a slump sale basis for lumpsum aggregate consideration of Rs 24,713 crore. Shares of Future Retail on Wednesday settled five per cent higher at Rs 80.65.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
10-12-2020||Business||Tatas question Cyrus Mistry status||Tata Sons told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that the National Company Law Tribunal order directing the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as chairman of the $ 113-billion group would effectively render the Shapoorji Pallonji group as the majority shareholder if it is upheld. It also insisted that that there had been no mismanagement of the company or oppression of the minority shareholder that would warrant the winding up of the group’s holding company under the existing laws. Continuing his arguments for the second day, senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for Tata Sons told a bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde that the group’s assets rose from Rs 69 crore in 1965 to Rs 58,000 crore, yet the Mistry group had accused the Tata Sons of mismanagement and oppression before the NCLAT. “The valuation of their holding rose from Rs 69 crore in 1965 to Rs 58,000 crore in 2016. Yet they say Ratan Tata ran the company so badly, that it was fit to wind it up in 2016…” Salve told the bench which includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian too. The court is hearing an appeal filed by Tata Sons challenging the NCLAT order of December 18, 2019 directing reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the company. The NCLAT order was subsequently stayed by the Supreme Court in January this year. According to the Tatas, the Mistry group owns only 18 per cent of the shareholding and was only a minority shareholder. Assailing the NCLAT order, Salve said: “With the NCLAT order, the majority is out and the minority is running the company…” . Questioning the petition filed by Mistry in NCLA, Salve asked: “On what basis are they saying there is justification for winding up Tata Sons? So if we go by their claims, it is strange management which has mismanaged the company but still taken its valuation from 1 lakh cr in 2017 to 1.75 lakh crore in 2020.” He was referring to the counter claim of the Mistry group that the latter shareholding  was to the tune of Rs 1.75 lakh cr contrary to the Tata Sons claim that it was just not more than Rs 80000 cr as on today. “Unless the losses were so enormous and there was such lack of probity so that there was no other way except to boot them (Tata Son) out, NCLAT could not have reached the conclusion it did. “In the cross appeal they have filed, they have claimed valuation of 1.5 lakh crores. They (Pallonji) have now asked that they be given 18 percent in all downstream Tata companies and as per their latest application the valuation is 1.75 lakh crores,” Salve submitted. Rejecting allegations of impropriety and mismanagement, the senior advocate submitted that there was no lack of probity in giving Tata Teleservices shares to C.Sivasankaran of Temasek as the prices of the stock had actually gone up. He said Sivasankaran had handled negotiations with Malaysian company in a remarkable manner when Tatas wanted to sell stake in Tata Teleservices and as a result prices went up, so where is the question of lack or probity he asked. The counsel said  giving penthouse to Sivasankaran at discounted rent is also not lack of probity and recalled that even Cyrus Mistry's brother was also given a similar penthouse. “So if we go by their (Mistry group’s) claims, it is a strange management which has mismanaged the company but still taken its valuation from 1 lakh crore in 2017 to 1.75 lakh crore (present valuation),” Salve remarked. The CJI however, pointed out that under Sections 241 and 242 of the Companies Act, a party seeking resolution before the NCLAT need not necessarily seek winding up of a company as it can seek other remedies for running the company. “The Tribunal can then look into the complaint and if it feels that it is just and equitable to wind up company but not expedient to do so in shareholders’ interest, then directions can be passed by tribunal,” Justice Bobde said while pointing out that there is no specific need to plead for winding up of the company. Salve said Tata Sons being a private limited company in terms of the Companies Act 2013 has restricted its members to 50. Cyrus Mistry was initially inducted as deputy exuectie chairman to work under Ratan Tata before he took over from hi. It was the first time someone from outside the family’s Tata Trusts had taken over as chairman of the Tata Sons. According to Salve earlier the practice was to appoint a person from Tata Sons to the board of different Tata companies. However, after Mistry took over he started appointing his own persons to those companies resulting in a disconnect between the Tata Sons and the operative companies, “…the only link being Mr Mistry himself.” The arguments would continue on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
10-12-2020||Business||More spectrum sought for 5G||Telecom operators Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Reliance Jio on Wednesday said the government should roll out adequate spectrum for 5G services in the country. The demand follows recent reports that the government would be allocating only 175 MHz (3425 -3600 MHz) for 5G after ISRO and the Department of Space raised concerns about allowing the 3400-3425 MHz band for 5G as they need it for their applications. The government had earlier planned to allocate 300 MHz for 5G services. Telecom operators said the current availability of just 175 MHz for all service providers in the 3300-3600 mid band is “grossly inadequate” and would adversely impact the 5G rollout in the country. Jio’s president and group CTO-mobility, Shayam Mardikar, said the right amount of spectrum for 5G is a must in India considering the population density. The quantum of spectrum available has to be the “right size as it impacts the differential experience. In some places where operators have launched 5G with the smaller tranche of spectrum, they are not able to offer a differential experience,” Randeep Sekhon, chief technology officer at Bharti Airtel, said. Rajinder Singh, Vodafone Idea’s executive vice-president of technology, said contiguous spectrum in the right amount and the right band is crucial for the country’s 5G ambitions. The telecom players were taking part in a discussion during the ongoing India Mobile Congress. COAI had recently urged the DoT to ensure at least 400 MHz per telco in mmwave bands (26, 28, 37 GHz) and at least 2x10MHz per operator in sub-GHz bands 600MHz and 700MHz. Networking major Cisco said 100 million subscribers can afford 5G services in the country and demand from the enterprise market for 5G will encourage telecom operators to invest in the 5G market. “Studies have shown that almost 10 to 12 per cent of the overall mobile subscribers today in India can afford a 5G service with a sizable increase in the ARPU to telcos. Over 100 million people can afford a 5G service... that’s a huge latent demand market for the telecom services providers to cash in on,” Anand Bhaskar, managing director, service providers, Cisco India & SAARC, said at the event. .... Along with the enterprise market should sort of provide the right sort of fillip for the service provider to invest in the 5G market which they have already started doing,” Anand Bhaskar, managing director, service providers, Cisco India & SAARC said at the event. Meanwhile, a senior DoT official said there is a need to bring in affordable pricing for the fifth-generation or 5G airwaves, as a part of the Centre's policy initiatives "The policy initiatives required from the government for 5G must include ensuring spectrum availability at affordable prices, lower reserve price, and uniform Right-of-Way policy for fiberisation. Thus, there exists several new opportunities, and the future is bright and exciting," Bharat Kumar Jog, Member (Services) said. Airtel had earlier said it would refrain from bidding for 5G spectrum if the reserve price was high. Telecom regulator Trai has recommended a floor price of Rs 492 crore per Mhz for spectrum in the 3,300-3,600 Mhz band. The Centre is yet to clear the air on the timing of India’s much awaited maiden 5G spectrum sale or the bands likely to be on offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
10-12-2020||Business||Online car financing by Maruti||Maruti Suzuki India Limited on Wednesday launched its online car financing platform “Smart Finance” which will have multiple financiers on board. The platform will offer online finance solutions to salaried customers looking to buy vehicles in the Nexa channel across 30 cities, including Calcutta. Maruti will subsequently extend the service to non-salaried and Arena customers and cover more cities. The platform is hosted on www.nexaexperience.com, comprising eight financiers — HDFC Bank, Yes Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Cholamandalam Finance AU Small Finance Bank, Mahindra Finance and Kotak Mahindra Prime. The customers can choose a loan product and complete all the finance related formalities, including uploading required documents. The loan will be disbursed immediately for pre-approved loans and within a few hours for others. The Nexa website will act as a facilitator between the customer and the financier providing a the loan offers real time status updates and a hassle free and transparent financing solution. Speaking on the new initiative,  Kenichi Ayukawa, Managing Director and CEO, MSIL, said, “Under the Smart Finance platform, we have partnered with several financiers to provide custom curated personalized loan offers for our customers. The customer gets to customize the EMI, by choosing the loan tenure and interest rate and select a preferred down-payment scheme.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
10-12-2020||Business||Flawed iron ore policy||The government policy to bring only a limited number of iron ore blocks for public auction is creating distortion in the marketplace, Naveen Jindal, chairman of Jindal Steel & Power Ltd, said. “The government cannot be a hoarder. They should bring out a lot of blocks at a time... Why should the government, state or the Centre, bring only a few blocks at a time. Because they want to maximise on their premiums,” Jindal asked. Speaking at an e-conclave organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Jindal said there is too much competition when artificial scarcity is created and people end up paying huge premiums and then they become unsustainable. “Iron ore is our strength but at a particular cost,” he added. Companies such as JSPL which depend on market purchase for iron ore are having a hard time because prices have shot up in the last six months. Those who bid high to corner blocks now find the asset unviable and leave them closed. Out of 19 blocks auctioned off earlier this year, only 5 which were cornered by JSW Steel and AM/NS India, are operational now. The lowest a miner agreed to pay to the government in this round of auction was about 95 per cent of the quarterly price declared by Indian Bureau of Mine (IBM), which is linked to market price, while the highest topped 150 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-208
