11-12-2020||Business||Sensex ends 139 points higher||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 139 points higher on Friday following gains in ICICI Bank, ITC and NTPC amid persistent foreign fund inflows. After touching its all-time intra-day high of 46,309.63, the 30-share BSE index settled 139.13 points or 0.30 per cent up at 46,099.01, just shy of its closing record. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 35.55 points or 0.26 per cent to 13,513.85. It hit a lifetime high of 13,579.35 during the session. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by NTPC, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank, ITC, Titan and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Axis Bank, M&M, Tech Mahindra, Asian Paints and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. Domestic equities remained resilient but erased some gains towards the second half as concern over probable no-deal Brexit weighed on investors' sentiment, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. European markets saw a sharp gap down opening on this concern. "PSU banks, metals and FMCG continued to attract investors, while profit-booking was visible in pharma, IT and automobile counters," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red, while Hong Kong and Seoul ended in the positive territory. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.56 per cent to USD 49.97 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex rose over 250 points in early trade on Friday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid persistent foreign fund inflows. After touching its record intra-day high of 46,212.53 in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 249.43 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 46,209.31. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 73.20 points or 0.54 per cent to 13,551.50. It hit a high of 13,553.80. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by SBI, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Tech Mahindra, Infosys and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 143.62 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 45,959.88. The broader NSE Nifty fell 50.80 points or 0.38 per cent to 13,478.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,259.98 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look good at the moment. FPIs continue to remain as a key driving force for the markets. Given the dovish tone of global central bankers, improved prospects of sound earnings growth and weak dollar index, we believe FPIs flow should remain benign in subsequent periods," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, a sharp rise in Brent price and input prices can pose a near-term threat for earnings recovery, he said. "US equities ended mixed as sharp rise in weekly jobless claim data and slow progress on fiscal stimulus weighed on investors' sentiments despite satisfactory progress on vaccine approvals and distribution process. However, extension of the asset buying program by EUR 500 billion in European Central Bank (ECB) policy bodes well for global equities especially emerging markets," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the positive territory. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.04 per cent higher at USD 50.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||United Spirits gets new CEO||United Spirits Ltd (USL), a part of global liquor giant Diageo, on Thursday appointed Hina Nagarajan as the company’s new CEO with effect from July 1, 2021. Incumbent Anand Kripalu will step down on June 30. At present, Nagarajan is the managing director of the Africa Regional Markets (ARM) at Diageo and will join USL as the CEO-designate from April 1, the company said, adding she will take over formally from July 1 and will be a member of the Diageo executive committee. She will report to John Kennedy, the president of Diageo Europe and India. Nagarajan will be based in Bangalore and will work closely with Kripalu to ensure a smooth transition, the company said. In her current role, she leads Diageo’s ARM comprising operations in Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia, the Indian Ocean, Angola and several other countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Supreme Court to hear cap on audit cases||The Supreme Court has transferred to itself a batch of writ petitions pending in the high courts of Calcutta, Kerala and Madras challenging certain guidelines issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India restricting the annual auditing of accounts by chartered accountants to a maximum of 60 in a year and also imposing disciplinary action against them for “professional misconduct” for the violation of certain other guidelines. The chartered accountants have challenged the regulations in the high courts “on the ground that it violated their fundamental right to carry out their profession guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution”. The ICAI had moved the apex court for the transfer of the petitions in different high courts to the top court for an authoritative pronouncement on the issue to avoid any conflicting verdicts. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subash Reddy and M.R. Shah agreed with the ICAI saying it involved public interests, not only chartered accountants but also the citizens. Accordingly the court passed the judgment: “The guidelines which are impugned in the High Court and consequent disciplinary proceedings initiated against various chartered accountants throughout the country is an issue of public importance ... We are satisfied that to settle the law and to clear the uncertainty among tax professionals and citizens, it is appropriate that this Court may transfer the writ petition...” The interim orders passed in the writ petitions which are being transferred shall continue till any other order is passed . Under chapter VI of the Council General Guidelines, 2008 of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, the specified number of tax audits by a chartered accountant is set at 60 in a financial year whether in respect of corporate or a non-corporate assessee. If the threshold is exceeded, there are disciplinary provisions and a member can be held guilty of professional misconduct. CAs said capping the number of tax audits may be seen as infringement of efficiency. If auditors are able to complete the entire audit work as restricted by the 2008 guidelines, they may also be unemployed for the rest of the year. (With inputs from the Calcutta Bureau)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Walmart sets $10bn India-made export target||US retail giant Walmart on Thursday committed itself to triple goods exports from India to $10 billion annually by 2027. The Bentonville-based firm said its new commitment to export “$10 billion of India-made goods each year by 2027” is expected to provide a significant boost to MSMEs in India, alongside ongoing efforts such as the Flipkart Samarth and Walmart Vriddhi supplier development programmes. The expansion in sourcing will include developing new suppliers in categories such as food, pharmaceuticals, consumables, health and wellness and general merchandise, along with apparel, homeware and other key Indian export categories, the company said in a statement. Walmart Inc president and CEO Doug McMillon said as an international retailer that brings value to customers and communities worldwide. Walmart understands that local entrepreneurs and manufacturers are vital to the success of the global retail sector. “We see huge potential for Indian suppliers to grow their businesses by leveraging the unique scale and global distribution opportunity Walmart provides,” he added. McMillon said “by significantly accelerating our annual India exports in the coming years, we are supporting the Make in India initiative and helping more local businesses reach international customers while creating jobs and prosperity at home in India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Nokia and Vodafone Idea in enterprise deal||Nokia has partnered Vi Business, the enterprise arm of Vodafone Idea, to offer future ready services that will help enterprises to digitally transform and improve their efficiency, reduce operational costs and enhance security. As the adoption of future-ready network solution increases, this partnership will help jointly offer differentiated propositions in cutting edge technologies such as Fixed Wireless Access (FWA), private wireless and gigabit passive optical networks (GPON), a Nokia release said. Meanwhile, the government will soon announce spectrum bands crucial for the rolling out 5G services and is holding consultations with different ministries, a senior telecom department official said on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||UPL stock tanks over whistleblower charge||The shares of agrochemical firm UPL were clobbered on Thursday amid reports of a whistleblower complaint alleging that the promoter is siphoning out funds from the company. On the Bombay Stock Exchange, the UPL scrips were down 10.94 per cent to Rs 438.45. On the National Stock Exchange, the scrips fell 11.29 per cent to Rs 437. During intra-day trade, the stock had fallen to Rs 416.05 apiece, the biggest single-day drop since March 23, 2020, before recovering later in the day. The whistleblower has alleged that UPL entered into rent deals with a shell company owned by its employees and paid crores of rupees in rent for properties held by the latter. UPL chief executive officer Jai Shroff denied the allegations in an interview with a television channel on Thursday after the reports came out. He said that the complaint was from 2016-17 regarding a house where he lived. “The auditors reviewed it and was put to rest in 2017. It was an arm’s length transaction and there were no related party issue,” Shroff said. He said that J.Sagar and Associates had reviewed all the documents related to the rental of the house. Company clarifies The company, in a clarification to the exchanges, said there was no new complaint against it and denied that the whistleblower was a member of the board as reported. “An identical whistleblower complaint was received by the audit committee of UPL on June 2, 2017. The whistleblower committee, which comprised only independent directors, was constituted by the audit committee to investigate the allegations and all the contents of the complaint were fully disclosed. “It undertook a detailed review, including each related-party transaction (RPT), with the help of an independent law firm, and had concluded two-and-a-half years back that those transactions were at arm’s-length and in compliance with the applicable laws. Thereafter, the complainant was duly informed about the findings of the audit committee and the matter was closed,” the company said in the statement. “UPL believes and reassures that all corporate governance norms and applicable laws have been duly complied with. UPL will evaluate all possible legal options available with it to defend its position and image,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Competition Commission of India raids 3 cement firms||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has initiated an investigation against cement companies in India, including ACC and Ambuja Cements. The anti-trust body had on Wednesday conducted raids at the offices of UltraTech Cement and two subsidiaries of the world’s largest cement maker LafargeHolcim, two sources close to the matter told Reuters. Swiss-based LafargeHolcim in a statement to Reuters confirmed officials visited the Mumbai offices of ACC and Ambuja Cements and said the companies were fully cooperating with the authorities, but could not comment further as the matter is ongoing. Several officers of the CCI were involved in search operations conducted simultaneously at multiple locations in India, late into the evening, the sources said, asking not to be named because of the confidential nature of the raids. Searches were also conducted at Shree Cement Ltd, a third source said. In a regulatory filing, ACC said it has acted and continues to act in compliance with competition laws and is fully cooperating with the investigation and providing all the necessary information to the authorities. In a separate filing, Ambuja Cements said it has a “long-standing commitment to fair competition as reflected in its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics”. Shares of Ambuja Cements and ACC took a beating on news of the raids. The stock of Ambuja Cements closed at Rs 248.35, 1.80 per cent down after declining 2.96 per cent to Rs 245.40 during the day on the BSE. ACC dipped 1.46 per cent to close at Rs 1,631.95 after it declined 2.24 per cent to Rs 1,619.05 during the day. Among others, UltraTech Cement shares tanked 3.59 per cent to Rs 4,962.90 and those of Shree Cement 2.91 per cent to Rs 23,705.50 on the BSE. India is the second-largest cement producer in the world and accounted for more than 8 per cent of the global installed capacity in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Arcelor Nippon to double capacity||The Mittals plan to double their bets on India as their maiden venture in the country completes a year in operation. Dilip Oommen, CEO of AMNS India (ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel), said the company would like to expand capacity at Hazira to twice the existing size and look for opportunities elsewhere. Speaking at an e-conclave organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Oommen said: “We are quite bullish on the future of the steel industry in India. While we are expanding our pellet capacity to 20 million tonnes, we want to double the production at Hazira in stage one and then we will look at opportunities.” Mittals acquired Essar Steel for Rs 42,000 crore through a litigious insolvency process and partnered Japan’s Nippon Steel, which picked up a 40 per cent stake, to manage the asset. The asset is capable of producing 8.3-million-tonne steel now and Oommen said the plant was operating at 100 per cent capacity. However, there are a few loose ends the company may tie up before converting the intent to action. It has set its eyes on the captive port linked to the steel plant and stake claim on the asset which is owned by Essar’s erstwhile owners. Moreover, it is fighting a court battle to secure a pipeline in Odisha to carry iron ore slurry from the mine to the pellet plant at Paradip. It is also trying to win over creditors of a secondary steel producer Uttam Galva Steel through a bankruptcy process. V-Shaped recovery Participating in the conclave, director (commercial) of SAIL, Soma Mondal, said there has been a V-shaped recovery in steel demand. “Two major developments are defining steel demand, one is government intervention through various schemes, including Atmanirbhar Bharat, and adequate liquidity in the market,” Mondal, who is tipped to take over as the chairperson of the public sector behemoth, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Mukesh Ambani welcomes grandson||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani on Thursday became a grandfather after a son was born to his eldest son. “Shloka and Akash Ambani became proud parents of a baby boy today in Mumbai,” a statement from the Ambani family spokesperson said. Akash married diamantaire Russell Mehta’s daughter Shloka in March 2019. Ambani, 63, and his wife Nita have three children — twins Akash and Isha, 29 years old, and Anant, 25. The Ambani family is said to have returned to Mumbai just before Diwali last month after spending considerable time abroad. “Nita and Mukesh Ambani are delighted to become grandparents for the first time as they welcomed the great-grandson of Dhirubhai and Kokilaben Ambani,” the statement said. “The new arrival has brought immense joy to the Mehta and Ambani families,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-206
11-12-2020||Business||Tata Sons spurn Cyrus Mistry truce offer in Supreme Court||Tata Sons on Thursday told the Supreme Court that Cyrus Mistry’s Shapoorji Pallonji group wanted to acquire pro rata 18 per cent share in all the companies run by Tata Sons as a severance package for the group’s 18 per cent in Tata Sons — which was “nonsense”, not acceptable to the company. Winding up his arguments for Tata Sons, senior advocate Harish Salve told a bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde that R.N. Tata as chairman emeritus has to be kept in loop for the smooth functioning of the company which was not done by Mistry when he was at the helm. According to Salve, “they wanted 18 per cent share in all the group companies at the time of severance but they (Pallonji group) are kind enough to say we (Tatas) will have the control of the companies. Such an argument is not tenable and is just a nonsense”, Salve told the court. The bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian is hearing an appeal filed by Tata Sons challenging the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal’s (NCLAT) order of December 18, 2019, directing the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the company. The Supreme Court subsequently stayed the NCLAT order in January. He said Ratan Tata cannot be faulted by the Pallonji group as all that the he wanted was that certain issues that arose should have been discussed, particularly with regard to the appointment to the board of directors. The Chief Justice pointed out that the resentment against Tata’s participation is that he did not have any authority to demand anything in a particular way and yet he was asking the board to discuss about how things are being done. Salve said nominee directors have to vote in favour and they — the nominee directors — are representing the trust of which Ratan Tata is the chairman, “so what’s so wrong in that?” The senior counsel said allegations for misconduct are primarily related to downstream companies, not Tata Sons. Mistry views Senior advocate C.A. Sundaram appearing for Cyrus Investments and Sterling Investments said the group was forced to move the tribunal for the winding up proceedings as the business was being run in a manner prejudicial not just to minority shareholders but to the company itself. “Tata Sons is only an investment company. It invests in the group companies. It does no other work. Tats Sons board takes decisions on what direction the group companies should take. That is why functioning of group companies become important,” he said. But when it came to the question of group companies, the Tata Sons as a majority shareholder effectively takes all decision even with regard to the group companies, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-207
