12-12-2020||Business||Food and petrol prices to stay high||Retail inflation probably fell in November from October but remained above the Reserve Bank of India’s target, amid high food and petrol prices, a Reuters poll of economists showed. Retail inflation has stayed above the central bank’s comfort zone of 2-6 per cent for seven consecutive months, a streak not seen since August 2014. The December 4-9 poll of 48 economists forecast a drop in inflation in November to 7.10  per cent from 7.61 per cent in October, which was the highest since May 2014. If realised, November’s rate would be above 7 per cent for the third consecutive month. “Inflation for November is likely to be lower than October as there was some moderation in prices of vegetables in particular as well as pulses,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. “On the upside, petrol prices had increased which worked in the other direction,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
12-12-2020||Business||Auto sales increase 12.73% in November||Riding on the back of festive demand, passenger vehicle sales increased 12.73 per cent to 2,85,367 units in November against 2,53,139 units in the same month last year, industry body Siam said on Friday. The figures are despatches by the car companies to the dealers. This is the fourth consecutive month rise in passenger vehicles and two-wheeler sales after production and sales came to a halt in April. Companies  have increased inventory at dealerships expecting retail sales to stay strong beyond Diwali and Dhanteras. According to the latest data by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam), two-wheeler sales rose 13.43 per cent to 16,00,379 units, compared with 14,10,939 units in the same month last year. Last month, the country’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki India witnessed a 12.3 per cent increase in its dispatches to dealers at 1,56,244 units. Similarly, Hyundai Motor India saw 9.42 per cent increase in dispatches at 48,800 units. In the two-wheeler segment, Hero MotoCorp reported a  13.83 per cent rise in dispatches to 5,75,957 units, while Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India witnessed 10.54 per cent rise in dispatches to dealers last month. Motorcycle sales were at 10,26,705 units against 8,93,538 units in November 2019, up 14.9 per cent. Scooter sales were up 9.29 per cent at 5,02,561 units from 4,59,851 units a year ago. Sales of two wheelers have picked up faster compared to the other segments because of  the quicker recovery in demand in the rural and semi-urban areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Economy likely to improve in second half of fiscal||Economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj on Friday said the second quarter GDP figure was much better than market expectations and the economy will further improve its performance in the second half of the fiscal. The economy contracted 7.5 per cent in the second quarter of the fiscal against a 23.9 per cent contraction in the first quarter. “So we are positive. We are cautiously optimistic on the economic front. And we are hoping that our third and fourth quarter performances will be far better than the second quarter,” Bajaj said at the Ficci meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Covid vaccine hope fuels crude spike||Oil prices steadied on Friday, and were set for a sixth week of gains as progress towards the novel coronavirus vaccination programmes fed hopes that demand for fuel would rebound next year. Brent was down 7 cents, or 0.1 per cent, at $50.18 a barrel at 1418GMT, after rising above $51 a barrel on Thursday to an early-March high. US oil was up 4 cents, or 0.1 per cent, at $46.82 a barrel, having risen almost 3 per cent in the previous session. Promising vaccine trials have helped lift some gloom over record increases in the number of new coronavirus infections and deaths. Britain began inoculations this week and the US could start vaccinations in the coming weekend. “The optimism seems to continue unscathed because of the back-to-back approvals vaccines are getting and the quicker-than-thought rollout of the first campaigns in key markets,” Rystad Energy analyst Paola Rodriguez-Masiu said. A big jump in US crude stockpiles last week served as a reminder that there is still plenty of supply available, but it was all but ignored as bulls ran through the market this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business|| Canara Bank raises Rs 2000cr||State-owned Canara Bank on Friday said it has raised Rs 2,000 crore equity capital by issuing over 19 crore shares to eligible investors. LIC has emerged as the largest investor in the bank’s qualified institutional placement (QIP). The sub-committee of the board at its meeting held on Friday approved the allotment of 19,32,36,714 equity shares to eligible qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) at an issue price of Rs 103.50 per equity share, aggregating up to Rs 2,000 crore, Canara Bank said in a regulatory filing. The QIP had opened on December 7 and closed on December 10. The allottees — who were allotted more than 5 per cent of the total equity shares on offer — include Life Insurance Corporation (25 per cent), BNP Paribas Arbitrage (9.11 per cent), Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd (8.81 per cent), Societe Generale (7.91 per cent) and Kuber India Fund (6.16 per cent). Following the QIP, the paid-up equity share capital of the bank stands increased to Rs 1,646.74 crore, comprising 1,64,67,38,220 equity shares of the face value of Rs 10 each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Economist warns on rise in inequality in India||The handsome 25 per cent rise in corporate profits in the September quarter amid a sharp contraction in GDP was on the back of wage squeezes, leading to a rise in inequalities in India, economist Nouriel Roubini said on Thursday. This rising inequality is “dangerous” politically and socially because only a few people in the economy are benefitting, the economics professor at New York’s Stern School of Business said. Roubini said earnings of listed entities have risen 25 per cent in the September quarter, which means that wages and income are getting “squeezed, if not collapsed”. “The number of unemployed or partially unemployed people is spiking, profits have been rising when GDP has been falling, so income inequality is rising,” he said at an event organised by the NSE. He also said inflation has tied the hands of the RBI, and advocated stronger action from the fiscal policy front to help those affected. “Help the poor, help the migrant, help the disadvantaged, try to provide credit support and credit lines to small enterprises that are at risk of collapsing,” he suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||EU to cut carbon emission by 55%||After an all-night negotiating session, European Union leaders agreed on Friday morning to cut net carbon emissions by 55 per cent in the next decade from levels measured in 1990, overcoming the concerns of nations still heavily dependent on coal and taking a critical step in the effort to become climate-neutral by 2050. European leaders, who are keen to position themselves as at the forefront of the global fight against climate change, had failed in October to reach a deal on an even less ambitious target of 40 per cent. But after an agreement on a $2.2-trillion budget on Thursday  evening — with billions earmarked for member states to spend on the transition to a greener economy — momentum for a consensus environmental policy gathered speed. Shortly after dawn, Charles Michel, the head of the group of the EU leaders, announced the news on Twitter. “Europe is the leader in the fight against climate change,” he wrote. “We decided to cut our greenhouse gas emissions of at least 55 per cent by 2030.” The decision on the new target comes just in time for the United Nations climate summit this Saturday, where it will be announced by Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said it was “worth losing a night’s sleep” over the climate deal. “I don’t want to imagine what would have happened if we hadn’t been able to achieve such a result,” she said during a news conference on Friday, following the meeting. Still, the details and the language in the agreement were kept vague after many hours of often tense negotiations, leaving it up to the commission to hammer out the specifics. The overnight discussions on climate, which has been declared as one of the European Union’s top priorities, have been obstructed by the familiar divisions between the wealthier western European countries pushing for more ambitious targets, and a handful of eastern European states, led by Poland, that depend heavily on coal. They fought for more detailed provisions on how Brussels would support them in the transition, asking for the new rules to take differing circumstances into account. In a gesture toward eastern European governments, the EU leaders decided the target has to be reached by the bloc collectively —  effectively giving coal-dependent countries more time to transition their energy consumption. For the first time, emissions from forests and land use will be included in the target, which climate activists say might weaken the outcome. The legal provisions that would ensure compliance still need to be worked out in the coming months and the agreement has to be endorsed by the commission and the European Parliament. The New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Airbnb shares hits $100bn m-cap||Shares of Airbnb Inc more than doubled in their stock market debut on Thursday, valuing the home rental firm at just over $100 billion in the biggest US initial public offering (IPO) of 2020 and capping a bumper year in which investors flocked to tech stocks. Airbnb opened at $146 on the Nasdaq, far above the IPO price of $68 per share that raised $3.5 billion for the company. The stock hit a high of $165 and closed at $144.71. The IPO is the culmination of a stunning recovery in Airbnb’s fortunes after the firm’s business was heavily damaged by the Covid-19 pandemic earlier this year. But as lockdowns eased, more travelers opted to book homes instead of hotels, helping Airbnb post a surprise profit for the third quarter. The San Francisco-based firm also gained from increased interest in renting homes away from major cities. “I don’t think this summer too many people expected to see an Airbnb IPO this year,” Airbnb chief executive Brian Chesky told Reuters in an interview. “We were planning on going public, we put our IPO on hold and this has been the most unbelievable journey. It’s been quite a comeback for our hosts and for what I hope will be travel,” added Chesky, whose Airbnb stake is now worth around $11 billion. Founded in 2008 as a website to take bookings for rooms during conferences, Airbnb’s listing was one of the most anticipated US IPOs of 2020, which has already been a record year for market listings. Record label Warner Music Group, data analytics firm Palantir Technologies and data warehouse company Snowflake Inc have all gone public in the past few months. At the start of trading on the Nasdaq, Airbnb had a market capitalisation of $86.5 billion, eclipsing that of online travel agency Booking Holdings Inc and hotel chain Marriott International Inc. Including securities such as options and restricted stock units, Airbnb's fully diluted valuation came to $100.7 billion, more than five times the $18 billion Airbnb was valued at in a private fundraising round in April at the outset of the pandemic. Airbnb’s worth was estimated at $31 billion in its last pre-Covid-19 private fundraising in 2017. The eye-popping rise in Airbnb’s stock on its debut comes just a day after the share price of food delivery company DoorDash Inc doubled in their first day of trading.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Banks to exercise tighter scrutiny on loans||Banks are exercising caution and factoring in more information about borrowers before disbursing loans to prevent fresh credit slippages. Axis Bank CEO Amitabh Chaudhry on Friday said that the granularity of lending parameters considered by the banks has increased manifold. On the corporate side, a more in-depth look into the profile of the promoters is taken into consideration. This includes leverage at the holding company level, the number of businesses and how they are managed and how many members of the family are involved in the business among others. “Banks are doing a much more detailed analysis and a look into the history of promoters in general. It is driven by banks generally becoming more cautious,” Chaudhry said at a session organised by XLRI Mumbai chapter and moneycontrol. “When banks look at lending opportunities, the lens we use now is differentiated significantly by segments,” he said. Chaudhry cited the example of the hospitality industry where micro elements such as the mix of guests, location and type of property and historical seasonality of occupancy among others are increasingly taken into consideration which are typically explored by equity investors. “Because banks have suffered in the past, we could become equity investors of tomorrow if we don’t get into the level of granularity. Debt will become a non-performing loan if we do not go and analyse some of the parameters in depth,” he said. Banks are also increasingly looking at short-term data such as daily and weekly sales volume, footfall, credit card behaviour, enquiries on loan, salary trends across sectors for a robust underwriting. Chaudhry said that availability of digital data such as Aadhaar, UPI, GST has helped the banks to increase the level of granularity. The cautiousness of the banks is based on the current macroeconomic situation and also stress tests of credit risks of RBI indicate that the GNPA ratio mayt increase 8.5 per cent in March 2020 to 12.5-14.7 per cent by March 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||States seek policy body outside Niti Aayog after 6 years||The Niti Aayog which replaced the decades-old Planning Commission with much fanfare in 2014 appears to have already outlived its usefulness to the states, who now want a new institutional arrangement for policy dialogue with the Centre. Finance Commission chairman N. K. Singh said there was a need for another forum for the ongoing consultations after the abolition of the Planning Commission. “With the abolition of the Planning Commission, many economists and policy makers have argued about an institutional vacuum. While the National Development Council (NDC) is performing an important function, the States have pleaded for a credible institution acting as a link for a policy dialogue with the Centre,” Singh said at Ficci’s 93rd annual general meeting. The NDC is the apex decision making body presided by the Prime Minister and whose meetings are attended by the chief ministers themselves. In its statement of objectives, the Niti Aayog had given priority to co-operative federalism and the active involvement of the states in its activities — but after six years the states seem to think otherwise. The Narendra Modi- government had abolished the Planning Commission in one of its first decisions after coming to power in 2014. “We need to give serious consideration for a consultative forum for credible policy dialogue between the Centre and the states,” Singh said. He said the Niti Aayog has emerged as a credible think-tank and their work in the sphere of Centre-state relations needed to be recognised. However, the States are keen to have a different kind of a policy-based consultative forum. “This is an area that deserves the serious consideration of policymakers.” Besides the setting up of such a forum, Singh stressed the need for dialogue in five other areas to reinforce federal trust. He suggested a committee  for revisiting Schedule VII of the Constitution, which deals with the division of subjects among  the Union, state and concurrent lists. He said there is a need to revisit the entire area of Article 282 of the Constitution which deals with grants for the public purpose. The legitimacy of all centrally sponsored schemes (CSS), which are in the domain of the states emanates from the use or misuse of Article 282, he said. Based on the internal exercise of the 15th Finance Commission there are approximately 211 schemes, sub-schemes under the 29-umbrella schemes. “Considering that the States often protest that these schemes are ill designed and not suited to their specific needs and entails significant financial outlays by them, no State has really decided to abandon them,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
12-12-2020||Business||Factories hum back to life igniting hopes in a Covid-battered economy||Factories across the country have hummed back to life and electricity plants have continued to sparkle, igniting hopes of a recovery in a Covid-battered economy. The only blip: the hewers of minerals have continued to languish. Data put out by the government’s statisticians showed that the index of industrial production (IIP) for the month of October climbed to 128.5 — its highest level since November last year — reflecting a year-on-year growth of 3.6 per cent over October 2019’s level of 124.0. The performance of the overall index was a lot better than the consensus estimate of around 1 per cent ahead of the announcement. The surge was propelled by 14 of the 23 sub-groups in the manufacturing sector that chalked up positive growth. Plants making other transport equipment showed the highest growth of 26.6 per cent, followed by electrical equipment (20.3 per cent), motor vehicles and trailer makers (17.7 per cent), and rubber and plastic producers (15.5 per cent). A downbeat performance was seen in paper and paper products (-20.2 per cent), coke and refined petroleum products (-17.3 per cent), printing and reproduction of recorded media (-12.6 per cent), apparel production (-11.8 per cent), and beverage manufacture (-11.3 per cent). The IIP is tilted in favour of the manufacturing sector, which has a weightage of 77.63 in the 100-point index. Electricity generation — which has the smallest weight of 7.99 in the IIP — continued to shine and registered growth of 11.2 per cent, far higher than  the 4.9 per cent recorded in October when it turned positive for the first time this fiscal. Growth in power generation has clambered above the pre-Covid level of 8.1 per cent recorded in February, reflecting rising power consumption in homes that now double as workplaces. Mining is the only industry group that continued to falter, contracting 1.5 per cent year-on-year. “The indices of industrial production for the mining, manufacturing and electricity sectors for the month of October 2020 stand at 98.0, 130.7 and 162.2 respectively. These Quick Estimates will undergo revision in subsequent releases as per the revision policy of IIP,” said the statement issued by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation. Aditi Nayar, principal economist with Icra, said,  “While the IIP growth stood at an eight month-high, and displayed its best performance since the pandemic struck, the pace of the improvement in October 2020 was feebler than expected. Coming on the base of a 6.6 per cent contraction in October 2019, the 3.6 per cent growth in IIP in October 2020 is decidedly modest, and suggests that caution in the interpretation of the strength of the economic recovery is still warranted.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-205
