13-12-2020||Business||Government re-invites four coal blocks for bidding||The Ministry of Coal has invited bids for four coal blocks once again, whose tender process was nullified in the first round of auction for commercial mining earlier. This was done as the number of technically qualified bidders for each mine was just one. Three of the four coal blocks are in Odisha, while the other one is in Jharkhand. “The nominated authority conducted the first attempt of the 11th tranche of auction under CM(SP) Act and 1st tranche of auction under the MMDR Act of identified coal mines/ blocks vide tender document dated June 18, 2020,” the coal ministry said in a notice inviting tender. It added that as the number of technically qualified bidders for the tender was less than 2 for Chendipada, Chhendipada-II and Kuraloi (A) North coal mines in Odisha and Seregarha block in Jharkhand, the process was annulled. The fully explored blocks have an annual peak-rated capacity of 52 million tonnes (MT). “The nominated authority is initiating the second attempt of auction of these coal mines with the same terms and conditions as in the first annulled attempt of auction,” the ministry said in its notice. The auction of blocks for commercial mining has opened India's coal sector to private players. In the first-ever auction for commercial coal mining, a “fierce competition” was witnessed. Earlier, Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi said 19 auctioned mines will generate total revenues of around Rs 7,000 crore per annum and create more than 69,000 jobs once they are operationalised. In June, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the auction process for 41 coal blocks for commercial mining. Some of the large corporate groups that have bagged blocks include Adani Enterprises, Vedanta, Hindalco Industries and Jindal Power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||EPFO likely to credit 8.5 per cent interest by year-end||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation is expected to credit 8.5 per cent rate of interest for 2019-2020 in the employees' provident fund (EPF) accounts of around six crore subscribers in one go by the end of December. In September, the retirement fund organisation had decided to divide the interest into two installments 8.15 per cent and 0.35 per cent during its trustees meeting headed by Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar. The Labour Ministry has sent a proposal to the Finance Ministry to provide concurrence to credit 8.5 per cent interest rate for the year earlier this month, a highly placed source told PTI. “The Ministry of Finance ratification is likely in a few days. Thus the interest is likely to be credited by this month only,” the source said. Earlier, the finance ministry had asked for some clarifications regarding the interest rate in the last fiscal year, which was addressed, the source further said. In March this year, the EPFO's apex decision making body Central Board of Trustees headed by Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar had approved 8.5 per cent interest rate on EPF for 2019-20. In a virtual CBT meeting in September, the EPFO had decided to honour its commitment to provide 8.5 per cent rate of interest for the last fiscal. But the CBT had also decided to split the rate of interest into two installments of 8.15 per cent and 0.35 per cent in view of the pandemic. The labour ministry had given its explanation that “in view of exceptional circumstances arising out of COVID-19, the agenda regarding interest rate was reviewed by the CBT and it recommended the same rate of 8.50 per cent to the Central Government”. “It (8.5 per cent interest) would comprise 8.15 per cent from debt income and balance 0.35 per cent (capital gain) from the sale of ETFs (exchange traded funds) subject to their redemption by 31st December, 2020,” it had said. The CBT had recommended accounting such capital gains (from sale of ETFs) in the income of the financial year 2019-20 as being an exceptional case. As planned earlier, the EPFO had to provide 8.15 per cent interest on EPF soon after seeking the Ministry of Finance nod. It has planned to credit the remaining 0.35 per cent rate by December 31, after proposed liquidation of ETFs. The source also told that since the market conditions are more than favourable as benchmark indices are at record high, there should not be an issue to credit the entire 8.5 per cent in one go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||Rs 9879cr capital expenditure plan cleared for 27 states||The finance ministry on Saturday said it has approved capital expenditure proposals worth Rs 9,879.61 crore of 27 states. Of this, Rs 4,939.81 crore has been released as the first instalment. In a statement, the ministry said all states, except Tamil Nadu, have availed benefits of the newly announced scheme for “Special Assistance to States for Capital Expenditure”, which was announced on October 12 as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package. “So far capital expenditure proposals of Rs 9,879.61 crore of 27 states have been approved by the ministry of finance. An amount of Rs 4,939.81 crore has already been released to the states as the first instalment under the scheme,” it said. The ministry said the scheme is aimed at boosting capital expenditure by the state governments who are facing difficult financial environment this year because of the shortfall in tax revenue arising from the Covid 19 pandemic. “Capital expenditure has a higher multiplier effect, enhancing the future productive capacity of the economy, and results in a higher rate of economy growth. Therefore,despite the adverse financial position of the central government, it was decided to extend a special assistance to the state governments in respect of capital expenditure, in financial year 2020-21,” it added. The capital expenditure projects have been approved in diverse sectors such as, health, rural development, water supply, irrigation, power, transport, education, urban development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||Data policy key to future||Tata Sons chairman N. Chandrasekaran on Saturday said post-Covid-19, the new world order offers limitless opportunity for India but for the country to be ready to participate in it, there is a need to establish regulatory standards on data and taxation in general. If the idea “that the 2020s belong to India” has to be realised, industry should be bold and start visioning all projects at scale, while there is also a need for a new focus on talent, enabling data and bandwidth”, he said at the 93rd annual convention of Ficci. He added that the government should also establish the regulatory standards that are required on data privacy, data residency, data localisation and taxation in general. He stressed on the need to reimagine “the whole technology blueprint nationwide” and make technologies such as robotics and AI (artificial intelligence) become part of the mainstay of manufacturing. Two crucial factors Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said modernisation of the public sector through the use of technology and public-private partnership will be crucial to post-pandemic recovery. The CEO said these two factors would be crucial for the catch-up growth in the next 10 years. “Some of the work that’s happening in India, whether it is the ID system or the banking APIs, it’s pretty enlightening,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||Start-ups, swadeshi pitch for new India||The backbone of new India would be start-ups and the ecosystem in the country is encouraging innovation by promoting and strengthening new young entrepreneurs, businesses with new ideas and ways of doing business, Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. Speaking at Ficci’s annual convention, Goyal urged the Indian industry to support start-ups by providing financial support, handholding, opportunities and mentorship so that they can grow without resorting to dilution of their stakes to foreign companies at very low valuations at the initial stage itself. “The scale of manufacturing, along with quality and productivity, can truly make India competitive in several sectors and help move towards an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” he said. Gadkari stress on reducing imports Raising the swadeshi pitch, road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said there was a need to reduce dependence on imported electric vehicle (EV) components, including lithium-ion batteries, magnets and find ways to manufacture these in the country without compromising on quality. Citing the example of magnets used in electric vehicles, he asked industry experts to study which parts are being imported. “I am not a businessman but I am seeing a huge potential for electric cars and even electric trucks,” he said at the Ficci event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||Loan recast on mere request says RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Saturday clarified that borrowers who are seeking resolution under Covid-19 related stress package need not present any resolution plan to their lending institutions, but only submit a request. In August, the central bank had announced a one-time loan restructuring scheme for those borrowers who have been affected by Covid-19 related stress. It allowed banks to restructure loans of borrowers who were regular in their repayments and did not have more than 30 days overdue as on March 1, 2020, without downgrading their asset classification. It had also set up an expert committee under K.V. Kamath which laid out the financial parameters while finalising such resolution plans. Later in October, the banking regulator had come out with frequently asked questions (FAQs) on the restructuring scheme. In its latest revision, the RBI said that the framework does not require any resolution plan in any form to be submitted to the lending institutions at the time of request for invocation. “Rather, for invocation, the borrowers are required to merely submit a request to the lending institutions for being considered under the resolution framework,” it added. After such a request has been made, the lending institutions will have to take an in-principle decision as per their board approved policy on invoking the resolution framework. After such an invocation, the specific contours of the resolution plan to be implemented may be decided by the lending institutions, in consultation with the borrower. For personal loans, the resolution plan is to be implemented within 90 days from the date of invocation and for all other loans a period of 180 days from the date of invocation has been set. According to the scheme, the date of invocation is the date on which both the borrower and the lending institution have agreed to proceed with a resolution plan. If there are multiple lending institutions with exposure to the borrower, the resolution process will be treated as invoked if the lending institutions representing 75 per cent by value of the total outstanding credit facilities (fund based and non-fund based) and not less than 60 per cent of them by number agree to invoke it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
13-12-2020||Business||Modi says signs attest to economic recovery||Buoyed by the better-than-expected second quarter GDP growth and other high frequency economic data, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said economic recovery is faster than expected and indicators are encouraging. “India has been through ups and downs in 2020,” the country’s economic recovery from the setback of Covid-19 is “faster than expected” and “economic indicators are encouraging”, Modi said addressing the 93rd Annual Convention of Ficci. Modi emphasised on the priority given to “saving lives” during the pandemic and said, “the government’s policies and actions were oriented towards that”. Therefore, despite a rocky year for the Indian economy, “there is a roadmap for recovery”, he added. The Prime Minister said the faith that the world placed on India in the last six years has further strengthened in the past few months. Whether FDI or FPI, foreign investors have made a record investment in the country and are continuing to do that, he said. “The V-shaped recovery of economic activity continued in October... IIP & eight-core index further inched up to pre-Covid levels. The broad-based recovery in IIP resulted in a growth of 3.6 per cent in October 20 compared with a contraction of 6.6 per cent in October 2019,” chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian said in a series of tweets. “From 107 items in the IIP recording a growth of more than 10 per cent in January 2020 to 170 items that recorded a growth of more than 10 per cent in October 2020 foretells a strong and robust recovery… Of 407 items in the IIP basket, 276 recorded better growth in October 2020 compared with the growth in September-2020,” he said. The economy could grow at over 11 per cent in the 2022 financial year as it has rebounded spectacularly after the initial loss of production due to Covid-19 this year, N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons, said. “In the near term, there are reasons for optimism. Several indicators have rebounded faster than expected. GDP growth may accelerate by over 11 per cent in 2022 after a significant contraction… While this rebound looks spectacular, this is coming on the back of the loss of real output. This means, we should not only recover, but also accelerate,” Chandrasekaran said at the Ficci event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
