14-12-2020||Business||Sensex rises over 250 points to record peak in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Monday tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC and L&T amid persistent foreign fund inflows and a largely positive trend in global markets. After touching its record intra-day high of 46,373.34 in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 235.41 points or 0.51 per cent higher at 46,334.42. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 69.70 points or 0.52 per cent to 13,583.55. It hit a high of 13,588.40 in early trade. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, L&T, Sun Pharma, M&M, ICICI Bank and NTPC. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 139.13 points or 0.30 per cent higher at 46,099.01, while Nifty rose 35.55 points or 0.26 per cent to 13,513.85. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,195.43 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good at the moment. Positive data flows along with persistent FPI flows have been quite supportive for the markets, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Further, better than expected IIP data for October 2020 along with a sharp jump in electricity suggests that industrial activities are back on growth track, which bodes well for equities," he added. On the global front, US equities ended lower last week as concerns over slow progress on fiscal stimulus despite favourable developments on the vaccination process weighed on investors' sentiments. "This week is likely to be quite crucial for US equities as Fed policy meeting outcomes along with the stance of Congress about fiscal stimulus are likely to determine the Santa rally for the markets. Additionally, clarity over Brexit is expected to emerge by weekend also," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.52 per cent higher at USD 50.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Outlook for banks turn positive as economy recovers||After going through a difficult phase during the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the outlook for banks is turning positive as the economy moves towards recovery and the asset quality looks unlikely to deteriorate sharply. The optimism, visible since September, has seen the Bank Nifty outperforming the Nifty 50 around 22 per cent from that month. The same index had underperformed around 19 per cent between March and September over  fears of NPAs rising significantly once the moratorium on loans ended in August. However, positive commentary from bank managements following the second quarter results on asset quality and collection has seen a change in the investor sentiment. Collection efficiency in the system has risen to around 90 per cent in September from around 50 per cent in March. “The second quarter performance and management commentary calmed the nerves of the banking sector on the back of a steady performance,” analysts at ICICI Securities said. They said the trend in collections has seen a considerable improvement while the the initial commentary from management and industry data suggests the restructuring would be lower than anticipated. “Outstanding contingency buffer seems to be adequate to take care of incremental stress, thereby safeguarding any adverse impact on earnings trajectory.” With a gradual revival in business and regulatory developments, the extent of one-time restructuring could be in lower single digits . The  unlocking of the economy and festive season are expected to lead to a pick-up in credit offtake, particularly in retail. Though corporate credit is unlikely to show any major growth, the ECLGS (emergency credit line guarantee scheme) would help push credit to the MSMEs , ICICI Securities said. A senior banker who did not wish to be identified said  the gross NPAs for the current fiscal is likely to be lower than 12.5 per cent in contrast with the Resere Bank’s projections of 14.7 per cent gross NPA by the end of the fiscal under a severely stressed scenario and 12.5 per cent in a baseline scenario. According to analysts at Emkay, the gross NPAs across both PSU banks and their private sector peers declined 40 basis points on a sequential basis during the second quarter. However, this could be because of the Supreme Court directing banks not to declare NPAs even if they were in default on August 31. The brokerage added that the restructuring guidance of 1-3 per cent for large banks and 3-5 per cent for small- and mid-sized banks post the second-quarter results has surprised positively against  expectations of around 5-8 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||PF interest in one go by the end of December||Retirement fund body EPFO is likely to credit an 8.5 per cent rate of interest for 2019-20 in the employees’ provident fund (EPF) accounts of around six crore subscribers in one go by the end of December. Earlier, in September this year, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation had decided to split 8.5 per cent interest into two instalments of 8.15 per cent and 0.35 per cent in its trustees meet headed by labour minister Santosh Gangwar. Sources said the labour ministry has sent a proposal to the finance ministry to give concurrence to credit 8.5 per cent rate of interest on EPF for 2019-20 earlier this month. “The finance ministry ratification is likely in a few days. Thus, the interest is likely to be credited by this month only.” The source further said that earlier the finance ministry had sought some clarifications on the rate of interest for the last fiscal, which were duly addressed. In a virtual CBT meeting in September, the EPFO had decided to honour its commitment to provide 8.5 per cent rate of interest for the last fiscal. But the CBT had also decided to split the rate of interest into two instalments “in view of the exceptional circumstances arising out of Covid-19”. “It (8.5 per cent interest) would comprise of 8.15 per cent from debt income and balance 0.35 per cent (capital gain) from the sale of ETFs (exchange traded funds) subject to their redemption by 31st December, 2020,” it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||KRBL weighs payout to  appease shareholders||The promoters of India’s largest basmati exporter KRBL Ltd may consider rewarding its shareholders by way of buyback or issuance of bonus shares as they seek to mitigate the damage emerging out of a regulatory action. In an investor meet on December 10, a day after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) filed prosecution complaint against Anoop Kumar Gupta, joint managing director of KRBL and one of the promoters, in an UPA-era defence deal, the company assured the shareholders to call a board meeting to discuss the proposals. During the early morning call, participants from mutual fund houses and brokerages blamed the management, represented by chairman Anil Kumar Mittal and joint MD Anoop K. Gupta, for not doing enough to mitigate the damage in investors’ perception, leading to the KRBL stock being clobbered on the bourses. “We will immediately call a board meeting and would like to pay cash to the shareholders, and the line could be buyback, dividend or other things,” the promoters told the irate shareholders. KRBL is the owner of popular basmati brand India Gate. The company also staunchly defended itself against any wrongdoing or any connection with the Embraer aircraft purchase case. The ED alleged that Brazilian company Embraer SA paid a kickback of $5.76 million to secure a $208-million aircraft purchase deal from the Indian government. It is alleged that an overseas subsidiary of KRBL based in the UAE was a conduit to route the bribe back to India. “At the outset we would like to state that the allegations levelled by the Enforcement Directorate are false, frivolous and baseless. KRBL Ltd has not entered into any sham agreement with any entity. We have been cooperating with the entire investigation for the last three years and have given all documents asked by the ED, none of which in any way cement the allegations,” KRBL stated in a statement that was reiterated by Mittal and Gupta during a morning conference call. In the past, KRBL’s name was dragged into the AugustaWestland chopper scam as its main distributor in Saudi Arabia, Balsharaf, got embroiled into it. The company said Gautam Khetan, who used to be an independent director on KRBL board, introduced Interdev Aviation to the company. Interdev was also chargesheeted on December 9 along with Gupta and a few others. During the call, Gupta and Mittal said the ED was making KRBL a scapegoat by association and no transaction of Embraer was routed through KRBL. After hitting a high of Rs 662 in November of 2017, the KRBL stock fell to Rs 91 in March amidst a broad market selloff triggered by the lockdown and the pandemic, KRBL shares have somewhat recovered to a high of Rs 339 in August. But it came off sharply again to close at Rs 251 on Friday as the stock wilted under the heat of the ED investigation. The company is sitting on an inventory of Rs 4,000 crore — rice procured for preparing basmati — and about Rs 500 crore worth of cash on the balance sheet. Shareholders pressed the management to liquidate inventory partly and reward shareholders by way of special dividend or buyback to prop up the stock price. However, the company defended its strategy to hold high inventory to expand business. It plans to touch a turnover of Rs 7,000-8,000 crore and building inventory would be key to achieving the topline. KRBL had total revenue of Rs 4,522 crore, up 9 per cent in 2019-20 and profit after tax of Rs 558 crore in the same fiscal, up 11 per cent. It claims to hold 25 per cent market share of branded basmati export and a 30 per cent share in the domestic market. The management said it would not hold any cash on the books by the end of the fiscal as it would be used to procure more rice. If stocks are liquidated and used for some other purpose, KRBL would have to depend on costly bank finance for procurement. To a suggestion that KRBL should demerge the renewable power business (solar and wind), the management said such a proposal has been found unviable. The power purchase agreements could not be transferred to a demerged entity, and if new PPAs are signed, the units will earn half of what they had been earning due to a fall in power purchase rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||JSW Steel's Dolvi expansion by March||The expansion of JSW Steel’s Dolvi Works plant from 5 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) to 10mtpa is expected to be completed by the end of this fiscal year, a company official has said. Located on the west coast of India at Dolvi in Maharashtra, Dolvi Works is JSW Steel’s integrated steel plant having current capacity of 5mtpa. The company is in the process of doubling its capacity to 10mtpa with an investment of about Rs 15,000 crore. “We are aiming to complete the expansion of Dolvi Works by the second half of this fiscal (March 2021-end),” JSW Steel director-commercial marketing and corporate strategy Jayant Acharya said. According to the company, because of the outbreak of Covid-19, the expansion of Dolvi Works was affected. The work was suspended because of multiple reasons, including non-availability of workers and travel restrictions — both domestic and international. The company received the permission to restart activities towards the end of April 2020. JSW Steel further said the expansion of the plan includes installing a 4.5mtpa blast furnace with a supporting 5mtpa steel melt shop and a 5mtpa hot srip mill. The plant would also have an 8mtpa pellet plant and four kilns of 600 TPD (tonnes per day) lime calcination plants (LCPs), besides a captive power plant. “About 95 per cent work related to expansion of the plant is completed,” JSW Steel said. With the expansion of the Dolvi Works, Sajjan Jindal-owned JSW Steel’s total steel making capacity will reach to 23.1mtpa, from 18.1mtpa at present.         Besides 5 mtpa Dolvi Works, JSW Steel owns and operates a 12mtpa manufacturing facility at Vijayanagar in Karnataka, which is the largest single location steel-producing facility in India, and another 1mtpa plant in Salem, Tamil Nadu. The company, which is in the expansion mode, has also proposed to set up a 13.2mtpa greenfield steel plant in Odisha along with a 900MW power plant for captive usage with an investment amount of Rs 53,700 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Acma highlights need for localisation and self-reliance in auto electronics||The Automotive Component Manufacturers Association (Acma) of India has highlighted the need for localisation and self-reliance in auto electronics in the country in the wake of the crisis in the supply of semiconductors red-flagged by one of its members, Bosch. The German component supplier, in compliance under Regulation 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), had stated that “imports of Bosch Ltd have been impacted with severe supply shortage for micro-processors (semiconductors), leading to reduced ability to deliver to the automotive market demand in India. Restoration of normalcy in global supply situation for imported components and impacts are being very closely assessed and addressed on top priority”. The OEMs currently impacted by this shortage of semiconductors include Mahindra and Mahindra and Ashok Leyland who have highlighted the shortage crisis, said Vinnie Mehta of the Acma. Mahindra & Mahindra said the global shortage of semiconductors supplied by Bosch is expected to lower production and sales in its automotive sector in the last quarter of the ongoing financial year. “The company is engaging closely with Bosch and assessing likely production loss for the last quarter of 2020-2021 on account of this supply disruption as also steps to be taken to minimise the impact of the same,” M&M said in an exchange filing. The semiconductors are components of the electronic component unit (ECU) of the engine and also the antilock braking system (ABS). Apart from Bosch, Continenta and other Japanese and Korean companies supplied semi-conductors to Indian OEMs which are manufactured in Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, Germany and USA. Bosch in its regulatory filing had stated: “The demand in the consumer electronics industry has seen steep escalations driven by safety and hygiene sentiments as well as the rise of the 5G connectivity. This led to a global surge in the demand of semiconductors, a critical component in manufacturing of automotive electronics.” The automotive sector was going through a downturn in 2019-20 because of structural changes and this was further impacted with stringent lockdowns because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the second quarter of 2020-21, the automotive industry showed signs of recovery but remained impacted because of volatile forecasts and disruptions in global supply chain and planning. Reacting to the development ACMA President Deepak Jain said: “The electronic content in vehicles has been progressively increasing and incidents such as these only precipitate the need for localisation and self-reliance in auto electronics in the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Maruti Suzuki to bring back diesel cars next year||The country’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) is looking to enter the diesel segment once again next year as the vertical continues to draw a lot of customers especially in the high selling SUV and multi-purpose vehicle segments, according to industry sources. The auto major had discontinued diesel models from its portfolio with the onset of stricter BS-VI emission norms from April this year. According to the sources, MSI has initiated the process to upgrade its Manesar-based powertrain plant so that it can start rolling out BS-VI diesel engines starting middle or festive season next year. Sources also confirmed that the company plans to utilise the BS-VI compliant diesel powertrain in the Ertiga and Vitara Brezza to start with in the domestic market. The auto major, however, did not specify any reasons for re-entering the diesel segment. An MSI spokesperson said in a statement: “We cannot give any guidance on future technologies.” Sources said the company is looking to upgrade the current set-up at the Manesar plant, which earlier used to churn out its in-house developed BS-IV compliant 1,500-cc diesel engine. MSI had used this powertrain briefly in its mid-sized sedan Ciaz and Ertiga before deciding to pull the plug on the diesel segment. The company’s other models such as Vitara Brezza, Dzire, Swift, S-Cross and Baleno at that time used to be powered by the Fiat-sourced 1,300 diesel unit. MSI’s entire model range is at present powered by BS-VI compliant 1 litre, 1.2 litre and 1.5 litre petrol engines. The company sells CNG versions of some of the models. On April 26, 2019, MSI chairman R.C. Bhargava had announced that the company will phase out all diesel cars with effect from April 1, 2020. He reasoned that small diesel cars would see the maximum impact in terms of pricing with the coming of BS-VI engines. He had, however, added that if there was a demand for diesel cars the company might cater to that demand. “Depending on how customers react to BS-VI diesel cars if we find there is a market of BS- VI diesel cars we will develop such a car within a reasonable period of time,” Bhargava had said. In July this year, MSI executive director (sales and marketing) Shashank Srivastava had hinted that the company may look at having a bigger BS-VI diesel engine at a later stage if there were enough customers for diesel-powered big SUVs and sedans. “Customers who do not care about economics for running the car may still be buying the diesel cars and for that the company has said it is watching the market very closely,” Srivastava had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Fortune Park Hotels in four more places||Fortune Park Hotels, member of ITC’s hotel group, on Sunday announced the signing of four individual operating agreements for a hotel each at Candolim in Goa, Deoghar in Jharkhand, Haldwani in Uttarakhand and Tirupur in Tamil Nadu. With these agreements, Fortune Hotels has expanded its presence in the country, adding more depth to its business and leisure portfolio, the company said in a statement. While Fortune Select,Candolim, will have an inventory of over 100 rooms, Fortune Park, Deoghar, will have 100 rooms. Fortune Park, Tirupur will have 62 rooms, it added. The company, however, did not provide details about the exact number of rooms in Fortune Inn, Haldwani. “We are pleased to announce our entry into various growth markets of India. With these additions, we not only increase our appeal in the domestic market but also offer a very interesting destination mix to our business and leisure customers, thereby opening up new vistas for their travel,” Fortune Park Hotels Ltd managing director Samir MC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Benefit for Indian start-ups raising funds from overseas listing: SoftBank Group||Japanese multinational conglomerate SoftBank Group, that has financed several early stage companies in the country, sees a benefit for Indian start-ups raising funds from overseas listing. The Companies (Amendment) Act, 2020 empowers the central government to allow domestic companies to list on foreign stock exchanges, without having to undertake prior or simultaneous listing in India or alternatively through incorporating foreign holding companies, KPMG observed in its report on the amendments, which got presidential assent on September 28, 2020. To make this operational, it would require changes in other laws and regulations including those relating to taxation and Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999. “Indian start-ups can go to Nasdaq or NYSE directly and raise a large amount of capital,” said Manoj Kohli, country head SoftBank India at a session organised by XLRI and Moneycontrol. He added that if the start-ups want to list in Bombay, that is fine. But if they want to enlist in international markets like London and New York, there is an option. Kohli gave the example of food delivery and takeout start--up DoorDash where shares jumped 86 per cent on the first day of listing with a market capitalisation of $60 billion. SoftBank has reportedly made a handsome gain of around $11.2 billion from the public offering. Kohli said that international listing will allow the discovery of real value and offer avenue to the Indian entrepreneurs to have access to a large amount of capital. Legal observers are also of a similar opinion. “Indian start-up or emerging growth companies will be able to access capital from investors overseas that may be more receptive to their securities than Indian investors, who have typically focussed on companies with proven track records of profitability and growth and have generally exhibited less appetite for start-up or emerging growth companies,” said Gerald Manoharan, partner J. Sagar and Associates in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
14-12-2020||Business||Finance ministry to take call on residual capital infusion in Q4 of this fiscal||The finance ministry will take a call on the residual Rs 14,500-crore capital infusion in the public sector banks (PSBs) in the fourth quarter of this fiscal, sources said. Following the financial performance review after the first half, sources said it was found that Punjab & Sind Bank, out of the 12 PSBs, was in need of Rs 5,500 crore to meet the regulatory requirement. So, the government approved capital infusion through the preferential allotment of equity shares in Punjab & Sind Bank last month. The fund was approved from Rs 20,000 crore cleared by Parliament in September for capital infusion of PSBs as part of the first batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2020-21. With Rs 5,500 crore going to Punjab & Sind Bank, the government is left with Rs 14,500 crore. When the performance review post third-quarter numbers takes place, sources said, by that time banks would have a clear idea about the additional burden on them because of the one-time restructuring being undertaken to help the industry itself tide over the risks of default in the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
14-12-2020||Business||Fixing your fixed deposit||Returns from fixed deposits have dipped sharply this year. A look at data from December 2019 shows that FD interest rates of large banks stood in the 6-6.75 per cent range. This includes both private and government banks. A year later, the same banks now provide returns in the range of 4.8-5.50 per cent. This dip, along with the spike in inflation, would hurt those who prefer assured returns from bank deposits — for example, senior citizens who prefer to not take market risks with their retirement corpus. Let’s look at ways to get better returns from fixed income instruments. For those above the age of 60, FD interest up to Rs 50,000 earned in a year is tax-free. But for those under 60, fixed deposits provide low returns and no tax efficiency. They are best suited for safe-keeping funds for short periods and, therefore, ill-equipped for long-term investing. For example, a 6 per cent FD returns only 4.2 per cent if you’re in the 30 per cent tax slab. Therefore, it’s important to separate savings from long-term investments in order to earn higher returns critical to wealth creation at an optimal rate. For instance, the current return on the Public Provident Fund is 7.1 per cent tax-free. Whether you’re over or under 60, you must separate savings from investments, and diversify your options to earn higher returns. Recently, the Reserve Bank of India put some banks under moratorium. In this scenario, the safety of capital is as much a concern as the return on capital. Therefore, first and foremost, you must ensure that your bank is not experiencing corporate governance issues, and it has acceptable levels of non-performing assets. The banks put under moratorium were struggling on both counts. If your bank is stable and compliant, it would be advisable to hold your deposits there for the short term without worrying that the interest rates are low. For example, you may need to pay for your child’s college fees in a year, and therefore it’s important that you get the money back safely even if you’re earning just 4 per cent a year on the deposit. Laddering is a technique with which you make deposits of diverse tenures, thus creating an investment loop wherein some FDs mature periodically and can be reinvested at higher interest rates prevalent at the time. For example, assume that you have Rs 10 lakh in a single deposit earning 5 per cent interest. You could break this up into five FDs maturing in one, two, three, four and five years. Therefore, each year, you’ll have one deposit maturing, which will help you with your liquidity needs at those points in time. Alternatively, you could reinvest the maturity proceeds in order to get higher returns. This will help you get better average returns from your deposits instead of being locked in a single deposit offering a flat rate of return. Corporate deposits are essentially debts to companies, both private and public. Cumulative or non-cumulative deposits can be availed with companies that invite them. As safety of capital is paramount, it would be advisable to entrust only those companies with high credit ratings. The highest credit rating is AAA, implying the highest degree of capital safety along with timely return of your principal and interest. Laddering and diversification remain key. Therefore, take limited exposure with AAA-rated companies to get higher returns on a part of your deposits. Corporate FDs normally offer a slightly higher rate of return compared with bank FDs of similar tenures. At present, a few AAA-rated FDs offer upwards of 6.50 per cent on select tenures — around 100 basis points higher than what many large banks offer today. Smaller banks attract new depositors with higher interest rates. For instance, some small finance banks are currently offering interest rates of up to 7.50 per cent on select FD tenures. You may consider them for better average returns on your deposits. However, the checks and balances still need to be applied. Do examine the bank’s financial health and understand any risk it may pose to your deposits. Limit your exposure in order to curb those risks. If your need is safety of capital and guaranteed returns, and you can put this money away for the long term, you must consider the various government-backed schemes available to you. The PPF, for example, gives you handsome tax-free returns along with tax deductions under Section 80C — assuming you can put the money away for 15 years. Similarly, the Senior Citizen Savings Scheme and Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme are good choices for eligible, risk-averse long-term investors. Availing yourselves these schemes would allow you to get higher returns on funds you don’t need for your immediate use. Diversification, laddering, and optimising risk for rewards are key to earning higher returns which will help your money grow faster and protect you against rising inflation. The writer is CEO of BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-204
