15-12-2020||Business||Daily losses of thousands of crores due to farmers’ protest: Assocham||Industry organisation Assocham on Tuesday appealed to the Centre and farmers’ outfits to resolve their issues regarding the new agri-marketing laws, as the protests are affecting the economies of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. “A daily loss of Rs 3,000-3,500 crore is resulting in the economies of the region from the value chain and transport disruption because of the protests,” the chamber said in a rough estimate. Assocham President Niranjan Hiranandani noted, “The size of the combined economies of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and J&K is about Rs 18 lakh crore. With the ongoing farmers' agitation and blockade of roads, toll plazas and railways, the economic activities have come to a halt.” The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Monday had said that the protests have led to a disruption of the supply chain, which will impact the economy in the coming days and may impinge upon the ongoing recovery from the economic contraction in view of Covid-19. Hiranandani also observed that  industries such as textiles, auto components, bicycles, sports goods which cater significantly to the export markets would not be able to fulfil their orders, ahead of Christmas, harming the industry's goodwill among the global buyers. “Recovering from the harsh Covid-19 blow, the Indian economy needs to double down on growth which is possible only with a conducive environment for industrial activities, investment including the Foreign Direct Investment,” Assocham said. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said in the last 20 days, trade and other activities of about Rs 5,000 crore have been affected in Delhi and its surrounding states. According to an estimate, about 30 to 40 per cent of the goods coming to Delhi have been affected by the movement of farmers, which is adversely affecting the trade and other activities of Delhi and neighbouring states, the traders' outfit stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||All you need to know about buying two-wheeler insurance online||Two-wheelers are among the most preferred modes of transport in India. Their popularity as a preferred commute option could be gauged from the fact that in 2019, two-wheeler sales in India reached an all-time high of over 21 million units. Moreover, despite the COVID crisis and the ensuing lockdown which dampened the consumer spirit in the country, over 17 million two-wheelers were sold in 2020 till October[1]. And with top-six auto manufacturing firms posting a 16 per cent spike in sales, we might as well see the sales crossing the last year’s figure despite the COVID crisis[2]. This surge in two-wheeler sales may partly be due to the fact that while people have to get back to their daily lives with regular commute to and from work, they do not prefer to use public transport and prefer to commute using their own vehicles to avoid the risk of contagion in crowded public spaces. Nevertheless, two-wheelers have been popular in India even before the crisis due to their multi-dimensional appeal of affordability, efficiency in congested roads and lower maintenance costs. However, it is also a matter of the fact that a large number of two-wheelers remain uninsured. According to a General Insurance Council of India (GIC), almost 60 per cent of motor vehicles in India do not have a valid vehicle insurance and most of these are motorcycles and scooters. And this huge proportion of uninsured two-wheelers becomes an even bigger problem when one takes into account the fact that over 5 lakh road accidents get reported in India every year involving over 1.5 lakh deaths. So, it is crucial to have the right kind of protection when you go out on the road on your two-wheeler. And this protection not only includes the right protective gear, but also a comprehensive bike insurance policy that protects you financially if any mishap happens. A comprehensive bike insurance plan not only secures the vehicle on the road, but it also protects it from theft and damage due to natural calamities, vandalism and other such events. Moreover, riding without vehicle insurance is not only inadvisable, but also illegal in India. To tackle the menace of uninsured vehicles plying on the roads, the government has also amended the Motor Vehicles Act, making laws more stringent for offenders. Under the new laws, there are harsher punishments and steeper fines for any violations. And if anyone is caught riding their two-wheeler without a valid insurance, they could be fined Rs 2,000 or even face imprisonment up to three months. Avoid Penalties- One of the major advantages of having two wheeler insurance is that one can avoid the steep penalties under the new Motor Vehicles Act. Financial protection- If you unfortunately meet with an accident and your vehicle is damaged, you do not need to worry about the repair cost as the insurance would take care of it. Not only in case of accidents, you can claim the insured amount also in case of damage caused due to natural calamities, and even theft of your vehicle. Keep NCB Active- If the two-wheeler insurance policy is renewed on time, then you can continue to enjoy the no claim bonus (NCB) benefit -- a type of incremental bonus offered by the insurance companies that reduces the amount of premium for the policy when you renew on time and when you have not made any claim in the last policy period. Coverage: Before purchasing the two-wheeler insurance, you must evaluate the coverage that you need. There are essentially two basic types of covers -- comprehensive coverage and third party insurance for bike . As the name suggests, the former covers third-party legal liabilities only whereas a comprehensive plan offers a complete cover package including the third party liabilities, a personal accident cover, coverage against damage to the vehicle, and also coverage against theft. If you can afford it, it is always wise to go for comprehensive policy instead of the third-party as one will get covered for their own losses as well. While purchasing the policy, you must remember that the right choice is based on the coverage, and not on the price. While price is important, you must not compromise with the coverage to get an attractive price. Understand IDV: Before buying a policy, you must understand the concept of IDV, or Insured Declared Value. IDV is the current valuation of your two-wheeler in the market. As years go on, depreciation of the two-wheeler is factored in and the IDV is calculated accordingly. It decreases over the years and thus also results in reducing premium. However, you must make sure the IDV is not less than the actual market value of your vehicle at any given time. Because in such a case, you might be able to save some money in the form of reduced premium, but it also reduces the insured value that you may be able to claim in case of any mishap. Riders: There are many policies available in the market which let the policyholder customize them to suit their specific needs using a variety of riders that are available. Renew on time: The biggest mistake many people make is letting their policy lapse. You must avoid that at any cost as this not only leaves you unprotected, but it also hurts you financially by increasing your policy’s premium and also voiding the no-claim-bonus that you may be able to avail at timely renewal. Insurer’s reputation: While you may have done all the homework, checked all the boxes and chosen the right insurance plan for your two-wheeler, if your claim is not settled without any trouble, then it may all be in vain. And this is where the importance of choosing the right insurer comes in. You must choose an insurer who has a good reputation of settling claims on time and without much fuss. It is also crucial to have the right insurer while making online payments as your credit or debit card details may be compromised. The simplest way to do this is to choose industry leaders like Bajaj Allianz General Insurance. With bike insurance policies by Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, you could go with a personal accident cover rider. You could also cover any additional fitment that you may have installed on your bike. Moreover, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance also offers riders like engine protection cover and depreciation shield, which reduces your expenses by excluding the depreciation cost of your vehicle while filing a claim. With Bajaj Allianz, you also get the comfort of buying your vehicle insurance online with just a few clicks in a seamless, fast and convenient fashion. Just fill the required details, pay the premium amount and voila! You are done. This also goes for insurance renewal. Bajaj Allianz also allows you to transfer up to 50 per cent of the no-claim-bonus from your previous policy with a different insurer when you choose to get insured with them. It’s best to be safe than sorry. You may follow the rules and take all precautions, but accidents by nature are unpredictable. An insurance cover protects you from situations beyond your control. Be a smart buyer and get complete coverage for yourself and your two-wheeler. Source: [1] https://www.statista.com/statistics/318023/two-wheeler-sales-in-india/ [2] https://www.business-standard.com/article/companies/diwali-props-up-two-wheeler-sales-in-november-top-six-firms-post-16-spike-120120101286_1.html||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Sensex down by over 130 points in early trade||With heavyweights including Infosys, TCS and Reliance Industries tracking losses, the equity benchmark Sensex Sensex dropped over 130 points in early trade on Tuesday, in a weak trend of global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 135.05 points or 0.29 per cent lower at 46,118.41. In a similar manner, NSE Nifty fell 48.55 points or 0.36 per cent to 13,509.60. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, M&M, ICICI Bank, Asian Paints, SBI, HUL, L&T, Titan, Infosys and TCS. Reliance Industries was trading 0.38 per cent lower in early deals. On the other hand, NTPC, HDFC Bank, HCL Tech, UltraTech Cement, Maruti and Bajaj Auto were among the gainers. Traders said financial stocks and select banking counters witnessed heavy selling pressure, which dragged the indices down. A weak trend in the Asian and global markets also influenced market sentiment, they added. In the previous session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 154.45 points or 0.34 per cent higher at 46,253.46, its new closing record. The NSE Nifty rose 44.30 points or 0.33 per cent to a record 13,558.15. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,264.38 crore on a net basis on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were all trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. The US stocks closed mostly lower on Wall Street. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.44 per cent lower at USD 50.07 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Indian investment banking pool expected to rise to $1 billion over 2-3 years||Investment bankers are bullish about their business, backed by a healthy pipeline of initial public offers, mergers and acquisitions and private equity investments. Till date in 2020, the average Indian investment banking pool has jumped 30 per cent to $800-900 million from $600-700 million in 2019. This is expected to rise to $1 billion over the next 2-3 years. During the year, deals in the equity capital market accounted for 37 per cent of the banking fee pool followed by private equity at 37 per cent. Mergers and acquisitions accounted for the remaining 26 per cent. While fundraising via IPO has jumped 2.25 times to Rs 45,000 crore compared with Rs 20,300 crore in 2019, QIP has also doubled to Rs 79,100 crore from Rs 35,200 crore in 2019. Fundraising through rights issue has been Rs 65,000 crore compared with Rs 52,100 crore in 2019. “The deal appetite has remained strong despite the pandemic. Easy and ample liquidity across the globe has been one of the key factors for driving deal making. We expect the investment banking fee pool in the next 12-34 months to get closer to $1 billion,” said S. Ramesh, MD and CEO, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company. “In 2021, we may continue to see heightened IPO activity dominated by resilient sectors such as new age tech, health care and consumer,” said V. Jayasankar, senior ED and head ECM, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company. In private equity, the total deal value has been $33 billion from 575 deals compared with $35.8 billion from 776 deals in 2019. “Unlike previous global crisis events, the private equity market has matured into a large and established segment in India with higher average deal size,” said Pankaj Kalra, senior ED, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company. Mergers and acquisition Of the total $109 billion of M&A activity in 2020, $ 65 million has come from inbound minority (foreign investor acquiring minority stake) and domestic majority transactions (Indian company acquiring majority stake in another Indian company). “Apart from interest seen in stressed assets, there has been sale on account of restructuring for value creation and stake enhancement, divestment of non core assets by large corporate and MNC houses and exit by financial sponsors. We expect this trend to continue in 2021 including stock for stock transaction to preserve cash in current uncertain environment,” said Sourav Mallik, joint MD, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Burger King India shares make stellar debut on the bourses||Shares of quick-service restaurant operator Burger King India on Monday made a stellar debut on the bourses as it settled with gains of 131 per cent over its issue price. On the BSE, the scrip listed at Rs 115.35 — a gain of 92.25 per cent over its issue price of Rs 60 per share. The stock later hit a high of Rs 138.40 before finally closing at Rs 138.40, a rise of Rs 78.40, or 130.67 per cent, over the offer price. The finish gave it a market cap of Rs 5,282.10 crore. Similarly, on the NSE, the scrip ended at Rs 135, a rise of 125 per cent over the issue price. Burger King India’s share sale was subscribed 156.65 times earlier this month. The initial public offering had comprised  a fresh issue of shares aggregating up to Rs 450 crore by the company and an offer for sale of up to 60,000,000 shares by QSR Asia Pte Ltd. The price range for the share float was fixed at Rs 59-60 per share. At present, the quick service restaurant chain operates 268 stores in India and out of them, eight are franchises, mainly located at airports, while the rest are owned by the company. It had allotted 6,07,50,000 equity shares to 55 anchor investors and raised Rs 364.50 crore ahead of the IPO. According to a report from Angel Broking, in the last six years of its operations in India, the company has opened 268 stores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||India Inc pitches for fiscal consolidation over three-year period ||India Inc has pitched for fiscal consolidation over a three-year period in their pre-budget meeting with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. In the first of such meetings by the finance minister, the business leaders proposed bringing down government stake in banks to below 50 per cent, strategic sale of PSUs along with fiscal stimulus to revive an economy laid low by the coronavirus. “The government has an unenviable task of ensuring a fine balance between supporting economic recovery and growth on one hand and ensuring macro-economic stability on the other. The CII’s suggestions take this aspect into cognisance,” Uday Kotak, president of CII, said. He said government expenditure should be prioritised in three areas — infrastructure, healthcare, and sustainability. The budget proposals should also address the two critical areas of boosting private investments and providing support for employment generation, Kotak added. Ficci president Uday Shankar said the budget must prioritise growth-oriented measures and fiscal considerations should be secondary.  The need for further fiscal stimulus remains. “A scheme like MGNREGA for the urban poor may be considered – this may include sanitation work, plantation of trees and the maintenance of public places.” Interest subvention on housing loans of 3-4 per cent for a period of 3 to 4 years will have a multiplier effect on the economy, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Oaktree Capital emerges as highest bidder for DHFL ||Oaktree Capital on Monday emerged as the highest bidder for troubled finance firm DHFL with a revised offer of Rs 36,600 crore for the entire company that beats the Piramals (Rs 35,500 crore bid) and the Adanis (nearly Rs 30,000 crore). The Oaktree offer includes an interest of almost Rs 3,000 crore earned from the cash in the books of DHFL and another Rs 1,000 crore from the sale of DHFL’s stake in an insurance venture. According to reports, lenders will recover their dues the fastest if they accept Oaktree’s proposal. The US-based investor will pay upfront Rs 11,500 crore with the remainder in over seven years. In the Piramal group offer, the financial creditors will get Rs 12,000-13,000 crore upfront and the remainder over 10 years. The Adani group’s offer includes Rs 11,000 crore paid upfront and the remainder over seven years. The committee of creditors had decided to seek fresh bids, the last date of which  was Monday. The participants had the option to either submit fresh bids or continue with their proposal in November.
The Adani group, the Piramals, Oaktree and SC Lowy had submitted bids for DHFL in October. Subsequently, the Adanis, which had initially bid only for DHFL’s wholesale and slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) portfolios, offered to take over the entire book in a revised proposal submitted on November 17. The Adanis  offered a total of Rs 30,000 crore plus interest of Rs 3,000 crore, more than the Rs 28,300 crore offered by Oaktree. The Piramal group had quoted over Rs 23,000 crore only for the retail portfolio of DHFL, while SC Lowy bid Rs 2,300 crore for the SRA portfolio. SC Lowy did not submit any revised bid in the latest round as also the Adani group. The lenders will now meet again on December 18 to evaluate the bids and voting is expected to begin from December 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Reserve Bank of India relaxes current account rules||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday exempted certain operators from the tough rules it had announced in August on the  opening of current accounts. The regulator had sought to crack down on multiple operating accounts: banks would not be allowed to open new current accounts for customers who have already availed themselves credit facilities in the form of cash credit (CC) and overdraft (OD); all transactions should be routed through the existing CC/OD account. In a notification, the RBI said banks can open specific accounts which include accounts from real estate projects to maintain 70 per cent of advance payments collected from the home buyers. Accounts can also be opened for the purpose of IPO or follow on public offering, new fund offer, share buyback or dividend payment and issuance of commercial papers. Banks can also open accounts for the payment of taxes, duties, statutory dues, accounts of White Label ATM operators and their agents for sourcing of currency. The facility has been extended to payment aggregators or pre-paid instrument issuers. Banks shall flag these accounts in the CBS (core banking system) for easy monitoring. Lenders to such borrowers may also enter into agreements/arrangements with the borrowers for monitoring of cash flows/periodic transfer of funds (if permissible) in these current accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||BPCL to evaluate bids from Vedanta, Apollo Global and Think Gas||A high-powered committee will evaluate on Tuesday preliminary bids received from mining-to-oil conglomerate Vedanta and private equity firms Apollo Global and I Squared Capital’s arm Think Gas for buying the government's 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL, sources said. Last week, an inter-ministerial meet was held to discuss the BPCL valuation process and setting of the reserve price. On Tuesday, the panel will see transaction adviser Deloitte’s report on the scrutiny of the three bids that were received at the close of bidding last month, sources in know of the development said. The ministry of petroleum and natural gas, the parent ministry of the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), has been asked to give its views on the response and the process so far. A special purpose vehicle floated by the BSE-listed Vedanta Ltd and its London-based parent Vedanta Resources submitted an expression of interest (EoI) before the close of deadline on November 16.
While I Squared Capital is a private equity firm focusing on global infrastructure investments, New York-based Apollo Global Management, Inc is a global alternative investment manager firm. I Squared Capital invests in energy, utilities, transport and telecom projects in North America, Europe and select high growth economies such as India and China. The government is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in India's second largest fuel retailer as part of plans to raise a record Rs 2.1 lakh crore from disinvestment proceeds in 2020-21 (April 2020 to March 2021). But share price of BPCL has plunged by nearly a fifth since the time the strategic sale was approved in November last year. At Monday's closing price of Rs 405.75 on BSE, the government's 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL is worth just over Rs 46,600 crore. Also, the acquirer would have to make an open offer for buying another 26 per cent stake from the public, which would cost about Rs 22,800 crore. Vedanta's interest in BPCL stems from its $8.67 billion acquisition of oil producer Cairn India nearly a decade back. The company produces oil from oilfields in Rajasthan which are used in refineries such as those operated by BPCL to turn them into petrol, diesel and other fuels. The government had at the close of bidding stated that “multiple” EoIs had been received. It, however, did not reveal the identity of the bidders. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), which is handling the strategic sale, had tweeted on November 16 that the transaction advisors for the sale of government's 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL have reported receiving “multiple expressions of interest.”
“The transaction will move to the second stage after scrutiny by TA,” he had said. TA stands for transaction advisor. “Strategic disinvestment of BPCL progresses: Now moves to the second stage after multiple expressions of interest have been received,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had also tweeted on the same day. Sources said the transaction advisor's job was to evaluate the bidders to ascertain if they meet the qualifying criteria and have the financial muscle to do the acquisition. BPCL will give the buyer ownership of around 15.33 per cent of India's oil refining capacity and 22 per cent of the fuel marketing share. BPCL operates four refineries in Mumbai (Maharashtra), Kochi (Kerala), Bina (Madhya Pradesh), and Numaligarh (Assam) with a combined capacity of 38.3 million tonnes per annum, which is 15.3 per cent of India's total refining capacity of 249.8 million tonnes. While the Numaligarh refinery will be carved out of BPCL and sold to a PSU, the new buyer of the company will get 35.3 million tonnes of refining capacity -- 12 million tonne Mumbai unit, 15.5 million tonne Kochi refinery and 7.8 million tonne Bina unit. It also owns 17,355 petrol pumps, 6,159 LPG distributor agencies and 61 out of 256 aviation fuel stations in the country. BPCL is India's second-largest oil marketing company with a standalone domestic sales volume of over 43.10 million tonnes and a market share of 22 per cent during FY20. It is India's sixth largest company by turnover. Its petrol pumps sell more fuel than the industry average -- BPCL pumps sell 124 kilolitres per month as compared to the industry average of 116, according to the company website. The firm also has upstream presence with 26 assets in nine countries such as Russia, Brazil, Mozambique, the UAE, Indonesia, Australia, East Timor, Israel and India. It is also making a foray into city gas distribution and has licences for 37 geographical areas (GAs).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Retail inflation dips to three-month low of 6.93 per cent||Retail inflation dipped to a three-month low of 6.93 per cent in November because of the softening of vegetable prices though it remained above the comfort levels of the Reserve Bank of India. Economists expect the central bank to hold on to the policy rates to support the economy limping back from the Covid-19 pandemic. In November, food inflation eased to 8.76 per cent from 10.16 per cent a month ago with vegetable inflation falling to 15.6 per cent, data released by the statistics department showed. Retail inflation based on the consumer price index stood at 7.61 per cent in October. Earlier in the day, the industry department released inflation based on the wholesale price index (WPI) for November which rose  to a nine-month high of 1.55 per cent  as the prices of manufactured items accelerated even as those of vegetables declined. With a sharp and fairly broad-based month-on-month increase of 0.8 per cent, core WPI inflation rose to a 22-month high of 2.6 per cent . Retail inflation data showed that oils and fat inflation stood at 17.86 per cent, meat and fish at 16.67 per cent, and pulses and products at 16.67 per cent. Inflation in transport and communication came in at 11.06 per cent and that in recreation and amusement at 4.57 per cent. The CPI inflation has remained above 6 per cent this year, except in March. Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research, said: “The divergence between retail and wholesale food inflation is increasing, it rose to a five-month high of 5.5 per cent in November 2020. “We expect the retail inflation to decline to 5.5 per cent to 6.0 per cent range in 4QFY21 due to the cooling-off of food prices. However, sticky core inflation and Covid related inflation will keep headline inflation elevated.” Sreejith Balasubramanian, economist, fund management, of IDFC AMC, said: “November CPI of 6.9 per cent year-on-year showed some signs of easing sequential price pressure in food items.  With food price momentum also easing in the WPI released, it is now to be seen how broad based this food price disinflation cycle becomes, how much pace it gathers and for how long.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-202
15-12-2020||Business||Tata group submits an expression of interest for Air India||Nearly 67 years after its exit, the Tata group again wants to pilot Air India. Sources told The Telegraph the salt-to-software conglomerate had submitted an expression of interest for the troubled airline. It is learnt the $106-billion group is going solo and not through any of its two other aviation ventures — Vistara or Air Asia. A company spokesperson declined to comment. Apart from the Tata group, a section of Air India employees along with Interups Inc, an US-based fund, have filed expressions of interest (EoIs). While there is speculation of bids by the Adanis and the Hinduja group, this could not be confirmed. The deadline for the submission of EoIs ended at 5pm on Monday. In January this year, the government had invited bids to sell 100 per cent of its holding in Air India and its international arm Air India Express and 50 per cent in ground handling joint venture Air India SATS Airport Services. Of the airline’s total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.50 crore, while the rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. The interested entities will  have to submit their actual bids within 15 days. The Centre had said it will intimate the qualified interested bidders of Air India on January 5, 2021. Tata Sons had set up Tata Airlines in 1932 with J.R.D. Tata himself flying a Puss Moth aeroplane from Karachi to Mumbai. It was later renamed Air India in 1946. Later in 1953, the government nationalised Air India. In the 90s, the group tried to launch an airline in partnership with Singapore Airlines, but the plan did not succeed. In 2013, after the Centre changed the FDI norms in the industry the group launched two airlines — Air Asia India and Vistara with Air Asia of Malaysia and Singapore Airlines, respectively. Air India had a market share of 9.4 per cent in October. The market share of Air Asia India was 7.1 per cent and Vistara, 6.4 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-203
