16-12-2020||Business||Sensex touches 46 thousand-mark in opening trade||As participants hailed improved domestic macro-economic indicators as positive trends in global markets, equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty during their opening deals on Wednesday touched new highs. The BSE gauge Sensex surged 288.55 points or 0.62 per cent to trade at 46,551.72; while the NSE barometer Nifty climbed 82.70 points or 0.61 per cent to 13,650.55 in early deals record highs for both benchmarks. In the Sensex pack, Mahindra and Mahindra, Asian Paints, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finance, ONGC and HDFC were the prominent gainers. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, HUL, Bharti Airtel and ICICI Bank were trading in the red. Both Sensex and Nifty had ended with marginal gains on Tuesday. Market experts said that Indian equities continued to trade at record-high levels, gaining confidence from improving domestic macro-economic indicators and positive global market outlook. Asian stocks were trading higher on account of US economic stimulus optimism. S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday raised India's growth projection for the current fiscal to (-) 7.7 per cent from (-) 9 per cent estimated earlier on rising demand and falling COVID-19 infection rates. Retail inflation declined to 6.93 per cent in November on softer food prices, though it remained above the comfort level of the Reserve Bank, official data showed. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital markets as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,484.09 crore on Tuesday, according to exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
16-12-2020||Business||Jaguar Land Rover India opens bookings of first Plug-In Hybrid||Jaguar Land Rover India on Tuesday opened bookings for its first plug-in hybrid in India, the new Defender P400e. Hybrids are taxed at the highest tax slab of 43 per cent. Most manufacturers, including Mercedes, have bypassed the hybrid route to bring in fully electric cars, which attract a tax rate of 5 per cent. Combining a two-litre four-cylinder petrol engine and a 105 kW electric motor, the P400e develops 297 kW of combined power and 640 Nm of combined torque. Rohit Suri, president & managing director, Jaguar Land Rover India said, “We are extremely proud to introduce our first Plug-In Hybrid, the New Defender P400e in India, a vehicle that perfectly balances performance with efficiency, while retaining Land Rover’s legendary off-road capability. Meanwhile, Mahindra & Mahindra on Tuesday announced that effective January 1, 2021, the company will increase the price of its range of passenger and commercial vehicles, across models. Details of the price increase across different models will be communicated in due course.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
16-12-2020||Business||Majesco announces eye-popping interim dividend of 19480 per cent||Insurance technology firm Majesco on Tuesday entered the record books as it announced an eye-popping interim dividend of 19480 per cent or Rs 974 per share. At its board meeting on Tuesday, the directors approved the payment of this interim dividend for the current financial year. It translates into an amount of 
Rs 2,788.4 crore on a shareholder base of 28.577 million shares. The company said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges that following the dividend payout, the balance cash reserves estimated at Rs 103 crore will be distributed to shareholders, subject to board and regulatory approvals. At the face value of Rs 5 per share, the dividend of Rs 974 per share translates to a rate of 19480 per cent, which is the highest declared by any listed firm in recent times.
Shares of Majesco reacted positively to the dividend announcement as it hit a new high of Rs 1,019 on the BSE during intra-day deals, thus rising almost 5 per cent over the previous close. However, the share shed some of its gains to close at Rs 982.80 — a gain of Rs 8.60, or 0.88 per cent, over the last close. While dividend payouts are always good news for shareholders, the Majesco announcement, however, led to questions about the taxes that the investors would have to pay. It may be recalled that recipients did not have to pay tax on dividends till March 31, 2020 as the company (which declared the dividend) paid the dividend distribution tax. However, this year’s Union budget went back to the classical system following which all dividends received after April 1, 2020 is taxed in the hands of the individual. Therefore, in this case if the individual is holding even one share of Majesco and is in the 30 per cent tax bracket, he or she will have to pay a tax of Rs 292. The incidence on high net worth individuals will be much higher as they will be subject to a higher surcharge. Some of the experts are, therefore, suggesting that it will be better for an investor to sell the Majesco shares or book profits instead of paying a higher amount as dividend tax.
Tuesday’s announcement comes after the company came up with a share buyback plan of up to Rs 631.26 crore. The buyback opened on November 27 and closed on December 11. As regards the future plans on monetisation of real estate, the management said this could take longer- over a year and depending on real estate market conditions. The company added that post monetisation of real estate it will decide the best method for distribution of sale proceeds to shareholders. In July this year, Majesco, had signed a definitive agreement to be acquired by Thoma Bravo, L.P., a leading private equity firm focused on the software and technology-enabled services sectors, in a transaction valuing the company at $594 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||BPCL board to consider buying out Oman Oil Company||State owned refiner BPCL, which is in the midst of privatisation, on Tuesday said its board will meet on Wednesday to consider buying out Oman Oil Company in the Bina refinery project in Madhya Pradesh. The BPCL board will also consider merging Bharat Gas Resources Ltd (BGRL) with itself, the company said in a filing to the stock exchanges on Tuesday.
BPCL holds a 63.68 per cent stake in Bharat Oman Refineries Ltd (BORL), which built and operates a 7.8 million tonne oil refinery at Bina in Madhya Pradesh. The company board will on December 17 “consider a proposal for in-principle approval for acquisition of 36.62 per cent of equity shares in BORL from OQ S.A.O.C. (formerly known as Oman Oil Company S.A.O.C.)”, it said. This would amount to the acquisition of 88.8 crore equity shares from OQ. Shipping Corporation The government plans to soon come out with the expression of interest for the privatisation of Shipping Corporation of India, which could see players like Essar Shipping, Adani, Vedanta, GE Shipping and Dubai Port World taking part in the stake sale process. Sources said a ministerial panel is expected to meet on Friday to take the call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||S&P Global Ratings say Indian economy to contract 7.7 per cent current financial ||S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday said India’s economy will contract 7.7 per cent in the current financial year instead of 9 per cent estimated earlier on rising demand and falling Covid-19 rates. For the next financial year 2021-22, S&P projected growth to rebound to 10 per cent. Its revision in growth forecast for the current fiscal reflects a faster-than-expected recovery in the September quarter. “Rising demand and falling infection rates have tempered our expectation of Covid-19’s hit on the Indian economy. A faster recovery keeps more of the economy’s supply side intact and can set India up for more prolonged above-average growth during the recovery phase, it added. 
In the statement, S&P said India is learning to live with the virus, even though the  pandemic is far from defeated. “It is no surprise that India is following the path of most economies across the Asia-Pacific in experiencing a faster-than-expected recovery in manufacturing production,” S&P Global Ratings Asia-Pacific chief economist Shaun Roache said. India’s GDP fell 7.5 per cent in the July-September quarter against a contraction of 23.9 per cent in the April-June period. Earlier this month, Fitch also revised its forecast for India to a 9.4 per cent contraction from 10.5 per cent contraction seen earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||Infosys cloud, cyber security pays off||The strategy adopted by Infosys over the last three years in cloud, cyber security and other areas to help enterprises in their digital journey has began to pay off and the country’s second largest software services firm is now seeing its deal momentum remaining steady despite the current quarter being a seasonally weak period. At a virtual media interaction event, Infosys CEO and managing director Salil Parekh said they had invested a lot in high potential areas such as cloud, cyber security and re-skilling. Parekh said the strategy had been appreciated by clients, with Infosys witnessing lot of traction in its digital offerings and the “live enterprise” well received by customers. 
While the October-December quarter is usually a lean period because of holidays and furloughs, Parekh said that there had been no adverse impact on deal wins which continue to remain steady and strong. The US elections has also not affected the decision making at a client level even as the intensity of connecting with them has only gone up due to multiple virtual interactions.
The technology spend scenario remains extremely strong at this stage, Parekh said. In his inaugural address, Nandan Nilekani, co-founder and chairman, Infosys said that there had been a “consumerisation of IT” as he referred to the massive impact of consumer oriented technologies on corporations. Nilekani focused on three trends — the adoption of cloud, need for cyber security as more applications get exposed on the public Internet and the huge need to retrain or reskill employees. He averred that till 2005-06, it was enterprise driving technological innovation. But after the arrival of the iPhone in 2007 and subsequently the Android operating system, the smartphone became the essential vehicle or engine of innovation. This led to a major change in how digitization as there was consumerisation of user experience and people who used enterprise applications wanted the same ease of use. It led to the rise of big data and artificial intelligence and large companies used data to find out what consumers needed. It also led to demand of modernization of existing applications of large enterprises. He added that a huge challenge facing enterprises is their legacy systems of many decades. However, today’s world required much more agile infrastructure and more services on cloud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||India will grow to be among top three world economies: Mukesh Ambani||Reliance Industries Ltd  chairman Mukesh Ambani on Tuesday forecast that India will grow to be among the top three economies in the world in the next two decades and that it would become a premier digital society. At a virtual chat with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Ambani said  it was the social media giant’s investment of $ 5.7 billion in Jio Platforms in April that set the ball rolling for FDI into India during the pandemic. The result has been that India has received the largest ever FDI during April-August 2020 over any comparable period. “And during the pandemic, India has attracted the largest foreign direct investment in its history. Mark, we have our own example of how Jio and Facebook concluded our partnership right in the middle of lockdown.” “I have no hesitation in going on record, that it is your investment that set the ball rolling. Not only for Jio, but for the Indian FDI which has been the largest-ever in its history. And our partnership between Jio and Facebook, will actually demonstrate that it is great for India, Indians, and small Indian businesses’’ he said at the Facebook Fuel for India 2020 event. The Reliance chief was upbeat about the future of technology in India. The digitisation steps in India will “democratise” wealth and value creation . He cited the example of the tie-up between Facebook and Jio which will bring millions of subscribers of WhatsApp and Jio and JioMart which is looking to service small shopkeepers. He pointed out that the association will see Jio bringing digital connectivity, WhatsApp  with WhatsApp Pay bringing digital interactivity, and the ability to move to close transactions and create value, while Jio Mart would present the huge online and offline retail opportunity apart from giving a chance to the mom and pop stores to digitize. "And together with our platforms and the tools that we will provide to small businesses and to individual consumers, I believe will drive India to a 5 trillion economy and will make a much more equal India, with more equal wealth growth at the bottom of the pyramid," Ambani said. He was of the view that there are great future opportunities in areas like education and healthcare and that the next two decades will prove to be "historic" in terms of the social and economic transformation. While the domestic economy is now showing signs of recovery from the pandemic, Ambani was optimistic about its growth trajectory in the years ahead. He projected that the per capita income will rise from $ 1800-2000, to $ 5000 per capita. Further, the mid-income or the middle class in India which is about 50 per cent of its total number of households, will grow to three to four percent per year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||RBI approves re-appointment of Uday Kotak as MD of Kotak Mahindra Bank||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has approved the re-appointment of Uday Kotak as the managing director of Kotak Mahindra Bank for three years. The banking sector regulator also approved the appointment of part-time chairman Prakash Apte for three years. “The RBI has vide its letter dated December 14 2020, granted approval for the re-appointments of Prakash Apte as part-time chairman; Uday Kotak as MD & CEO; and Dipak Gupta as Joint MD for a period of three years, with effect from January 1, 2021,” the bank said in a communication to the stock exchanges. Earlier, the board of the bank and its shareholders had approved these re-appointments, subject to the approval of the RBI, at their respective meetings held on May 13 and August 18. Apte was appointed as the part-time chairman at the annual general meeting held on July 19, 2018, for a period from July 20, 2018, till December 31, 2020 Kotak is the founder managing director and promoter of the bank. There was uncertainty on his continuation as the managing director in June after a discussion paper from the RBI proposed that the tenure of the whole-time director or CEO of a bank, who is a promoter or major shareholder, should not be more than 10 years. The discussion paper further said it would allow banks up to the end of their founder CEO’s current tenure to find a new head or two years from the time the new guidelines are implemented, whichever is later. Brokerages feared Kotak Mahindra Bank would be the most impacted of the all the banks since Uday Kotak has been leading the private sector lender for the past 17 years. “Among the leading private banks, we believe Kotak Bank may be affected more as Uday Kotak is the promoter and the CEO/MD. He has been CEO/MD since inception and his current term expires in December 2020. So, if the norms are implemented (and notified by September 2020) then his term may expire on September 2022 or April 2023,” a note from Jefferies had said. However, the recommendations of the discussion paper is yet to be accepted by the RBI. While the announcement was made after market hours late on Monday, the shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank on Tuesday hit a new 52 week high on the news. The scrip touched an intra-day high of Rs 1,958 after which it settled at Rs 1,950.45 — a gain of 0.53 per cent over the last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||Civil aviation ministry officials discuss resumption of international flights||The resumption of international flights was discussed with the airlines by the civil aviation ministry officials on Tuesday, but no decision has been taken. During the meeting, the airlines pitched for looking beyond the air bubbles, which is being used to connect international destinations. The meeting assumes significance as rapid progress has been made on the development of the vaccine to treat the coronavirus that has brightened the prospect of the opening up of global aviation and normality restored in the coming months. Airlines were of the view that the ministry should look at opening up the connectivity to the major hubs in South East Asia and West Asia. They are  expected to be opened up sooner than the US or European destinations. The ministry officials, however, pointed out the opening up of international travel would depend on several factors including the specific country’s norms.
Civil aviation regulator DGCA had recently extended the international flight ban till 31 December because of  the pandemic. The restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA). Anyone who wants to travel to foreign countries will have to depend on the air bubble arrangements. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by the airlines of the respective countries between their territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||CARE Ratings revises ratings for Srei Infrastructure Finance||CARE has revised its ratings of Srei Infrastructure Finance’s (SIFL) bank facilities, long term infrastructure bonds and non convertible debentures to credit watch with negative implications. The rating agency said the revision takes into account the developing implications of the slump exchange for the transfer of lending business, interest earning business and lease business of SIFL to its wholly owned subsidiary Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL). SEFL has approached NCLT, Calcutta, with a scheme of arrangement to obtain formal consent from the required majority of lenders for the slump exchange and also for restructuring of its liabilities, including a part of the debt transferred from SIFL. “The ratings of SIFL were under credit watch with developing implications pending the outcome of the proposed meetings of creditors for considering the scheme of arrangement according to the  NCLT order dated October 21, 2020 received by SEFL,” CARE Ratings said in a statement. The revision in ratings also takes into account further deterioration in the liquidity position and fund raising ability which has substantially impacted the consolidated credit risk profile of the company with SEFL. SEFL had approached the lenders for restructuring of its bank facilities (including transferred from SIFL). The ratings firm further said the current development with respect to the special audit initiated by the RBI for both SIFL and SEFL and concerns on the outcome of the same have impacted the fund raising ability and may also impact the implementation of the scheme of arrangement proposed by SEFL. “There is no clarity as yet on the stance of the consortium on the slump exchange and restructuring scheme. A likely delay and lack of unanimity among the creditorsmay further impact the consolidated credit risk profile of the company.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||Next union budget discussed at FSDC meet headed by FM Nirmala Sitharaman||The measures that could be taken by the government in the next budget  to accelerate growth while maintaining financial stability were discussed at a high-level FSDC meet headed by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday. There is a need to keep a continuous vigil by the government and all regulators on the financial conditions that could expose  vulnerabilities in the medium- and long-term. The 23rd meeting of the Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC) noted the policy measures taken by the government and the financial sector regulatory authorities have ensured faster economic recovery as reflected in the reduced contraction of GDP in the second quarter. “The economy has gained momentum and the path to recovery will be faster than what was predicted earlier,” a statement released after the meet said. The council also discussed the challenges involved in smooth transition of London Interbank Offer Rate (Libor) based contracts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
16-12-2020||Business||Govt to focus on public investment in infrastructure in next budget||The Narendra Modi government will focus on public investment in infrastructure in the next budget as this will reinvigorate an economy devastated by the virus, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said at an Assocham event. She said the government will also intensify its stake sale efforts. “We shall definitely sustain the momentum of public spending in infrastructure. Because that is one way we assure that the multipliers will work and the economy’s revival will be sustainable... I am conscious that the forthcoming budget will have a vibrancy that is so required for the economy’s revival,” she said. With regard to the government’'s stake sale programme, she said the pace of disinvestment will now gain a “lot of momentum”. Assocham president Niranjan Hiranandani urged the Centre and farmers’ organisations to resolve the impasse over the new agri laws, saying that the protests are inflicting a heavy blow to the economies of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and J&K. “A daily loss of Rs 3,000-3,500 crore is resulting in the economies of the region,” according to a rough estimate . “The size of the combined economies of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and J&K is about Rs 18 lakh crore. With the ongoing farmers’ agitation and blockade of roads, toll plazas and railways, the economic activities have come to a halt,”  Hiranandani said. Supply chains The world wants resilient supply chains and it is looking at India as a trusted partner, Piyush Goyal said at the annual general meeting of the Indian Chamber of Commerce. He said  Atmanirbhar Bharat was not about closing engagement with the rest of the world. “We are on the contrary expanding our engagement; we should import modern technology,modern equipment which can help us do the job better,” he said while addressing the members on a virtual platform. Exports fall India’s exports dipped 8.74 per cent to $23.52 billion in November. Trade deficit during the month narrowed to $9.87 billion as imports declined by 13.32 per cent to $33.39 billion, the trade data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-201
