17-12-2020||Business|| IKEA to open its second Indian store in Navi Mumbai on Dec 18||Ikea, the world's largest furniture retailer from Sweden, on Thursday said it will open its second store in the country in Navi Mumbai on Friday. The new store is its first big format store in Maharashtra, spanning over 5.3 lakh sq ft and situated near the Turbhe local railway station and stocks over 7,000 home furnishing products. Peter Betzel, CEO and chief sustainability officer at Ikea - India told reporters that Mumbai is the first omnichannel market for them. We remain invested and committed to India and stand for the long-term, he said at conference call announcing the store launch. IKEA in an official statement said that the safety of customers and co-workers is its first priority. “To provide a safe shopping experience during COVID times, it is taking a number of extra precautions from its global best practices and relevant learnings from its Hyderabad operations. To ensure good social distancing, IKEA will initially have a cap on the number of visitors to the store through prior registration on its website, by which customers will be allotted a day and time slot to visit the store. The company is putting together a whole process that will be released soon to the public,” said the statement. The Navi Mumbai store will house the largest children's area 'Sm land' in Ikea globally, along with one of its largest 1,000-seater restaurants with almost 100 per cent locally-sourced food range, the company said. Betzel reiterated Ikea's planned investment of Rs 6,000 crore by 2030, by when it aims to meet 25 million people in Maharashtra. The new store will provide over 6,000 jobs, of which 50 per cent will be women. Ikea India opened its first retail store in Hyderabad in August 2018, followed by online stores in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Pune. It will open two smaller format stores in Mumbai in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies for fifth straight session, ends at fresh peak||The equity benchmark Sensex on Thursday rallied for the fifth straight session and jumped 224 points to end at a fresh peak, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, TCS and Reliance Industries amid persistent foreign fund inflows and positive global cues. After touching its lifetime intra-day high of 46,992.57, the 30-share BSE index settled 223.88 points or 0.48 per cent higher at 46,890.34. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 58 points or 0.42 per cent to a new closing high of 13,740.70. It hit a lifetime peak of 13,773.25 during the day.HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, PowerGrid, UltraTech Cement, TCS, Tech Mahindra and L&T. On the other hand, ONGC, Maruti, Tata Steel, HUL, Bajaj Auto and Sun Pharma were among the laggards. “Domestic equities remained upbeat and recorded fresh highs. A dovish tone of Federal Reserve along with assurance of continuing asset purchase program until the economy makes substantial progress bolstered investors’ sentiment,” said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. Better prospects of earnings recovery, dismal interest rate scenario and strong FPI participation led markets to see record highs, he noted. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,981.77 crore on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. “As underlying strengths of the market remain intact, we expect the market to remain buoyant in the near to medium term. Further, excess liquidity situation globally is expected to sustain for the medium term, which will continue to lend support to equities,” he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also largely trading on a positive note. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.51 per cent to USD 51.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Sensex makes new intra-day records amid positive global markets||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty surged higher in early trade on Thursday, after scaling fresh intra-day records, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid persistent foreign fund inflows and largely positive trend in global markets. After touching its lifetime intra-day high of 46,778.51 in the morning session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 32.27 points or 0.07 per cent higher at 46,698.73. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 11 points or 0.08 per cent to 13,693.70. It hit a high of 13,713.55 in early trade. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 1 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries and HDFC. On the other hand, ITC, HCL Tech, L&T, HUL and SBI were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 403.29 points or 0.87 per cent higher at 46,666.46, while the NSE Nifty climbed 114.85 points or 0.85 per cent to 13,682.70 -- record closing for both the benchmarks. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,981.77 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities are looking flat at the moment mainly on soft cues from Asian markets, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities, adding that better prospects of earning recovery, dismal interest rate scenario and strong FPIs participation led markets to see record highs. “As underlying strengths of the market remain intact, we expect the market to remain buoyant in the near to medium term. However, a visible slowdown in diesel sales, volumes in digital transactions and credit card spends post festival and rise in input prices may be threats for earnings rebound. This along with rich valuation might not result in a broad-based rally in the subsequent period,” he stated. “US equities finished mostly higher after the Federal Reserve maintained its dovish tone and reassured to maintain ultra-low interest rates and continuous asset purchase until the economy makes substantial progress,” Modi said. “Now investors will focus upon progress on fiscal stimulus, which appears to be happening shortly. This may determine the Santa rally ahead of Christmas,” he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.86 per cent higher at USD 51.52 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Deadline extended for state reforms||The finance ministry has extended the deadline till February 15 for states to implement reforms like the one-nation one-ration card and for those in the power sector aiming to become eligible for additional borrowing in the current fiscal, a release said. The Centre in May had decided to raise the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP, over and above the 3 per cent limit set under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. However, states were required to complete four specific reforms — one-nation, one-ration card, ease of doing business reform, urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms — by December 31, 2020, to get the benefits. “The department of expenditure has extended the deadline for the states to complete citizen centric reforms in various sectors. Now, if the recommendation from the nodal ministry concerned regarding implementation of the reform is received by February 15, 2021, the state will be eligible for reform-linked benefits,” the finance ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Equity benchmarks race to new peaks for fourth straight session||Equity benchmarks raced to new peaks for the fourth straight session on Wednesday as participants took note of continuously improving macroeconomic indicators and positive trends in the global markets. The BSE Sensex settled 403.29 points, or 0.87 per cent, higher at 46666.46, while the NSE Nifty climbed 114.85 points, or 0.85 per cent, to 13682.70 — a record closing for both the benchmarks. Both the indices also marked their all-time intra-day highs of 46704.97 and 13692.35, respectively. In the Sensex pack, HDFC, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, Asian Paints, Titan, TCS and Mahindra and Mahindra were the prominent gainers, advancing up to 3.11 per cent. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, UltraTech Cement, Tech Mahindra and HCL Tech were among the major laggards, skidding up to 1.09 per cent. Asian bourses closed broadly higher amid hopes that Covid-19 vaccines and economic stimulus by governments around the world will revive economic growth. European equities surged to 10-month highs on prospects of a Brexit trade deal and expectations of a swift rollout of the coronavirus vaccination. P-notes Investments through participatory notes (P-notes) in the Indian capital market surged to a 27-month high of Rs 83,114 crore at November-end from Rs 78,686 crore at October-end, driven by continued liquidity and improvement in second quarter corporate earnings. This was the highest level of investment since August 2018, when fund inflow through this route stood at Rs 84,647 crore. P-notes are issued by registered foreign portfolio investors to overseas investors who wish to be part of the Indian stock market without registering themselves directly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Govt invites proposals to set up electronic chip manufacturing units||The government has invited proposals from entities to set up electronic chip manufacturing units in the country and even acquire any company making semiconductors overseas. The expression of interest floated by the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) on Tuesday said the government is keen to incentivise and attract investment in setting up semiconductor fabrication units in India. “The Meity invites expressions of interest (EoI) from companies/consortia desirous of setting up/expanding existing semiconductor wafer/device fabrication (FAB) facilities in India or acquisition of semiconductor FABs outside India,” the EoI document said. Meity has fixed January 31, 2021 as the last date for submitting the proposal. The government plans to use the proposals to formulate a scheme for setting up or expansion of existing semiconductor plants in the country, according to the document. Meity said the need to set up semiconductor plants assumes significance in view of the fact that India is poised to increase its share in global manufacturing of mobile phones, IT hardware, automotive electronics, industrial electronics, medical electronics, IoT and other devices in the near future as it aspires to have $400 billion of electronics manufacturing by the year 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
17-12-2020||Business||Govt approves subsidy of Rs 3,500 crore to sugar mills||The government on Wednesday approved a subsidy of Rs 3,500 crore to sugar mills for the export of 60 lakh tonnes of the sweetener during the ongoing marketing year 2020-21 as part of its efforts to help them clear outstanding dues to sugarcane farmers. Briefing the media after the meeting, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has approved the subsidy at the rate of Rs 6 per kg for the current year, much lower than about Rs 10.50 per kg in the 2019-20 marketing year keeping in view the favourable international prices. Javadekar said both the “sugar industry as well as the sugarcane farmers are in crisis” because of high domestic production in the last two-three years. This year too production is expected to be 310 lakh tonnes against the annual demand of 260 lakh tonnes. The allocation of Rs 3,500 crore for exports of 6 million tonnes translates into a subsidy of Rs 5,833 per tonne, which is lower than the industry’s expectation of Rs 8,000 crore and last year’s subsidy of Rs 10,448 crore. The subsidy helped India export a record 5.7 million tonnes of sugar in the 2019-20 season, which ended in September. Despite the lower subsidy, India could export 6 million tonnes of sugar as prices have risen in the world market, said Abinash Verma, the director-general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association. “The drop in sugar production from Thailand gives an opportunity for India to export to their traditional markets like Indonesia and Malaysia,” Verma said. Sugar output in Thailand, the world’s second-largest exporter after Brazil, is expected to fall to the lowest level in a decade as drought hit cane plantation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||Sebi relaxes profitability criteria for mutual funds sponsors||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Wednesday relaxed the profitability criteria for the sponsors of mutual funds apart from ringfencing the assets and liabilities of mutual fund schemes. The market regulator also did away with the minimum promoters’ contribution and the subsequent lock-in requirements for issuers making a  a follow-on public offering (FPO). These decisions were taken at its board meeting on Wednesday. It also approved new shareholding norms for listed entities who go through the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP). In a bid to facilitate innovation and expansion in the mutual fund sector, Sebi eased the rules with regard to the eligibility of a sponsor who wishes to set up a mutual fund. It said that entities that are not fulfilling the profitability criteria at the time of making an application will also be eligible to sponsor a mutual fund. At present, sponsors have to meet various requirements. The entity should have a clean track record. It should show profit after depreciation, interest and tax in three out of the immediately preceding five years, including the fifth year. Sebi has now relaxed this requirement of having profits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||Govt to auction 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum across seven frequency bands||The government will auction 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum by March across seven frequency bands but not the much coveted 5G spectrum — at an aggregate base price of Rs 3.92 lakh crore as the Narendra Modi-government looks to boost its revenues left dry by the pandemic. The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the sale, the first in four years. The telecom ministry plans to issue a notice to invite bids in December and hold the sales by March, telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters after the meeting. In Union Budget 2020-21, the government had targeted revenues of Rs 1.33 lakh crore from telecommunication services, which include spectrum auction proceeds, licensing fees and other receipts. Successful bidders might have to pay the entire amount in one go or pay 25 percent to 50 percent upfront and the remaining amount in 16 equated annual instalments, after a moratorium of two years. They will have to pay 3 per cent of the adjusted gross revenue (AGR) excluding wireline services as spectrum usage charges. “While the government has addressed the requirement for more spectrum, lower reserve prices would have provided additional resources for network expansion to the operators. High reserve prices in past auctions have resulted in large amounts of spectrum remaining unsold,”  S.P. Kochhar, director-general, Cellular Operators Association of India,  said. The cabinet also gave its approval to  set up a national security committee to list “trusted and not trusted sources” of telecom vendors and devices. The committee will be headed by deputy national security adviser and will comprise all stakeholders. Analysts said the bidding would be muted in most of the bands as the  operators would mainly be renewing their existing spectrum. In Reliance Jio, spectrum across 12 to 14 circles in the 800Mhz band will expire from July. Jio shares some the spectrum of Anil Ambani's Reliance Communications. Bharti Airtel with 29 crore subscribers and Vodafone Idea with around 28 crore subscribers will see less expensive airwaves, mostly in the 1,800 MHz band, expire across eight circles each from July 2021 onwards. Both the operators have backup airwaves in most of these service areas. Telecom analyst Mahesh Uppal said “I believe the lower reserve price is still high. However, companies need the spectrum and so will bid to a limited extent to replenish the part of the spectrum that will run out in the coming months.” “Expect much of the bidding in the 800 Mhz and 1800 Mhz… in other bands there would be muted bidding depending on the operators needs,” Ankit Jain, telecom analyst with Icra, said. The auction will be for spectrum in 700MHz, 800MHz, 900MHz, 1800MHz, 2100MHz, 2300MHz and 2500MHz frequency bands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||Diesel sales down 5% in first half of December ||Diesel sales fell 5.2 per cent in the first half of December year-on-year, preliminary data from state-run fuel retailers showed on Wednesday, signalling that industrial growth in India has not yet reached pre-Covid-19 levels. Diesel consumption, a key parameter linked to economic growth and which accounts for about 40 per cent of the overall refined fuel sales, fell to 2.8 million tonnes in the first half of the month. Gasoline sales rose by an annual 9.5 per cent during the first half of the month to 1.05 million tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||Fiat to set up largest digital hub in Hyderabad||Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) on Wednesday said it will invest $150 million (around Rs 1,103 crore) to set up a global digital hub in Hyderabad. Named FCA ICT India, it will be the company’s largest digital hub outside North America. FCA ICT India will create nearly 1,000 jobs by the end of 2021. The digital hub will develop products and concepts that will define the future of mobility at FCA. It will focus on building strategic competencies in niche technology areas such as connected vehicle programmes, artificial intelligence, data accelerators and cloud technologies, among others. “Our goal is to build an innovation powerhouse that harnesses the intelligence enabled by data to build exciting new products and services,” said Mamatha Chamarthi, chief information officer, FCA, North America and Asia Pacific. FCA has presence in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, with headquarters in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||The pandemic did not dampen Aditya Mittal's spirit for India operation expansion ||Covid19 has failed to dampen the spirit of Aditya Mittal, president and chief financial officer of ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steel maker. A year after steering his father’s dream to set foot in India with the top dollar buy of Essar Steel, Mittal said the “long term potential” of the business remained intact despite the “unparalleled challenges” of the pandemic. In a letter to the employees of AM/NS (ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel) India, as Essar Steel has now been christened, after completing a year of concluding the Rs 42,000 crore acquisition, Mittal set target for gradual expansion of the capacity while loading up on the inbuilt technology prowess of the parent ArcelorMittal, to make grades of steel hitherto not produced in India. “Covid has in no way dampened the longterm potential we see for AM/NS India,” Mittal’s letter to the employees on Wednesday read. He may have reason to be hopeful as the company posted its best ever monthly production, 6.2 lakh tonne, at Hazira in November. “…our longterm production intentions to reach between 12 and 15 million tonnes of annual production still stand. In the shortterm, the focus will be on debottlenecking our existing operations so we can increase annual production to around 8.5 million tonnes,” Mittal, who is the chairman of AM/NS India, wrote. The acquisition capped the decade long wait of Lakshmi Niwas Mittal, Aditya’s father, to have a meaningful presence in the country where he was born and brought up. Essar’s erstwhile owners, the Ruia brothers, posed every challenge possible to the insolvency process which ran for two and half years. If the acquisition itself was daunting, the first full year of operation was no less. India went to the strictest lockdown in the world, threatening continuity of the business and the already fragile economy. But Mittal pointed out that within six weeks after lockdown, which began on March 25, operation at Hazira, Gujarat plant, came back to full capacity by mid May, filling him with optimism for the future. A report by rating and research agency ICRA said the steel sector witnessed strong revival in the second quarter and the momentum is expected to strengthen further in the second half of 2021. Steelmakers are going to witness the best ever quarterly result in the past several years, the report noted, forecasting that demand contraction for the alloy would be 11 per cent, compared to 22 per cent predicted in April. Mittal said there would be opportunities to tap into ArcelorMittal’s global R&D to produce high grade steel in India. “From a commercial perspective, we plan to develop our downstream capabilities, improve our capacity to produce higheradded value auto products as well as introducing other highvalue products from the ArcelorMittal range. This is an area where ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India can really benefit from its parent companies, ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel. When it comes to technological prowess, innovation and R&D, I truly believe our capabilities are unmatched in the global steel industry,” he wrote. Even though Mittal did not mention, there are at least two pending puzzles that the company must resolve. It plans to secure the raw material logistic, taking control of the adjacent port at Hazira, which is under the control of the Ruias, and also secure the iron ore slurry pipeline at Paradip in Odisha. Resolutions to these critical assets will shape the contour of the future expansion of AM/NS India going forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||House panel pitches for automobile GST cut||The auto sector needs a focused stimulus package, including a 10 per cent cut in GST rate and financial incentives in the scrappage policy, a parliamentary panel report has said. The automotive sector suffered Rs 2,300-crore loss per day and an estimated job loss of about 3.45 lakh because of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns. The cost of BS-VI vehicles is expected to be higher by 10-15 per cent because of the upgraded technology. The panel is of the view that cutting the GST rate to 18 per cent  from 28 per cent will bring down the cost of vehicles substantially, creating more demand for newer vehicles. The increased sales because of the GST rate cut will cover up the loss in revenue. Further, the panel suggested provisions for financial incentives in the scrappage policy to encourage end users to discard their old vehicles and buy new cars. Meanwhile, the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India has said the auto component industry has seen a year-on-year growth decline of 34 per cent in the first half of 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
17-12-2020||Business||India on US watch list for currency rigging||The outgoing Trump Administration today labelled Vietnam and Switzerland as currency manipulators  and named India among 10 nations that have been placed on a monitoring list that will subject their currency practices and macroeconomic policies to close scrutiny by the US authorities and the International Monetary Fund. The US Treasury report, titled "Macroeconomic and Foreign Exchange Policies of Major Trading Partners of the United States", accused Vietnam and Switzerland for the first time of improperly intervening in the foreign exchange markets and set the stage for a major confrontation with the two trading partners. The two nations will now have to enter into negotiations with the United States and the International Monetary Fund to address the situation. This is the third time that the Trump administration has taken the fairly unusual step of labelling a country as a currency manipulator. It applied the label to China in 2019  the first time since 1994  while the two countries were negotiating a trade deal. The administration later dropped the official designation but the Chinese yuan has remained on the Treasury's list of currencies it is monitoring. Besides India, the countries that figure in the monitoring list are China, Japan, South Korea, Germany, Italy, Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan, and Thailand. Taiwan and Thailand have been named for the first time along with India. "The US Treasury is...concerned by certain economies raising the scale and persistence of foreign exchange intervention to resist appreciation of their currencies," the report said. The report said a number of countries had conducted foreign exchange market intervention in a "persistent, onesided manner" that exceeded the Treasury's criteria that were devised pursuant to the US Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act 2015. "These actions occurred mostly during a period of dollar weakness as countries sought to limit appreciations of their currencies," it said. The report named four major trading partners  Vietnam, Switzerland, India and Singapore that had intervened in the foreign exchange market "in a sustained, asymmetric manner" over the four quarters through June 2020. Of these, Vietnam and Switzerland exceeded two other objective criteria established by the US Treasury to identify potentially unfair currency practices or excessive external imbalances which would weigh on US growth or harm US workers or firms. India met two of the three criteria: it had a material current account surplus and engaged in persistent, onesided intervention over the reporting period. Ananth Narayan Professor, SP Jain Institute of Management and Research told The Telegraph that the development was not surprising since the Reserve Bank had purchased lot of dollars over the last few months and, in this fiscal year, it has been well over $ 90 billion. Moreover, India also had a trade surplus with the US. An economy meeting two of the three criteria in the 2015 Act is placed on the monitoring list. Once on the List, an economy will remain there for at least two consecutive reports to help ensure that any improvement in performance versus the criteria is durable and is not due to temporary factors, the US Treasury report said. As a further measure, the US Administration will add and retain on the monitoring list any major U.S. trading partner that accounts for a large and disproportionate share of the overall US trade deficit even if that economy has not met two of the three criteria from the 2015 Act. Currency manipulation labels are supposed to set off talks with the United States and can involve input from the International Monetary Fund. If the concerns of the Treasury Department are not resolved, the United States could impose an array of penalties including tariffs. Why India? The US Treasury report said the Reserve Bank of India had purchased foreign exchange on net in 10 of the 12 months through June 2020, with net intervention (both spot and forward intervention) reaching $64 billion, or 2.4 per cent of GDP. While purchases slowed during the onset of the pandemic, and the RBI engaged in net sales in March 2020, the RBI’s net purchases again accelerated in mid 2020 as portfolio inflows resumed and foreign direct investment remained strong. "These purchases have led to a rapid rise in (India's) total reserves that are now well in excess of standard reserve adequacy benchmarks. As of June 2020, foreign currency reserves stood at $466 billion, equal to 4.4 times gross shortterm external debt. Reserves have continued to grow in recent months, reaching $502 billion in September 2020 as purchases accelerated further in July and August," the report added. The report added that after depreciating 3.4 per cent against the dollar in the second half of 2019, the rupee depreciated an additional 5.5 per cent during the first half of 2020. The rupee weakened 6.6 per cent and 1.7 per cent on a nominal and real effective basis, respectively, over the four quarters through June 2020. "The rupee has diverged somewhat from peer currencies, however, amid RBI intervention," it added. The report went on to prescribe a course of action to India's monetary authorities. "The (Indian) authorities should allow the exchange rate to move to reflect economic fundamentals and limit foreign exchange intervention to circumstances of disorderly market conditions. India can also leverage the recovery period to pursue structural reforms that will open its market further to foreign investment and trade, including foreign portfolio investment in Indian sovereign and subsovereign bonds, thereby fostering stronger longterm growth. (With inputs from The New York Times)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-200
