18-12-2020||Business||Markets extend winning run to 6th session||Extending its winning run to the sixth session, equity benchmark Sensex advanced 70 points to end at a new record on Friday following gains in Infosys, ICICI Bank, TCS and Reliance Industries. After opening at its lifetime intra-day high of 47,026.02, the 30-share BSE index pared some gains to finish at 46,960.69, up 70.35 points or 0.15 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 19.85 points or 0.14 per cent to 13,760.55 -- its new closing record. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, SBI, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech, Titan and Asian Paints. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, ONGC, HDFC Bank, Maruti and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. Domestic equities recovered from the day's low in tandem with recovery in banking stocks, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Record foreign fund flows remain as a key driving force for the market. Strong prospects of earnings recovery, satisfactory progress on vaccination along with consistent improvement in recovery rate from COVID-19 cases, weak dollar and depressed interest rate scenario continue to act as key tailwinds for Indian equities to attract FPI flows," he added. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) purchased shares worth a net Rs 2,355.25 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul ended on a positive note, while Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.35 per cent to USD 51.32 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Sensex opens at record high, turns choppy in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex opened on a choppy note on Friday as profit-booking emerged at fresh highs in early trade amid persistent foreign fund inflows. After opening at its lifetime intra-day high of 47,026.02, the 30-share BSE index pared the gains to trade 141.30 points or 0.30 per cent lower at 46,749.04. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 44.90 points or 0.33 per cent to 13,695.80. It hit a high of 13,713.55 in early trade. It touched an intra-day high of 13,771.45. ONGC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, HDFC twins, Bajaj Finance and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Infosys, HCL Tech, TCS, Nestle India and Bajaj Auto were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex settled 223.88 points or 0.48 per cent up at 46,890.34 -- its new closing record. NSE Nifty also rose 58 points or 0.42 per cent to a new closing high of 13,740.70. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,355.25 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. According to traders, profit-booking has emerged at higher levels. Domestic equities continue to look firm and resilient. A record FPIs flows remain a key driving force for the market, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Strong prospects of an earnings recovery, satisfactory progress on vaccination along with consistent improvement in recovery rate from COVID-19 cases, weak dollar and depressed interest rate scenario continue to act as key tailwinds for Indian equities to attract FPIs flows," he noted. Going forward, while markets continue to look buoyant on its underlying strengths, rich valuations and rise in input costs may act as key threats for a broad-based rally, he added. US markets finished at record highs as Congressional leaders look close to finalising fiscal stimulus to support businesses and individuals hit by a resurgence of COVID-19, he said. He further stated that the dollar index slipped below from the 90 level, which continues to bode well for emerging markets including India. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.23 per cent lower at USD 51.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Cautiously optimistic about 2021: Pawan Munjal||Pawan Munjal, chairman and CEO of Hero MotoCorp, was cautiously optimistic about emerging from the clutches of the pandemic in 2021. At an interactive session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce, Munjal in conversation with Suhel Seth, MD and founder, Counselage India, said the process of emergence from the pandemic could take a few months. “Everyone wants to get into 2021. But don’t forget, for now, coronavirus is also travelling with us into 2021. We have started seeing a vaccine now.. This is going to be a process of some months,” Munjal said. He added that the pandemic has offered an opportunity for businesses to work hard and grow. Citing his own company’s performance, Munjal said Hero MotoCorp has seen the best ever month of October since 1985 when the company started. He added that there was highest production, sales and dispatch. "My mantra in the company was don't let this opportunity go to waste. Personally I am optimistic that 2021 will be a good year for the country," he said. Munjal said that innovation and technology will be a key driver going forward and he cited the example of Ather Energy, an electric scooter manufacturing starup where Hero Motocorp has invested. He also said that despite passage of 10 years since parting ways from Honda, Hero has continued to grow and has even partnered with Harley Davidson in India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Government to invest $60bn to create gas infrastructure ||Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said the government has planned a $60-billion investment to create gas infrastructure in the country till 2024, and the share of gas in the energy mix is expected to rise to 15 per cent by 2030. At present, gas accounts for 6 per cent in the country’s total energy mix. Speaking at Assocham Foundation Day Week 2020, the minister said, “We have envisaged a spend of $60 billion in creating gas infrastructure till 2024, including for pipelines, LNG terminals and CGD networks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Gadkari cautions steelmakers against profiteering ||Cautioning against profiteering by steel makers, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said he has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attention towards a 55 per cent hike in steel prices by players during the past six months, making projects unviable. The road transport, highways and MSME minister also said if the players failed to curb the practice, the government will have to change policies and encourage alternative technologies in projects. Addressing the Assocham Foundation Week on ‘national infrastructure pipeline critical for economic revival across sectors’, Gadkari also said a GPS system for tolling is on the anvil in which toll payments will be deducted automatically on the distance traversed. “There has been a 55 per cent hike in steel prices in the past six months. I have written to the PM and steel minister (Dharmendra Pradhan) for a decision on this,” Gadkari, who earlier warned cement makers against cartelling, said. He also said a long-term policy is needed for it as the prices hiked did not match raw material and labour rates. “A long-term policy is needed for steel and cement manufactures... a uniform policy,” he said and added that had the price hike been in the range of 15-20 per cent, it could have been justified but it was abysmally high. “They can enhance productivity and earn profit. Else, projects will become unviable,” he said and elaborated that steel and cement accounted for 40 per cent of the project cost. The minister said that alternatives are being explored for steel such as Malaysian and Singapore technology and added that earlier, when cement makers started profiteering, he had to stop 100 per cent concrete roadbuilding and revert to the bitumen model. “This kind of attitude by players is not good for infrastructure and real estate,” he said. The minister also said the GPS-based system will be introduced for toll collection with Russian expertise where the toll amount will be deducted from the commuter account or e-wallet on the basis of distance traversed. This will be rolled out within two years, he said. He also exuded confidence that toll collection will reach Rs 1.34 lakh crore in the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Sitharaman pairs farm laws with economic reforms of 1991||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman likened the introduction of farm laws and labour codes with the economic reforms of 1991, alluding to how adversities can bring out new opportunities. While crediting the then Congress government for opening up the economy, she reminded how the balance of payments crisis had necessitated the “big step forward” in 1991, to underscore how Prime Minister Modi in 2020 is bringing in new reforms when the world is reeling under the pandemic. “The PM never let go of an opportunity. Even now during the pandemic, when industry is trying what best to do to reset themselves in the changed environment, he didn’t miss out the opportunity to do the big reform of the agri sector and introduction of labour code,” Sitharaman said while addressing the annual session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce. Speaking on a web platform from New Delhi, the finance minister admitted that no amount of intervention would be enough to mitigate the hardships faced by the people and the industry during the pandemic even as she outlined the steps taken by her government in providing incentives to industries. “Capital expenditure from public sector undertakings, especially for infrastructure, will be kept up,” she assured the members of the ICC, now headed by Keventer chairman Mayank Jalan. In his opening remarks, RP-SG chairman Sanjiv Goenka suggested the government should extend the deadline for completing new projects beyond March 2023 by 6-9 months to enable them to avail the tax rate of 15 per cent . He also suggested surplus land with PSUs should be made available for setting up new industries. She also assured that the Centre will continue with public expenditure with greater pace in the next fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Tata Motors to buy out partner stake in Tata Marcopolo Motors||Tata Motors is buying out its partner’s stake in bus joint venture Tata Marcopolo Motors (TMML) for around Rs 100 crore. “After a successful venture in India and as a consequence of its refreshed business strategy, Marcopolo S.A. has decided to exit the JV and offered to sell its 49 per cent shareholding in the JV to the company,” Tata Motors said in a communication to the bourses on Thursday. Consequently, the homegrown auto company and Marcopolo SA have entered into a share purchase agreement where the Tatas will purchase the balance 49 per cent shareholding in TMML for a cash consideration of Rs 99.96 crore, it added. The joint venture had posted a net profit of almost Rs 21 crore on a turnover of Rs 651 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020. The transaction will see Tata Motors purchasing 8.33 crore shares for a consideration of Rs 12 per share aggregating to Rs 99.96 crore. The acquisition is expected to be completed by February 28 next year. After this transaction, TMML will become the wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Motors. Further, all technologies pertaining to existing bus body products manufactured will continue to vest with TMML. Tata Marcopolo Motors is a 51:49 JV formed in 2006 between Tata Motors and Marcopolo S.A., one of the largest bus and coach manufacturers globally. The company said since its incorporation, the JV has introduced several innovative design and concepts helping redefine the premium bus body segment in India. The JV has manufacturing facilities in Dharwad and Lucknow where it builds bus bodies on chassis supplied Tata Motors. These buses are marketed by the company under the “Starbus” and “Starbus Ultra” brands. Tata Motors said that as part of the transition, Marcopolo S.A. will continue to license the “Marcopolo” trademarks to TMML for a minimum of three years with a non-compete provision. The company, Marcopolo S.A. and TMML, intend to maintain an open channel for future collaboration opportunities around bus body designs and technical consulting services, Tata Motors said. Shares of Tata Motors on Thursday ended lower 0.47 per cent at Rs 181.65 in the BSE, resulting in a market cap of over Rs 51,000 crore. Since its 52 week low of Rs 63.60 hit on March, the shares have risen almost 186 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||Sebi suggestes relaxations in norms to encourage listing of start-ups||Markets regulator Sebi on Thursday said it has suggested relaxations in norms to encourage listing of start-ups, including reducing the holding period for pre-issue capital and allowing discretionary allotment to all eligible investors. The changes have been proposed to the framework for listing on Innovators Growth Platform, Sebi said. Other proposals include providing differential voting rights (DVR) to promoters, retaining superior voting rights (SR) for existing institutional investors holding over 10 per cent of capital, and easing delisting requirements as well as takeover norms. The market regulator has issued a consultation paper in this regard and sought suggestions from the public till January 11. Sebi has suggested reducing the period of holding of 25 per cent of pre-issue capital of the issuer company by eligible investors to one year from the current norm of two years. On the lines of provisions for listing of companies on the main board, Sebi has proposed that “up to 60 per cent portion of the issue size may be allocated on a discretionary basis, prior to issue opening, to all eligible investors... provided there will be a lock in of 30 days on such shares.” Issuer companies seeking listing under IGP should be allowed to issue DVR and SR equity shares to promoters and founders, Sebi suggested. The market regulator also proposed that there should be continuation of special rights such as board seat and veto or affirmative voting rights for existing institutional investors holding in excess of 10 per cent of capital. Another proposal is to exempt Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) Category II investors from post issue lock-in requirement of six months, subject to certain conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
18-12-2020||Business||SC reserves verdict on loan moratorium petitions ||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its verdict on a batch of petitions seeking extension of moratorium which ended on August 31 till March 31, 2021 and waiver of interests during the moratorium period. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah, which heard the arguments over several days, have concluded the  hearings and will pronounce the verdict in the next few days. On Thursday, senior advocate Ravindra Srivastava, appearing for some of the business houses, said: “The government and the RBI have come up with measures for small borrowers (for loans up to 2 crores) on which I made submissions regarding discrimination. They have shown nothing on record to prove why this was done.” He said 26 sectors were severely impacted yet the government has not done anything substantial for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
18-12-2020||Business||Supreme Court reserves verdict on Cyrus Mistry ||The Supreme Court on Thursday concluded the seven-day marathon hearing of rival arguments on the  appeal filed by Tata Sons challenging the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal’s (NCLAT) order of December 18, 2019, directing the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the company. The NCLAT order was subsequently stayed by the Supreme Court in January this year. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian after hearing the concluding arguments reserved its verdict which is expected to be pronounced after January 2, 2021. Resuming his Wednesday’s arguments, senior advocate Shyam Divan appearing for the SP (Shapoorji Pallonji) group told the court that Cyrus Mistry’s removal in 2016 was illegal and even Farida Kambhata refused to vote in favor of ouster of Mistry, while another board member abstained himself from voting in favour of Mistry’s departure. Divan said three directors who voted for Mistry’s ouster were yet to even undergo an induction programme. “There was a complete pervasive violation of Articles of Association, Companies Act and principles of corporate governance went for a toss. Duty and  good faith of directors should be towards all shareholders, not a few,” he remarked. Justice Bobde asked: “Did Mistry knew he would be removed ?” to which Divan responded saying “No, it was complete ambush.” Divan said  Mistry’s performance was recognised by over 50 directors of Tata Group companies yet he was removed as executive chairman abruptly. Mistry had succeeded Ratan Tata as chairman of Tata Sons in 2012 but was ousted four years later. The top court on May 29 had issued notices to Tata Sons and others on a cross-appeal filed by Cyrus Investments Pvt Ltd. Tata Sons had earlier told thetop court that it was not a “two-group company” and there was no “quasi-partnership” between it and Cyrus Investments Pvt Ltd. Tata Sons had made the averments in an affidavit filed in the apex court while responding to the cross-appeal filed by Cyrus Investments seeking the removal of alleged anomalies in the NCLAT order for getting representation on the TSPL’s board in proportion to the stakes held by his family. Mistry had also filed an affidavit to the apex court saying  Tata Group had an adjusted net loss of Rs 13,000 crore in 2019 — the worst losses in three decades. In his reply to the Tatas' petition challenging his reinstatement by the NCLAT last December, Mistry had also demanded that group chairman emeritus Ratan Tata should reimburse all the expenses to Tata Sons since his departure in December 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
18-12-2020||Business||RBI to step off the pedal on aggressive dollar purchases||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is expected to step off the pedal on aggressive dollar purchases after the US Treasury Department put the country on a currency manipulator watchlist along with nine other nations. Analysts said the RBI was already stuffed with sufficient forex reserves to cover one year of import giving it the leeway to follow a hands-off policy in the currency market. On Wednesday, the US had put India in its monitoring list of currency manipulating countries. Its report said that India met two of the three criteria of having a material current account surplus and engaging in persistent, one-sided intervention over the reporting period. There is no official word yet from the RBI to the sharp observations by the US which clubbed India with Vietnam, Switzerland and Singapore for "intervening in the foreign exchange market in a sustained, asymmetric manner”. The RBI has often maintained that it does not target a particular level of the rupee and that its intervention in the markets is to only curb undue volatility in the exchange rate. It remains to be seen how the Indian government responds and deals with the Biden administration to get its name off the list. In his statement after the MPC meeting ended on December 4, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the apex bank has been taking measures for dampening volatility and enabling orderly evolution of the exchange rate in consonance with underlying domestic fundamentals. “Mindful of the consequences of these actions for domestic liquidity and inflation, the injections of liquidity through forex interventions are being sterilised by absorptions through the reverse repo,” he added. Its intervention came as India has seen a deluge of dollars from portfolio inflows and other sources. For instance, Reliance Industries has alone raised more than $25 billion in its digital services and organised retail business from various investors. On the other hand, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have ploughed Rs 1.54 lakh crore into equities so far during this calendar year. The Treasury report also comes at a time the American dollar is forecast to remain weak as investors turn their attention to riskier assets from amid countries starting to administer the coronavirus vaccine, the global economy recovering and expectations of a stimulus in the US. The currency is near two-year lows and the dollar index which measures the greenback against a basket of currencies also fell below 90 to 89.94 for the first time since April 2018. The US index is calculated as a geometrical average based on its six constituent currencies: the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona and Swiss franc. It is a geometric average, rather than an arithmetical average, because each currency is multiplied by its respective percentage weight. However, it did not have much impact on the rupee in Thursday’s trade. The currency ended just one paisa lower at 73.59 against the greenback amid a firm trend in the domestic equity markets. At the inter-bank forex market, the local unit opened at 73.52 against the dollar and witnessed an intra-day high of 73.39 and a low of 73.59. It finally ended at 73.59 against the American currency, registering a fall of one paisa over its previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
18-12-2020||Business||Investors make beeline for Bectors' share sale||The initial public offering (IPO) of Mrs Bectors Food Specialities on Thursday became the most sought after issue in three years as investors made a beeline for the share sale. The IPO was subscribed 198 times as it received bids for 2,62,10,42,200 shares against 1,32,36,211 shares on offer, according to data available with the NSE. At the lower end of the price band, the value of these bids comes to around Rs 75,000 crore. The price band for the share sale was set at Rs 286-288 per share and the offer comprises a fresh issue of Rs 40.54 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to Rs 500 crore. On its last day of subscription, the offering saw bids from high net worth individuals coming in at over 652 times, while it was 178 times in the case of qualified institutional buyers and over 29.50 times from retail investors. Its investor interest also beat that of Burger King which was subscribed more than 156 times. The company is present in the premium and mid-premium biscuits segment and the premium bakery segment. It manufactures and markets a range of biscuits such as cookies, creams, crackers, digestives and glucose under its flagship brand “Mrs. Bector’s Cremica”. It also makes bakery products that include breads, buns, pizza bases and cakes under its brand “English Oven”. Shares of Jubilant Foodworks jumped to a record high after the operator of Domino’s Pizza and Dunkin’ Donuts announced its foray into the biryani business, betting on the popularity of the rice-based dish among Indian diners. The food service company will sell biryani under the brand Ekdum!, with prices starting from Rs 99, it said in a filing to the stock exchanges on Wednesday. On the BSE, the share hit a new 52-week high of Rs 2927.50, a rise of 9.43 per cent over its previous close. Though the counter gave up some of its gains, it closed at Rs 2,803.75, which was around Rs 128.55 or 4.81 per cent higher over the previous close. It now has a market share of over Rs 37,000 crore. Meanwhile, shares of Burger King witnessed a two-sided movement as it surged another 10 per cent on Thursday to an intra-day high of Rs 219.15. However, profit taking came in and the share settled at 179.35, a fall of almost 10 per cent. Jubliant Foodworks said in order to drive convenience and ease of ordering, Ekdum! will offer an easy-to-use app, mobile and desktop website. It will initially start with three restaurants in Gurgaon for delivery, takeaway and dine-in, with more restaurants planned to be opened in the national capital region over the next few months. “We are confident that Ekdum!, with its sharp and differentiated proposition will create a strong position for itself in the market,” chairman Shyam S. Bhartia said while speaking at the launch of the new brand. Jubilant Foodworks has a network of 1,264 Domino’s Pizza restaurants across 281 cities and also has the exclusive rights to develop and operate Domino’s Pizza brand in India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. The company also has exclusive rights for developing and operating Dunkin’ Donuts restaurants in India and has 26 Dunkin’ Donuts restaurants across 8 cities in the country. Shares of Burger King, which have been sizzling in the bourses since its listing, witnessed a two-sided movement as it surged another 10 per cent on Thursday to an intra-day high of Rs 219.15. However, profit taking came in and the share settled at 179.35, a fall of almost 10 per cent over the previous close. There was also good news in the IPO segment with investors making a beeline for the share sale of Mrs Bectors Food Specialities. The initial public offer (IPO) was subscribed198 times so far on the last day of subscription on Thursday. On Tuesday, the issue was oversubscribed within a few hours of opening. This is the second IPO after Burger King to have received such a good response. It received bids for 2,62,10,42,200 shares against 1,32,36,211 shares on offer, as per data available with the NSE. The offer comprises a fresh issue of Rs 40.54 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to Rs 500 crore. The price band for the share sale has been fixed at Rs 286-288 per share. Brokerages like Angel Broking had asked investors to subscribe to the issue. “`We believe that there is a good possibility of listing gains given the lower valuations compared with other listed peers. Further, considering attractive valuation and strong future growth prospects in packaged biscuits we recommend a ‘subscribe’ rating to this IPO for the long term,” its analysts had said in a report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-199
