19-12-2020||Business||Karnataka violence: Wistron fires India boss, Apple places firm on probation||Just a week after violence blew up at  its Narasapura facility in Karnataka, contract manufacturer Wistron on Saturday announced it has let go of its vice-president responsible for operations in India, while iPhone maker Apple placed the Taiwanese firm on probation. Wistron had admitted that it had made mistakes pertaining to the wage payment processes. A section of workers at Wistron Corporation's facility in Narasapura Industrial Area in Kolar district near Bengaluru went on rampage last week over non-payment of their wages. “We are removing the Vice President who oversees our business in India. We are also enhancing our processes and restructuring our teams to ensure these issues cannot happen again,” Wistron said in a statement. Sources say that the fired employee was Vincent Lee, though the company did not reveal any names. Wistron acknowledged that during its investigation, it found out that “found that some workers were not paid correctly, or on time”. “We deeply regret this and apologise to all of our workers. This is a new facility and we recognise that we made mistakes as we expanded,” it said. Wistron said that some of the mechanisms related to payment of wages needed to be strengthened and added it is taking “immediate action to correct this, including disciplinary action”. The firm has increased its headcount from 2,000 in the middle of this year to around 9,000 recently. “Our top priority is to ensure all workers are fully compensated immediately and we are working hard to achieve that,” it said. The company said it has established an employee assistance programme for workers at the facility, and has set up a 24-hour grievance hotline in Kannada, Telugu, Tamil, Hindi and English to ensure all workers can voice any concerns they may have, anonymously. Apple, in a separate statement, said it has placed Wistron on probation and that the contract manufacturer will not receive any new business from the US-based company before corrective actions are completed. Apple is also undertaking a detailed investigation in this matter. “We have placed Wistron on probation and they will not receive any new business from Apple before they complete corrective actions. Apple employees, along with independent auditors, will monitor their progress. Our main objective is to make sure all the workers are treated with dignity and respect, and fully compensated promptly,” it said. Over 160 people have been arrested by the police in connection with the violence during which stones were hurled, windows and doors were broken and vehicles in the parking lot were overturned and set on fire. Video footage of the attack had flooded the social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Worry over growth led to easy money policy||Members of the Reserve Bank of India’s interest rate setting body grappled with patchy growth and stubborn inflation but decided to persist with their accommodative stance as it could derail the nascent recovery and growth, minutes of their meeting held earlier this month showed. At the three-day meeting, members of the RBI’s monetary policy committee (MPC) also flagged risks arising from low short-term money market rates even as one member justified the aggressive intervention from the central bank in the forex markets that has been blamed for the US Treasury Department putting India in the monitoring list of currency manipulators. At the meet, members pointed out that though there has been recovery, it has been uneven. They were equally worried about the adverse effects of inflation on growth. Deputy governor Michael Patra said the stress given by MPC to growth relative to inflation since the outbreak of Covid-19 appears to be yielding dividends and the contraction in the economy was less. With inflation remaining elevated, he cautioned that the window available to the MPC to look through inflation pressures is narrower than before. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das felt that though more sectors are showing an upturn, the improvement is not steady and continuous. “Overall, the persistence of inflation at elevated levels constrains monetary policy at the current juncture…though recovery is underway, there is still continuous need to nurture and support growth to make it broad based and durable. A premature roll back of the monetary and liquidity policies of RBI would be detrimental to the nascent recovery and growth.” Ashima Goyal supported RBI’s intervention in the forex market as over-valued rupee can hurt exports,  raise country risk and lead to a sharp depreciation later. “Prolonged inflows can lead to over-valuation without intervention. Surges and sudden stops of capital flows to emerging markets due to advanced economy quantitative easing have hurt emerging market growth in the decade after the global financial crisis,” she said.. Jayanth R. Varma raised  the issue of very low short- term money market rates because of  plentiful liquidity. Ahead of the policy, there were expectations that the RBI would take some steps to restore these rates that were below the policy corridor. Efforts should be to soften the long-term rates rather than the short-term rates, he said. He pointed out that his reduction of rates carries significant risks and very little rewards. ``The rewards are low because long rates are what are relevant for stimulating investments and supporting an economic recovery; a steepening of the yield curve by a reduction in short rates does not accomplish this. Also, a reduction in long rates that stimulates investment not only increases demand in the short run, but it also stimulates supply in the medium term as the new capacity becomes operational, and this new supply dampens inflationary pressures’’, he noted. But, on the other hand, demand that is stimulated by a reduction in short rates is not accompanied by an offsetting supply boost, and it carries greater inflationary risks. He went on to add that in such circumstances, there will be cases of rising profits and profit margins, improving capacity utilization and lack of new capacity additions which will create ripe conditions for the `oligopolistic core’ to start exercising pricing power. Varma pointed out that these are also the enterprises that are benefiting from borrowing at rates below the policy corridor through commercial paper issuance. However, Ashima Goyal had a different view. She pointed out that as long as MPC stance is accommodative, durable liquidity will be in surplus and short-term rates will be below the reverse repo rate. She added that the rates have fallen below the reverse repo because of the combination of excess foreign inflows, intervention and reverse repo access limited only to banks. Ashima Goyal supported RBI’s intervention in the forex market as over-valued rupee can hurt exports,  raise country risk and lead to a sharp depreciation later. “Prolonged inflows can lead to over-valuation without intervention. Surges and sudden stops of capital flows to emerging markets due to advanced economy quantitative easing have hurt emerging market growth in the decade after the global financial crisis,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Life Insurance Corporation stake in Exide up to 5.5%||Life Insurance Corporation of India has upped its stake in city-based automotive and industrial battery maker Exide Industries. In a stock exchange filing on Friday, Exide said that LIC’s stake in the company has increased to 5.519 per cent from 3.480 per cent, making itself a prominent public shareholder in the company. With Exide’s performance closely linked to the automotive sector, LIC stands to benefit from the gradually improving demand. Passenger vehicles and two-wheeler sales have seen a consistent recovery since August after a slump in the early months of the fiscal amid economic slowdown and Covid pandemic. Industry body Siam estimated a 4.65 per cent growth in passenger vehicles and a 13.43 per cent rise in two-wheelers in November 2020 compared with the year-ago period. The regulatory disclosure of Exide said the shares were acquired by LIC through market purchase between June 8, 2017 and December 17, 2020. LIC identifies itself as a long-term investor and has been tweaking its portfolio amid a volatile equity market. Observers said ahead of the proposed public listing, the focus has been towards investing in more mid- and large-cap companies and moving away from low market capitalisation companies. LIC said it has taken opportunities in a volatile market, investing more than Rs 2,60,000 crore this year in debt and equity as on September 30, 2020, compared with Rs 2,44,931 crore in the corresponding year-ago period. The insurer has also booked more than Rs 15,000 crore as profit in the capital market in the first half of the fiscal. Besides LIC, New India Assurance, HDFC Life Insurance, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance are the other insurance companies who have invested in Exide. Mutual funds put together held 14.59 per cent in the company as of September 2020. Exide has been growing its topline despite the subdued demand and Covid-induced business disruptions. The company has posted a 5 per cent growth in revenue during the second quarter, supported by demand for replacement batteries for automobiles and UPS segment. The insurance business revenue has also increased  9 per cent and Exide Life Insurance remained profitable during the quarter. Brokerages are positive on the scrip with expectations of EBITDA margin sustaining at around 14 per cent level in the second half of the ongoing fiscal. Emkay Global in a report on the financials of the company has said Exide has taken a price rise to partially pass through the cost of higher lead prices. “Although the shift towards electric vehicles remains a structural risk for the company, EV penetration could be gradual in our view,” the report said. Exide has already included lithium ion automotive batteries in its portfolio with the company forming a joint venture with European energy storage solution provider Leclanché. Moreover, Exide last month announced additional investment aggregating Rs 33.17 crore in the joint venture to increase the stake to 80.15 per cent  from 77.87 per cent. Also, with stringent vehicle emission norms, the company expects manufacturers to shift to a microhybrid engine architecture translating into demand for sophisticated car batteries, a revenue positive move, according to market observers. Exide has collaborated with Moura Batteries of Brazil to develop batteries for BS VI compliant vehicles. The insurer has also identified itself as a contrarian investor focussed on national priorities and obligation towards reasonable returns for its stakeholders and policyholders as the main criteria of investment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Reliance Industries starts gas drill in R-Cluster||Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) and BP on Friday announced the start of production from the R-Cluster, the ultra-deep-water gas field in the KG-D6 block off the east coast of India. RIL and BP are developing three deepwater gas projects in KG-D6 — R Cluster, Satellites Cluster and MJ — which together are expected to meet around 15 per cent of India’s gas demand by 2023. These projects will use the existing hub infrastructure in the KG-D6 block. RIL is the operator of KG- D6 with a 66.67 per cent participating interest and BP holds a 33.33 per cent participating interest. R-Cluster is the first of the three projects to come onstream. The field is located about 60 kilometres from the existing KG-D6 Control & Riser Platform (CRP) off the Kakinada coast and comprises a subsea production system tied back to CRP via a subsea pipeline. Located at a water depth of greater than 2,000 metres, it is the deepest offshore gas field in Asia. The field is expected to reach plateau gas production of about 12.9 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) in 2021. RIL had originally put the recoverable reserves in the R-series cluster at 1.413 trillion cubic feet that could produce a peak output of 14.9 mscmd. However, the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) trimmed the recoverable reserves after studying the data submitted by the operator to 1.191 tcf and peak output to 12.9 mscmd. Production from older fields in the KG-D6 block was stopped in February this year. Operations at R-Cluster were expected to start earlier this year but were delayed owing to the pandemic. Analysts said that the commencement of production from the R-Cluster will improve earnings from its exploration & production (E&P) business in the next two years. Though the development is positive, they  added that the Reliance-BP duo is now not giving an ambitious forecast. The company did not have an exhilarating experience particularly in the D1/D3 field, in the KG-D6 block that was India’s first deepwater gas field to be put on production in April 2009. Its output, peaked at over 61 mscmd in 2010 and after that it has been on a decline as sand and water ingress forced wells to shut down one after the other. In February this year, Reliance had said that the D1/D3 gas field, had ceased production. During the second quarter ended September 30, revenues from RIL’s E&P business declined to Rs 355 crore from Rs 506 crore on a sequential basis. This was largely due to lower price realisation and decline in production. “This is a significant milestone in India’s energy landscape, for a cleaner and greener gas-based economy. Through our deep-water infrastructure in the Krishna Godavari basin, we expect to produce gas and meet the growing clean energy requirements of the nation,” RIL chairman and MD Mukesh Ambani said. BP chief executive Bernard Looney said the project will help meet India’s rapidly expanding energy needs. “Growing India’s own production of cleaner-burning gas to meet a significant portion of its energy demand, these three new KG D6 projects will support the country’s drive to shape and improve its future energy mix,” said Looney. The next project, the Satellites Cluster, is expected to come onstream in 2021, followed by the MJ project in 2022. Peak gas production from the three fields is expected to be around 30 mmscmd (1 bcf/d) by 2023, which is expected to be about 25 per cent of India’s domestic production. It will help reduce the country’s dependence on imported gas. Reliance and its partner BP Plc of the UK had in June 2017 announced an investment of Rs 40,000 crore in the three sets of discoveries to reverse the flagging production in KG-D6 block. Reliance has so far made 19 gas discoveries in the KG-D6 block. Of these, D-1 and D-3 were brought into production in April 2009 and MA, the only oilfield in the block, in September 2008. Besides MJ-1, the company plans to develop four deepsea satellite gas discoveries -- D-2, 6, 19 and 22 -- together with D29 and D30 finds on the block. The third set is the D-34 or R-Series find. These finds are expected to bring a total 30-35 million cubic metres (1 billion cubic feet) of gas a day on stream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Sensex races past 47000-mark ||The Sensex on Friday raced past the 47000-mark for the first time but retreated  from this milestone because of profit taking. Analysts said stocks could continue their winning run but with reduced speed as portfolio flows are showing some moderation because of the holidays. The benchmark index, however, rebounded during fag-end trading to finish at a record 46960.69, up 70.35 points, or 0.15 per cent. It has taken the Sensex only seven sessions to rise 1000 points. These gains have come primarily on account of persistent FPI inflows as global liquidity remains abundant with central banks following a loose monetary policy and investors now preferring riskier assets. Moreover, the sentiment has been buoyant over the arrival of the Covid-19 vaccine and expectations of a sharp global economic recovery. Stock prices have, therefore, ignored the current state of the economy. Moreover, the better-than-expected corporate earnings for the second quarter have only strengthened expectations of recovery gathering steam in the next few months. Amid these conditions, experts feel that the current bull run will continue, though there could be intermittent consolidation. Here, the focus of attention is whether the FPI will continue with their robust investments. So far during this calendar year, they have put in more than $21 billion into stocks with the highest number coming in last month. It is, however, felt that inflows could show some moderation in the next few days and pick up next year. “FII flows though strong have moderated some bit from the previous week. The average daily FII flows in the first four days of the week was Rs 3,200 crore. Going forward, we expect FII flows to slow down in the next two weeks as we head towards Christmas vacation. “Markets could turn volatile next week because of the monthly expiry and lesser participation from FIIs. We expect Nifty-50 to consolidate between 13000 and 14000 levels till the end of this month,” Rusmik Oza, executive vice-president, head of fundamental research at Kotak Securities, said. In Friday’s trade, the Sensex opened above the 47000-mark at 47026.02 — a new lifetime intra-day high. This was on optimism of a US stimulus package. However, profit booking in financial stocks saw the gauge touching a low of 46630.31. It later rose to finish at a record 46960.69, up 70.35 points or 0.15 per cent. The broader NSE Nifty rose 19.85 points or 0.14 per cent to 13760.55 -- its new closing record. IT stocks were in focus as better-than-expected results from Accenture Plc enthused investors. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping 2.64 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, SBI, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech and Titan, Asian Paints and TCS. But IndusInd Bank, ONGC, HDFC Bank, Maruti, Bajaj Finserv and Bharti Airtel were among the main losers, falling up to 3.30 per cent. During the week, the Sensex has rallied 861.68 points or 1.86 per cent, while the Nifty surged 246.70 points or 1.82 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Builders see price fixing in cement, steel ||Real estate industry body Credai has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking the government’s immediate intervention to regulate the rates of cement and steel as it alleged that the prices have increased sharply because of “cartelisation” by manufacturers of these two major construction raw materials. Credai said the abrupt increase in prices is “highly unethical and amounts to unfair and restrictive trade practices” and is “a classic case of cartelisation by cement and steel manufacturers”. The association said cement prices have increased more than 23 per cent and steel prices have increased more than 45 per cent since the beginning of this year. In January 2020, cement price was around Rs 349 per 50-kilogram bag, which has now increased to Rs 420–430 per bag in December 2020. At the beginning of this year, the per tonne rate of steel was at Rs 40,000 and has now rocketed to Rs 58,000 in December 2020, it said . Credai has written to the PM and all concerned ministries, urging them to “take note of cartelisation by cement and steel manufacturers”. The association, which has more than 20,000 members, requested the government for an immediate intervention in regulating the prices of construction raw materials. Credai said real estate was one of the worst-hit sectors because of the Covid-19 pandemic. With a continuous and sudden upsurge due to cartelisation in the prices of steel, cement and other raw materials, real estate developers are experiencing an inevitable increase in construction cost and are faced with situation that will create a delay in delivery, stalling of projects in some cases, thereby impacting the homebuyers at large, the statement said. “The real estate sector has been working on wafer thin margins and is battling unsold inventory on one hand and unfinished projects due to lack of funds on the other. With a stagnant demand, developers have not increased the prices and are selling projects at affordable rates,” said Credai chairman Jaxay Shah. Stating that there is an urgent need to control the spiralling prices of some  raw materials, Shah urged the government to take necessary steps at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||Air travel picks up in November||Domestic air passenger travel is showing signs of picking up with the passing of each month. On a month-on- month basis, it showed an improvement with 39.43 lakh and 52.71 lakh people opting for air travel in the country in September and October, respectively. However, year-on-year, the numbers are still lower — 51 per cent down at 63.54 lakh passengers in November compared with the corresponding period last year, the aviation regulator said on Friday. While IndiGo carried 34.23 lakh passengers in November, a 53.9 per cent share of the total domestic market, SpiceJet flew 8.4 lakh passengers, which is a 13.2 per cent share of the market, according to data shared by the DGCA. Air India, GoAir, AirAsia India and Vistara carried 6.56 lakh, 5.77 lakh, 4.21 lakh and 3.97 lakh passengers, respectively in November. The occupancy rate or load factor of the six major Indian airlines was between 66.3 per cent and 77.7 per cent in November. “The passenger load factor in November 2020 has shown some recovery because of increased demand after the lockdown was lifted and the onset of the festive season,” the directorate-general of civil aviation (DGCA) said. The occupancy rate at SpiceJet was 77.7 per cent in November. For IndiGo, Vistara, GoAir, Air India and AirAsia India, the rate was 74 per cent, 70.8 per cent, 70.8 per cent, 69.6 per cent and 66.3 per cent, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
19-12-2020||Business||MG Motor India and Renault hike prices||MG Motor India and Renault on Friday joined Maruti Suzuki, Mahindra and Mahindra, Ford India and Hero MotoCorp in announcing price hikes of their vehicles from January 2021. In a statement, MG Motor said it would undertake a price revision across its product range in view of “miscellaneous cost increase”. The price hike for MG Motor India will range up to 3 per cent depending on the model and will be applicable from January 1, 2021. At present, MG retails three models in India – the MG Hector, the ZS EV and the Gloster. Renault India said it will increase prices of its entire model range by up to Rs 28,000 from next month. The company, which sells models like the Kwid, Duster and Triber, said the price hike from January would vary across variants and products. “The price increase is a result of the steadily increasing input costs across the spectrum, including input costs for steel, aluminium, plastics and other affiliated cost increases during the pandemic,” Renault India said in a statement. When asked what impact the price revision will have on demand, an industry insider said: “With festive season over and the so-called pent-up demand taken care of, it remains to be seen if the recovery seen during the festive season will continue next year. Unless there are stimulants that the industry needs badly, I do not see the market reacting positively to such price rises.” MG Motor India also announced that it will introduce the much-awaited MG Hector Plus 7-seater version in January 2021. Currently, the Hector is available as a five-seater while the Hector Plus is a six-seater with captain seats MG currently retails three models in India – the MG Hector, the ZS EV and the Gloster. The MG Hector is available in both petrol and diesel options along with the option of a first-in-class 48V Hybrid variant. The petrol version also comes with a DCT (dual-clutch transmission).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
19-12-2020||Business||Coca-Cola to lay off 2,200 workers||The Coca-Cola Company has said that it was laying off 2,200 workers, or 17 per cent of its global workforce, as part of a larger restructuring aimed at paring down its business units and brands. The Atlanta-based company said on Thursday that around half of the layoffs will occur in the US, where Coke employs around 10,400 people. Coke employed 86,200 people worldwide at the end of 2019. The coronavirus pandemic has hammered Coke’s business, as sales at places like stadiums and movie theaters dried up due to lockdowns. Its revenue fell 9 per cent to $8.7 billion in the July-September period. The downturn forced the company to accelerate a restructuring that was already underway. “We’ve been challenging legacy ways of doing business and the pandemic helped us realise we could be bolder in our efforts,” Coke chairman and CEO James Quincey said during an earnings call in October. Coke is reducing its brands by half to 200. It shed multiple slow-selling brands this year, including Tab, Zico coconut water, Diet Coke Fiesty Cherry and Odwalla juices. The company said it will use the savings to invest in growing brands such as Minute Maid and Simply juices and fund the launch of new products like Topo Chico Hard Seltzer, Coca-Cola Energy and Aha sparkling water. Coke is also reducing its business segments from 17 to nine. It said the severance programmes will cost between $350 million to $550 million. In August, it offered voluntary-separation packages to about 4,000 employees in the US and Canada. The company didn’t say how many people participated. Coke’s North America business unit will be reorganised to look more like other units around the world. Until now in North America, the company’s fountain-machine business, bottle-and-can business and Minute Maid operations each had their own teams for marketing, communicating with retailers and coordinating with bottlers. Those teams will be consolidated, the company said. The layoffs won’t impact Coke’s bottlers, which are largely independent. Including bottlers, the company employs more than 700,000 people worldwide. Beverage rivals PepsiCo Inc and Keurig Dr Pepper Inc haven’t announced mass layoffs this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-198
