20-12-2020||Business||Financial services group Centrum in PMC race||Centrum, the Mumbai-based financial services group, has thrown its hat into the ring to acquire troubled-lender Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank. On Friday, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced that PMC Bank has received four investment proposals to take over management control, revive the bank and commence regular operations. This was confirmed by a spokesperson of the Centrum group to The Telegraph. “PMC Bank made an open invitation for a potential investment in the bank. Centrum group has submitted an expression of interest (EoI) for the same,” the spokesperson disclosed. The identity of the three other suitors could not be ascertained. Centrum group is led by seasoned banker Jaspal Bindra, who was earlier the Asia-Pacific head of Standard Chartered Bank. The group, which started its operations as a money changer in 1997, has subsequently diversified into merchant banking, project finance, institutional brokerage and wealth management. It has also ventured into housing finance, SME and MSME finance and microfinance. In September 2019, the RBI had imposed restrictions on the multi-state urban cooperative bank, including on withdrawals by customers. Last month, PMC Bank had invited expressions of interest (EoI) from potential investors for investment or equity participation for its reconstruction. PMC Bank had said eligible investors could be financial institutions, including banks and NBFCs  and individuals or group of individuals, companies, societies, trusts or any other entities having adequate net worth. It further pointed out that the investor should ideally bring in the capital required for enabling the bank to achieve the minimum required capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) of 9 per cent. However, the investors could also look at the option of restructuring a part of deposit liabilities into capital or capital instruments. PMC Bank had further said that subsequent to commencement of the normal day-to-day operations, it will be open for the investor to convert the bank into a small finance bank by making an application to the RBI. This, however, will be subject to compliance of the RBI guidelines on voluntary transition of urban co-operative banks (UCBs) into SFBs issued in 2018. Moreover, according to the RBI guidelines for “on tap” licensing of small finance banks in the private sector, an SFB is eligible for transition into a universal bank after a minimum period of five years, subject to meeting the prescribed eligibility conditions. Initially, the RBI had allowed depositors to withdraw Rs 1,000 which was later raised to Rs 1 lakh per account to mitigate their difficulties. In June this year, the RBI had extended the regulatory restrictions on the cooperative bank by another six months till December 22, 2020. This has now been extended till March 31, 2021. “The bank has informed Reserve Bank that in response to the EoI, four proposals have been received. These proposals will be examined by the bank with regard to their viability and feasibility, taking into account the best interest of the depositors. To undertake this process, the bank would need some more time,” the RBI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
20-12-2020||Business||Wistron on notice over wage lapses||Apple has placed Wistron Corp, the Taiwanese contract manufacturer of its smartphones, on probation after detecting lapses in payments to employees at its facility near here. The phone-maker said in a statement on Saturday that Wistron would not receive any business until corrective steps were taken. The action came a week after hundreds of workers went on the rampage and vandalised the factory located at the Narsapura industrial area in Kolar district, some 75km from Bangalore on December 12. They had accused the company of arbitrary deductions in salaries even after introducing 12-hour work shifts in place of three eight-hour shifts. “Apple employees, along with independent auditors, will monitor their progress. Our main objective is to make sure all the workers are treated with dignity and respect, and fully compensated promptly,” said the company. It admitted violations at the Wistron facility. “While these investigations are ongoing, our preliminary findings indicate violations of our supplier code of conduct by failing to implement proper working hour management processes. This led to payment delays for some workers in October and November,” Apple said. In a separate statement, Wistron said it has sacked vice-president Vincent Lee, who oversees its India operations, and admitted lapses in proper payment to its employees. It added that the entire team was being restructured to ensure such issues do not recur. “Since the unfortunate events at our Narasapura facility we have been investigating and have found that some workers were not paid correctly, or on time. We deeply regret this and apologise to all of our workers,” the company stated admitting the lapses. “This is a new facility and we recognise that we made mistakes as we expanded. Some of the processes we put in place to manage labour agencies and payments need to be strengthened and upgraded,” the company said. The company has established a 24-hour grievance hotline in Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, English and Hindi for workers to voice their concerns anonymously. “We are deeply committed to our business and employees in India. We are working diligently on corrective actions to ensure this does not happen again,” it said. The action comes a day after the Karnataka government wrote to the union labour department citing some technical issues in recording attendance at Wistron’s Narsapura facility. The report noted that increasing working hours from eight to 12 hours and wages getting deducted due to the malfunctioning of the attendance system had led to the unrest. A government fact-finding team had reported that the Wistron facility had switched to 12-hour shifts from October 4 and manpower was increased from 5000 to 10,500 in a short period of time. The vandalism had come as a major embarrassment for the state government, especially because chief minister BS Yediyurappa had received director-general of Taipei Economic and Culture Centre Ben Wang and discussed investment plans a day before the incident. While Wistron had initially put the extent of damage at Rs437 crore, the company scaled it down to Rs41.25 crore in a letter to the local police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
20-12-2020||Business||Honda Cars India closes Noida unit||Honda Cars India Ltd has cited operational efficiency as the reason for shutting down its oldest plant in Greater Noida. Company sources said it is shifting all production to its newer Tapukara plant at Alwar, Rajasthan. The company, however, declined to comment. The Tapukara plant has an annual capacity of 1,80,000 units and makes the City, the Jazz, the W-RV and the Amaze. “The Noida facility will continue to operate as it accommodates the head office of HCIL, the research and development centre and the spare parts operations,” said a source in the company. The Greater Noida plant of HCIL used to manufacture its best selling sedan the City, the SUV CR-V and the Civic and had an annual capacity of 1,00,000 vehicles. “The Greater Noida plant manufactured lesser number of units than the Tapukara plant. Most of the workers have taken VRS while some have been transferred to Tapukara,” the source said. Faced with a pandemic situation, the Japanese company decided to stop production at its old plant, which has about 1000 employees. The Greater Noida plant was the Japanese carmaker's first manufacturing facility in India, which began operations in 1997. The initial capacity of the plant was 30,000 unit per year, which was later increased to 50,000 cars on a two-shift basis. By 2008, the company increased its manufacturing capacity to 100,000 units annually, which remained unchanged to date. Though the company has witnessed a 55 per cent growth in sales in November this year having sold 9,990 units as compared to 6459 units which were sold in the corresponding month last year. The Japanese carmaker witnessed this surge in sales specifically because of the festive season and lucrative deals. On the other hand, the company saw a Month-on-Month (MoM) decline of around 8 per cent, as compared to 10,836 units sold in the month of October 2020. When asked about its December sales, with the company offering year-end discounts, the source said: “We are witnessing good sales in December too. The sales trend has been good.” The company had resumed production in mid-June and slowly ramped up. By September, the company was on pre-Covid level production. However, the company has suffered reverses in sales in recent years having resisted the diesel route for a long time and then not being able to bring new products in time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
20-12-2020||Business||Take cues from global supply chain events: PM Modi||The country needs to react quickly to geo-political developments to grab the opportunities emerging from shifts in the global supply chain, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he highlighted the changed perception of India among global investors. “When we are moving in mission mode to make the local global, we have to quickly react to all geo-political developments. A robust mechanism is needed to fulfil any sudden spurt in demand for global supply chains,” Modi said at an event organised by industry association Assocham. “The need of the hour is better coordination among the external affairs ministry, the commerce and industry ministry and industry organisations. I appeal to you to suggest measures on how we can build a mechanism to quickly respond to global transformations,” he said without naming China. Modi said the Centre has changed the world perception about the country from “why India” to “why not India”. Highlighting the reforms spanning from the manufacturing sector to labour during the last six years, he said the country has emerged as the world’s preferred destination for investment. Record foreign direct investment (FDI) and foreign portfolio investment (FPI) during the pandemic is a testimony to the faith that the world now has in India, he said. The Prime Minister also praised the Tata group for its role in India’s development. “Tata Group has played an important role in India’s development,” Modi said after presenting the “Assocham Enterprise of the Century Award” to Ratan Tata, marking the contribution of the business group in the nation’s progress. Tata Group Chairman Emeritus Ratan Tata thanked Modi for leading the country from front during the difficult time of pandemic and hoped that the industry will now take forward the benefits of his strong leadership. Modi cited scrapping of 1,500 old and obsolete laws and farming new ones that in tune with the changing investment order as an example of his government’s outlook. “Earlier investors cited high tax rates to say Why India but today (corporate) tax rates are so competitive that they say ‘why not India’,” he said. Previously, a web of regulations and rules were cited by investors to ask why to invest in India but easing compliance burden in the new labour laws have made them say ‘why not India’, he said. Red tape previously made investors say Why India but a red carpet is now making them say ‘why not India’, he said. From a non-existent culture for innovation to a new ecosystem promoting and nurturing startups has given the world confidence to say ‘why not India’ “Earlier there was so much government interference that investors said ‘why India’ Today the faith reposed by the government in the private sector and encouragement of foreign investors have made the same people say ‘why not India’,” he said. He stated that new India is pushing towards AatmaNirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). During the April-September period, FDI inflows were at $40 billion, which has been higher than last year by about 13 per cent. In just eight months of the current financial year, net foreign portfolio investment (FPI) into equities jumped by Rs 1,40,295 crore, the highest-ever in any financial year. The Government’s main focus is on manufacturing and production linked incentives have been given to boost domestic capabilities and capacity, he said. The Prime Minister called on the industry to make all efforts to make India self-reliant. Modi asked the industry to adopt the best corporate governance and profit-sharing practices. He also said investment in research and development (R&D) must be increased and the private sector must scale up investments. “There is a great need to increase investment in R&D. In the US, 70 per cent of investments in R&D is done by the private sector, in India the same is done by the public sector. A big chunk of this is in the IT, pharma and transport sectors. Today the need is of increasing the private sector share of investment in R&D,” he said. More R&D funds should be set aside across sectors such as agriculture, defence, space, energy, and construction. He said Indian companies need to adopt the best practices of the world from corporate governance to profit sharing. “If we make our approach purpose-oriented along with the profit-centric approach, then more integration with the society will be possible," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-197
