21-12-2020||Business||Sensex plummets as new virus strain spooks global markets||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 1,407 points on Monday as panic over a new strain of coronavirus in the UK led to a massive selloff in global equities. The 30-share BSE index plunged 1,406.73 points or 3 per cent to close at 45,553.96. The broader NSE Nifty crashed 432.15 points or 3.14 per cent to 13,328.40. All Sensex components ended in the red, with ONGC leading the pack by tanking around 9 per cent. IndusInd Bank, M&M, SBI, NTPC, ITC, Axis Bank and PowerGrid shed up to 7 per cent. "Domestic equities witnessed sharp selling pressure on Monday and wiped out more than Rs 7 trillion of investors' wealth in a single day," said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. Concerns of new COVID-19 strain in the UK and emerging doubts over the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccination dented investors' sentiments globally, he said, adding that Indian market was among the worst performers as profit-booking also took place at higher levels. Notably, the volatility index witnessed a sharp jump of 25 per cent, indicating more volatility ahead, he asserted. Several European countries, including France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and Italy, have banned flights from the UK with the British government warning that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control". The UK has imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday in London and other regions. India too has suspended all flights from the UK between December 23-31. Stock exchanges in Paris, Frankfurt and London were trading up to 2.50 per lower in early deals. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red, while Shanghai and Seoul settled with mild gains. Global oil benchmark Brent crude futures plummeted 5.30 per cent to USD 49.49 per barrel. Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and HDFC were the biggest drags on Sensex. The four accounted for more than 500 points loss in the 30-scrip index. Analysts say the rally in the domestic markets was driven by liquidity which is why any negative news warranted a deep correction. "It is a bit too early to say anything, but there could be more of this healthy correction in the coming days. The markets are highly leveraged and lack of follow-up buying by foreign institutional investors ahead of Christmas holidays tripped the markets to fall off their own weight," AK Prabhakar, head of research at IDBI Capital Markets, told ndtv.com. "However, investors will always be waiting to buy in a bull market; so any major correction can only happen after the Budget," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
21-12-2020||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points on Monday, tracking weak cues from global markets amid concerns over a new strain of the virus leading to fresh restrictions in European countries. The 30-share BSE index pared the gains to trade 202.44 points or 0.43 per cent lower at 46,758.25. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 66.75 points or 0.49 per cent to 13,693.80. M&M was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, PowerGrid, Axis Bank, SBI, ONGC and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, L&T, Reliance Industries, Sun Pharma, Infosys and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex settled at a record 46,960.69, up 70.35 points or 0.15 per cent, while Nifty rose 19.85 points or 0.14 per cent to 13,760.55 -- its new closing high. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,720.95 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, a new and faster-transmitting strain of the virus in the UK is an area of concern. Acceleration in the number of cases in the US and poor economic data are other dampeners. A number of European countries have banned flights from the UK as the British government warned that the potent new strain of the virus was "out of control" and imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. However, the US Congress agreement on USD 900 billion of fiscal stimulus is likely to support markets. High valuation continues to be a concern in India. But the power of FII-driven liquidity is overshadowing all negative news, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was trading with gains. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 3.20 per cent lower at USD 50.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
21-12-2020||Business||Reliance Home Finance bids stir controversy||Six suitors, including Kotak Special Situations Fund (KSSF) and Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Limited (Arcil), have submitted bids for Reliance Home Finance, part of Anil Ambani-promoted Reliance Group. Only two bidders submitted compliant and binding bids while four bids are non-binding and not compliant with bid conditions, sources said. Lenders have decided to further extend the bidding timeline till January 31, 2021, in order to accommodate the four non-compliant bidders, sources added. The two compliant bidders have opposed the move by the lenders and have threatened to walk away from the alleged non-transparent process, they said. The two compliant and binding bids are from US-based Avenue and Arcil, an asset reconstruction company (ARC), as a joint bid and other from Authum Investment & Infrastructure Limited, a listed non-banking finance company (NBFC). Kotak Special Situations Fund (KSSF) and Asset Care and Reconstruction Enterprise Limited (ACRE) have submitted non-binding bids with several conditions, including exclusivity, and has also asked for additional time of two months to complete due diligence, even after the deadline which was extended multiple times, sources said. The other two ARCs namely, Invent and Alchemist, have also submitted conditional bids which are non-compliant with the bids condition and have not paid the mandatory bid bond of Rs 10 crore, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Bid to pare local coal levies||The coal ministry wants a cut in levies to bring domestic coal on a par with the imported varieties. Industry officials said the statutory levies on G8 grade coal (5000 kcal/kg) come to around 46 per cent of the price to consumers. This includes taxes such as royalty, contributions to national mineral exploration trust, district mineral fund, GST of 5 per cent and a flat GST compensation cess of Rs 400 per tonne. The levies on comparative grade of imported coal from Indonesia work out to around 15 per cent. On the higher grades of domestic coal, the levies could even go to 60 per cent. There are also charges on transportation and evacuation of coal. Railways typically have dynamic pricing for peak- and non-peak seasons and busy- and non-busy routes besides development surcharges on railway freight. “Coal at various stages is almost taxed between 45 per cent and 49 per cent. While the cost of digging and excavating is low, the cost of transportation, evacuation, GST, GST compensation cess, DMF, NMET all put together pushes up the cost of coal when it reaches the industry. That is one reason why imported coal is very competitive and sometimes cheaper than domestic coal,” said M. Nagaraju, additional secretary, ministry of coal at an mjunction organised event on Thursday. “I think we need to relook the taxation policy on coal so that it may have an impact on reducing import of thermal coal,” he said. A rationalisation of the taxation structure would be a key component towards the Centre’s plan to bring down the import of thermal coal. Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi earlier this year had announced that thermal coal imports into India will stop from 2023-24. Coal being on the open general license, domestic consumers imported a total of 248.54 mt  in 2019-20. Another import substitution measure is to increase domestic availability through the auction of blocks. But despite auction and allocation, only a handful of blocks have become operational because of  various regulatory and legal hurdles. The Centre had earlier auctioned  98 blocks of which 33 are in operation and more recently 19 blocks have been auctioned  for commercial mining. The estimated additional coal available through these blocks is around 200-220 million tonnes per annum. An official of a corporate bidder who took part in the last round of auction said that clearances related to land, environment and rehabilitation are among the major challenges that any developer  would have to keep in mind while participating in the auction. “There is no standard compensation rate in any state. It becomes difficult to estimate the rehabilitation and resettlement spend,” the official said. Easier transfer of land and frequent meeting between officers of Centre and state government along with corporate bidders for stock taking of allotted blocks are among the other industry suggestions for faster operationalisation of blocks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Vijaya, Dena merger with Bank of Baroda complete||Bank of Baroda (BoB), the country’s third-largest public-sector bank (PSB) by assets, has completed the integration of 3,898 branches of erstwhile Vijaya Bank and Dena Bank with itself, the lender said on Sunday. Vijaya Bank and Dena Bank got merged with BoB on April 1, 2019. As part of the process, more than 2,000 branches of Vijaya Bank and over 1,700 branches of Dena Bank were merged with the lender. BoB said it completed the integration of 1,770 erstwhile Dena Bank branches in this month. It had earlier finished the integration of 2,128 Vijaya Bank branches in September. With this, the integration of both the erstwhile banks with BoB stands completed much before the committed timeline, a statement from the PSU lender said. The bank added that following the three-way merger, over five crore customer accounts were migrated to the bank. In addition to branches, all ATMs, POS (point of sale) machines and credit cards have also been migrated. The customers of the three banks will now have access to 8,248 domestic branches and 10,318 ATMs in the country along with BoB’s digital channels such as Baroda Connect and M-Connect Plus. Customers whose accounts have been migrated can get information such as account number, IFSC code using any digital channels or call centre or any branch. Debit cards already issued by the erstwhile banks will continue to function until their stipulated expiry. “We have completed fully integration of erstwhile banks with the BoB amid the challenges faced under the Covid environment. With the successful integration, the bank is well poised to derive and consolidate the benefits arising from this amalgamation of the three banks, apart from driving synergies,” Sanjiv Chadha, MD & CEO, BoB, said while commenting on the timely completion of the integration. Shares of BoB settled at Rs 63.10, a drop of 1.02 per cent on Friday at the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||CII's case for many bad banks||Industry body CII on Sunday said it has urged the government to consider the creation of multiple bad banks to address the adverse impact of non-performing assets (NPAs) accumulated by public sector banks in the recent past, that got further accentuated during the pandemic. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in its pre-budget memorandum recommended that the government consider enabling Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) and Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) to purchase NPAs. “In the aftermath of Covid, it is important to find a resolution mechanism through a market determined price discovery. With huge liquidity both globally and domestically, multiple bad banks can address this issue in a transparent manner and get the credit cycle back in action,” CII president Uday Kotak said. A robust market-based mechanism will encourage public sector banks (PSBs) to sell their bad loans without fear of questions being raised later. With cleaner balance sheets, PSBs should be able to raise capital from the market, obviating the need for recapitalisation by government, a bill which the government can ill afford to foot at this point of time, the CII said. Economic Survey 2017 had also suggested the creation of a bad bank called Public Sector Asset Rehabilitation Agency (PARA) to help tide over the problem of stressed assets. Lenders have been making a case for setting up a bad bank to ease pressure of bad loans on them in these difficult times. Currently, banks sell their bad loans to asset reconstruction companies as per the prudent norms of the Reserve Bank of India. “As the economy recovers, credit demand from industry will expand. Banks need to gear up to meet this demand. Market mechanism based multiple bad banks can help clean up banks’ balance sheets, encouraging them to lend,” the CII stated. The government had put in Rs 80,000 crore in bank recapitalisation in 2017-18, Rs 1.08 lakh crore in 2018-19 and Rs 70,000 crore in 2019-20. In September this year, Parliament approved another Rs 20,000 crore capital infusion into PSU banks. Public sector banks (PSBs) are planning to raise about Rs 25,000 crore through a mix of equity and debt in the next three months to support credit pick-up and meet regulatory requirement. In the last few months, lenders including State Bank of India, Canara Bank and Punjab National Bank (PNB) have raised about Rs 40,000 crore from the market, financial services secretary Debasish Panda said. “Banks have been able to raise a lot of money from the markets. About Rs 40,000 crores have been raised by the public sector banks both in the form equity and also AT1 and Tier II bonds. 
“We will expect another Rs 20,000-25,000 crore during the remaining part of the financial year,” he said. Earlier this month, Canara Bank raised Rs 2,000 crore, while Punjab National Bank (PNB) raised Rs 3,788.04 crore through qualified institutional placement (QIP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Car parts exports exceed imports||The industry for car parts suffered a contraction in the first half of the fiscal even as exports outstripped imports for the first time though both reported a falling turnover. The industry witnessed a contraction of 34 per cent in the first half of the current financial year with a turnover of Rs 1.19 lakh crore compared with Rs 1.82 lakh crore in the corresponding period a year ago. This was revealed in the industry performance review conducted by the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (Acma), the apex body of the  industry. There was a 42 per cent contraction in components purchased by OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) in the first half; exports fell 23.6 per cent and imports 32 per cent during the same period. Component exports stood at Rs 39,000 crore, while imports were at Rs 37,710 crore. This was mainly because India was able to export to regions that did not face stringent lockdowns, while its imports remained restricted because of supply chain constraints. Vinnie Mehta, director-general of Acma, said, “The auto industry witnessed a downturn in 2019-20, the situation further aggravated with the outbreak of the pandemic and the lockdown. hile the first quarter of 2020-21 was significantly stressed, with the unlocking of the economy, the sales of vehicles witnessed improvement, month-on-month, in the second quarter The component industry, in tandem, posted a subdued performance.” Acma president Deepak Jain said, “While the performance of the industry during the festive season has been heartening, there are indications that vehicle demand in the coming months will be sustained.” He said the increased focus by the industry on localisation and the announcement of PLI (production-linked incentive) schemes for the sector  augur well towards making the industry self-reliant. “We are also hopeful that the government would consider PLI or appropriate manufacturing schemes for auto-electronics and EV components as well.” Acma also released a survey done jointly with PwC on 2021-22. Despite concerns of another wave of pandemic, the industry is cautiously optimistic about the prospects of the economy and the sector for 2021-22. Companies have mostly recovered and are back to moderate financial health, after the lockdown. Financially healthy and growth focused companies are also actively focusing on Capex and acquisition / merger opportunities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Gold imports  fall 40% to $12.3 billion||Gold imports, which have a bearing on the current account deficit, declined 40 per cent to $12.3 billion during April-November because of a  fall in demand in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to data from the commerce ministry. Imports of the yellow metal stood at $20.6 billion in the corresponding period of 2019-20. The imports, however, recorded a year-on-year growth of 2.65 per cent in November to $3 billion. Silver imports during April-November 2020, too, dipped 65.7 per cent to about $752 million. The decline in gold and silver imports has helped in narrowing the country’s trade deficit, the difference between imports and exports, to $42 billion during April-November 2020-21 against $113.42 billion in the year-ago period. India is the largest importer of gold, which mainly caters to demand of jewellery industry. In volume terms, the country imports 800-900 tonnes of gold annually. Gems and jewellery exports declined 44 per cent to $14.30 billion during the first eight months of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Govt plans to slap higher import duties on China-origin items||The government plans to slap higher  import duties on a wide range of items that are made in China but are routed into India from countries with whom New Delhi has free trade agreements, meaning they are available cheaply at the expense of local manufacturers. The items range from soybean to auto-components, electronics to vegetable oil, leather goods to textile products. New  Delhi also plans to tighten its rules of origin to boost domestic production, senior commerce ministry officials said. They said many Chinese products are being rerouted from other countries taking advantage of India’s trade agreements with them. This has resulted in the country’s market being flooded with counterfeit goods or cheaper-quality versions of well known brands in segments such as footwear, clothing, leather, watches and electrical equipment such as chargers. An inter-ministerial committee has said “stringent checking” of identified HS codes items such as footwear, apparel, leather products, clocks and watches, electrical machinery and equipment could limit the import of counterfeit products and potentially save $15 billion. It also found that between 20 per cent and 30 per cent of products imported into India come under the ‘‘other’’ category, accounting for around $130 billion of imports, and this is primarily done to avoid duties and taxes. The committee also found a sharp surge in their imports from Singapore and Hong Kong after India imposed an anti-dumping duty on the import of the items from China. “We have found re-routing of products originating mostly from China through countries with which we have FTAs to take advantage of lower duties. These include electronics, leather products and textiles,” officials said. In September, the government had notified customs rules which allow officials to demand proof of significant value addition for goods imported under preferential duty agreements. The committee pointed that there has been a massive surge in soybean oil imports from Nepal and Bangladesh after the  South Asia Free Trade Area agreement or SAFTA. There was a 23,500 per cent increase in soybean oil imports since 2016-17 despite the fact both countries have limited production of soybean, and limited capacity to crush it. “Soybean from China was in this case being routed through Nepal or Bangladesh by flouting WTO rules of origin for getting duty exemption provided under SAFTA,” it said, stressing the need to review existing preferential trade agreements that have placed Indian manufacturers at a disadvantage position. The Department of Revenue has notified the “Customs (Administration of Rules of Origin under Trade Agreements) Rules, 2020“ which came into force in September. These rules “shall apply to import of goods into India where the importer makes a claim of preferential rate of duty in terms of a trade agreement,” it said. The “rules of origin“ provision prescribes for the minimal processing that should happen in the FTA country so that the final manufactured product may be called originating goods in that country. Under this provision, a country that has inked FTA with India cannot dump goods from some third country in the Indian market by just putting a label on it. It has to undertake a prescribed value addition in that product to export to India. Rules of origin norms help to contain dumping of goods. India has inked FTAs with several countries, including Japan, South Korea, Singapore, and ASEAN members. “Despite complaints from importers of red tape, we still find a considerable re-routing as the spike in electronics imports shows,” said finance ministry officials. The government is considering bringing in self certification under rules of origin to address genuine importer concerns, while enforcing random checks to see that rules are being adhered. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech had stated that the government would review “rules of origin” requirements, particularly for certain sensitive items,“so as to ensure that FTAs are aligned to the conscious direction of our policy”. She had also said that it has been observed that imports under FTAs are on the rise and undue claims of FTA benefits have posed threat to the domestic industry and such imports require stringent checks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Bengal makes a mark in oil and gas||State-owned explorer Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) took advantage of a newly prescribed policy of the Centre to position Bengal on the oil and gas map of India following its discovery at the Ashoknagar block, even as the long-term commercial viability of the hydrocarbon asset remains to be ascertained. Around 375 barrels of crude oil, whose quality is said to be even better than India’s most prolific oil asset Bombay High, have been extracted from a well on the outskirts of this North 24 Paraganas town since September, making it the most potent hydrocarbon discovery ever made in the state. Bengal’s Gangetic plain has always been touted as a promising place for oil and gas, but a commercially viable discovery has so far eluded ONGC which has been exploring the state for the last six decades, pouring in Rs 3,358 crore in the process. “ONGC has finally brought success to Bengal after decades of effort. It is a momentous day in the history of the state and the country,” Dharmendra Pradhan, Union petroleum minister, said after formally switching on a sucker rod pumping unit, which lifts oil from the well, at the site. Asked how much recoverable reserves the Ashoknagar block holds and what could be the production level and if the same would be commercially viable, the minister appeared cautious. “It is a very good beginning. Let us keep it at that for today.” Three more wells will be drilled by January 2022 to ascertain recoverable reserves from the field and if it could be brought to a sustained commercial production thereafter. Senior ONGC officials, including chairman and managing director Shashi Shanker, who spent the early years of his career looking for elusive oil and gas in Bengal, sounded optimistic of the prospect. A year to go before he demits office, Shanker is convinced that Ashoknagar holds the brightest prospect to put the state in the oil and gas map that can spur economic development in the region. “From the look of it, this has all the potential to become viable,” he told The Telegraph. Early signs buoyed ONGC to acquire three more blocks adjacent to Ashoknagar, which will be explored simultaneously over the next three years and 13 more wells will be drilled. The total capex will be around Rs 425 crore. ONGC officials said the field appears to have more natural gas reserves than oil. The upper layer, around 2,268 metres beneath the surface, holds oil while the gas sits another 100 metres below. A second well will soon be drilled to test the gas but it would not be sold commercially as the gas price remains low. An ONGC official said the block may be viable if the crude oil price remains at $50-55 a barrel. Benchmark Brent crude is now ruling at $52 a barrel. “Commercial viability would depend on how big the installation would be. It is going to be a factor of cost incurred and recoverable reserve,” an official said. ONGC drilled the solitary well at the site in September 2018 and found hydrocarbons. Around 800 barrels of oil were extracted then. After the new DGH policy came into force, it swung into action again and 375 more barrels were produced. It sent 172 barrels to IOC in September and another 200 barrels by tankers in November. With the state election round the corner, an early development plan for Ashoknagar 1 was approved by the DGH and the petroleum mining lease was granted on October 21 for 5.88 square kilometre area. However, a challenge before ONGC would be to acquire enough land to start large scale commercial production. If the volume is high, a pipeline must be built to evacuate gas/oil. Pradhan sought the co-operation of the local people and assured they would be looked after first. ONGC has initially asked for 12 acres from the state government but more would be needed later. Even though the area identified initially is vested with the state, the occupiers are demanding jobs at the site. The company has given temporary jobs to 14-15 local youth so far. The PSU declared Ashoknagar a producing field based on two years of exploration, taking advantage of the policy of early monetisation of hydrocarbon discovery declared by the directorate of general hydrocarbon (DGH) on June 25, 2020. Under this programme, a discovery need not go through the time tested process of appraisal, declaration of commerciality and submission of field development plan before selling oil or gas in the market. ONGC sold crude oil extracted from Ashoknagar block to Indian Oil Corporation and found the product to be of superior quality. Given that ONGC started to commercialise the small quantity produced during the exploration stage from Ashoknagar, located about 55 kilometre north-east of Calcutta, and shared part of the proceeds with the government as per contract, Bengal basin has been elevated as the 8th producing basin of India. Bengal basin — Ashoknagar only a small part of it — is spread over 1.22 lakh square kilometre, two-third of which is offshore. Had it not been for the new policy, which is aimed at fast tracking energy security of the country, ONGC would have to assess the recoverable reserve, make a field development plan, ascertain commercial viability and sign a petroleum mining lease, encompassing three to four years, before starting producing commercially.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
21-12-2020||Business||Some tips on retirement planning||The perfect retirement plan is as elusive as a smog-free winter morning in Calcutta, and even as you read this on Monday morning, the average retired person is grappling with bigger shortfalls, declining yields, widening gaps between what he has saved and what he really needs in his twilight years. The trouble is, while a dreaded winter will inevitably lead to a cheerful spring, a malfunctioning retirement plan can go from bad to worse. There may well be serious challenges on the way; steep inflation rates will, for example, forever remain a grave concern for the retiree. An unanticipated spell of high expenditure can suddenly reduce his corpus, and a much-cherished investment can go belly-up for reasons beyond anyone’s control, thus hitting his portfolio in a debilitating manner. The truth about retirement planning is not easy to digest, its bitterness can be felt at every turn — on mornings when newspapers record a Rs 50 hike in cooking gas prices, on afternoons when a favoured debt security loses its credit rating, on evenings when a government report signals economic growth numbers that are far from satisfactory. You just grin — no, sigh — and bear it all. Let us dedicate ourselves not to such imperfections, but to ways in which retirement plans can be generally fortified against the impact of these challenges. In a backdrop marked by nearly-constant price hikes, relentless taxes and uncertain market conditions, how can the average individual still generate a sense of comfort, courtesy his retirement plan? Here are some considerations for you: ⦾ A substantial part of your corpus must be allocated to fixed-income securities, including ones that provide you with assured returns. These will come to your succour when the rest of the market (read: the part that wallows in uncertain performance) fails to live up to your expectation. ⦾ A portion of your overall portfolio needs to be invested in market-driven performers as well. These will, as you no doubt understand, be risky as returns may not be generated in the desired manner. However, in this day and age, when market-determined yield is supreme, you cannot simply do without these assets. ⦾ Your single-minded goal must necessarily be driven by the need to beat the impact of taxes and inflation. The two of these are enough to keep you on tenterhooks for the rest of your active life. And for a retired person without an active income stream, this is by far the most serious consideration. The higher-stronger-smarter objective can be achieved if the individual has started allocating resources sufficiently early in life. This means, the perfect retirement plan is a function of time — a luxury that many of us do not have. “Start early and invest methodically” needs to be a motto for all. That motto, I must point out, can be actually rendered more efficient if the individual concerned keeps an eye on costs. Managing the latter poses a grave task for a retiree. Further, to be simply aware of costs is one thing, to really keep them on a tight leash happens to be a totally different challenge. In this context, I will draw your attention to the following issues: ⦾ Management of costs is very much part of your investment strategy. Brokerages, commissions, loads and sundry other expenses (including compliance fees that you may pay for audits and similar exercises) can add up to be a formidable number at the end of the year. ⦾ Too many transactions will augment your costs. The higher is the number of transactions, the more is your aggregate cost of transaction. So if you have purchased and sold a stock many times, you will pay a tidy sum to your stock broker. ⦾ Your net returns must be calculated after you account for these costs as well as other deductibles, including taxes. Net figures, which are often a good distance away from what are actually advertised, help you stay rooted to reality. You get to know what you have finally earned, and whether your money has truly grown on a year-on-year basis. It is far too easy to suggest that an individual should ideally explore other avenues to earn after retirement. Rare is the man who does it with elan in his golden years; rarer still is the willingness to learn new trades or weigh other professional alternatives. No, all the best-laid plans are built on the same foundations — early start, methodical investment regimen, financial discipline, efficient asset allocation, cost management and so on. The perfect individual will take care of all these, but he will also do more. He will pare expectations, perhaps delay gratification as well. Such an investor will, nevertheless, forever keep his eye on the ball. Risk control will be his preferred mantra at all times. Risk and returns are of course never too far away from one another, their relationship being a sacrosanct tenet in the realm of investment. The higher the risk, the higher is the potential return. Let that be gospel truth in your case too. In other words, the average retiree like you needs to be completely aware of your risks. Each asset class you have invested in has its set of risks to contend with. Equities and commodities are generally riskier, while debt has a relatively stable orientation. The risk-return scale can never be too far away from your radar. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-196
