22-12-2020||Business||Sensex rebounds 453 points, ends at a little over 46,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded 453 points on Tuesday, tracking strong recovery in IT and banking stocks amid encouraging cues from European markets. After gyrating 968 points in a volatile session, the 30-share BSE index ended 452.73 points or 0.99 per cent higher at 46,006.69. On similar lines, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 137.90 points or 1.03 per cent to 13,466.30. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 5 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Infosys, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma, L&T and Nestle India. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, HDFC, Bajaj Finance and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. Domestic equities recovered sharply from the day's low in a volatile trading day mainly aided by strong buying in IT stocks, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Investors once again started focusing on safe counters which are considered to be resilient from the pandemic and IT, pharma, telecom, FMCG and chemicals were in focus, he noted. "While concerns of a new strain of coronavirus do not augur well for the markets globally, India still looks to be better placed compared to others. However, markets are likely to remain volatile in the coming days until clarity emerges about new virus strains and efficacy of ongoing vaccinations," he asserted. European markets witnessed sharp recovery after German pharmaceutical company BioNTech said it was confident that its coronavirus vaccine would work against the new UK variant. The variant, detected mainly in London and the southeast of England in recent weeks, has sparked concern worldwide because of signs that it may spread more easily. While there is no indication it causes more serious illness, numerous countries in Europe and beyond have restricted travel from the UK as a result. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 1.67 per cent to USD 50.06 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
22-12-2020||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 300 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and ITC amid weak cues from global markets as concerns over the new coronavirus strain continued to spook investors. The 30-share BSE index rallied over 384 points in the opening session but soon pared the gains to trade 307.60 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 45,246.36. After similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 99.90 points or 0.75 per cent to 13,228.50. M&M was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, ONGC, ITC, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finserv and Dr Reddy's Lab. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Infosys, TCS, Tech Mahindra, HDFC and Power Grid were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex plunged 1,406.73 points or 3 per cent to close at 45,553.96. This was its biggest single-day fall since May 4 this year. Nifty also tanked 432.15 points or 3.14 per cent to finish at 13,328.40. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) turned net sellers in the capital market as they sold shares worth Rs 323.55 crore on a net basis on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities appear to be better placed now despite weak global cues, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Yesterdays' sharp sell-off in domestic markets was not surprising given Nifty witnessed a rally of over 16 per cent in the last two months and outperformed global markets. "While concerns of a new strain of COVID-19 do not augur well for the markets, India still continues to look better placed compared to others. However, markets are likely to remain volatile in coming days until clarity emerges about new coronavirus strains and efficacy of ongoing vaccinations," he said. US equities, despite recovering sharply from the day's low, ended mostly lower as concerns over a new virus in the UK and South Africa dampened investor sentiment. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.45 per cent lower at USD 50.68 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
22-12-2020||Business||Home launches drop in Calcutta||Fresh supply of housing stock, a barometer of builders’ confidence in the prospects of the realty market, fell in Calcutta most among the top seven cities of the country, a report published by brokerage and consultancy Anarock noted. Only 3,530 units were launched by developers in Calcutta in 2020, a year marked by disruption because of the Covid-19, down 63 per cent from the previous year when 9,420 units were launched. The fall is most among the seven cities surveyed and also below the cumulative average 46 per cent. A steep decline in new offerings, while limiting the choice of buyers in general, proved to be beneficial in the clearing up of old stocks. Unsold inventory dropped 8 per cent in Calcutta, the most among markets surveyed by the report, indicating that developers focused on generating cash flow by liquidating old stock. Except for Chennai and Hyderabad, sales were more than launches. In Calcutta, top grade builders sold 7,150 units in 2020, down by nearly half from 2019 when 13,930 units were sold. Put together, the seven cities reported a 47 per cent decline in housing sales. While much of the damage to the markets happened during the March-June period, when the country was under severe lockdown, buyers returned to the market from August onwards. “Anarock data reveals that the festive quarter (October-December period) stood out among all four quarters in 2020, witnessing maximum sales due to multiple offers and discounts, low interest rates and limited-period stamp duty cuts in states such as Maharashtra,” Anuj Puri, managing director of Anarock said, adding the growth has set the stage for a revival in 2021. The year also saw buyers preferring branded players and well established names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
22-12-2020||Business||Luxury auto makers announce price hike of 2% for its vehicles ||Luxury auto makers have announced a price hike of 2 per cent for its vehicles with most citing a weakening rupee against the euro and rising input costs as the reason. While Mercedes Benz India was the first to announce the hike, Audi and BMW followed suit. BMW Group India on Monday said it will increase prices by up to 2 per cent across its portfolio. It will introduce the revised 2021 pricing for all BMW and MINI models effective January 4, 2021.The price rise has been necessitated by the rising input costs, said Vikram Pawah, president of BMW Group. Mercedes Benz India had already hiked prices since October this year. There has been a 2 per cent increase in price across a select model range. Audi India too will increase prices of all its models by up to 2 per cent from January 2021. To somewhat cushion the price rise, Mercedes Benz India will continue with its financial packages like Wishbox 20 and a host of other service packages. Audi is offering service packages that will make ownership of the car a bit easier for its customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
22-12-2020||Business||KKR India announces Sanjay Nayar as new chairman||KKR on Monday announced that Sanjay Nayar, CEO of KKR India, will transition to a new role as its chairman. Nayar will don this role from December 31. The global buyout major also disclosed that Gaurav Trehan, a recent hire from rival TPG, will replace Nayar as head of KKR India. Trehan joined KKR earlier this year from TPG Capital Asia, where he was a partner in the India office. “We are grateful to Sanjay for his role in establishing our business in India, partnering with and empowering local entrepreneurs to build their businesses into local and global champions, making KKR a leading investor in India, and helping to grow our Asia Pacific business,” Joseph Bae, KKR’s co-president and co-chief operating officer, said. KKR entered India in 2006 and established its Mumbai office in 2009. It has so far deployed $5.8 billion in private equity bets and $10 billion across other assets, the statement said. Nayar will “advise and assist KKR’s India business” by leveraging his connections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||SsangYong Motor Company files for bankruptcy||Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) on Monday said its loss-making South Korean arm SsangYong Motor Company (SYMC) has filed for bankruptcy. SYMC has filed an application for the commencement of rehabilitation procedure with the Seoul Bankruptcy Court under the Debtor Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy Act of South Korea, M&M said in a regulatory filing. The troubled auto maker has also applied for an autonomous restructuring support (ARS) programme which is a court-designed process. “If the Court approves the ARS, SYMC will continue to function under the supervision of its board and will negotiate with stakeholders to reach an understanding about a revival package which may include equity and debt financing and other related actions,” M&M said. However, some of its decisions will be subject to court approval, it noted. The Seoul Bankruptcy Court will deliberate and review the application and relevant documents submitted by SYMC to determine whether or not the court will commence the restructuring process of SYMC, M&M said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||GMR demerger of non-airport vertical business approved||GMR Infrastructure Limited on Monday said it has received consent from the stock exchanges, with no adverse observations, on its proposed restructuring involving the demerger of its non-airport vertical business. The company said it will file the restructuring scheme with the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) within six months. “The company has received consent of the stock exchanges, with no adverse observations, to file the scheme with the National Company Law Tribunal, within six months,” GMR Infrastructure said in a regulatory filing. The company said it had filed an application to “the BSE and National Stock Exchange of India towards the composite scheme of amalgamation and arrangement amongst GMR Power Infra (GPIL), GMR Infrastructure Limited (GIL), GMR Power and Urban Infra Limited (GPUIL) and their respective shareholders (scheme)”. In August, GMR Infrastructure had unveiled a group restructuring plan involving the demerger of the non-airport vertical business. The board of GIL together with other group companies — GMR Power Infra Limited (GPIL) and GPUIL — have decided on a “composite scheme of arrangement involving vertical split demerger of the non-airport business (energy, EPC, urban infrastructure, etc) of GIL into GPUIL, as a going concern”. Along with the rejig, GPIL would be amalgamated with GMR Infrastructure Ltd (GIL) as a step preceding the demerger. the firm had said. “Separate listing of both the airport and non-airport businesses will also help in simplifying the corporate holding structure. The vertical split demerger will go a long way in facilitating deeper understanding of the airport business independently as compared to other business verticals within the group,” the statement said. The GMR group operates the country’s busiest airport, Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi, and Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. It also operates the Cebu airport in the Philippines. Once the scheme is implemented, the statement said GIL would emerge as the India's only pure play-listed airports company and all existing GIL shareholders would continue to have their same shareholding in the company. The appointed date for the scheme, being the date on which the undertakings shall vest in the respective resulting companies, has been fixed as April 1, 2021. The scheme is subject to customary approvals from stock exchanges, Sebi, NCLT, shareholders and creditors. The scheme is to create "mirror shareholding of GIL in GPUIL with all existing shareholders of GIL becoming shareholders of GPUIL in the same proportion". It also envisages issue of 1 additional share of Rs 5 each of GPUIL for every 10 shares in GIL of Re 1 each as on the record date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||Govt to issue expression of interest for the sale of Container Corporation of India||The government plans to call for bids to sell its stakes in the Container Corporation of India and the Shipping Corporation of India. The expressions of interest (EoI) for the strategic sale of the railway PSU, with management control, will be announced later this month. While the government plans to offload 30.80 per cent of its 54.80 per cent stake in Concor, it would continue to retain 24 per cent post sell-off but without any veto powers. For Shipping Corporation, the bids for privatisation may be called in the coming week and buyers will be given time till mid February to submit EoIs, an official said. The government plans to sell the entire 63.75 per cent stake in Shipping Corporation along with transfer of management control. The EoI for Concor will be issued soon after cabinet clearance to the railways’ revised land licensing policy. However, the sale process could spill over to next financial year because of  paucity of time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||Mittals claims  repayment of security deposits worth Rs 82 crore from Ruias||The Ruias and the Mittals are slugging it out in court over the repayment of security deposits worth a little over Rs 82 crore. The deposits had been placed by Essar Steel — which is now owned by the Mittals —  with two Ruia-owned companies for the right to occupy space in the 22-storey Essar House at Mahlaxmi; and for a support services pact that got terminated in May 2014. The Bombay High Court has directed Essar House (EHPL) and Essar Services India (ESIL) to deposit Rs 35.5 crore and Rs 47.41 crore, respectively, as security deposits in a dispute with Arcelor Mittal Nippon Steel India Ltd (AM/NS India). In Essar House, AM/NS India sought a deposit of Rs 35.5 crore as security for their claim in arbitration. In 2016, the then Essar Steel entered into a rental agreement with Essar Housing to occupy the ground floor, podium and 20 upper floors of the Essar House. The agreement was extended by consent to operate until March 31, 2019. On September 2018, Essar Steel entered into the Business Centre Agreement for the insolvency resolution period with EHPL, to take business centre facilities on six floors of Essar House. This agreement subsumed the rental agreement. However, later on November 27, 2019, EHPL asked Essar Steel to vacate the premises covered by the agreement after the latter was acquired by AM/NS. While this was done, the charge is that the refundable security deposit was not returned and EHPL had adjusted the amount against receivables from Essar Steel. In ESIL, the dispute arose after AM/NS India sought deposit of Rs 47.41 crore as refundable security upon termination of a support services agreement of May 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||Tesla joins S&P 500 with a market value of $600 billion||In the middle of last year, Tesla’s losses were piling up, sales weren’t enough to cover expenses and big debt payments loomed. The situation was so bad that one influential Wall Street analyst raised the possibility that Tesla wouldn’t be able to pay its bills and would have to be restructured financially. Since then, the electric car and solar panel maker’s shares have skyrocketed, rising over 700 per cent this year alone. Monday morning it joined the prestigious S&P 500 index with a market value of over $600 billion. It’s the largest addition in the history of the index. Tesla’s rise to become the world’s most valuable auto maker and rank among the top 10 biggest US companies is a surprising accomplishment considering that the company lost $1.1 billion in the first half of 2019. The increase is so stunning that even CEO Elon Musk has said the shares are overpriced. Global sales hit a record of almost 140,000 in the third quarter, debt has been reduced with proceeds from stock offerings, and Musk’s company is building two huge factories. On Monday, the Tesla stock tumbled 4.5 per cent to $663.46 after its inclusion in the S&P 500 index.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||Fear of new strain of coronavirus in the UK  grips stocks ||Stocks on Monday received a severe jolt as the new strain of coronavirus in the UK led to fears of the global economic recovery hitting a speed bump. Amid negative global cues, the Sensex snapped its six-session record-setting streak and tumbled almost 1407 points. The intensity of the crash was such that more than Rs 6.59 lakh crore of investor wealth was wiped out. While investors were in a profit booking mode from the steady gains made recently,  sentiment nosedived as European markets cracked and safe-haven assets such as gold and the US dollar strengthened. This came after the UK government reported a new strain of the coronavirus that was up to 70 per cent more contagious. Soon, the UK imposed a fresh lockdown in London and southeast England, warning that the potent new strain of the Covid-19 virus was “out of control”. Various European countries, including France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and Italy, have banned flights from the UK. India too has suspended all flights from the UK till the year-end while the Maharashtra government announced a night curfew. The 30-share index opened marginally lower at 46932.18 and remained rangebound till noon. However, shares were in for a free fall and the gauge soon hit a low of 44923.08 and later settled at 45553.96 — a fall of 1406.72 points or 3 per cent. This was its biggest single-day fall since May 4 this year. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 432.15 points or 3.14 per cent to finish at 13328.40. All Sensex components ended in the red, with ONGC leading the pack by tumbling 9.15 per cent. “Today’s correction validated our recent cautious stance and this is how the market traps participants. Despite the market hitting new record highs in the last couple of weeks, we have been repeatedly advocating on booking profits and staying light. “With today’s fall, we can see the last twelve day’s gains going for a toss, a classic revenge from the mighty bears,’’ said Sameet Chavan (chief analyst-technical and derivatives, Angel Broking, said. One of the major reasons behind the recent bull run was the participation of foreign portfolio investors (FPIs). Market circles, however, feel that their participation will be relatively low during the Christmas holidays and this could lead to volatility. Provisional data showed they were net sellers to the tune of Rs 323 crore in Monday’s trading. “We expect equities market to witness further volatility in the near term. Nevertheless, correction after big rally is always a healthy sign for the market and provide good opportunity to add quality stocks for investment purpose,” said Sanjeev Hota, head of research, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
22-12-2020||Business||Delhi High Court refuses to grant interim injunction to Amazon||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed a plea of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to restrain Amazon from interfering with its Rs 24,713cr deal with Reliance. In an 132-page order, Justice Mukta Gupta declined the grant of an interim injunction as sought by the Kishore Biyani company. Justice Gupta further said the statutory authorities or regulators can take a decision (whether to approve the transaction) in accordance with the law. However, the judge said, the board resolution of FRL on August 29 for the sale of its business to Reliance is valid and is in accordance with statutory provisions or the articles of association of FRL. The matter had gone on to the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC), which on October 25 passed an interim order in favour of Amazon barring FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. During the proceedings at the Delhi high court, FRL had claimed the order from the emergency arbitrator (EA) is without jurisdiction and a nullity as the EA lacked legal status under Part I of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (A&C Act) and the parties even by consent could not have conferred jurisdiction on the EA as it was “coram non judice” (not before a judge). However, Justice Gupta held the order given by EA is valid. “The EA prima facie is not a coram non judice and the consequential EA order not invalid,” the order said. The Delhi High Court also observed that the shareholder agreements between Amazon and the Future group show that the latter has acquired control rights over FRL and that in the absence of government approvals, this is contrary to Fema and FDI rules. In its plea, FRL has sought an interim restraint on Amazon from interfering with the transaction or taking any steps that would come in the way of the deal, pending consideration before the regulators and statutory authorities. “The present application is disposed off, declining the grant of interim injunction as prayed for by FRL, however, the statutory authorities/regulators are directed to take the decision on the applications/objections in accordance with the law,’’ Justice Gupta said in the order. According to Gupta, the trinity of the principles for the grant of interim injunction — prima facie case, irreparable loss and balance of convenience are required to be tested. The Future group, however, claimed that Monday’s verdict actually went in its favour. The court said that it was “prima facie of the opinion” that the conflation of the three agreements — the two shareholder agreements at Future Retail and Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and the share subscription agreement at FCPL — had not only created protective rights in favour of Amazon for its investments but also transgressed to “control” over FRL, which required government approval. Since this had not been obtained, Amazon’s agreements with the Future group ran contrary to the FDI rules under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, the court added. This is an argument that Amazon had tried hard to rebut with its counsel arguing that FCPL had only a 9.82 per cent shareholding in Future Retail and the investment in Future Coupons had given Amazon only an indirect 2.58 per cent stake in Future Retail. Further, Amazon’s investment in FCPL did not violate the Foreign Exchange laws as the government permitted foreign investment up to 51 per cent under the government route in entities engaged in multi-brand retail trading. Moreover, foreign investment up to 100 per cent is permitted under the automatic route in FCPL, which is engaged in “cash and carry wholesale trading/wholesale trading”. The court, however, did not buy Amazon’s argument. Significantly, the court also said that by asserting that the Future Retail board resolution of August 29 this year (which ratified the deal with the Reliance group) was void, Amazon “would fall foul of the freedom of FRL and Reliance to enter into the transaction thereby causing loss to both FRL and Reliance which would be a civil wrong actionable by both FRL and Reliance in case they suffer any loss.” The court went on to add that FRL had “been able to make out a prima facie case of tortious interference by Amazon” by seeking to block the transaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-195
