23-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies 437 points to finish at 46,444.18||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 437 points on Wednesday, tracking gains in Infosys, HUL and TCS amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 437.49 points or 0.95 per cent higher at 46,444.18. The broader NSE Nifty surged 134.80 points or 1 per cent to close at 13,601.10. HUL was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting around 3 per cent, followed by Infosys, M&M, ITC, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints, TCS and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Titan, PowerGrid and NTPC were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities recovered sharply from early losses mainly on positive global cues and sharp rebound in IT, PSU banks and pharma. "Stimulus bill in the US continued to offer support to emerging markets including India. However, emerging risk pertaining to new coronavirus strain made investors focus back on defensive sectors including IT, Pharma and FMCG," he noted. While new imposed economic restrictions in various countries and threat of new coronavirus strain to other nations weigh on investors' sentiments, he said India still appears to be better placed given consistent reduction in new coronavirus cases and improvement in recovery rates. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.12 per cent to USD 50.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Cairn Energy wins retro tax arbitration against Indian govt ||UK's Cairn Energy Plc has won an arbitration against the Indian government levying Rs 10,247 crore in retrospective taxes, the company said on Wednesday. The three-member tribunal, which also comprised of a judge appointed by the Indian government, ruled that India's claim of Rs 10,247 crore in past taxes over a 2006-07 internal reorganisation of Cairn's India business was not a valid demand, sources said. The tribunal asked India to pay the funds withheld along with the interest to the Scottish oil explorer for seizing dividend, tax refund, and sale of shares to partly recover the dues. Confirming the award, Cairn in a statement said: "the tribunal established to rule on its claim against the Government of India has found in Cairn's favour." Cairn had challenged the Indian government seeking taxes over an internal business reorganisation using the 2012 retrospective tax law, under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty. "The tribunal ruled unanimously that India had breached its obligations to Cairn under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty and has awarded to Cairn damages of USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and costs, which now becomes payable," it said. This is the second blow to the government over the retrospective tax issue in three months. A separate international arbitration tribunal had in September ruled against India levying retrospective taxes on Vodafone Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Sensex jumps over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in opening trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, TCS and HCL Tech amid a positive trend in other Asian markets. After swinging nearly 300 points in early trade, the 30-share BSE index was trading 141.15 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 46,147.84. After similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 43.15 points or 0.32 per cent to 13,509.45. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Maruti, Tech Mahindra, TCS, M&M and Titan. On the other hand, ONGC, NTPC, Axis Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank and L&T were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 452.73 points or 0.99 per cent higher at 46,006.69, and Nifty climbed 137.90 points or 1.03 per cent to 13,466.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,153 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. "Concerns pertaining to the new coronavirus strain and the possibility of an imminent slowdown in the global economy in the near term emerged as a threat for global equities, which may result in investors moving back to defensive stocks in coming days," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. He noted that India is better placed compared to other nations given the consistent reduction in new coronavirus cases and improvement in recovery rates. "While domestic equities are likely to remain volatile and trade in range-bound in the near term, 3QFY21 corporate earnings are going to be crucial for the markets," he said. US equities finished mostly lower as a continued surge in coronavirus cases in America and Europe weighed on investor sentiments, which also overshadowed satisfactory progress of vaccination roll out and passage of USD 900 billion stimulus bill, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 1.42 per cent lower at USD 49.37 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Modi govt extends suspension of fresh proceedings under insolvency law ||The Modi government has again extended the suspension of fresh proceedings under the insolvency law by three more months amid the disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic. A notification for a three-month extension of the suspension, which was to end on December 24, was issued by the corporate affairs ministry on Tuesday. The three-month period would be from December 25. An ordinance was promulgated in June this year for the suspension of fresh insolvency proceedings and the same came into force retrospectively from March 25 — the day when the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus infections had come into effect. Later, a bill to replace the March ordinance that had amended the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) was cleared by Parliament in September. Initially, the suspension of fresh proceedings under the IBC was for six months starting from March 25 and then, it was extended by three months. Now, the suspension has been further extended by three months which will end on March 24, 2021. The corporate affairs ministry has suspended Section 7, 9 and 10 to provide relief for companies reeling under the impact of the pandemic. Sections 7, 9 and 10 deal with the initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process by a financial creditor, operational creditor and corporate debtor, respectively. On Monday, finance and corporate affairs minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that suspension of fresh proceedings under the IBC would be extended.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Apple plans self-driving car by 2024||Apple Inc is moving forward with self-driving car technology and is targeting 2024 to produce a passenger vehicle that could include its own breakthrough battery technology, people familiar with the matter told Reuters. The iPhone maker’s automotive efforts, known as Project Titan, have proceeded unevenly since 2014 when it first started to design its own vehicle from scratch. At one point, Apple drew back the effort to focus on software and reassessed its goals. Doug Field, an Apple veteran who had worked at Tesla Inc, returned to oversee the project in 2018 and laid off 190 people from the team in 2019. Since then, Apple has progressed enough that it now aims to build a vehicle for consumers, two people familiar with the effort said, asking not to be named because Apple’s plans are not public. Apple’s goal of building a personal vehicle for the mass market contrasts with rivals such as Alphabet Inc’s Waymo, which has built robo-taxis to carry passengers for a driverless ride-hailing service. Central to Apple’s strategy is a new battery design that could “radically” reduce the cost of batteries and increase the vehicle’s range, according to a third person who has seen Apple’s battery design. Apple declined to comment on its plans or future products. Making a vehicle represents a supply chain challenge even for Apple, a company with deep pockets that makes hundreds of millions of electronics products each year with parts from around the world, but has never made a car. It took Elon Musk’s Tesla 17 years before it finally turned a sustained profit making cars. “If there is one company on the planet that has the resources to do that, it's probably Apple. But at the same time, it's not a cellphone,” said a person who worked on Project Titan. It remains unclear who would assemble an Apple-branded car, but sources have said they expect the company to rely on a manufacturing partner to build vehicles. And there is still a chance Apple will decide to reduce the scope of its efforts to an autonomous driving system that would be integrated with a car made by a traditional automaker, rather than the iPhone maker selling an Apple-branded car, one of the people added. Two people with knowledge of Apple’s plans warned pandemic-related delays could push the start of production into 2025 or beyond. Shares of Tesla ended 6.5 per cent lower on Monday after their debut in the S&P 500 on Monday. Apple shares ended 1.24 per cent higher after the news. Apple has decided to tap outside partners for elements of the system, including lidar sensors, which help self-driving cars get a three-dimensional view of the road, two people familiar with the company's plans said. Apple’s car might feature multiple lidar sensors for scanning different distances, another person said. Some sensors could be derived from Apple's internally developed lidar units, that person said. Apple’s iPhone 12 Pro and iPad Pro models released this year both feature lidar sensors. Reuters had previously reported that Apple had held talks with potential lidar suppliers, but it was also examining building its own sensor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Bet on Indian Tiktok clone||The Indian parent of a TikTok copycat has raised more than $100 million from investors, including Alphabet Inc’s Google and Microsoft, months after the Chinese-owned short-video app was banned in the country. The app, Josh, is one of several home-grown short-video platforms that have sprung up since India blocked the wildly popular TikTok in June amidst a border crisis with China, attracting global investor interest in applications filling the gap. Bangalore-based VerSe Innovation, which owns Josh, is valued at more than $1 billion following the investment, it said in a statement. AlphaWave, a part of global asset manager Falcon Edge Capital, also invested in VerSe, as did existing investors Sofina Group and Lupa Systems, VerSe said, adding that it would use the funds to scale up Josh. VerSe also owns news and content platform Dailyhunt, which offers content in multiple Indian languages. Separately on Tuesday, Indian ad technology firm InMobi’s Glance — which runs an eponymous lock-screen content app and short-video platform Roposo — said it had raised $145 million from Google and existing investor Mithril Capital. Google set aside $10 billion earlier this year for digital investments in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
23-12-2020||Business||Investors discount mutant fear ||The Sensex made an emphatic comeback on Tuesday following the previous session’s massive selloff, as European markets reversed losses amid expectations that the Covid-19 vaccines will be effective against a new virus strain in the UK. IT stocks led the recovery on Dalal Street, with pharma and select banking stocks also witnessing robust demand. After gyrating 968 points in a volatile session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 452.73 points or 0.99 per cent higher at 46006.69. On similar lines, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 137.90 points or 1.03 per cent to 13466.30. HCL Tech was the top gainer among the Sensex companies, rallying 5.09 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Infosys, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma, Nestle India and L&T. Only five index constituents finished in the red —Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, RIL and IndusInd Bank, which slipped up to 0.94 per cent. European markets witnessed a sharp recovery after German pharmaceutical company BioNTech said it was confident that its coronavirus vaccine would work against the new UK variant. The variant, detected mainly in London and the southeast of England in recent weeks, has sparked concern worldwide because of signs that it may spread more easily. While there is no indication it causes more serious illness, numerous countries in Europe and beyond have restricted travel from the UK as a result. The US Congress approving a $900 billion stimulus package also bolstered market sentiment, traders said. “Market took an unexpected positive momentum in the afternoon, during a see-saw trading day, following the positive opening of the European market, which recovered from yesterday's sell-off. The sectorial rally was led by IT and pharma stocks with other sectors also supporting the up move. “Volatility is expected to stay high in the near-term due to strict lockdown impacting economic recovery. However, the market is expected to remain bullish in the medium- to long-term, backed by overall progress in economic activity in 2021,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. All sectoral indices ended on a positive note, with BSE IT, tech, utilities, telecom, metal, healthcare and power rallying as much as 3.37 per cent. Broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 1.09 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 1.67 per cent to $50.06 per barrel. The rupee furthered its losses by another 5 paise to close at 73.84 against the dollar on Tuesday in line with weaker Asian peers amid concerns over a new coronavirus strain. At the interbank forex market, the domestic unit opened at 73.95 against the dollar and witnessed an intra-day high of 73.82 and a low of 73.95. The local unit finally closed at 73.84, registering a fall of 5 paise over its previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||Business||Crude oil output falls 5 per cent||Domestic crude oil production fell about 5 per cent in November primarily because of a sharp drop in output at the Rajasthan oilfields operated by Cairn Vedanta, government data showed on Tuesday. Also, natural gas production in the country fell 9 per cent to 2.3 billion cubic meters (bcm) in November largely because  of a fall in eastern offshore field output. During April-November, India’s oil production was 6 per cent  lower at 20.42 million tonnes (mt). The output from Rajasthan during this period dropped 16 per cent to 3.91mt. Gas output during April-November was 18.7bcm, down 11.8 per cent  over the previous year. The fall in crude production has raised concerns on meeting the Modi government’s plans to cut crude imports by 10 per cent by 2022. India is dependent on imports for 85 per cent of its needs and the government is pushing domestic explorers to raise output to help cut down imports. Crude oil production in November at 2.48mt was lower than 2.61mt produced in the same month a year back. Rajasthan fields produced 9.6 per cent less crude oil at 476,990 tonnes as Mangala, Aishwarya and other fields in the Cairn block flowed less oil for a variety of reasons, according to data released by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) produced 1.5 per cent less oil. Oil India has signed a MoU with Assam Hydrocarbon & Energy Company aimed at establishing a joint institutional framework to facilitate bilateral co-operation in hydrocarbon exploration and development and marketing of natural gas in Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||Business||Calcutta start-up dares Big 2 ||A homegrown food tech firm is gearing up to take on the food delivery duopoly of Swiggy and Zomato with an eye on breakeven in 7-9 months. Fooza Foods Private Limited, founded by entrepreneurs Dibyendu Banerjea and Reena Lath, announced the launch of mobile application Fooza on Monday. Banerjea, who has past experiences in the hospitality sector as the general manager of The President Hotel of IHCL in Mumbai, operations head of Boston Group of Hotels and COO of Microtel Inns and Suites, said that discussions were on with a mix of domestic and overseas investors for capital support as the company expands in new cities over the next two years. “The idea is not to just take money and increase the value of the company. We are working on a model where internal accruals are more than the funds coming in. Me and my partner will be holding a majority stake in the company,” said Banerjea. The company is currently serving close to 300 orders a day and after Calcutta is planning to expand to Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Gurgaon, Bangalore, Jaipur, Lucknow, Hyderabad and Chennai. “In the next 7-9 months we should be in a break even kind of position,”  said Banerjea. Banerjea said that the idea of the business was born during the peak months of the pandemic where several chefs were affected as hotels and restaurants were closed to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Many of the chefs were looking for a platform/marketplace for the delivery of quality cooked meals from home. Subsequently, there was also demand for such a platform from home chefs and with the gradual lifting of the lockdown, the company has also started discussions with major restaurants to make the model sustainable. Banerjea said that there were gaps in the present food delivery model such as proper fleet management, wider delivery radius, pre-order and bulk delivery of food, flexible work hours for chefs among others which Fooza intends to address. “We are serving a radius of almost 30 kilometres within the Calcutta Metropolitan Area,” he said. Goldman Sachs has estimated the food delivery market in the country at $3.7 billion gross transaction value in 2019-20 and the market is estimated to grow to $8.8 billion in 2024-25. Swiggy and Zomato account for 90 per cent of the total market. But profitability has been an industry wide concern with high cash burn. “We believe a combination of higher take rates, rationalisation of rider incentives, and lower spend on promotions will help the industry reach profitability, but we expect this only in 2022-23,” Goldman Sachs said in its report. Banerjea, who was born in Calcutta and studied in Institute of Hotel Management, Calcutta before going to Cornell University, is bullish about the city being the base of operation. “My passion was to do something from Calcutta because I was born in the city. I think in New York and Calcutta, people really understand food, cuisine and service. So if you can make it over here, you can make it anywhere," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||Business||Shipping Corporation of India up for sale||The finance ministry has sought expressions of interest from interested parties for the ownership and management control of Shipping Corporation of India (SCI). The Centre plans to sell its entire 63.75 per cent stake in India’s premier shipping line and will accept EoIs till February 13. Analysts expect Essar Shipping, Adani, Vedanta, GE Shipping and Dubai Port World to participate in the exercise, which could fetch the Modi government around Rs 2500 crore at the current market price. About 296.9 million shares of SCI are up for sale, which got delayed because  of the pandemic. Investors can submit bids individually or as part of a consortium. RBSA Capital Advisors LLP will be the government’s transaction adviser. Divestment secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey told television channels that the cabinet will soon take a call on the sale of IDBI Bank. He said a buyer for BPCL can be found in the next six months and Air India bidders would be informed by January 5. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) said the interested bidders for SCI should have positive EBITDA (earning before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) in three out of the last five years and a minimum net worth of Rs 2,000 crore. In case of a consortium, the lead member should have a minimum net worth of Rs 1,001 crore with at least 50.01 per cent equity in the consortium. The ultimate beneficial owner for any bidder should not be the same as that of any other bidder or of any consortium member. “In case of IPs (interested parties) who are funds, the ultimate beneficial owner would mean the investment management entity which manages the investments of the fund and not the investors who have invested in the fund,” Dipam said in the preliminary information memorandum. The memorandum said certain non-core assets will be hived off from SCI. Further, matters such as the bearing of the Indian flag, employee protection and asset stripping shall be specified in the request for proposal. SCI is the largest Indian shipping company with a fleet strength of 59 vessels, including crude oil tankers, very large crude carriers, petroleum product carriers, liquefied petroleum gas carriers, bulk carriers, container ships, and off-shore support vessels. The government plans to set up a development finance institution (DFI) in the next three to four months with a view to mobilise Rs 111 lakh crore required for funding of the ambitious national infrastructure pipeline, according to financial services secretary Debasish Panda. “We need a development financial institution as infra financing needs patient capital, and banks are currently not suited for lending for long term projects,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||Business||House panel seeks cover for car dealers||The Parliamentary Standing Committee (PSC) headed by K. Keshava Rao has recommended that the government should come out with a franchise protection act for auto dealers. This recommendation was part of suggestions made by the committee in its report “Downturn in automobile sector — its impact and measures for revival”. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA) has been lobbying for a franchise protection act after Harley Davidson pulled out of the country leaving its dealers in the lurch. “India does not have a franchisee law at present because of which the OEM-dealer agreements are highly skewed towards manufacturers. This leads to a tussle in managing dealership operations in various ways, very short term agreements and non-existence of a clearly defined exit policy,” said FADA president, Vinkesh Gulati. Many developed countries such as Mexico, Brazil, Spain, Albania, Russia, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Japan, Australia, Italy, Sweden, and Belgium now have rules to protect the franchisees which started with the US introducing the same in 1980s, he said. There are various instances in India where auto manufacturers, invariably big corporations, suddenly announced their exit from India leaving auto dealers high and dry with their investments going down the drain. In 2017, General Motors India exited, then Man Trucks (a VW Group Company), UM Lohia and this year Harley Davidson India. Franchise laws will actually level the playing field between large auto makers and local dealers. Almost all auto dealerships are privately owned proprietorship or family owned businesses. Because of the disparity in size and power between individual dealers and manufacturers, the government needs to accept the standing committee’s recommendation and bring in the franchise protection act to level the playing field between auto makers and dealers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
23-12-2020||Business||SBI Life bids for Reliance Cap assets||Reliance Capital Ltd (RCL), part of the debt-ridden Anil Ambani-promoted Reliance Group, has received 10 more bids, including from SBI Life, for its subsidiaries, sources said. Earlier this month, the Committee of Debenture Holders had extended the last date for submission of expression of interest (EoI) to December 17. Following this, 10 new bids have come in for Reliance Capital’s assets, taking the total number of bids to 70, the sources said. State Bank of India’s subsidiary SBI Life has also shown interest in picking up Reliance Capital’s stake in Reliance Nippon Life Insurance, they added. Reliance Nippon Life Insurance Company, a joint venture with Japan’s largest life insurer Nippon Life, which holds 49 per cent shareholding, has a paid-up capital of Rs 1,196 crore as of September 30, 2020. The life insurer with assets under management of Rs 21,912 crore at the end of September had posted a profit of Rs 35 crore during 2019-20. The monetisation of RCL’s assets was initiated by the Committee of Debenture Holders and the Debenture Trustee Vistra ITCL India, which represents 93 per cent of the firm's total outstanding debt. The company's total outstanding debt is around Rs 20,000 crore. The last date for submission of EoIs for the stake sale was December 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-194
