24-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies 529 points to finish at 46,973.54||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 529 points on Thursday following gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid positive global cues. The 30-share BSE index ended 529.36 points or 1.14 per cent higher at 46,973.54. The broader NSE Nifty surged 148.15 points or 1.09 per cent to 13,749.25. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Reliance Industries, ONGC, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Infosys, IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech, Nestle India and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. Domestic equities remained upbeat and witnessed sharp rebound supported by financials, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. Emerging possibility of Brexit trade deal led Asian markets higher including India, he said, adding that barring IT, all sectors contributed to the market rally. "As the outline of Brexit trade deal was reached, higher chances of Brexit trade deal led markets to trade higher. Also, fear of new coronavirus strain seems to be easing out now with select European countries opening borders for Britain," he said. He further noted that FPI inflow continues to remain as a key driving force the domestic equities, which is expected to sustain in the near term in the backdrop of weak dollar, soft monetary policies of global central bankers and fiscal stimulus in the US. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 536.13 crore on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.48 per cent to USD 51.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Sensex rallies over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 350 points in opening trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 355.23 points or 0.76 per cent higher at 46,799.41, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 109.25 points or 0.80 per cent to 13,710.35. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 5 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Auto, Axis Bank, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, Titan, IndusInd Bank, HDFC duo and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Infosys, Dr Reddy's Lab, TCS and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex rallied 437.49 points or 0.95 per cent to close at 46,444.18, and Nifty surged 134.80 points or 1 per cent to 13,601.10. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 536.13 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good at the moment, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, adding that Asian markets are trading positive as the outline of Brexit trade deal was reached. "Further, fear of a new coronavirus strain seems to be easing out now with select European countries opening borders for Britain. FPIs flow continues to remain a key driving force for domestic equities, which is expected to sustain in the near term in the backdrop of the weak dollar, soft monetary policies of global central bankers and fiscal stimulus in the USA. "Sustainability of recovery in key economic data and 3QFY21 earnings are likely to play important roles for domestic markets for the sustainability of premium valuations in the near term," he said. US equities finished mostly higher as investors monitored the progress of the coronavirus vaccine and chances of a revived economy in 2021. However, President Donald Trump's opposition to recent bills passed by Congress offered some discomfort towards the last session of trade. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 0.41 per cent higher at USD 51.45 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Apple CEO Tim Cook refused to take Tesla meeting says Elon Musk||Tesla CEO Elon Musk says he once considered selling the electric car maker to Apple, but the iPhone maker's CEO blew off the meeting. In a tweet on Tuesday, Musk said he reached out to Apple CEO Tim Cook “to discuss the possibility of Apple acquiring Tesla (for one-tenth of our current value). He refused to take the meeting”. Tesla’s market value is $616 billion, as of the close of trading Tuesday. One-tenth of that is $61.6 billion. Musk said he sought out the meeting with Cook “during the darkest days of the Model 3 program”, a reference to Tesla’s first electric car designed for the mass market. As recently as 2018, Tesla was struggling to meet its vehicle production goals and turn a profit. Tesla’s fortunes have changed since then. The auto maker is finally making money on a consistent basis after years of losses and continues to hit milestones for deliveries of its vehicles. Its shares have soared 665 per cent this year alone, making it the world's most valuable automaker and among the top 10 biggest US companies in the S&P 500 index, which Tesla entered on Monday. Musk’s tweet followed published reports suggesting Apple is working on developing its own electric cars. Apple declined to comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty defy gravity for second straight session||The Sensex and the Nifty defied gravity for the second straight session on Wednesday as investors scooped up IT and FMCG shares amid a firm trend in the global markets. A recovering rupee and global drug makers’ assertion that their Covid-19 vaccines will work against a new coronavirus strain in the UK further shored up investor confidence, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex rallied 437.49 points, or 0.95 per cent, to close at 46444.18. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 134.80 points, or 1 per cent, to 13601.10. HUL was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting 2.67 per cent, followed by Infosys, M&M, SBI, ITC, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints, Bharti Airtel and TCS. Only four index components closed lower — Titan, PowerGrid, NTPC and HDFC, shedding up to 0.81 per cent. Global markets were largely positive after drug companies such as BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca exuded confidence that their Covid-19 vaccines will be effective against the new virus strain reported in the UK. However, gains were capped after US President Donald Trump hinted at vetoing the $900 billion economic aid package passed by the Congress due to the “ridiculously low” $600 aid per individual. All sectoral indices ended with gains. BSE realty, metal, IT, telecom, tech, FMCG and industrials indices surged as much as 3.97 per cent. In the broader markets, the BSE midcap and smallcap indices rallied up to 2.65 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.12 per cent to $50.14 per barrel. The rupee snapped its two-day losing streak to settle higher by 8 paise at 73.76 against the dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Revision in DTH guidelines||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a revision in guidelines for providing direct to home services in the country under which licences would be issued for 20 years, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said. He said the change in guidelines would also allow 100 per cent FDI in the DTH sector. While the commerce ministry had spoken of 100 per cent FDI in the DTH sector, the guidelines of the information and broadcasting ministry needed to be changed. Changes have been approved for 100 per cent foreign direct investment in the sector. Till now, the FDI was limited to 49 per cent, Javadekar told a media briefing. Trai was consulted in this regard, he said. Tata Sky on Wednesday said the government’s decision to grant licences to the operators for a longer 20 years would provide certainty to the industry. “We are grateful to information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar for resolving the long-standing impasse on the DTH Licence policy which will provide certainty to the industry,” Tata Sky managing director and CEO Harit Nagpal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Tata Motors trucks to cost more||Tata Motors on Wednesday announced a price hike across its commercial vehicles, effective January 2021. The steady rise in material and other input costs, impact of forex and transition to BS-VI norms, have cumulatively escalated the cost of manufacturing vehicles. Prices are expected to increase across the portfolio of small, medium heavy and light commercial vehicle and buses. The actual change in price will depend on individual model, variant and fuel type. Nissan India has also announced a price hike of up to 5 per cent across its models. The revised prices will be applicable across all available models for Nissan and Datsun, including the recently launched Nissan Magnite, effective January 2021. The Magnite was launched at an introductory price of Rs 4.99 lakh. From January, however, the price will be revised to Rs 5.44 lakh onwards. Nissan sells the Nissan Kicks and the G-TR under the Nissan brand. Under Datsun, it sells the Datsun redi-Go in 0.8 litre and 1 litre options, the Datsun Go and the Datsun Go+. Piaggio scooter Piaggio India on Wednesday launched its premium scooter Aprilia SXR 160 priced at Rs 1.26 lakh (ex-showroom Pune).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Honda shifts to Rajasthan to improve business efficiency||Honda Cars India Ltd (HCIL) on Wednesday announced a realignment of its manufacturing operations to improve business efficiency. It was earlier reported that the Japanese company has shut down production at its Greater Noida plant. The company confirmed this on Wednesday, stating that HCIL has decided to consolidate the manufacturing operations for vehicles and components at its Tapukara plant in Rajasthan with immediate effect for all domestic sales and exports. While it has stopped production, all head office functions, the India R&D centre and spare parts operations will continue to operate from the Greater Noida unit. Gaku Nakanishi, president and CEO, Honda Cars India, said, “Despite an uptick in sales in the last three months, the current market conditions remain unpredictable for the industry at large. The impact of Covid-19 has pressed us to strengthen our constitution, and to achieve the same, HCIL has decided to consolidate its manufacturing operations by making the Tapukara plant a unified manufacturing base.” HCIL continues to believe in the resilience of the Indian economy and hope for a quicker recovery of the market. India is extremely important market in Honda’s global strategy and HCIL is committed to bring its latest and advanced technology models including electrified vehicles in future.” HCIL’s Tapukara plant spreads over 450 acres with an installed production capacity of 1,80,000 units/annum and is an integrated manufacturing unit. With resumption of operations after the Covid-19- led lockdown, HCIL ramped-up its daily production volume to pre-Covid level from September 2020, and has been consistently witnessing monthly sales growth for the last three months. HCIL sales showed good recovery in the festive period and the company expects to sustain this sales momentum during the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Paper mills seek 25% duty hike||Domestic paper mills have sought a hike in basic customs duty on import of paper and paperboard to 25 per cent and have urged the Centre to review its free trade agreements. Both under India-ASEAN FTA and India-Korea CEPA, import of paper in India is currently at nil rates of duty. Under Asia Pacific Trade Agreement, India has extended import tariff concessions to China and other countries and offered 30 per cent margin of preference, reducing the basic customs duty from 10 per cent to 7 per cent on most grades of paper, industry body Indian Paper Mills Association (Ipma) said on Wednesday. In the last nine years, imports have risen at a compounded annual growth rate of 11.34 per cent in value terms (from Rs 3,411 crore in 2010-11 to Rs 8,972 crore in 2019-20), and 13.23 per cent in volume terms (from 0.54 million tonnes in 2010-11 to 1.64 million tonnes in 2019-20). Ipma said that the import policy on paper should be changed from ‘Free’ to ‘Restricted’ to curb unfair practices such as under-invoicing, mis-declaration and dumping. The association has also called for a Paper Import Monitoring System to check the dumping of paper. “Imports at concessional/nil rates from low-cost producing countries is discouraging domestic investment in capacity expansion,” said A.S. Mehta, president of Ipma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh to borrow more after reforms in urban local bodies||The Centre has allowed two states — Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh — to borrow additional financial resources of Rs 4,898 crore following reforms in urban local bodies, the finance ministry said on Wednesday. The two states have successfully completed the set of reforms required in the functioning 
of ULBs as specified by the department of expenditure. “Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have been granted permission to mobilise additional financial resources to the tune of Rs 4,898 crore through open market borrowings. Out of these, Andhra Pradesh has received permission for Rs 2,525 crore, while Madhya Pradesh has been permitted to mobilise additional Rs 2,373 crore,” the ministry said in a statement. Reforms in the urban local bodies and the urban utilities are aimed at strengthening them financially and to enable them to provide better public health and sanitation services. Economically rejuvenated ULBs will also be able to create good civic infrastructure, the ministry said. The Centre had in May enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their Gross States Domestic Product (GSDP). Half of this special dispensation was linked to undertaking citizen centric reforms by the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
24-12-2020||Business||Plea to extend tax audit date||Tax professionals have urged finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to extend the last date of filing tax audit reports under the provisions of section 44AB till February 28. They have also pleaded for an extension of the date for filing tax returns for the assessment year 2020-21 in audit cases till March 31. N.K. Goyal, president of the Direct Taxes Professionals Association (DTPA), said the coronavirus pandemic had wrought havoc with businesses and tax assessees needed more time to grapple with the crisis without being burdened with the compulsions of compliance. The argument is that the government should cut these assessees some slack in a manner that will not impact tax collections for the fiscal year and ought not to affect the arithmetic for next year’s budget. The dates needed to be extended as many tax professionals had suffered from Covid-19, Goyal added. Narayan Jain, chairman of the DTPA representation committee, has also urged the government to extend the date for filing declarations under the Vivad Se Vishwas (VSV) scheme from December 31 till February 28. Jain believes that the scheme is still dogged by procedural infirmities. He claims that in many cases, the assessing officers have not been able to give effect to rectification petitions and appeal effects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
24-12-2020||Business||RBI asks banks to raise capital||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das has asked banks to take proactive measures to strengthen their resilience and lending capacity by raising capital, the central bank said in a statement on Wednesday. During a two-day meeting with the heads of banks, including the private sector lenders, the governor emphasised on the need to remain vigilant and make provisions against bad loans proactively. Das had held similar meetings in May as well. He had also met representatives of other financial institutions such as NBFCs and microfinance lenders. The RBI, in its statement, said Das held meetings with the MDs and CEOs of public sector banks and select private sector lenders on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, through video conferencing. The meetings were also attended by the RBI’s deputy governors. During the meetings, Das touched upon the current economic situation and emphasised on the importance of the banking sector to support the ongoing revival in economic activities, the RBI said. With specific reference to the financial sector, he highlighted the measures taken by the central bank since the onset of the pandemic to stabilise the economy and ensure financial stability. “With regard to the banking sector, he reiterated the need for banks to remain vigilant and take proactive measures to strengthen their resilience and lending capacity by raising capital and making provisions proactively,” the RBI said. Assessment of the current economic situation and outlook; and monetary policy transmission and liquidity situation too came up for deliberations. The release further said credit flow to different sectors, including stressed segments and MSMEs, was discussed. Other issues which came up for discussion included progress in the implementation of resolution framework for Covid-related stressed assets; progress in making the identified districts in states/UTs 100 per cent digitally enabled and improving grievance redress mechanisms. Digital lending caution The Reserve Bank on Wednesday cautioned the public not to fall prey to the growing number of unauthorised digital lending platforms and mobile apps. In a release, the Reserve Bank noted that there have been reports about individuals/small businesses falling prey to such unauthorised platforms and apps which promise quick and hassle-free loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
24-12-2020||Business||Centre bid to check fake invoicing||The finance ministry has asked businesses with a monthly turnover of over Rs 50 lakh to mandatorily pay at least 1 per cent of their GST liability in cash as the Centre moves to check fake invoicing. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has introduced Rule 86B in Goods and Services Tax (GST) rules which restricts the use of input tax credit (ITC) for discharging GST liability to 99 per cent. “The registered person shall not use the amount available in electronic credit ledger to discharge his liability towards output tax in excess of 99 per cent of tax liability, in cases where the value of taxable supply ... in a month exceeds Rs 50 lakh,” the CBIC said. While calculating the turnover threshold, sales from GST exempt goods and zero rates supply would not be included. However, this restriction will not apply where the managing director or any partner have paid more than Rs 1 lakh as income tax or the registered person has received a refund amount of more than Rs 1 lakh in the preceding financial year on account of unutilised input tax credit. GSTR-1 curbs Further, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has amended the GST rules restricting the filing of outward supply details in GSTR-1 for businesses that have not paid tax for the past periods by filing GSTR 3B. So far, until now, non-filing of GSTR 3B resulted in blockage of e-way bill but will now result in GSTR 1 blockage as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
24-12-2020||Business||Centre told to pay $1.2bn to Cairn||An international arbitration tribunal has directed the Indian government to pay $1.2 billion in damages to UK’s Cairn Energy — the second such embarrassing loss for the Modi government following the one to Vodafone in another arbitration matter just three months back. Both the cases were against a controversial 2012 retrospective tax legislation  that gave the Indian government the power to go after M&A deals all the way back to 1962 if the underlying asset was in India. The international arbitration tribunal ruled unanimously that India had breached its obligations to Cairn under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty and awarded Cairn damages of $1.2 billion plus interest and costs, Cairn Energy said in its statement. In September, the government had lost a $2-billion retrospective tax against Vodafone. The second loss is particularly jarring to the Modi government as it may have to make the payments to Cairn Energy at a time its revenues have got depleted by the coronavirus pandemic. The three-member international arbitration tribunal in The Hague, which also comprised a nominee of the Indian government, unanimously ruled that India’s claim of Rs 10,247 crore in past taxes over a 2006-07 internal reorganisation of Cairn’s India business was not a valid demand. India had “failed to accord the claimants’ (Cairn Energy’s) investments fair and equitable treatment” under the bilateral investment protection pact the nation had with the UK, the tribunal said in a 582-page order. The tribunal ordered the government to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover the tax demand. The government was asked to compensate Cairn “for the total harm suffered” together with interest and cost of arbitration, according to the order. The finance ministry said it would be studying the award in the arbitration case under the India-UK Agreement for Promotion and Protection of Investments invoked by Cairn Energy Plc and Cairn UK Holdings Limited in “all its aspects carefully in consultation with its counsel”. “After such consultations, the government will consider all options and take a decision on further course of action, including legal remedies before appropriate fora,” it said in a statement. Cairn said: “The tribunal established to rule on its claim against the government of India has found in Cairn’s favour… The tribunal ruled unanimously that India had breached its obligations to Cairn under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty and has awarded to Cairn damages of $.2 billion-plus interest and costs, which now becomes payable,” Cairn Energy said in a statement. “Perhaps the outcome shall lead to alterations in the decision to appeal against the Vodafone ruling, for which India was awaiting the award in this particular case,” Sonam Chandwani, managing partner at KS Legal & Associates, a law firm said. Chandwani said the government would have to shell out huge sums, in each of the two consecutive blows on Delhi. Consequently, India might be eyeing key changes in prevalent laws to mitigate the loss, including the withdrawal of the 2012 amendment to settle the tax disputes. Rishab Gupta, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said if the Centre wanted to challenge the award, it would have to do so in the Dutch courts as the seat of the arbitration was The Hague. The Indian government would have three months from the date of the award to file any challenge. “In the meantime, Cairn would be entitled to enforce the damages award world-wide against India’s assets, as long as those assets are not immune from enforcement,” Gupta said. Cairn had challenged the Indian government seeking taxes over an internal business reorganisation using the 2012 retrospective tax law, under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty. Cairn Energy, which gave the country its biggest oil discovery, was in March 2015 slapped with a tax demand of Rs 10,247 crore over alleged capital gains it made by reorganising its India unit into a separate subsidiary for listing on local stock exchanges. Cairn Energy in 2010-11 sold Cairn India to Vedanta but held a small stake in the firm, which was sold by the tax department to partly recover the tax demand. In September 2020, international arbitration court ruled that the Indian government seeking Rs 22,100 crore in taxes from Vodafone using retrospective legislation was in "breach of the guarantee of fair and equitable treatment" guaranteed under the bilateral investment protection pact between India and the Netherlands. This is the second loss the government has suffered in three months over the retrospective levy of taxes. In September, UK's Vodafone Group won an international arbitration against the demand of Rs 22,100 crore in taxes. Sources said the government had so far not appealed against the arbitration loss in the Vodafone case and the Cairn arbitration award may hasten a decision on it. The government, which does not have to pay any monetary compensation to Vodafone, had till December 24 to challenge the award before a court in Singapore - which was the seat of that arbitration. The government has to reimburse Vodafone 60 per cent of its legal costs and half of the 6,000 euros cost borne by Vodafone for appointing an arbitrator on the panel. Sources said the Government of India's liability came to Rs 85 crore in legal cost. Since coming to power in 2014, the Modi government has maintained it will not go in for more retrospective taxation, a move that was taken by the previous UPA regime. But it never withdrew the cases, which has been a cause of concern for international firms. Under the UPA regime, then-finance minister Pranab Mukherjee had proposed amending the Income Tax Act, 1961, with retrospective effect, with the aim of allowing the country to retrospectively tax cross-border transactions in which the underlying assets are located in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-193
