25-12-2020||Business||Govt to contest Vodafone ruling in Singapore court ||In a move that is likely to spook foreign investors, India has appealed in Singapore an international arbitration court ruling in favour of British telecom giant Vodafone Plc over a tax demand for Rs 22,100 crore by the government. The government is also expected to challenge a similar arbitration ruling announced on Wednesday by the same court based in The Hague involving Cairn Plc in which the energy heavyweight was awarded damages and costs totalling over Rs 8,800 crore. Vodafone won its high-profile arbitration case three months ago and the company hoped this would close the lid on its bitter dispute with the government involving retroactive tax claims. The government’s appeal of the Vodafone ruling was filed on the final day of the 90-day deadline to approach the Singapore court. The government is keen to pursue a uniform approach in the cases of both Vodafone and Cairn and India has “the sovereign right of taxation,” according to a government official. The country is not bound to abide by the decisions of an international arbitration court, the official said. The same tribunal invalidated the government’s $2.75 billion tax claim made in 2015 on Cairn Energy, which now belongs to Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta Resources, and also ordered the government to return up to $1,.4 billion in funds withheld, interest and costs, to the firm. Both Vodafone and Cairn had filed their challenges to the government’s tax demands under bilateral investment treaties. The sum awarded to Cairn by the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague is regarded in official circles in New Delhi as so large that the cash-strapped government has no option but to appeal. Cairn had said that the government’s tax claim violated a bilateral investment treaty between Britain and India. Back in September in its decision on Vodafone, the Permanent Court of Arbitration held that the government had broken provisions of the India-Netherlands Bilateral Investment Treaty in making its tax demand by retrospectively by changing the law. The tribunal said that New Delhi’s 2012 law empowering itself to make tax demands concerning cross-border deals all the way back to 1962, citing “underlying Indian assets” was in breach of the investment treaty. For foreign investors who prize tax certainty in making investment decisions, the government’s move to appeal will be a cause for alarm. Investors had hoped that the government would accept the Vodafone and Cairn verdicts and realise that retroactive taxation has no place in law. The decision to appeal could hurt Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to woo business to India and away from China. Modi had promised the international investment community in 2016 that its concerns about India’s retrospective taxation legislation had been heeded. “Retroactive taxation is a matter of the past. That chapter will not be opened again. We are ensuring that neither this government nor future governments can open this chapter,” he told the India-France Business Summit. At the same time, the government is unwilling to cede any ground to foreigners in taxation matters. India’s Solicitor General Tushar Mehta also said that it is a question of law — that an international arbitration panel cannot declare legislation passed by a sovereign parliament “unenforceable.” He said on those grounds alone India “must challenge the said award and must file all available proceedings to challenge the award.” The three-person arbitration panel’s decisions were unanimous in both the September ruling in favour of Vodafone and the December judgment upholding Cairn’s case. Earlier this month, Modi reviewed the Vodafone ruling at an inter-ministerial group meeting at which the law ministry supported an appeal of the arbitration decision. The appeal of the Vodafone ruling by the Indian government came as the British company received more bad news about its Indian operations. Figures released by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India showed that Vodafone Idea’s net mobile subscriber numbers have fallen even further behind its biggest competitors. While Reliance Jio Infocomm’s subscribers rose by 2.2 million to 406 million by the end of October and Bharti Airtel’s subscribers jumped by 3.7 million to 330 million, Vodafone Idea’s customer base slid by 2.7 million to 293 million. The Cairn case resulted from a reorganisation of the energy firm under which Cairn UK transferred shares of Cairn India Holdings to Cairn India. India’s tax department maintained that the reorganisation ahead of the listing of Cairn India in 2007 involved capital gains of over Rs 24,000 crore for Cairn that it was entitled to tax. The Indian tax claim against Vodafone followed the British company’s $11.1 billion purchase in 2007 of a majority stake in the Indian cellphone unit of Hong Kong’s Hutchison Whampoa. Indian tax officials contended Vodafone should have withheld the amount the vendor was due to pay in capital gains tax when it bought the stake. But Vodafone argued it was exempt because the deal took place in the Cayman Islands and both the buyer and seller were foreign. Vodafone also noted it was the purchaser and made no gain on the deal. India’s Supreme Court ruled in 2012 that “Indian tax authorities had no jurisdiction to tax Vodafone” as it was an overseas transaction. But then parliament reimposed the levy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Bectors jumps  107% over offer price||Investors who had picked up shares of Mrs Bectors Food Specialities at its initial public offering (IPO) on Thursday saw the value of their holdings double as it made a strong debut on the bourses. The scrip settled at Rs 595.55, a gain of nearly 107 per cent to its issue price of Rs 288 per share. On the BSE, the share listed at Rs 501, a gain of almost 74 per cent to its issue price. The counter built upon these gains to touch an intra-day high of Rs 601.20 and later ended at Rs 595.55, which was higher by Rs 307.55 to the issue price of Rs 288. Compared with the opening price, its close represented a gain of almost 19 per cent. On the first day, the scrip had a market cap of Rs 3,498.65 crore on the BSE. On the NSE, the scrip settled at Rs 592.50, rising over 105 per cent over the issue price. Close to 3,70,66,792 shares were transacted at the exchange, resulting in a traded value of Rs 2,126.93 crore. The IPO of the biscuits and bakery player was subscribed by a huge 198 times as it received bids for 262 crore shares against 1.3 crore shares on offer. The price band for the offering was Rs 286-288 apiece and the float comprised a fresh issue of Rs 40.54 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to Rs 500 crore. On its last day of subscription, bids from high net worth individuals were over 652 times, while it was 178 times in the case of qualified institutional buyers and over 29.50 times from retail investors. Anupam Rasayan Specialty chemical company Anupam Rasayan has filed preliminary papers with market regulator Sebi to raise Rs 760 crore through an initial public offering. The Surat-based company has decided to reserve a portion for its employees and may consider a discount for eligible staff. Anupam Rasayan commenced operations in 1984 with conventional products and now it makes speciality chemicals that involve multi-step synthesis and complex chemistries Proceeds of the issue would be used mainly for repayment of debt, the company said in the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP). The company is present in the premium and mid-premium biscuits segment and the premium bakery segment. It manufactures and markets a range of its biscuits such as cookies, creams, crackers, digestives and glucose under its flagship brand ‘Mrs. Bector’s Cremica’. It also makes bakery products that include breads, buns, pizza bases and cakes under its brand ‘English Oven. It is also the largest supplier of buns in India to QSR chains like Burger King, McDonald’s, and KFC. It also sells a variety of its bakery and frozen products to cloud kitchens. Further, the company is also one of the leading exporters of biscuits from India, and exports biscuits under its own brand, as well as under third party private labels to more than 64 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Govt to launch coal import monitoring system||The government plans to launch the coal import monitoring system from February, making it mandatory for importers to disclose future shipments. Importers of coking coal, steam coal and bituminous coal would have to gain a permit ahead of deliveries, the commerce and industry ministry said. The move is expected to encourage domestic coal production and make the recently auctioned commercial coal mining viable in the country. “The coal import monitoring system (CIMS) shall require importers to submit advance information in an online system for import of items and obtain an automatic registration number,” it said. The government has a similar system for steel imports. The proposed monitoring system will allow the government to keep an updated record of import volumes, with details of specific grades. The coal import data is at present compiled with a lag of two to three months. The information on imports could also help the government to fine-tune its policies to discourage coal imports. The data may enable state-controlled coal producers, including Coal India (CIL), to reach out to the importer, in case the requirement can be matched from domestic sources. Dumping duty on steel The government may impose an anti-dumping duty for five years on certain type of steel products from a few countries, including Japan and Korea, to guard domestic players from cheap imports as the commerce ministry has recommended for the same. According to a notification by the ministry’s investigation arm DGTR, the duty “is recommended to be imposed for five years” on imports of “flat-rolled products of stainless steel” from regions, including the European Union, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, and Taiwan. According to a notification of the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT), import policy of these items “shall be subject to CIMS”. The CIMS shall require importers to submit advance information in an online system for imports of items and obtain an automatic registration number by paying a registration fee of Re 1 per thousand, subject to a minimum of Rs 500 and maximum of Rs 1 lakh, on the CIF (cost, insurance, freight) value. “The importer can apply for registration not earlier than 60 days and not later than the 15th day before the expected date of arrival of import consignment,” it said. The registration number would be valid for 75 days. “The importer shall have to enter the registration number and expiry date of registration in the bill of entry to enable customs for clearance of consignment,” it added. CIMS will be effective from February 1, 2021 and the facility of online registration will be available from December 31 this year. The country's coal consumption was likely to rise in coming years, but it could vary widely, with 2030 demand seen anywhere between 1.15 billion tonnes and 1.75 billion tonnes. India's coal import saw a drop of 18.6 per cent to 116.81 million tonnes (MT) during April-October this fiscal as against the same period a year ago. Coal import in 2019-20 was at 247.1 MT, about 5 per cent higher than 235.35 MT fuel imported during FY2018-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Oaktree hikes bid for DHFL by Rs 1,700 crore||The race to acquire troubled housing finance firm DHFL is turning out to be a tight one between Oaktree Capital and the Piramal group as the US-based asset management company on Thursday raised its bid by Rs 1,700 crore. Oaktree is now offering over Rs 38,300 crore. This is higher than its earlier tag of Rs 36,600 crore for the entire company. It may be recalled that the Piramal group had also raised  its offer for DHFL by Rs 1,700 crore recently. It had earlier proposed Rs 13,000 crore in upfront cash for its Rs 35,550- crore offer that included Rs 200 crore from the insurance stake sale and Rs 3,000 crore from the interest earned on the books of DHFL. Sources said that Oaktree is now offering an upfront payment of over Rs 17,000 crore and over Rs 300 crore to the fixed deposit holders of DHFL. Close to Rs 21,000 crore will be paid in the form of non convertible debentures. In the case of the Piramal offer, this stands at over Rs 19,000 crore. The latest development came as the committee of creditors met on Thursday for a final evaluation of the three bids that were made by the Piramals, the Adani group and Oaktree Capital. The voting window will open for 15 days before the result is known. The race has seen Oaktree writing to the committee of creditors seeking fair treatment in the evaluation of bids. In a letter sent to the creditors, it maintained that throughout the process, it has been the subject of “sustained campaign” to undermine its bid. One of the alleged  reasons for disqualifying it is that the asset management firm is a foreign investor and represents an implementation risk. The insurance joint venture of DHFL, in which Prudential International Holdings has 49 per cent, could reportedly pose as a hurdle to Oaktree as its acquisition of the housing finance firm would breach the FDI norms for the sector. Among the trio, the Adani group has not submitted an aggressive bid. It has put in a bid of Rs 33,000 crore, which includes an interest payment of Rs 1,000 crore and around Rs 250 crore from the insurance stake sale. Excluding these two, its bid stands at over Rs 29,700 crore. Of the total amount, the group is proposing an upfront payment of Rs 11,000 crore in cash. DHFL’s erstwhile promoter Kapil Wadhawan had also proposed to the administrator of DHFL and other agencies to repay all the creditors without any haircut to them. "My proposal provides for a full repayment of 100 per cent principal to all creditors within 7-8 years with an upfront payment of Rs 9,000 crore,’’ he had said in a letter to the administrator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Gujarat, Maharashtra lag in recovery||The western states of Gujarat and Maharashtra have seen the slowest recovery since June following the nationwide lockdown, according to the RBI’s Coincident Index which is based on some daily high frequency variables. According to the CI, the northern region saw the sharpest recovery in June followed by positive momentum in July. Bengal reported a sharp upturn in October and sustained a positive momentum in November. The Coincident Index ( CI) is constructed with four indicators representing a mix of demand and supply dynamics and based on availability of data at daily frequency at the state level: (i) total vehicle registrations; (ii) electricity consumption; (iii) air quality index; and iv) Google and Apple mobility data. The Reserve Bank of India has undertaken a study to assess the "dynamics of economic activity at state level in India by constructing a Coincident Index (CI) with daily high frequency variables." The study forms part of the bulletin for December released today. The Coincident Index ( CI) is constructed with four indicators representing a mix of demand and supply dynamics and based on availability of data at daily frequency at the state level: (i) total vehicle registrations; (ii) electricity consumption; (iii) air quality index; and iv) Google and Apple mobility data. What it reveals: As per CIs, Northern region saw the sharpest recovery in June followed by positive momentum in July, while the Western states of Gujarat and Maharashtra saw the slowest recovery, which was prolonged till end-July and first week of August. Notably, CIs for states across regions registered sharp upturn in October. Even though some moderation was recorded in first half of November, momentum remained positive and revived in the second half in most states. Furthermore, CI has a positive and statistically significant relationship with growth in industrial output.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||RBI prods govt to spend to accelerate economic recovery||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has subtly asked the Centre to provide more fiscal support to accelerate economic recovery even as it pointed out that the Indian economy is coming out of the trough faster than most of the predictions. This observation formed part of its December monthly bulletin which is issued by the department of economic and policy research. “Although still significant headwinds persist on the path to a durable recovery, steadfast efforts by all stakeholders could help in recouping lost incomes and/or putting back India on a faster growth trajectory,” the RBI said in a hint that the government should not rest with the fiscal support measures it has given so far. Turnaround factors According to the RBI, there are two factors that are responsible for the turnaround in the Indian economy. The first is that of India bending the Covid infection curve. Since mid-September, barring localised surges, infections are slanting week after week, and the recovery rate is nudging 95 per cent. The second was the fiscal stimulus, which the report forecast will improve growth by around two percentage point in the current fiscal. “Starting out with liquidity/guarantee and cash/kind support to the economy —  the need of the hour when the pandemic struck and displaced crores from their lives and livelihoods — it is transiting in a calibrated fashion to supporting investment and consumption demand. ” “The fiscal measures have been sequenced in a designed shift in focus from consumption expenditure in Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) to investment expenditure in Aatma Nirbhar 2.0 and 3.0. On the whole, the above-the-line fiscal stimulus will likely boost growth by close to 2 per cent of GDP in 2020-21,” the bulletin said. The total size of the fiscal package, including measures announced by the RBI, stands at Rs 29,87,641 crore. The RBI here said that a change in fiscal variable (government expenditure or taxation) leads to a “fiscal multiplier”. Stimulus impact “Using these multipliers and based on the fiscal stimulus measures announced so far, it is estimated that government expenditure will add 159 basis points and 158 basis points to growth in 2020-21 and 2021-22, respectively. Here again, the impact of government stimulus measures is likely to pan out in the second half of the current financial year, operating mainly through the investment revival channel,” the report observed. The central bank had said in its previous bulletin that the economy could return to positive growth (after two quarters of contraction) in the October-December 2020 period. “Over the month gone by, more evidence has been turned in to show that the Indian economy is pulling out of COVID-19’s deep abyss and is breaking out amidst winter’s lengthening shadows towards a place in the sunlight. First, the National Statistical Office’s (NSO) end-November release delivered a pleasant surprise – the pandemic-imposed retrenchment of the first quarter 2020-21 turned out to be much shallower in the second quarter and the economy is reflating at a pace that beats most prediction’’, the bulletin said. It added that real GDP growth could break out into positive territory in the third quarter - albeit, to a slender 0.1 per cent. The report further pointed out that an analysis of 12-months ahead forward earnings shows improvement in the outlook for a large number of companies. Here, sectors like auto and capital goods, which had been hit hard by the lockdown are expecting a turnaround in forward earnings. Similarly, firms in the healthcare, information technology (IT) and fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector are sighting stronger earnings outlook. Moreover, intrinsic strength in the manufacturing and services sectors is being built as debt servicing capacity is getting reinforced and leverage is being brought down. On the other hand India’s farm sector is also forging ahead, backed by path-breaking marketing reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Walmart-owned Flipkart rejigs board||Flipkart has rejigged its board with the addition of Flipkart Group CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy, HDFC vice-chairman and CEO Keki Mistry and two others. The Walmart-owned firm is set to go public over the next couple of years. In an email to employees, Krishnamurthy said the new year will see some changes to its board as four of its current directors will step down after steering the company through the first two years following Walmart’s investment. These include Rajesh Magow, Rohit Bhagat, Steuart Walton and Dirk van den Berghe. “We are sad to see all four step down, but delighted that we will not have to say goodbye to any of them; Rajesh and Dirk will continue to support us in an advisory capacity, Steuart will continue to sponsor us from the Walmart board, and Rohit will be chairing the PhonePe board,” he added. He added that four new directors will be added to the board from next year. “I am happy to share with you all that at the meeting earlier this month, the  board was highly appreciative of all our efforts this year, expressed pride in the progress we have made and looked forward to seeing the next chapter of our development,” Krishnamurthy said. Apart from him and Mistry, two new directors from Walmart — Suresh Kumar and Leigh Hopkins - will join the board. Kumar is Walmart's global Chief Technology Officer as well as Chief Development Officer, while Hopkins is Executive Vice President of Strategy and Development for Walmart International. In 2018, Walmart Inc invested $ 16 billion for acquiring 77 per cent stake in Flipkart, and earlier this year, it led a $ 1.2 billion funding round in the e-tailer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Centre to contest Vodafone tax ruling||India has challenged in a Singapore court an international tribunal verdict that overturned its Rs 22,000-crore tax claim on Vodafone Group Plc, sources said. The Centre has challenged the arbitration award on the sovereign right to levy tax and not on the tax demand per se, the sources added. All the signs indicate that the Centre is preparing to adopt a similar approach in the Cairn Energy case, too, where the verdict has gone against the country. Shares of Vodafone Idea fell 5.87 per cent to Rs 9.94 against previous close of Rs 9.56 on the BSE. On September 25, an international arbitration court had rejected the Indian revenue authorities’ demand of Rs 22,100 crore in back taxes and penalties relating to the British telecom giant’s 2007 acquisition of the mobile phone operations of Hutchison Whampoa. India had 90 days to file an appeal against the tribunal award, and the same was done in a Singapore court earlier this week. Sources said the appeal against the arbitration was on the ground that “India has a right to tax and no one can take this sovereign right from India. This will definitely have an impact on the Cairn tax issue”. The decision to challenge the verdict came after deliberations within the government at the highest levels. Sources said the government was in favour of a uniform approach in both the Cairn and Vodafone cases. While the Cairn award was a significant hit on the government’s finances; not appealing against the Vodafone case would have set a precedent. On Wednesday, the same arbitration court in The Hague had asked the government to pay Cairn Energy $1.2 billion in damages relating to a tax demand against the British company. India has been asked to pay with interest the value of shares it sold, the dividend it seized, and tax refunds it withheld to recover part of tax demand from the British firm. The government, the sources said, is expected to challenge this ruling too given the size of the award. Both Vodafone and Cairn had challenged the tax demands under bilateral investment protection treaties and initiated the arbitration. Sources said the government believes that taxation is not covered under investment protection treaties with various countries and the law on taxation is a sovereign right of the country. While the treaties between the countries are primarily aimed at the protection of investments, the tax is levied on “returns” earned by entities. In the case of Vodafone, the tribunal ruled the Centre’s imposition of a tax liability was in breach of the investment treaty agreement between India and the Netherlands. The government has to reimburse Vodafone 60 per cent of its legal costs and half of  the euro 6,000-cost borne by Vodafone to appoint an arbitrator on the panel. Sources said the government of India’s liability came to Rs 85 crore in legal cost. Vodafone had challenged before the arbitration tribunal the demand for Rs 7,990 crore in capital gains taxes, which rose to Rs 22,100 crore after including interest and penalty under the Netherlands-India Bilateral Investment Treaty. The demand related to Vodafone’s $11-billion acquisition of a 67 per cent stake in the mobile phone business owned by Hutchison Whampoa in 2007. The revenue authorities felt the deal was designed to avoid capital gain tax in India and imposed a tax demand, which was rejected by the Supreme Court in 2012. To stop abuse and plug the loophole of such indirect transfer of Indian assets, the government in 2012 amended the law to make such transfers taxable in India, they said, adding Vodafone was slapped with a fresh demand which the firm contested through international arbitration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||China announces anti-monopoly investigation on Alibaba||Chinese regulators on Thursday announced an anti-monopoly investigation of e-commerce giant Alibaba Group, stepping up the ruling Communist Party’s efforts to control fast-growing tech industries. President Xi Jinping’s government worries about the dominance of competitors such as Alibaba, the world’s biggest e-commerce company by sales volume, and Tencent Holding, operator of the popular WeChat messaging service and Asia’s most valuable tech company. Regulators appear to be especially concerned about controlling private sector companies that are expanding into online banking at a time when Beijing is trying to reduce financial risks. The ruling party says anti-monopoly enforcement, especially in tech industries, will be a priority next year. Since early November, regulators have tightened the reins by suspending the stock market debut of an online finance platform affiliated with Alibaba and summoned industry executives to warn them against trying to suppress competition. “The era of free growth and ultra-high growth is really over,” said Francis Lun, CEO of Geo Securities Ltd in Hong Kong. “The government will decide what you can do.” Thursday’s announcement said the state administration of market regulation is looking into Alibaba’s policy of “choose one of two”, which requires business partners to avoid dealing with its competitors. The one-sentence statement gave no details of possible penalties or a timeline to announce a result. Proposed rules issued in November would ban exclusive contracts, subsidies and other tactics regulators say hurt competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Dalmia Cement ups capacity in Bengal||Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited has expanded its capacity in Bengal by 2.3 million tonnes at an investment of Rs 360 crore, taking the total capacity of the cement major in the state to 4 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) and pushing the total investment to around Rs 600 crore. The expansion comes amid expectations of revival in demand following business disruption because of Covid. Demand for cement, including pent up demand, is anticipated from infrastructure projects and affordable housing. The expansion in Bengal would be followed by brownfield capacity addition of 2.3mtpa in Odisha. The cement maker also plans to revamp operations of Murli Industries with 3 mtpa capacity in Maharashtra. “Today we are at around 29 mt approximately and we should be going to 31 mt by the first quarter of the next financial year and by the third quarter we should be around 34mt,” said Ujjwal Batria, COO, Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited. He added that the company plans to produce blended cement to ensure reduced carbon footprint as part of its plans to become carbon negative by 2040. Demand for cement has been gradually improving in the third quarter. “The pandemic had a big impact on the first quarter and there was low demand. But we have seen growth coming back in the third quarter. But even with this, growth for the year will be at around 3-5 per cent is what we anticipate today. We will also have the benefit of pent up demand. Lot of focus on infrastructure and low cost housing projects and this gives us hope that going forward demand will look up,” he said. Indrajit Chatterji, executive director and head — sales and marketing (east) —  said demand for cement has improved in the east in the last couple months. “The biggest advantage of this addition would be the supply commitment of around 8-12 hours by road. This will enable the channel partners to get the product well on time,” said Chatterji. Market analysts are also bullish about the demand scenario. “Buoyant demand scenario combined with support from offtake in government infrastructure projects provided a filip to the industry with current revised expectations of flattish growth for FY21,” said Kunal Shah, analyst, institutional equities, Yes Securities. But pricing in the eastern market is expected to remain under pressure on account of capacity addition, Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-191
25-12-2020||Business||Adani Power cancels Odisha power pact||Adani Power on Thursday said the agreement to acquire a 49 per cent stake in Odisha Power Generation Corporation (OPGC) from the affiliates of the AES Corporation, is formally cancelled now. The Odisha government, which holds a 51 per cent stake in OPGC, had exercised the right of first refusal (RoFR) to purchase the 49 per cent stake held by AES. In June this year, Adani Power announced it had signed a share sale and purchase agreement to acquire from AES OPGC Holding and AES India Pvt Ltd (collectively referred as sellers) a total of 89,30,237 equity shares held in OPGC representing 49 per cent of the total issued, paid-up and subscribed equity share capital. OPGC operates a 1,740MW thermal power plant at Banharpalli in Jharsuguda district, Odisha. This plant is the mainstay of Odisha for base load power supply and among the lowest cost power generators in the state. The plant has a long-term power purchase agreement valid for 25 years with the state-owned off taker GRIDCO and sources fuel from a nearby captive mine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-192
