26-12-2020||Business||Brexit deal breaks FTA thaw||With the European Union and the UK clinching a post-Brexit trade pact, India should now aggressively pursue free trade agreements (FTAs) separately with both the regions, according to experts. Although it is premature to assess the gains for India from the agreement between the European Union (EU) and the UK, Indian goods would not get much benefit from this pact, they said. However, India can explore opportunities in service sectors such as IT, architecture, research and development and engineering in both the markets as the EU-UK pact does not cover services, they added. “There is not much gain for Indian goods, but we can gain in the services sector in both the UK and EU markets. We will gain more in the UK market as we are an English speaking country,” Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) director-general Ajay Sahai said. He said there are no specific customs duty benefits for domestic goods from this agreement. “Now we should push the FTA negotiations with both the EU and the UK. Indian competitors like Vietnam have greater duty advantage in sectors like apparel and marine goods,” Sahai said. Sharing similar views with Sahai, Biswajit Dhar, a professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said India had a lot of contentious issues while negotiating FTA with the EU. owever, after Brexit, the UK could have different stand on those issues and now “India should pursue FTA talks again with both the regions”. He added that there is a possibility of doing a favourable free trade pact with the UK. FIEO President Sharad Kumar Saraf said that India should now “aggressively” move on starting negotiations for FTA with both the EU and UK. “We have requested the government to sign an MoU (Memorandum of Understanding) regarding a deadline to conclude FTA talks with Britain during the visit of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson next month in India,” Saraf said. Rakesh Mohan Joshi, professor at Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT), said that after the trade deal with the EU and the UK, India will get a better opportunity to cater to the demands of both the markets. “But India needs to plan accordingly,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Central Bank sells housing arm||Centrum Housing Finance Ltd (CHFL) is acquiring the 64.40 per cent stake held by Central Bank of India in Cent Bank Home Finance (CBHFL) for Rs 160 crore. CBHFL is a financing and mortgage company jointly promoted by four public sector institutions — Central Bank of India, National Housing Bank, Specified Undertaking of Unit Trust of India and Housing and Urban Development Corporation (Hudco). The company’s asset under management stood at Rs 1,211.70 crore as on September 30, 2020. Total income was Rs 65.81 crore. At present, it operates through 18 branches and two extension offices in nine states in the country. “This is to inform that the bank has entered into a binding agreement to divest its entire equity stake of 64.40 per cent or 1,61,00,000 shares of face value of Rs 10 each in CBHFL, to Centrum Housing Finance, subject to approvals from regulatory authorities,” Central Bank of India told bourses. RBSA acted as the exclusive transaction adviser to the PSU bank for this transaction. Centrum Capital, the parent of Centrum Housing, said in a separate filing that the cost of acquisition is about Rs 160 crore on cash basis. “The company’s subsidiary, Centrum Housing Finance, has entered into a share purchase agreement with Central Bank of India for acquisition of the bank’s entire equity stake in CBHFL constituting 64.40 per cent of the share capital of CBHFL on a fully diluted basis,’’ Centrum Capital said in the filing. It added that the target entity is in the same line of business as the subsidiary, and therefore, this is a strategic acquisition.   ``This transaction forms a key part of the bank’s divestment programme to facilitate unlocking the value of its non-core investments,’’ Ajay Malik, MD & head of investment banking at RBSA said while commenting on the development.   Centrum Capital further said that the deal is expected to be closed in about two to three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Reliance Industries buys out IMG Worldwide stake||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) is buying out IMG Worldwide LLC from their sports management joint venture for Rs 52 crore. The oil-to-telecom giant said in a regulatory filing that it will buy IMG Worldwide’s 50 per cent stake in IMG-Reliance Ltd (IMG-R) for no more than Rs 52.08 crore in cash. RIL added that it will rebrand the company after the closure of the deal. RIL had formed an equal joint venture with IMG Worldwide, an international sports marketing and management company, in 2010 to develop, market and manage sports and entertainment in India. According to RIL’s annual report for 2019-20, it held more than 5.33 crore shares in the joint venture. The value of this holding was pegged at Rs 201 crore. The net worth attributable to its holding stood at Rs 99.18 crore. IMG-R had a turnover of Rs 181.70 crore (including GST of Rs 25.79 crore) and a net profit of Rs 16.35 crore in 2019-20. IMG is a global leader in sports, fashion, events and media, operating in more than 30 countries, and is a part of the Endeavor network. IMG-R is engaged in the business of creation, management, implementation and commercialisation of sporting, fashion and entertainment events in India. It focuses on consulting, licensing, events, talent representation and sponsorship management. The joint venture was in the news last month when it won the global mandate to market Cricket Australia’s ‘Virtual Inventory’ rights. “The company has entered into definitive agreements to acquire the shares held by IMG Singapore Pte Ltd in IMG-R, for a cash consideration not exceeding Rs 52.08 crore,” RIL said in the communication to the bourses. IMG Singapore Pte Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of IMG, holds 50 per cent of the share capital of IMG-R. RIL added that after the completion of the acquisition, IMG-R will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company and will be rebranded by the company. Direct-to-home operator Dish TV on Friday said it has received a demand notice from the government for payment of Rs 4,164.05 crore, which includes licence fee and interest. The ministry of information and broadcasting (MIB) through a letter dated December 24, 2020 asked the Essel group firm to pay the said sum towards licence fee from the period from the date of issuance of DTH licence till the financial year 2018-19, the company said in a regulatory filing. “No governmental or regulatory approvals are required for the aforesaid acquisition and the acquisition is expected to be completed during this calendar year,” RIL said while adding that the acquisition does not fall within related party transactions and none of RIL’s promoter or promoter group companies have any interest in the transaction. In 2010, RIL and IMG Worldwide had entered into an equal joint venture to build a professional sports business in India. Its move was expected to give a boost to the country’s sporting arena. The partners had said that the joint venture entity will have parallel complementary strategies to provide and operate world-class infrastructure and coaching facilities in the country to unlock India's sporting potential and to create and operate major sports and entertainment assets in the country. Reliance had said that developing athletic talent is a key component of the joint venture and that it will work with like-minded organisation and invest in developing immensely talented young Indians. IMG Academics was to provide management knowledge and coaching skills to the management and coaching teams of academies in India which will be managed by the joint venture entity. The joint venture was also slated to develop new sports and entertainment assets in India modelled on the structures of such assets in mature market places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Trade deal a priority with Biden in office||Asserting that the long due US-India mini trade deal should be on top of the agenda of the incoming Biden administration, US India Business Council president Nisha Desai Biswal has said that the ties between the two nations continued to be “strong and vibrant” and 2021 will provide important opportunities to broaden and deepen this partnership. India and the US are negotiating a deal to iron out differences on trade issues to boost economic ties. “The US-India relationship has continued to be strong and vibrant. That has been the case in the prior administration, in the current administration and I’m confident in the next one as well,” USIBC president Biswal said in an interview on Thursday, noting that the year 2020 started with the “strong and robust” visit of President Donald Trump to India. Despite the fact that the US and India weren’t able to see a mini trade deal launched, they did see that the robust strategic partnership was continuing to be advanced throughout the year, she said. Be it the defence ties, close co-ordination between the US and India on regional and global challenges, the third 2+2 ministerial or further strengthening of the QUAD grouping (India, the US, Japan and Australia) in the Indo-Pacific, the bilateral has continued to strengthen, Biswal noted. “Unfortunately, we haven’t seen the same level of progress on the trade front. That is something that both countries will need to reflect on...2021 perhaps (would) provide some important opportunities to broaden the US-India partnership, continue the deep strategic convergence and broaden the partnership to reflect on some additional areas of opportunity,” she said. Biswal, who in her capacity as the assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asia was one of the prime drivers of the India-US ties during the second term of the Obama administration, observed that the Covid-19 pandemic has underscored the importance that the two nations work together not only for the benefit of their own people but globally as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Fertilisers seek end to inverted duties||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman needs to address the inverted duty structure in the fertiliser sector in the Union budget for 2021-22 to boost domestic industry and cut the import bill. The industry is hopeful that the government as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat mission would reduce the import duty on non-urea fertiliser raw materials and increase it on finished products. “Globally, import duty on raw materials is kept lower than the finished products. But it is not so in our country and as a result we still face competition from imported finished phosphatic (P) and potassium (K) fertilisers,” said Satish Chander, director-general of the Fertiliser Association of India. He said the customs duty at 5 per cent on imported raw materials such as phosphoric acid and ammonia and 2.5 per cent on rock phosphate and sulphur is rendering domestic P&K fertiliser manufacturing uncompetitive vis-a-vis imports. Subsidy rate is the same for domestic and imported phosphatic and potassium fertilisers. Raw materials/intermediates should be exempted from customs duty, or, only a nominal rate of 1 per cent customs duty be levied. There is a need to increase the rate of customs duty on imported P&K fertilisers to encourage domestic value addition. The industry has requested the government to eliminate the customs duty or reduce it to 1 per cent on imported raw materials, viz-a-viz rock phosphate, ammonia which are the basic raw materials to produce phosphate fertilisers such as DAP. This will help boost domestic production and cut import bill. Moreover, the absence of time-bound refund of unutilised input tax credit and no refund against GST on input services also increase the cost of domestic production of P&K fertilisers. Under GST Law refund of Input Tax Credit (ITC) for fertiliser sector be made time bound like exports. Also, there is a need for differential subsidy for domestic and imported P&K fertilizers, he suggested. India imports about 60 % of DAP requirement & new investment in Phosphatic fertiliser has not been done for over a decade now. Timely Subsidy payment is critical for attracting new investment in the Phosphatic industry. Decreasing share of domestic natural gas in total supply to the urea sector over the years from 76% in 2012-13 to around 27% at present has increased the cost of energy for urea production and also the amount of subsidy. The government should bring more domestic gas into pool. LNG for new plants should be procured on auction basis to minimize gas cost. The industry body said there are always massive arrears and even now the payment for April-June quarter is not complete. "But, allocation of Rs 65,000 crore under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat should help clear all arrears and make the payment on a weekly basis as envisaged in Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) policy of the sector," he added. The government allocated Rs 71,000 crore for fertiliser subsidy in the 2020-21 financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Ikea loss widens to Rs 720 crore||Furniture retailer Ikea India saw its net loss widen to Rs 720.1 crore in the financial year ended March 2020, according to regulatory documents. The company had registered a loss of Rs 685.4 crore in the financial year ended March 2019, according to a Registrar of Companies filing shared by market intelligence firm Tofler. However, Ikea India saw its net sales grow 64.68 per cent to Rs 566 crore in 2019-20 from Rs 343.7 crore in the previous fiscal. Its total revenue during 2019-20 was at Rs 665.6 crore, up 63.18 per cent, against Rs 407.9 crore in the previous financial year. Ikea India, which has opened its second retail store this month in Mumbai, saw its revenue from “other income” in FY20 was at Rs 99.6 crore against Rs 64.2 crore in 2018-19. Ikea said India is an important market for the company and it is investing to offer customers an omnichannel experience. “India is an important market for Ikea. We are here in India for the long term. We are in the initial years of operations in the country where we are investing in our priority markets to offer customers an omnichannel experience,” said Ikea India CFO Preet Dhupar. Part of Ingka Group, Ikea India had opened its first retail store in Hyderabad in August 2018, followed by online stores in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Pune. Besides its new flagship store in Navi Mumbai, Ikea has plans to set up two stores in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Chinese ban on Australian coking coal to benefit Indian steel makers||The Chinese ban on Australian coking coal is expected to benefit Indian steel makers such as Tata Steel and JSW as the input raw material cost would remain low in the near term and boost domestic production. The cost of production for India’s steel producers using the blast furnace route would remain contained in the near term, supported by the negative bias on coking coal prices because of China’s ban on Australian coking coal. Softer coking coal prices shall directly support EBITDA/tonne accretion of around Rs 2,600 over 2020-21 for companies using the blast furnace route, India Ratingsand  Research (Ind-Ra) said in a research report. EBIDTA stands for earning before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation. Such companies are likely to have cut the cost of steel production around Rs 1,800 per tonne year-on-year in the second half of the fiscal, supported by the reduced cost of coking coal of around Rs 7,300 per tonne in the second half compared with Rs 9,100 per tonne in the corresponding period a year ago and Rs 10,000 per tonne in 2019-20. Chinese newspaper Global Times has said that China’s National Development and Reforms Commission had authorised the lifting of import controls on coal from all countries except for Australia. According to research and consultancy firm Woodmac, typical volumes to China are between 6 million tonnes and 10 million tonnes (thermal and metallurgical combined) but the estimated shipments were only 0.4 million tonnes (mt) in November. The implication of the Chinese ban on metallurgical (met) coal will be greater than on thermal coal because the volume of imported metallurgical coal is over 10 per cent of the seaborne market, while for thermal coal, it is less than 5 per cent. “Around 20 per cent of Australian met coal exports now have an uncertain future,” Woodmac added. Trade flows will shift now, as Australian coal firms look for new homes and higher volumes of non-Australia coking coals move to China. Ind-Ra said it expects Australia premium hard coking coal (HCC) CNF prices would be around $120 per tonne for the rest of the fiscal compared with $111 per tonne in November and $125 per tonne for the eight months of the fiscal. The rating agency  has assumed there would be no weather-related disruptions. China and Australia have been the largest coking coal traders. China imports 40 per cent of the coking coal, while Australia exports 65 per cent of coking coal in the world. Despite China’s healthy steel production growth of 7 per cent in the first seven months of the fiscal compared with 6 per cent growth in the previous year and 10 per cent in 2018-19, its coking coal imports have significantly reduced by 12 per cent against an increase of 14 per cent in the last fiscal, reflecting the country’s increased reliance on domestic coking coal. Considering the low coking coal imports by China, an excess supply would build up unless Australian miners reduce their output considerably. Ind-Ra said it expects  prices would remain soft although other major coking coal importers such as India, Japan and South Korea’s production levels have recovered to pre-Covid levels. Coking coal import prices plunged to a 52-month low by mid-November 2020, declining 27 per cent since early-October 2020, because of the reports of a verbal ban on Australian coal imports by China and in anticipation of an oversupply in the global market. Australian premium HCC prices have been under selling pressure as spot demand in Southeast Asian markets remained weak. China coking coal imports reduced 6 per cent month-on to 6.72mt  in September 2020, despite production remaining stable. As Chinese end-users are likely to increase their domestic coal production or import coking coal from countries such as Indonesia, Russia, Canada and the US, Indian buyers would gain more bargaining power with Australian coking coal. India and China have been the largest consumers of Australian coking coal, competing with each other and composing 25 per cent and 24 per cent  respectively, of Australia’s  metallurgical coal exports. Indian steel players have increased imports at 4% month on month and 19% m-o-m higher in September 2020 and October 2020, respectively, and this is indicative of strong domestic steel production in the coming months. Furthermore, the low coking coal prices have incentivised domestic steel players to increase imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
26-12-2020||Business||Fines on select deals get service tax relief||A recent ruling of the principal bench of the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), New Delhi, stating that service tax is not applicable on penalty arising out of a commercial contract in certain cases of “declared service” could affect tax claims of a similar nature under GST. The service tax department in April 2017 in a show cause notice to Coal India subsidiary — South Eastern Coalfields — stated that the company had evaded the  payment of service tax worth Rs 35.26 crore on Rs 266 crore collected as earnest money deposit forfeitures, penalty and liquidated damages from the buyers of coal, contractors and material suppliers during the period July 2012 till March 2016. The penalty is applicable on the buyers of coal for short lifting/non lifting of the contracted quantity of coal and non-compliance of the terms and conditions of the fuel supply agreement. Penalty is also applicable on contractors for the breach of terms and conditions of contract. Justifying the levy, the service tax department said the penalty amount falls under the category of “declared service” and is tantamount to tolerating an act on the part of the buyers of coal/contractors, for which service tax would be levied under section 66 E(e) of the Finance Act. “Under the declared service entry, the scope of levy of service tax would apply to even a situation where the actual activity is nonexistent and consequently a person would be required to pay tax even for not doing anything. Even if a person refrains from doing a particular activity for which a consideration is received or receivable, such consideration would be taxed,” the principal commissioner had said in its order. The CESTAT, however, differed with the views of the service tax authorities and allowed the appeal filed by SECL. It set aside the service tax demand along with penalty and interest as raised by the service tax department. “The recovery of liquidated damages/penalty from other party cannot be said to be towards any service per se, since neither the appellant is carrying on any activity to receive compensation nor can there be any intention of the other party to breach or violate the contract and suffer a loss.” Tax practitioners said that the GST has similarly worded clauses as that of the service tax regulation. “This is a very important judgment and will have significant ramifications in the present GST regime as well, wherein identically worded provisions exist,” Sanjay Dixit, partner, Rajeev Agarwal & Co, told The Telegraph he said. “The purpose of imposing compensation or penalty is to ensure that the defaulting act is not undertaken or repeated and the same cannot be said to be towards toleration of the defaulting party. The expectation of the appellant is that  the other party complies with the terms of the contract and a penalty is imposed only if there is non-compliance," the tribunal said in its order. Under Schedule 2, clause 5 of CGST Act, subclause (e) specifies agreeing to the obligation to refrain from an act, or to tolerate an act or a situation, or to do an act, to be treated as a service. Sanjay Dixit, partner, Rajeev Agarwal & Co, told the Telegraph that the provisions in the erstwhile service tax regime and current GST regime are more or less the same. "This is a very important judgement and will have significant ramifications in the present GST regime as well, wherein identically worded provisions exist," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
