27-12-2020||Business||Indian Railways earnings  on track||The Indian Railways will meet its operating expenditure from its earnings despite the coronavirus pandemic, Railway Board chairman V.K. Yadav said on Saturday, assessing a year that  saw the national transporter scale down its passenger services to an unprecedented level to contain the spread of the virus. Addressing a year-ender press meet, Yadav said several expenditure-control measures and freight revenue earnings will help compensate for the losses in the passenger segment. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the railways’ passenger revenue has come down to just Rs 4,600 crore this year compared with Rs 53,000 crore last year, a slide of 87 per cent. Yadav said the railways expect an increase in freight loading revenue on account of enhanced transportation of non-traditional commodities such as foodgrain and fertilisers. “The railways has so far spent 12 per cent less than last year. We have controlled our expenditure and as few trains are operational we are saving on fuel and inventory. Despite Covid-19, we will meet our operating expenditure from our revenue. “We have almost surpassed both freight loading and freight revenue of last year. So, this year’s freight revenue would be more than last year’s,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
27-12-2020||Business||GST rule to affect 45K||The mandatory requirement of 1 per cent cash payment of GST liability with effect from January 1 would be applicable to about 45,000 taxpayers, which is only 0.37 per cent of the total businesses registered in the Goods and Services Tax system, sources in the revenue department  said on Saturday. To curb tax evasion by way of fake invoicing, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs had earlier this week amended GST rules making it mandatory for businesses with a monthly turnover of over Rs 50 lakh to mandatorily pay at least 1 per cent of their GST liability in cash. The new rule restricts use of input tax credit for discharging GST liability to 99 per cent, effective January 1, 2021. However, this restriction will not apply in cases where the managing director or any partner have paid more than Rs 1 lakh as income tax or the registered person has received a refund amount of more than Rs 1 lakh in the preceding financial year on account of unutilised input tax credit. Sources said data analysis indicates that out of the total GST taxpayer base of 1.2 crore tax payers, only around 4 lakh tax payers have monthly supply value greater than Rs 50 lakh. Of these 4 lakh, only about 1.5 lakh taxpayers pay less than 1 per cent of their GST liability in cash. “Now, when the exclusions in the rule are applied, 1.05 lakh taxpayers get further excluded from these 1.5 lakh taxpayers. Thus, the rule would apply only to 40,000 to 45,000 taxpayers. This would be around 0.37 per cent of the total GST tax base of 1.2 crore taxpayers,” sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
27-12-2020||Business||Rajasthan to borrow Rs 2731 crore||The Centre has allowed Rajasthan to borrow an additional sum of Rs 2,731 crore after the state successfully undertook the reforms on ease of doing business parameters. Rajasthan has now joined  five other states — Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana — which have completed the reforms on ease of doing business to be eligible for additional borrowing. These six states have been granted an additional borrowing permission of Rs 19,459 crore. “The state (Rajasthan) has become eligible to mobilise additional financial resources of Rs 2,731 crore through open market borrowings. Permission for the same was issued by the department of expenditure on December 24,” the finance ministry said in a statement. Ease of doing business is an important indicator of the investment friendly climate in the country. The government had in May decided to link the grant of additional borrowing permissions to states that undertake the reforms to facilitate ease of doing business. The reforms stipulated in this category include completion of first assessment of “District Level Business Reform Action Plan”, elimination of the requirements of renewal of registration certificates/approvals/licences obtained by businesses under various Acts. In view of the resource requirement to meet the challenges posed by Covid-19, the government had in May enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP. Half of this special dispensation was linked to the states undertaking citizen-centric reforms — implementation of the “One Nation One Ration Card System”, ease of doing business reform, urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms. So far, 10 states have implemented the “One Nation One Ration Card System”, six states have done ease of doing business reforms and two states have done local body reforms. Total additional borrowing permission issued so far to the states, which have done the reforms, is Rs 50,253 crore, the ministry added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
27-12-2020||Business||Franklin Templeton vote observer picked||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has appointed Taruvai Subayya Krishnamurthy, former chief election commissioner of India, as an ‘observer’ of the e-voting process for the winding up of Franklin Templeton’s six mutual fund schemes. The apex court had on December 9 asked the market regulator to appoint an observer for the e-voting scheduled for December 26-29. On Friday, Chennai Financial Markets and Accountability (CFMA) said it has filed an application in the Supreme Court alleging that despite its December 9 order, “no apparent steps’’ have been taken by Sebi to appoint an observer in the matter. “The concern of CFMA is, though the aforesaid order was passed on the 9th of this month, there has been no apparent steps taken by Sebi to appoint an observer. The voting is scheduled to commence from December 26 and there is no update about who the observer is, or his/her e-mail id and contact information,” CFMA had said. In a statement issued on Saturday, Sebi said it has also constituted a technical assistance team that will help the observer. Members of the team are —B.N. Sahoo, chief general manager of Sebi, Nayana Ovalekar,  chief operating officer of Central Depository Services, K. Sriram, company secretary and scrutiniser. It also includes assistant directors of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad — M Krishna and Ch E Sai Prasad. The Supreme Court had then also said that the result of the e-voting would not be announced and would be produced before the apex court in a sealed cover along with the report of the observer. “Accordingly, Sebi has appointed Taruvai Subayya Krishnamurthy, the former chief election commissioner of India, as the ‘observer’ on December 18, 2020,” Sebi said in a statement on Saturday. The six schemes are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. The fund house had announced the closure of these six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, citing redemption pressure and lack of liquidity in the bond market. Recently, the fund house had said in a statement that the electronic voting will take place from December 26-28 and the meeting of unitholders of the relevant schemes on December 29. nitholders will have to take a call on whether to give consent to the winding up decision or withhold it, which would allow the schemes to reopen for purchase and redemption. Franklin Templeton MF had said the objective of the voting exercise is to seek, by simple majority, the consent of the unitholders for the decision made by the trustee of the fund house to wind up the six fixed income schemes in an orderly fashion. Consent will be sought from unitholders for each scheme separately. Franklin Templeton MF believes that it will be beneficial for unitholders to vote 'Yes' to the resolution as this will allow schemes to monetise assets without resorting to distress sales and will maximise value to unitholders. “If the decision to wind up the schemes in an orderly manner is not implemented, it would precipitate a rush of redemptions, which would force a distress sale of the portfolio securities, likely resulting in a reduction in the net asset value (NAV) of the schemes and substantial losses for unitholders,’’ the fund house had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-190
