28-12-2020||Business||Stock markets scale new heights on positive global cues||Extending gains for the fourth straight session, benchmark gauges Sensex and Nifty raced to new peaks on Monday in line with broad-based rallies in global equities. The BSE benchmark Sensex settled up by 380.21 points or 0.81 per cent at its all-time closing high of 47,353.75. The index also scaled its fresh record intra-day peak of 47,406.72. The NSE Nifty ended 123.95 points or 0.90 per cent up at new closing high of 13,873.20. It also touched its all-time intra-day high of 13,885.30. On the Sensex chart, Titan, SBI, L&T, IndusInd Bank, Ultratech Cement, HDFC Bank and Asian Paints were top gainers. While, HUL, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy and Bajaj FinServ closed with losses. Of the Sensex constituents, 26 stocks settled with gains and 4 with losses. In the previous trading day on Thursday, the 30-share Sensex had surged 529.36 points or 1.14 per cent to close at 46,973.54. The broader NSE Nifty had zoomed 148.15 points or 1.09 per cent to 13,749.25. Markets were closed on Friday on account of Christmas. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Mainland China, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong and other key markets ended with significant gains. Investor sentiment globally was upbeat after the US cleared a USD 2.3 trillion pandemic aid and the European Union and the UK struck a Brexit trade deal last week. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 1.25 per cent to USD 51.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
28-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty race to new peaks in early deals||Benchmark gauges Sensex and Nifty soared to new heights in early deals on Monday, tracking broad-based rallies in global equities. The BSE benchmark Sensex rose 361.93 points or 0.77 per cent to touch an all-time high of 47,335.47 in morning trade, and the broader NSE Nifty climbed 110.55 points or 0.80 per cent to a new peak of 13,859.80. On the Sensex chart, barring HDFC and Asian Paints, all constituents were trading in the green. On the last trading day, Thursday, of the previous week, the 30-share Sensex had surged 529.36 points or 1.14 per cent to close at 46,973.54. The broader NSE Nifty had zoomed 148.15 points or 1.09 per cent to 13,749.25. Markets were closed on Friday on account of Christmas. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Mainland China, Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong and other key markets were trading on a positive note on Monday. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.31 per cent to USD 51.14 per barrel. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) purchased shares worth a net Rs 1,225.69 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
28-12-2020||Business||The raging bull||Stock indices are at all-time highs. Last week, the Sensex touched 47000 for the first time during intra-day trading. The year had begun on a disastrous note because of the pandemic with the Sensex  falling below 26000 — a mighty crash of nearly 40 per cent from its peak of 42000 in January. From those depths, the markets have staged a sensational comeback of around 80 per cent in nine months. The euphoria over Covid vaccine as well as record infusions by foreign investors are fuelling this rally. The market’s performance will undoubtedly draw many first-time investors. Here’s a primer for them with lessons from a year of great volatility. First know why you want to start investing in the stock markets. This is another way of saying you must have a clear goal, defined in terms of what you want to invest, what your returns expectations are, how much risk you can take, which is the best way to achieve this goal, how long you wish to remain invested and what you would do during volatility. With a goal in place, you’re more likely to succeed. Without it, you could get into trouble. Goal-setting can seem complex. Don’t hesitate in reaching out to an investment planner. Know the difference. Trading would mean the purchase and sale of securities in the short term, where the holding period may range from a few days to a few months.Trading is aimed at maximising profits in the short run. It requires analysis and research of companies, industries, policy, trends, the economy at large — and often, sheer dumb luck. It’s not everyone’s cup of tea. If you are a layman, be wary of stock tips from well-meaning friends and relatives. If you don’t know where to start investing in the markets, you could consider mutual funds that align with your investment goals. For example, index funds could be a low-cost investment to accelerate your retirement fund creation. For investing, you must have a long-term outlook. That is where you’re most likely to get the best results. Let’s take the example of a large equity mutual fund which debuted in 1995 with a unit price of Rs 10. Today, its price is Rs 706. If you had invested Rs 1 lakh in this fund at its launch, it would be worth Rs  70.6 lakh today. However, in the first 10 years, it would have grown to only about Rs 6.6 lakh. In the next 10 years, it would grow to about Rs 46 lakh, and in the last five years, it would reach its current value — but not before falling to Rs 43 lakh around March 2020. In the last month alone, this investment would have grown from Rs 65 lakh to Rs 70.6 lakh — a five-fold growth of your initial investment in just 30 days. Such growth is unthinkable in the short term. The lesson here is simple: it pays to think long-term where you give yourself time to recover from market falls and where your profits compound rapidly, allowing you to achieve your financial goals easily. The stock market is volatile. Before you venture your money in equities, you must understand your own ability to digest the losses. Risk appetite and risk tolerance are both measures of your ability to manage risks. The higher the risks, the higher the possibility of losses, and, therefore, higher the rewards. Risk appetite is the general perception about the losses you may be able to suffer, whereas risk tolerance looks to define the losses you will tolerate. For example, you invested in a small-cap mutual fund because you seek higher rewards by taking higher risks and you will be able to tolerate losses. However, you draw the line at 30 per cent losses at which point you will exceed your ability to suffer losses. When you invest in the equity markets, you must define these parameters in line with your financial goals. The markets are ripe today which means they are due for a correction which would lead to a fall in prices once people start selling their securities. Last week, the markets fell 3 per cent when the UK announced the presence of a new, highly contagious strain of Covid-19. During such times, it would be advisable to invest in small quantities and not take large positions that could lead to heavy short-term losses. One of the smartest ways for small investors to invest in equity is through mutual fund SIPs. This averages your purchase costs and lowers losses. Whether you are picking stocks or mutual funds, find your own winners. This is another way of saying yesterday’s winners may not continue winning. Your picks will perform for you best when they align with your goals. For example, liquid mutual funds are suited for short-term cash holding but not for long-term wealth creation. While you are researching your options, you may be tempted to back winners from the year gone by. This may or may not yield results. Many equity funds today have six-month absolute returns exceeding 50 per cent. This in no way guarantees similar performance in the future. Do not mix up your investments with your essential financial obligations — having an emergency fund which you’ll need at short notice at any moment, or buying health and life insurance. Once met, you can move on to the goal of wealth creation. You must also diversify your investments by adding debt-based investments such as provident fund or buying gold to hedge against volatility. A well-diversified investment portfolio will keep you afloat in all economic weathers. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
28-12-2020||Business||CII suggests graded road map towards competitive import tariffs over three years||Industry association CII has suggested a graded road map towards competitive import tariffs over three years, with the lowest or nil slab between zero and 2.5 per cent for raw materials, highest of 5-7.5 per cent for finished goods and 2.5-5 per cent for intermediates, as part of its pre-budget recommendations to the government. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has proposed the road map to encourage domestic manufacturing in alignment with global trade trends that would boost India’s export competitiveness according to the shifting global value chains in the next three to five years. “This will help Indian industry integrate into the global value chain while becoming competitive with its goods and services in the world markets,” the industry body said. Making a case for the need to boost to employment at higher levels, the CII suggested raising the cap on emoluments to Rs 50,000 per month to encourage employment in higher skilled jobs. Section 80JJAA provides for the deduction of 30 per cent on emoluments paid to new employees, which can be claimed for three years. This is available up to Rs 25,000 per month. Besides, over the last few years, it is seen that to enhance the financial strength of banks and for the stability of the financial sector, the RBI has mandated that banks should augment their non-performing asset (NPA) provisioning. The CII has suggested that the limit prescribed under section 36(1)(viia)(a) for provision for bad and doubtful debts for Indian banks should be increased from the existing limit of 8.5 per cent to 15 per cent. Banks operating in India facilitate foreign investment by foreign portfolio investments (FPIs) by acting as custodians (cash and securities) for the FPIs investing in India. The industry body said specific clarification should be provided so that banking and broking service providers are not held as representative assessees of their clients.  Moreover, the RBI has lowered the limit for recognising an account as NPA from six months to 90 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Industry players seek parity with crude oil vis-a-vis import duty in the budget||As the country strives to ramp up the use of natural gas, industry players have sought parity with crude oil vis-a-vis import duty in the budget, due in little more than a month. Industry has argued parity with crude would boost the use of the clean fuel and increase its share in the energy mix. The customs duty on crude oil is nil, whereas natural gas attracts a duty of 5 per cent. However, it attracts  zero customs duty when used in electricity. They said this was an anomaly and dissuaded the use of clean energy at a time the government is keen to reduce the use of fossil fuel in the energy basket. Given the nature of the fuel, natural gas cannot be transported through pipelines from different countries. It is turned into liquefied natural gas (LNG) and supplied to other countries. Imported LNG is converted to regasified liquid natural gas (RLNG) at the import terminal and supplied through pipelines. Setting up an LNG terminal as well as regasification facilities require huge investments. Local production is also not sufficient to meet the requirement, and the country had to import Rs 73,887 crore in the last fiscal, according to commerce ministry data. Keeping in view the limited availability, the customs duty on natural gas and LNG needs to be reduced to zero without any end-use condition, the industry players said. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has said the gas grid would be expanded 17,000km to 34,500km, while regasification capacity would be increased to 61 million tonnes per year from 42mt by 2022, which is expected to raise demand manifold from 160-170 million standard cubic metres per day. Besides, a gas trading platform was launched in June. Gas comprises about 6.2 per cent of India’s primary energy mix, far behind the global average of 24 per cent. The government plans to increase this share to 15 per cent by 2030.  “We have envisaged spending $60 billion in creating gas infrastructure till 2024, including for pipelines, LNG terminals and city gas distribution networks,” Pradhan said. The city gas network to retail CNG to automobiles and piped natural gas to households and kitchens has been extended to 407 districts. Besides CNG, the government is also promoting the transport of LNG on long-haul trucks and buses. Besides, the National Biofuel Policy (NBP) is targeting the blending of 20 per cent ethanol in petrol and 5 per cent of bio-diesel in diesel by 2030. At present, crude, motor spirit (petrol), high speed diesel, natural gas and aviation turbine fuel is out of the GST. Input tax credit paid on procurements is not allowed against the output tax liability to the supplier and is an additional cost to the producers of oil and gas. Until the introduction of the GST, the industry wants the producers of petroleum and natural gas be allowed to claim credit for GST on all inputs, input services and capital goods against output excise duty and VAT. Discussions should be carried out with the GST Council on this along with amendments may be in the Cenvat and VAT rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business|| Larsen & Toubro to hire 1100 engineers||Engineering and construction conglomerate Larsen & Toubro (L&T) is looking to recruit around 1,100 graduate and post graduate engineer trainees in 2021 and deploy them across various business verticals, a top company official has said. The company, through its ongoing virtual hiring process, has already made around 250 offers in the recent hiring season at premium education institutes such as IIT Madras, IIT Guwahati, IIT BHU, IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi, IIT Roorkee, IIT Kharagpur, IIT (ISM) Dhanbad, IIT Hyderabad and other IITs. “L&T not only offers graduate and post graduate engineer trainees (GETs & PGETs) continuous learning opportunities and a growth path but also gives them immense satisfaction to work on projects that are high on the top of national or global pecking order,” company’s chief executive and managing director S. N. Subrahmanyan said. In 2021, it is planning to hire 1,100 engineers and has already made offers to 250 IITians, he said. Every year, the company recruits 1,100 plus engineers, 90 per cent of which belongs to premier institutes such as IITs, NITs, and top government engineering colleges, the company said. The entire hiring process of L&T is digital and remote, including the testing process which is conducted with the help of remote proctoring tool which monitors the test based on 14 parameters. The platform used for hiring has been developed internally by the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Big auto showrooms are passé||Car showrooms sprawled across vast areas and often in prime real estate may be a thing of the past as the industry moves towards a hybrid digital and brick-and-mortar model that will lessen the need for  physical infrastructure and manpower. Both the leading manufacturers Maruti Suzuki India Ltd and Hyundai Motor India Limited have an end-to-end digital car buying platform with just test drive and delivery being a physical experience. “We have digitised 24 of the 26 touchpoints in a car buying experience,” said Shashank Srivastava, sales and marketing head of Maruti Suzuki, while launching its online car finance platform. “Since car buying is a very involved process with touch and feel playing an important part, the test drive and delivery of car remains a physical interaction for the car buyer,” said Srivastava The company has 1,000 digital showrooms and has been advising its dealers to digitise. “The dealers are at various stages of digitisation. Some parts of the websites are integrated with the company website,” said Srivastava. Cities such as Bangalore, Pune, Hyderabad which have a strong IT culture have digital showrooms while the other parts of the country are slowly adopting to the model. Car purchase is the second largest value purchase for consumers after house buying and 94 per cent of the  buyers visit the showroom for the trust and comfort factors. “In rural areas and smaller cities sales people interact with customers,” said Srivastava who also agreed that showrooms will become smaller and there will be less requirement of manpower at the dealerships as the digital car buying processes get more traction. “About 90 per cent of the customers are doing their research online. This was happening even before the pandemic. After the pandemic, this has become the norm. People are no longer dropping in showrooms for enquiries,” said an industry source. The format for dealerships will change and so will the requirement of manpower. “The more the process becomes digital the productivity will go up,” said Srivastava. The need for salespersons at the showrooms will also lessen as processes become automated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Calcutta-based start-up sells refurbished ACs||Calcutta-based start-up 999services is witnessing robust growth as it looks to make air-conditioners an essential product and bring an element of reliability in its servicing. Its e-commerce platform provides doorstep air-conditioning services to more than 15 cities in the country. It also delivers refurbished ACs to 17,000 pincodes with plans to have a pan-India presence. Enthused by the growth seen so far, it is now looking to expand to countries such as Bhutan, Nepal, Pakistan, Myanmar and even the UAE. “The price of our refurbished ACs is one-third that of new ACs. Because of this, people in low-income groups can also purchase it. Soon, we are launching an instalment-based purchase for which we will be tying up with a bank. Thus, ACs will no longer be an aspirational product for some,” Vedang Khetawat, founder and CEO at 999services.com, told The Telegraph. While window ACs are available from Rs 13,999, the price of split ACs start at Rs 17,999. He said while the platform began operations in April during the lockdown, the journey so far has been rewarding, having sold more than 18,000 ACs. The growth is set to accelerate as customer spending resumes with the economy recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic. While the objective of the platform is to make refurbished ACs work like new ones, Khetawat disclosed that all their air-conditioners go through extensive inspection, restoration and quality control before reaching the customer. The air-conditioners that are sourced are not more than 365-days old and they may come with minimum defects. However, these are rectified before being offered to the customer. He pointed out that all refurbished ACs purchased on their website comes with a six-month or one-year free unlimited replacement programme which means that customers will get a new refurbished AC if they find any malfunction within one year. The platform also offers servicing of ACs. Here it is looking to differentiate by creating a transparent system that eliminates unreliable contractors. “Homeowners will know exactly who will be servicing their AC unit and when the AC technician will be arriving. We offer services such as deep cleaning and repair and have plans to suit the customer’s pocket,” Khetawat said. We have seen good growth in this segment as well’’, Khetawat said. According to the annual report of Blue Star for the year ended March 31, 2020, during the year the overall market size for air conditioning products was estimated at around Rs 17,500 crore of which the market for room air conditioners accounted for Rs 11,200 crore. At a conference call with analysts after its second quarter results, the company’s top management had said that while the demand recovery during the period exceeded expectations as more retail outlets were opened, by December, the market is expected to reach 100 per cent of last year’s level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Gold seen to soar to Rs 63000 in 2021||Gold, always considered a safe haven for investment in uncertain times, is likely to glitter more and even soar to Rs 63,000 per 10 grams next year amid expectations of fresh stimulus measures and weaker American dollar. In 2020, the economic and social uncertainties triggered by the coronavirus pandemic turned the spotlight on gold as a safe haven. The price of the yellow metal reached an all-time high of Rs 56,191 per 10 grams at MCX and $2,075 an ounce in the international market in August. A sharp turn in global monetary policies that led to a low interest rate scenario and unprecedented liquidity, which began in mid-2019, gave a boost to gold price in all major currencies, making the yellow metal attractive for investors. “The year began (with gold) at Rs 39,100 (per 10 grams) and $1,517 (an ounce). The knee-jerk reaction to the pandemic was short-lived as the domestic price hit a low of Rs 38,400 from where it steadily rose all the way to Rs 56,191. The stimulus provided subsequently triggered a sharp rise in investment buying in the domestic market,” Commtrendz Risk Management Services CEO Gnanasekar Thiagarajan said. He said the outlook for gold remains strong despite coronavirus vaccine prospects and economic revival post Covid-19, mainly because of fresh stimulus expectations. “The dollar could weaken on the back of more stimulus and that could help gold prices rise once again. Also, inflationary expectations due to the massive stimulus can be seen as a positive factor that could attract investment buying once again in 2021,” he said. The political risk in the US because of a weak majority in the Senate could make things difficult for the incoming Joe Biden-led administration to push reforms and that could aid in the bullion’s upward movement, Thiagarajan said. “The physical demand (for gold) from India and China will take centre stage in 2021, which has been weak for the past few years and could see a strong revival. We expect prices to test Rs 60,000 or $2,200 at least in 2021, provided the rupee remains stable too,” he opined. HDFC Securities senior analyst (commodities) Tapan Patel said the yellow metal is likely to remain bullish next year on concerns over global economic recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Transport ministry extends motor vehicle documents validity||The Union transport ministry on Sunday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents such as driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till March 31, 2021, in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) had earlier issued advisories dated March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020 and August 24, 2020 in connection with the extension of the validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. “The Union ministry of road transport and highways has extended the validity of vehicular documents such as DLs, RCs, permits etc till March 31, 2021 in the light of the need to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The ministry has issued a directory to the states and Union Territory administrations in the regard,” a MoRTH statement said. Earlier through various notifications, it was advised that the validity of fitness, permit (all types), licence, registration or any other concerned document(s) may be treated to be valid till December 31, 2020. The latest advisory says, “Taking into consideration the need to prevent the spread of Covid-19, it is further advised that the validity of all of the above referred documents may be treated to be valid till March 31, 2021. This covers all documents whose validity has expired since 1st February, 2020 or would expire by March 31, 2021.” Enforcement authorities are advised to treat such documents as valid till March 31, 2021, the MoRTH said, adding that “this will help out citizens in availing transport related services, while maintaining social distancing”. “All the states and Union Territories have been requested to implement this advisory in letter and spirit so that the citizens, the transporters and various other organisations which are operating under this difficult time during the Covid-19 pandemic may not get harassed or face difficulties,” the statement said. Automakers in India are bracing for a parts shortage and possible production losses over the next three to four months because of a global shortage of available shipping containers, the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam) said. Shipping freight rates have surged since July and companies are now finding it “almost impossible to sustain normal trade operations”, said Rajesh Menon, director-general at Siam. A global surge in demand for certain goods during the pandemic has upended normal trade flows, stranding empty cargo containers and leading to bottlenecks. Denmark’s A.P. Moller-Maersk said exports from India have bounced back but imports have not, leading to an imbalance and causing the container shortage. PTI & Reuters That is a cause for concern as India’s auto industry has started showing signs of recovery after the coronavirus lockdowns eased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
28-12-2020||Business||Amit Shah should apologise for running a 'disinformation campaign': Bengal FM||Bengal is faring better than the national rate in several parameters of industrial growth, state finance minister Amit Mitra claimed on Sunday, and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah should apologise to the people for running a “disinformation campaign” against the state. Mitra cited the data of the ministry of statistics and programme implementation showing that GDP, growth in industry, services and agriculture sectors have grown faster than the national rate in the state. The BJP often alleges that there has been no economic development in Bengal and Central welfare schemes such as Ayushman Bharat Yojana and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi are not being implemented as they do not involve “cut money”. “PM-HM’s shameful DISINFORMATION campaign on Bengal CAUGHT red-handed by their own Central Statistical Orgn! Chart EXPOSES how India growth rates hit bottom under duo, while growth under MamataB soared in Bengal: GDP, Industry,Services, Agri. So, Apologise to the people of Bengal,” Mitra tweeted. The data of the statistics and programme implementation ministry, estimated on August 31, 2020, showed that the gross domestic product (GDP) of the country was 4.18 per cent, while the gross state domestic product (GSDP) of Bengal was 7.26 per cent. The gross value added (GVA) of the country was recorded at 3.89 per cent, while that of Bengal was ahead at 7.39 per cent, the data showed. India’s industrial growth was 0.92 per cent, while it was 5.79 per cent in the eastern state. According to the data, Bengal was ahead of the national rate in services and agriculture sectors also, Mitra, a former secretary-general of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), said. With the Assembly polls due in the state in April-May next year, the BJP recently said that the saffron party will win 200 seats in the 294-strong House, while TMC’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor declared that he will quit his profession if the saffron party is able to cross double digits. After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP emerged as the main rival of the Trinamool Congress winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general election. In the last few years, the BJP’s strength has increased manifold in the state where it has never been in power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-189
