29-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty scale new peaks, log gains for 5th day||Equity benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty scaled fresh record highs on Tuesday, extending their bull run for the fifth straight session on the back of gains in banking and IT stocks. The BSE gauge Sensex settled with gains of 259.33 points or 0.55 per cent at a new closing high of 47,613.08. Starting off on a bullish note, the 30-share index went on to hit its all-time intraday high of 47,714.55 before paring some gains. Likewise, the NSE barometer Nifty ended higher by 59.40 points or 0.43 per cent at a fresh closing high of 13,932.60. Intraday, the 50-share Nifty marked its all-time record at 13,967.60. "Financials helped key Indices to close the day well into positive territory with the broader markets seeing demand for gas stocks. The day also witnessed up moves in names that are not usually seen frequently amongst gainers as savvy investors were seen scouting for value in a Bull Market," S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities said. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, Tech Mahindra, HDFC, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech, HDFC Bank, SBI and ITC were prominent gainers. On the other hand, Nestle, NTPC, PowerGrid, Dr Reddy, Reliance Industries, ONGC and Mahindra & Mahindra were among the losers. Sectorally, banking index rallied 1.41 per cent, followed by finance (1.06 per cent) and IT (0.65 per cent). Of the 19 sectoral indices, 12 ended in the red and seven in the green. Among the top losers, BSE metal, power and energy slid up to 1.32 per cent. In the broader market, all midcap, smallcap and largecap indices underperformed the benchmark Sensex. "It was a volatile day, started well but edged lower losing all the gains, in the end, the markets recovered much of the losses and closed with a small upside," Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial services said. Finance stocks were the major contributors in the upside but broader market underperformed the main benchmark. Selling was seen in auto, pharma and metal sectors among others too. "A major part of the global developments like stimulus and Brexit deal are priced in the market. In the absence of major domestic or global events expected in the near-term, the market will focus on the upcoming Q3 earnings and stock-specific updates," Nair said. Continued buying by FPIs remains a dominant factor for market rally, Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities said. According to exchange data, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) purchased shares worth a net Rs 1,588.93 crore on Monday. "Given soft monetary policy of global bankers, weak dollar, improved prospects of corporate earnings recovery and consistent improvement in COVID-19 recovery rate will continue to remain as key tailwinds for strong FPIs participation in domestic markets in the near to medium term," Modi said. The daily new coronavirus infections in India dipped below 20,000 for the third time this month taking the COVID-19 caseload to 1,02,24,303, while the recoveries crossed 98 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The ministry also stated that six persons who returned to India from the United Kingdom have tested positive for the new mutated strain of coronavirus. It, however, said that vaccines will work against new COVID variants and there was no evidence so far that new variant found in the UK increases severity of disease. Elsewhere in Asia, most bourses closed with gains following positive global trends after hopes that the US Senate will clear the much-awaited coronavirus relief bill. The global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.88 per cent to USD 51.40 per barrel. On the forex market front, the rupee settled 7 paise higher at 73.42 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
29-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty continue record run in opening session||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty continued their record-setting spree on Tuesday morning as investor sentiment remained upbeat amid positive domestic as well as global cues. The BSE gauge Sensex was trading 228.73 points or 0.48 per cent higher at a fresh record of 47,582.48 in early deals. Likewise, the NSE barometer Nifty jumped 66.50 points or 0.48 per cent to a new high of 13,939.70 in the opening session. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank and Bajaj Auto were top gainers. Barring Nestle, Asian Paints and PowerGrid, all shares were trading in the green on the Sensex. On Monday, the Sensex had settled up by 380.21 points or 0.81 per cent at its all-time closing high of 47,353.75; and the Nifty too had risen by 123.95 points or 0.90 per cent to a new closing high of 13,873.20. Asian shares were trading mostly higher following positive global trends after the US cleared the much-awaited coronavirus relief bill. US President Donald Trump signed into law a massive USD 2.3 trillion spending bill that includes a USD 900 billion coronavirus relief package, averting a government shutdown and extending coronavirus aid to millions suffering from the economic impact of the pandemic. The advancement of the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in India too uplifted domestic sentiments, leading to a positive momentum across all sectors, analysts said. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.22 per cent to USD 51.06 per barrel. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) purchased shares worth a net Rs 1,588.93 crore on Monday, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
29-12-2020||Business||Centre policy to diversify surplus agricultural produce as fuel||The Centre is mulling a policy that can help diversify surplus agricultural produce towards the energy and power sector. Union MSME minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday said the government is exploring means to substitute Rs 8 lakh crore worth of petroleum imports with ethanol made from surplus sugar, rice and corn. But production of ethanol on such a large scale would need specialised industrial units and this has prompted the Centre to explore the scope of policy intervention. “India may substitute the import of Rs 8 lakh crore of petroleum with ethanol made from sugarcane, rice and corn which is surplus in the country,” said Gadkari at the annual general meeting of the Bharat Chamber of Commerce. He added that to meet the need of ethanol on this scale, there is a need to directly make ethanol instead of sourcing it from the sugar mills. “As an MSME ministry we are trying to make a policy because we are sugar surplus, corn surplus, rice surplus,” he said. The minister said there is a significant gap between the international price and MSP of sugar. “Our sugar rate is Rs 34 per kg. International price is Rs 22 per kg. Actually MSP is higher than international price and market price. Here we need to diversify agriculture towards the energy and the power sector,” said Gadkari. Crisil in a note on the sector said that in a bid to encourage the supplies of ethanol for blending with fuel, the prices of ethanol procured by oil marketing companies were hiked recently by 4.4-6.2 per cent. “Better ethanol prices, applicable from December 1, 2020, will lead to higher cane diversion towards ethanol production, thereby reducing sugar production by 2 million tonnes in sugar season 2021, against 0.8 million tonne in sugar season 2020,” said Crisil in its report. Tesla plans for India Gadkari on Monday told PTI that American electric car major Tesla is set to start its operations in India next year and would also look at setting up of a manufacturing unit based on demand. The road, transport and highways minister has been pushing for green fuel and electric vehicles to cut India’s huge Rs 8 lakh crore crude imports. Tesla Inc chief executive Elon Musk had in October said the company will enter the Indian market in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
29-12-2020||Business||Coal India to construct 21 additional greenfield and brownfield railway sidings||Coal India (CIL) on Monday said that it is planning to construct 21 additional greenfield and brownfield railway sidings at an estimated investment of Rs 3,370 crore. The 21 sidings, aimed at increasing the share of coal movement through railway network and bringing down coal movement through road, will be set up across four subsidiaries of the public sector miner and will be commissioned by 2023-24. CIL has 152 rail sidings which will go up to 173 by 2024. “The dovetailing of existing and new rail sidings with rapid loading system silos of first mile connectivity projects will help improve loading quantity in future when production expands,” said a senior official of the company. CIL hopes to move 555mt of coal per year through mechanised means by 2023-24. South Eastern Coalfields will have the major share with 10 of the 21 proposed sidings at an investment of Rs 1,640 crore. Central Coalfields, Eastern Coalfields and Bharat Coking Coalfields will have the remaining sidings. CIL's share of coal movement through the rail network has been on the rise. Ending November of the ongoing fiscal, 202 million tonnes of coal was moved exclusively through the rail network, a year on year growth of 16 per cent. In contrast, coal movement through the road network fell by 33 per cent. Rail mode transportation accounted for 56 per cent of the total coal off-take of Coal India in April-November 2020. Apart from investing in new sidings, CIL is refurbishing old sidings, strengthening rail connectivity between the sidings and the main rail lines. The miner is also investing in construction of new broad gauge rail lines in greenfield areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||Voting process for acquisition of DHFL begins||The voting process for the acquisition of troubled mortgage lender DHFL commenced on Monday with Oaktree Capital and the Piramal group engaged in a close race. The window will remain open till January 14. Apart from these two players, the Adani group is in the race. The winning bid will need to have the support of at least 66 per cent of creditors by value. Last week, both Oaktree and Piramal had raised their offers. The US-based asset management firm has offered Rs 38,400 crore, up from its earlier bid of Rs 36,600 crore for the entire company. The Piramal group has offered more than Rs 37,200 crore, which included an upfront cash payment of Rs 12,700 crore. Ahead of the crucial vote, Oaktree Capital said in a letter to the Committee of Creditors (CoC) that its offer for the DHFL is being consistently misrepresented and that the evaluation of its financial proposals is based on incorrect information. Hinting at legal action, it said that this may be subject to judicial, administrative and investigative review. “In terms of total recovery being offered to financial creditors as well as net present value, Oaktree’s financial proposal is clearly superior to all other PRAs,” said the company in the letter. It further alleged that information is not only being presented in an incomplete and inaccurate manner but also in order to discredit its bid and favour the second highest bidder. However, the spokesperson of Piramal group had said that the “Oaktree bid is short on upfront cash, short on NPV, short on the overall score, un-implementable due to insurance-related complications, and leaves lenders with weak debt paper’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||Reliance Capital object to proposed 33.12 per cent stake sale of Prime Focus Ltd||Debt-ridden firm Reliance Capital on Monday raised an objection to the proposed 33.12 per cent stake sale of Prime Focus Ltd (PFL) by Credit Suisse to PFL’s promoter group at Rs 44.15 per share. Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group company Reliance Capital termed the proposed transaction a blatant abuse of the purported rights by Credit Suisse under certain lending agreements with Rel Cap Group, the company said in a statement. However, Reliance Capital did not share the details of the “blatant abuse of the purported rights”. Reliance Mediaworks Financial Services Private Limited, an Rel Cap  Group company, is one of the investors in PFL — promoted by Naresh Malhotra and Namit Malhotra. Reliance Mediaworks holds a 10.57 per cent stake in the PFL. The company’s statement further alleged that the proposed sale is being attempted privately and clandestinely between two foreign entities, without any open, fair and transparent process being conducted to realise the true value of the shares and disregarding basic norms of conflict of interest. “The proposed sale price is at a substantial altogether unwarranted discount to the intrinsic value of Prime Focus Ltd’s shares. “The proposed transaction violates several laws, rules and regulations, including inter alia Sebi (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015, Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, and the extant RBI guidelines,” it said. As legally advised, Rel Cap Group will seek all appropriate judicial and regulatory intervention to protect the interests of lenders and shareholders of PFL and Reliance Capital Ltd, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||Oil subsidy bill can be slashed by half in next fiscal||The oil subsidy bill could be slashed by half in the next fiscal from Rs 40,915 crore if crude remains within $45-55 per barrel. Sources said North Block is considering many factors in its subsidy calculations, including the crude price. The petroleum ministry is considering to limit the subsidy to BPL families by excluding those with an annual taxable income of over Rs 7 lakh per annum. However, the signs of a pick-up in global growth and an increase in oil demand could lead to a price flare-up and upset the subsidy calculations. US Energy Information Administration (EIA) expects Brent prices to average $49 per barrel in 2021 up from an expected average of $43 in the fourth quarter of 2020. Goldman Sachs in its bullish forecasts says it could touch $65 per barrel in 2021. Industry chambers have pitched for a rationalisation of subsidy at a time tax revenues have shown a steep decline and non-tax revenues not comfortable. The government should free up fiscal space by cutting back on India’s “non-merit" subsidies which, according to studies, amount to around 2 per cent of the gross domestic product at the Central level. Non-merit subsidies are the additional subsidies which are provided beyond “merit subsidies” for food, education and health. The space so created by reducing the non-merit subsidies could be used to fund infrastructure. The chambers have pitched for a policy of giving subsidised kerosene and LPG through direct benefit transfer only to BPL families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||India should maintain medium-term inflation target at 4 per cent: RBI report||India should maintain its medium-term inflation target at 4 per cent when it carries out a five-year review of the goal in March, two senior central bank officials recommended in a paper released on the bank’s website on Monday. Retail inflation has stayed around 7 per cent over the last three months as the government pumped money into the system to revive Asia’s third biggest economy from the impact of the coronavirus crisis. High food prices have also contributed to the rise, limiting the space for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to further ease its monetary policy. RBI researcher Harendra Kumar Behera and deputy governor Michael Patra said the country’s trend inflation — the long-term rate looking beyond temporary economic factors — had steadily declined to 4.1-4.3 per cent since 2014 until the pandemic hit. “A target set below the trend imparts a deflationary bias to monetary policy because it will go into overkill relative to what the economy can intrinsically bear in order to achieve the target,” they wrote in the paper seeking comments from the public. “Analogously, a target that is fixed above trend renders monetary policy too expansionary and prone to inflationary shocks and unanchored expectations.” They said there was a case to stick to the inflation target of 4 per cent because “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it”. Maintaining its key interest rates early this month, the RBI said that “inflation targeting is uppermost in our agenda”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||SMEs largely stayed away from the capital market in 2020||Small and medium enterprises have largely stayed away from the capital market in 2020 with public offers on a declining trend during the year. The number of initial public offers from SMEs were only 27 in 2020 with a total amount raised worth Rs 159 crore. This is in contrast to 2019 where there were 51 IPOs which collected Rs 624 crore. The largest SME maiden offer in the year, according to primedatabase.com, was from Secmark Consultancy which raised Rs 14 crore. “In the debt market, the government has already announced so many packages as relief measures for the MSME sector. Interest rates have come down from around 10 per cent to the range of 7.5-8 per cent. So there is an uptick in debt,” Ajay Thakur, head — BSE SME and Startups, told The Telegraph. “The relationship between the bank and the MSME is usually longer and the banks have all the data. This is unlike the stock market where the MSME has to work on a prospectus and reach out to first time investors,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
29-12-2020||Business||Key indices settle at all-time highs, boosted by Brexit deal and US stimulus package||Stocks began the first day of the last week of 2020 on a record note with key indices settling at all-time highs, boosted by the Brexit deal and a $2.3 trillion US stimulus package. The 30-share Sensex ended with gains of 380.21 points, or 0.81 per cent, to close at a record 47353.75 after touching an intra-day peak of 47406.72. Similarly, the NSE Nifty ended 123.95 points, or 0.90 per cent, higher at 13873.20, also a record, with an all-time intra-day high of 13885.30. Market circles expect stocks to maintain their current momentum, amid optimism of a global economic recovery as the Covid-19 vaccine gets rolled out and central banks continue with their accommodative stance. The sentiment further improved as US President Donald Trump signed into law a massive $2.3 trillion spending bill that includes a $900 billion coronavirus relief package, thus averting a US government shutdown, apart from restoring unemployment benefits to several citizens. Besides, the historic post-Brexit trade deal struck between the UK and the EU removed a major overhang in companies such as Tata Motors. Its shares gained almost 6 per cent to close at Rs 186.30. “Liquidity rush caused by low or zero interest rates abroad is boosting stock markets across the globe. Absence of negative triggers is resulting in the current upward momentum being continued. The Nifty is now in close range of the psychological 14000 mark,’’ Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, said. Business confidence up India could benefit from the likely shift in global supply chains from China to other economies in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a Ficci-Dhruva Advisors survey covering 150 companies. “Nearly 70 per cent of the survey participants have said India could benefit from this move and they expect a fair share of manufacturing to shift from China to India in the near future,” said Ficci on the findings of the survey. Moreover, the prospect of introduction of a vaccine against Covid-19 early next year has improved sentiment, with almost 74 per cent of the participants foreseeing a significant positive impact on their business. With inputs from Delhi Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-188
