30-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty extend record run ||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty raced to fresh record highs on Wednesday as gains in financials, auto and IT shares helped markets extend their winning run for the sixth straight session. After a volatile session, the 30-share BSE Sensex closed up by 133.14 points or 0.28 per cent at a record high of 47,746.22. The barometer scaled its all-time intra-day high of 47,807.85. The broad-based NSE Nifty rose by 49.35 points or 0.35 per cent to finish at its lifetime high of 13,981.95. It touched an all-time peak of 13,997 in intra-day trade. Among major Sensex movers, Ultratech Cement rose over 4 per cent, Bajaj Finance by 2.63 per cent and Maruti by 2 per cent. Mahindra and Mahindra, Tech Mahindra, HUL, Kotak Bank, HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Asian Paints also finished in the green. After opening strong, the stock indices gave up gains due to profit-booking by investors. However, positive trends in the European stocks helped the indices rebound and end at record levels. European stocks advanced on Wednesday as the UK approved the COVID-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. Britain has authorized use of a second COVID-19 vaccine, becoming the first country to greenlight an easy-to-handle shot that its developers hope will become the "vaccine for the world". Asian shares were mixed after a lacklustre day on Wall Street. Benchmarks fell in Tokyo and Sydney but rallied in Hong Kong, Seoul and Shanghai. Japan's Nikkei 225 fell 0.5 per cent, a day after it surged more than 2 per cent to its highest level in more than 30 years. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 lost 0.3 per cent. On the other hand, Hong Kong's Hang Seng surged 1.6 per cent, the Shanghai Composite index advanced 1 per cent while South Korea's Kospi jumped 1.9 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
30-12-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty retreat on profit booking after record rally||Key benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty declined in early trade on Wednesday as profit booking emerged in banking and financial stocks after a stellar five-day rally. The 30-share BSE Sensex had opened higher by 0.10 per cent but failed to hold onto gains in early trade and declined by 102.99 points or 0.22 per cent to 47,510.09. The broad-based Nifty was down by 27.45 points or 0.2 per cent at 13,905.15 with 31 of its constituents trading in the red. The 50-share index had opened higher by 10.75 points at 13,943.35. Banking stocks like State Bank of India, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank were among major losers among Sensex stocks. Besides, HDFC, Reliance, Bharti Airtel, Larsen & Toubro and Sun Pharma also dropped due to profit booking. Sensex and Nifty had scaled fresh record highs on Tuesday, extending their bull run for the fifth straight session on the back of gains in banking and IT stocks. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,349.53 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Asian shares were mixed after a lacklustre day on Wall Street. The S&P 500 lost 0.2 per cent on Tuesday, a day after President Donald Trump signed the USD 900 billion economic relief package. Japan's Nikkei 225 fell 0.6 per cent a day after it surged more than 2 per cent to its highest level in more than 30 years. Hong Kong rose by 1.2 per cent while the Shanghai Composite index advanced 0.7 per cent and South Korea's Kospi added 0.6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
30-12-2020||Business||Government plans to make dual airbags compulsory from April||The government plans to make it compulsory for new cars to provide airbags on the passenger side of the front seats from April. This could hike prices by Rs 5,000 to Rs 8,000 for the entry level standard variants. “Most of the car variants sold in India (88 per cent) are already equipped with dual airbags. Only 61 variants of 905 cars in India are not sold with dual airbags. Since these are lower variants it would not be difficult for OEMs to implement this,” Ravi Bhatia, president of JATO Dynamics, an auto analytics firm, told The Telegraph. The Centre plans to implement this norm for all  models of cars which are manufactured from April 1, 2021, onwards. For already existing units, the date to complying with the new rule is proposed to be June 1, 2021. Analysts clarified that those models which are being manufactured would have to comply from June and new models to be launched would have to comply from April. The government has invited stakeholders to comment on its proposed new rule in the next one month. Previously, the government had made having an airbag mandatory on the driver’s seat in all cars. This had come into effect on July 1, 2019. Maruti’s Alto, S-Presso, Celerio or Wagon R have only a driver airbag as standard. Similarly, the lower variants of the Renault Kwid and Hyndai Santro only come with a driver-side airbag and same is the case with the Hyundai Santro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
30-12-2020||Business||Amazon and Future Group write to Sebi with contrasting requests||Amazon and Future Group have written to Sebi with contrasting requests over a Rs 24,713 crore buyout of assets of India’s second-largest retailer. Future Group has requested Sebi to expedite the review of the proposed deal and issue a no-objection certificate, while Amazon has urged that the review of the “impugned transaction” be suspended. Amazon had dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) after an indebted Kishore Biyani group firm signed a pact to sell retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units to billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance in August this year. Future Group firm Future Retail (FRL) approached the Delhi high court, which earlier this month upheld Amazon’s right to make representations to statutory authorities against the Future Group-Reliance Retail deal. However, the court also made several observations indicating that Amazon’s attempt to control FRL through a conflation of agreements it has with an unlisted unit of the Indian company will be violative of the FEMA FDI rules. Large orders Future group firms have started getting large orders from Reliance Industries, CEO Kishore Biyani said in an email to his employees on Tuesday. “We have received a large order from Reliance in Future Consumer and in Future Enterprises,” Biyani said. On the future course, he said the group is conceptualising two new brands that will offer products in multiple categories in fashion and FMCG. “There is a lot of work that has been going on with these brands and you will see them come alive in stores by March,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
30-12-2020||Business||Taxpayers plead for extension of ITR filing deadline on Twitter||Taxpayers took to Twitter to plead for the extension of the deadline to file income tax returns for fiscal 2019-20 (assessment year 2020-21) from December 31 by three months citing Covid-19 and system issues. However, the income tax department countered with an hourly update on the number of tax returns being filed. “Here is the statistics of income tax returns filed on Tuesday. 12,16,631 ITRs have been filed up to 1900 hours today and 1,52,547 ITRs filed in the last one hour,” the tax department tweeted. With just two days left for the deadline for individuals to end, the department asked taxpayers not to wait and file returns early. Around 4.37 crore returns were filed till December 28. During the same period last year, 4.51 crore ITRs were filed. The due date for taxpayers whose accounts require to be audited is January 31, 2021. But there was no word from the finance ministry on the plea to extend that deadline too. The clamour from tax assessees and tax professionals for a push back of the deadline has reached a crescendo in the last few weeks but the govt shows no signs of relenting -- at least for now. The Covid-19 argument and the pressures on tax professionals to complete audits with depleted staff, does not appear to have cut much ice with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. For individuals having income from salary, house property, or capital gains, and those whose accounts are not required to be audited, 31 December is the last date for filing ITR for FY19-20. Normally, the due date for filing ITRs for all assessees whose accounts are not required to be audited is July 31. This year the government extended the deadline for filing an income tax return, the deadline is December 31, to provide relief to taxpayers in view of the current Covid-19 pandemic. Delay in filing results in penalty and penal interest, which is causing the cyber-commotion around income tax. A lot of Twitter users took to the site to say that the Income Tax Department site has crashed. It is likely due to the overload of requests from taxpayers. Chartered accountants pointed out that they are overburdened by requests to file IT-R, and requested for an extension of the December 31 deadline. Narayan Jain, Chairman, DTPA  Representation Committee  said “due to Corona pandemic normalcy in operations is yet to set in. Even many professionals as well as their staff have suffered infection from Covid -19. Therefore, there is need for extension of dates for furnishing tax audit report and ITRs….the Centre has asked the states to extended the validity of driving licenses to March 31 due to covid, cannot this also be extended.” Jain also urged for extension of date for filing declaration under Vivad Se Vishwas (VSV) Scheme from 31st December, 2020 to 28th February, 2021, pointing out that in many cases the assessing officers have not been able to give effect to rectification petitions and appeal effects. Many pointed out that filing returns on time would be a challenge due to the pandemic and multiple associations, trade unions, and professionals have asked for staggered extensions in deadlines. They have requested the deadline to be extended to March 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-186
30-12-2020||Business||Boeing’s 737 Max resumes passenger flights in the United States||Boeing’s 737 Max resumed passenger flights in the United States for the first time on Tuesday after a 20-month safety ban was lifted last month. American Airlines Flight 718 departed Miami around 10:40 a.m., bound for New York's LaGuardia and is scheduled to land soon after 1 p.m. American and planemaker Boeing have sought to reassure the public over the plane’s safety after it was cleared by US regulators in November to resume flights. The flight was observed by two media helicopters to the airport’s north. It headed north into broken clouds. “This aircraft is ready to go,” American president Robert Isom said at a media briefing in Miami before the flight. The airline is confident in the safety of the 737 Max, he added. The Max was grounded in March 2019 for 20 months after two fatal crashes in five months killed 346 people. The grounding was lifted by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) last month after Boeing agreed to software upgrades and new safeguards on a key flight control system linked to both fatal crashes. American’s first flight between Miami and LaGuardia follows flight control updates, maintenance work, fresh pilot training and town hall meetings with flight crews to walk them through Boeing’s changes and address concerns. American is the third carrier globally to resume flights following Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes and Grupo Aeromexico earlier this month. Between those two airlines, the updated 737 Max has flown about 250 commercial flights, according to Cirium, the aviation data firm. American Airlines currently has 31 737 Max aircraft after taking delivery of seven more jets since the FAA lifted its safety ban, including one on Monday and plans to gradually reintroduce the plane to its fleet. A Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll released Monday found that Americans are less familiar with the two fatal 737 Max crashes, but if made aware of those disasters, more than half say they would probably avoid the aircraft. The Max’s return comes at a time Covid-19 has thrust the industry into its worst crisis, with airlines parking hundreds of jets as demand hovers around 30 per cent of 2019 levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||Ex  economic affairs secretary Atanu Chakraborty to become HDFC Bank chairman||Atanu Chakraborty, the former economic affairs secretary, is likely to be the next part-time chairman of HDFC Bank. The board of the country’s largest bank is understood to have cleared his name and his appointment is subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). This comes as the tenure of the lender’s current chairperson Shyamala Gopinath will end on January 1, 2021. Chakraborty’s name was sent to the RBI for its approval on December 28. In a regulatory filing to the bourses on Monday, HDFC Bank said its board has recommended the appointment of the new part-time chairperson. “Pursuant to the recommendations of the nomination & remuneration committee, the board of directors of HDFC Bank at its meeting held today has recommended the appointment of the part-time chairperson of the bank and has submitted its recommendation to the RBI for approval under Section 35B of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Further disclosure in this regard will be made after receipt of communication from the Reserve Bank of India,’’ HDFC Bank said in its filing. The bank added that the tenure of Shyamala Gopinath shall end at the close of business hours of January 1, 2021, pursuant to the tenure approved by the RBI. It further disclosed that the board can under Section 104 of the Companies Act, 2013, elect amongst themselves an independent director to chair the meetings of the board or relevant committees till such time the new part time chairperson is inducted on the board. A 1985 batch IAS officer of the Gujarat cadre, he was also earlier the secretary of the Department of Investment and Public Management and before that the Director General of Hydrocarbons (DGH). His entry to HDFC Bank comes just two months after its long time MD & CEO Aditya Puri retired in October and Sashidhar Jagdishan replaced him. Shares of HDFC Bank today ended with gains of over one per cent at Rs 1427.10 in the BSE. At close it had a market cap of Rs 7,85,997.72 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||Breather for Reliance Home Finance||Lenders to troubled mortgage firm Reliance Home Finance (RHF) have extended the inter-creditor agreement (ICA) for another three months. Reliance Home Finance, part of Anil Ambani-promoted Reliance Group, recently got bids from six suitors as part of a debt resolution process. “The lenders of the company forming part of the Inter creditor Agreement (ICA), executed pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) circular dated June 7, 2019 on Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets, have extended the ICA period till March 31, 2021,” the company said in a regulatory filing. According to the June 7 circular of the RBI, lenders can extend the time period of the pact if an account has not been resolved within 180 days of signing ICA. Of the six bidders, only two submitted compliant and binding bids, while four bids are non-binding and not compliant with bid conditions, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||RBI raises red flag on bad loans||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday cautioned the asset quality of the banking system may deteriorate sharply even as the actual amount  of bad loans remains unknown on account of a Supreme Court directive that bars the recognition of bad assets till further orders. Besides, housing finance companies (HFCs) may need to brace for large slippages of loan assets and higher provisioning. In its Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in India 2019-20, the RBI indicated the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is yet to be fully felt, though the domestic economy has shown signs of recovery. “In 2020-21, as policy support is rolled back, the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic may dent the health of the banks and non-banks. It said  the deadline for restructuring proposals is fast approaching and with the possible lifting of the asset quality standstill, banks’ financials are likely to be impacted in terms of asset quality and future income. The RBI had announced a loan moratorium that ended on August 31 and a one-time loan restructuring scheme to help borrowers adversely affected by the pandemic. The Supreme Court had on September 4 directed all accounts which were not non-performing assets (NPA) till August 31 this year should not be declared as bad loans till further orders.
Around 40 per cent of outstanding loans of banks and NBFCs till August opted for moratorium, according to the RBI. The report provided data across three categories: 41 per cent of the retail loans till August availed moratorium; 69.29 per cent of MSME loans took the relief as did 34.28 per cent of the corporate loans. The  gross non-performing assets (GNPA) ratio of banks declined from 9.1 per cent of total assets at end-March 2019 to 8.2 per cent at end-March 2020 and further to 7.5 per cent at end-September. The improvement was driven by lower slippages which declined to 0.74 per cent in September -and resolution of a few large accounts through the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). However, the modest GNPA ratio of 7.5 per cent hides the strong undercurrent of slippage. “The accretion to NPAs as per the Reserve Bank’s Income Recognition and Asset Classification (IRAC) norms would have been higher in the absence of the asset quality standstill provided as a Covid-19 relief measure,” the report observed. Here it said  an analysis of published quarterly results of a sample of banks indicates that their GNPA ratios would have been higher in the range of 0.10 per cent to 0.66 per cent at end-September 2020. Further, the share of special mention accounts, SMA-0 or loans in default for less than 30 days, witnessed a sharp rise in September 2020. This, the report said, may be an initial sign of stress. "Looking ahead, the banking and non-banking sectors face both challenging times and new opportunities as the Indian economy returns to full vitality...Although stretched asset valuations are in apparent disconnect with the real economy, life support in the form of adequate credit flows to some of the productive and COVID-19 stressed sectors has been deficient. Going forward, restoration of health of the banking and non-banking sectors depends on how quickly the animal spirits return and the revival of the real economy," the RBI said. There was also some good news in the report. It said that the number of frauds reported by banks in April-September 2020 period declined to Rs 64,681 crore from Rs 1,13,374 crore reported in the same period of the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||Steel producers justify price increase||A steel producers' body has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi explaining that the metal price hike was because of surging raw material costs and demanded a ban on iron ore export for six months, an official said on Tuesday. The Indian Steel Association informed the PMO about the price increase of the metal after Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari wrote a letter to the Prime Minister on the impact of rising steel prices on infrastructure projects. “We would like to highlight some of the very serious and compelling reasons which have left the steel industry with no recourse but to raise prices of steel from time to time,” the ISA said in its letter to the PMO. Hot-rolled coil prices have increased by 46 per cent to Rs 52,000 per tonne in November  compared with Rs 37,400 per tonne in July this year. Rebar TMT, which is used in the housing and construction sectors, had touched Rs 50,000 a tonne, industry sources said. The ISA mentioned about the issues related to iron ore, price rise of raw materials, shortage in global steel supply and lower capacity utilisation due to Covid-induced disruptions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||SAIL seeks allies for auto grade steel||Steel Authority of India is exploring options to tie up with a Japanese or Korean steelmaker to make auto grade steel in India. The move follows the collapse of tentative discussions with Laxmi Mittal’s ArcelorMittal for a joint venture. Mittal chose to acquire Essar Steel and that effectively scuppered any deal, outgoing SAIL chairman Anil Kumar Chaudhary said in an interview with PTI. In December 2019, ArcelorMittal announced that it had completed the acquisition of Essar Steel and formed a 60:40 joint venture with Nippon Steel (AM/NS India) to own and operate the debt-ridden firm. The deck for acquisition of Essar Steel for Rs 42,000 crore by L N Mittal-led company was cleared by the Supreme Court. Chaudhary said  two separate delegations of Indian Steel PSUs led by the ministry of steel visited Japan and South Korea for deliberations with the steel firms in these countries for further expansion and probable areas of technological collaboration towards the manufacturing of high grade steel including steel for auto-body sheets. The SAIL chairman, who retires on December 31, said he expects the state-owned steelmaker to trim its debt to Rs 40,000 crore by the end of this fiscal from Rs 50,638 crore at the end of Sept 2020. The government has included speciality steel as part of the productivity linked incentive scheme to boost its production in the country and reduce import. The finance ministry has allocated Rs 6,322 crore for this segment of the steel industry. Auto industry sources said  the multinational players  prefer to source speciality steel from companies of their own countries. The industry continues to rely on imports as local steel companies do not manufacture the steel grade they needed. Another risk involved is that if the import of steel (raw material) is restricted into the country, the industry may go for import of the components itself which may affect the government initiative of “Make in India”. When asked for his comments on the rising prices, the SAIL chief said  ”domestic steel prices are guided by international steel prices. In the past, the steel prices had really touched the low and it was indeed a tough time for the domestic steel industry. Any industry follows its own dynamics confirming to the market situations and it operates accordingly".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
30-12-2020||Business||Tatas up AirAsia India stake to 84%||The Tatas have raised their stake in AirAsia India to 83.67 per cent amid the salt-to-software conglomerate submitting an expression of interest (EoI) for national carrier Air India. Tata Sons is buying an additional 32.67 per cent held by AirAsia Berhad of Malaysia in its domestic joint venture-AirAsia India for $37.7 million. In January this year, the Centre had invited bids to sell 100 per cent of its holding in Air India and its international arm Air India Express and 50 per cent in ground handling joint venture Air India SATS Airport Services. The government will announce the names of the qualified bidders on January 5, 2021, amid speculation the Tatas may use AirAsia India as the vehicle for investing in Air India. In a regulatory filing to the Malaysian stock exchange, the AirAsia group said its wholly owned subsidiary Air Asia Investment Limited (AAIL) has executed a share purchase agreement with Tata Sons Private Limited to sell AAIL’s equity interest of 32.67 per cent in AirAsia India, comprising 490,000,000 shares to Tata Sons for a consideration of $37.6 million. It further disclosed that as part of the transaction, there will be a call option in respect of AAIL’s remaining 16.33 per cent stake in Air Asia India. This will be exercisable by Tata Sons at any time after the transaction is completed. Tata Sons will have to pay $18.83 million for the 16.33 per cent stake. Explaining the rationale for the transaction, AirAsia Group said that since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, the aviation industry has been one of the hardest hit industries. Airlines globally have cancelled flights and grounded planes and Air Asia India has not been any exception. “Due to this, the directors expect further capital requirements for AirAsia India. As India is a non-core market for AirAsia (being a non-Asean country), the company will continue to regularly re-assess its business strategies and dispose of non-core investments to augment its liquidity,” AirAsia Group said. “This transaction will reduce cash burn of the company in the short term and allow AirAsia to concentrate on recovery of its key Asean markets in Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines in the long run.’’ The Malaysian company further disclosed that the proposed disposal will result in a gain of $37.66 million in the fourth quarter of 2020 at both the AAIL and consolidated-group levels. In six years in the country, AirAsia India has built a fleet of 32 aircraft, including two A320 neos that were inducted recently. In November, AirAsia Berhad had said it was reviewing its investment in AirAsia India. “Our businesses in Japan and India have been draining cash, causing the group much financial stress. Cost containment and reducing cash burns remain key priorities evident by the recent closure of AirAsia Japan and an ongoing review of our investment in AirAsia India,” president (airlines) of AirAsia Group, Bo Lingam, had said in a statement. The group said it has also agreed to waive unpaid brand license fees payable by AirAsia India to subsidiary AirAsia Berhad. The airline reported its fifth consecutive quarterly loss in the July-September period as the pandemic took its toll on travel. Group chief executive officer Tony Fernandes had said the group intended to consolidate and strengthen its foothold in Southeast Asia, which could mean exiting both Japan and India. Fernandes has said the company had disposed of spare engines to raise cash and was open to other potential monetisation opportunities. AirAsia India started operations on domestic routes in June 2014 following the then UPA government allowing foreign airlines to invest up to 49 per cent in the Indian carriers. “The share of losses over the years has resulted in the carrying value of the investment at the date of transaction to be Nil,” AAIL said in its filing in Malaysia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-187
