01-08-2021||Calcutta||Trust won in Mumbai hotel ends in murder of 62-year-old in Lake Town||A man who worked at a Mumbai hotel had apparently won the trust of an elderly guest and moved to the city to work as her help at her Lake Town home where she lived alone. The woman was found murdered and the house robbed a few days ago. Police have arrested the man from his home in Uttar Pradesh and recovered the stolen items and the woman’s mobile phone. Dipa Mukherjee, 62, was found dead in her home on Bangur Avenue on July 21. The jewellery she had been wearing was missing and the cupboards were ransacked, the police said. Relatives had found the decomposed body when they went to check on her after she did not respond to their calls. “Tapas Mukherjee, the woman’s son, had lodged a complaint of murder against a man who was living in the house since June this year. According to his complaint, the victim had gone to Mumbai in 2019 and stayed in a hotel where she met a hotel boy. The same man came here and started living in the house from June 18 as a domestic help,” said an officer of Lake Town police station. The police said they verified the son’s statement and found that a man named Dinesh Prasad, 35, was working in the Lake Town house. The Bidhannagar police contacted the Mumbai hotel and got Prasad’s details, an officer said. Based on investigation, the police conducted a raid in Shilhari in Budaun district of Uttar Pradesh and arrested Prasad. He was produced before Budaun court and brought to Calcutta on transit remand. “We have recovered the entire stolen booty and the victim’s mobile phone from his possession. He has been charged with murder and theft,” said an officer. Prasad was produced before a Bidhannagar court on Saturday that remanded him in police custody. Several incidents have been reported in the past where elderly people living alone have been robbed or killed by their help. “It is always advisable to submit details of the new domestic help at the local police station. Sometimes this acts as a deterrent to crime as the help would know that he or she would be caught in case they commit an offence as police already have the details. Or, if a crime is committed and the domestic help is a suspect, it always helps if the identity details of the house’s domestic help is readily available,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
01-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid lockdown: Most halls shut on opening day||Cinemas can reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity from Saturday, said a notification issued from Nabanna a couple of days ago. But most halls, single screen as well as multiplexes, remained shut on Saturday. Most owners said the preparations for Covid protocols would take a few more days. But the absence of new films was the main hurdle for reopening of the halls, they said. The halls in Calcutta have remained shut for three months. Many employees have returned home in districts. In the absence of regular train services, coming back to the city is a challenge. “Ensuring the Covid protocols, sanitisation and checking the operational readiness of projectors, screens and other equipment will take a few more days. We are expecting to be ready for opening by next weekend. But the question is content. In the absence of new releases, there is a serious lack of content,” said Pranab Roy, the owner of two standalone halls — Menoka in Southern Avenue and Asoka in Behala. The Mumbai film industry is the main supply line that feeds halls. The absence of new Hindi film releases has hurt the distributors and hall owners badly. Many upcoming big budget films have been stalled for a long time because of the pandemic. The Telegraph has reported multiple times how the Covid-19 pandemic has sounded a possible death knell for many single screen theatres across Bengal. Unable to bear the mounting losses and fixed overhead expenses, several halls have shut down for good in and around Calcutta. Most multiplexes were also shut on Saturday. “The preparations for re-opening are underway. We will open from August 5,” said Amitava Guha Thakurta, regional director-east, INOX Leisure Limited. For content, the chain is for now banking on a couple of upcoming Hollywood releases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
01-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CMC to vaccinate bedridden persons by visiting their homes||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will vaccinate bedridden persons by visiting their homes considering their cases as special, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the corporation’s board of administrators, said on Saturday. Hakim made it clear that the services will be extended as special cases only to those who have no other way to get vaccinated. No one else in the family of the person will be administered the jab at home. The family members of the bedridden people have to visit the nearest primary health centre of the CMC to register. Around late afternoon, after vaccination at the centres winds up and when a vial has only one or two doses left, the vaccinators will visit the ailing person’s home to administer the jab. Hakim said that the CMC does not want to waste vaccine doses by carrying a new vial to the home. Civic officials managing Covid vaccination said each vial of Covishield and Covaxin has 10 doses but efficient drawing from the vials allows 11 people to be vaccinated from one vial. “We have decided to visit the homes of those who are bedridden and for whom it would not be possible to visit any vaccination centre to take the Covid vaccine. But these people are exposed to getting infected as nurses, physiotherapists or other caregivers come to tend to them every day,” Hakim said on Saturday. “We will treat them as special cases and vaccinate them by visiting their homes. I have spoken to the health secretary about this. Please do not think this to be a case of taking vaccination to people’s doors. This is a rare exemption for those who need it. We will not vaccinate anyone else in their families who can visit a vaccination centre,” he said. The Covid vaccination guidelines do not permit vaccination at people’s homes, said CMC officials, while pointing out that only very rare special exemptions will be offered to those who are immobile. A senior doctor of the CMC said that the services will be offered only to those who cannot be brought to the Covid vaccination centres of the CMC even in an ambulance or on a stretcher. “There have been some instances where our vaccinators went to the gate of the centre and administered vaccines to the elderly who sat inside cars. Our vaccinators will visit the homes of only those who cannot even come to the gate of the centre in a car,” said the doctor. Covaxin second doses Hakim said on Saturday that some of the dedicated vaccination centres opened only for the Covid shots would administer Covaxin second doses from Tuesday. These centres had administered some Covaxin first doses earlier and many of those recipients are now waiting for their second doses. This facility will be separate from the administration of Covaxin second doses from select primary health centres of the CMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
01-08-2021||Calcutta||Lease of life for malkhanas in 79 Calcutta police stations||⚫1974, Alipore — Rs 2,059.74 seized in a theft case ⚫1982, Gariahat — a gold chain seized in connection with a cheating case ⚫1994, Amherst Street — Rs 12 left unclaimed after a road accident The malkhanas in 79 city police stations contain seized articles, some of which are over half-a-century old. As part of a project announced by Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra, renovations have started across malkhanas — rooms inside police stations where seized articles are stored —  to preserve old and seized articles in a better way. Majority of these malkhanas — sometimes the most neglected room in all the police stations — marked with dust and cobwebs, have a manual register where an officer, who is in charge of the malkhana, — referred to as the “Malkhana Babu” makes the entries. However, with the malkhana renovation project in hand, Calcutta police got a chance to restore and preserve the old and important seized items in the past few decades. “Several police stations in central Calcutta like Burrabazar and Posta have a large quantity of demonetised notes and gold jewellery that need to be preserved,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Similarly, many police stations have 20-30-year-old arms that can be disposed of following a uniform rule, the officer added. Selected police officers have been trained to build e- malkhanas where each of the seized articles will have tags and their entire data. Their case references will be maintained online through a software. Several police station malkhanas have got a fresh coat of paint and new racks to segregate the seized articles. A senior officer said separate standard operating procedures are being planned for sorting them. A train completed the first trial run between Phoolbagan and Sealdah stations on the East-West Metro corridor on Saturday. The six-coach train left Phoolbagan at 3pm and reached Sealdah a few minutes later before going back to Phoolbagan. The East-West corridor, which will connect Howrah Maidan and Salt Lake once fully functional, is now operational between Sector V and Phoolbagan. The stretch between Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium stations is elevated. The route goes underground from Phoolbagan to Howrah Maidan. “We expect to run trains till Sealdah by December,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
01-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid curbs: Night curfew is a mixed bag, some people abide and some flout||A notification, extending the Covid-19 curbs till August 15, was issued by Bengal’s chief secretary on Thursday. “All outdoor activities including movement of people and vehicles shall be strictly prohibited between 9pm and 5am except for health services, law and order, essential commodities including agricultural produce and other emergency services,” the notice reiterated. Chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, had instructed police to ensure strict compliance of the night curfew following several instances of rampant violation of the norms, especially by restaurants. A tour of some of Calcutta’s busier thoroughfares on Friday night, between 11pm and 12.30am, suggested night curfew was a mixed bag in the city. In some areas, the curbs were being maintained. In some other areas, a section of people made a mockery of them. Harish Mukherjee Road A much-loved dhaba next to the gurdwara in Bhowanipore, popular among night birds and morning walkers alike, had its shutter partially rolled down. It left just enough space for waiters to get in and out. The pavement in front was busy. Two men and a woman were busy taking pictures of themselves. A man and a woman sat on two plastic chairs, the former with a glass of a blue drink. There were half a dozen other persons on the pavement. Every now and then, a waiter stepped in and came out of the eatery with one or more trays. Their destination — around a dozen cars parked on the road in front. Most of the cars had their windows rolled up. The glasses came down for a refill of food. One waiter came out with a plate of papads and headed to a Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza. Another took a plate of paneer kebabs to a Hyundai Creta. A third waiter took two hot tandoori rotis into a Maruti Suzuki Swift. The dhaba is popular for its vegetarian fare but like on days before the pandemic, the hottest selling late-night item was doodh chai (milk tea). Rich and frothy, the tea came in large earthen pots, each priced Rs 30. One large kettle served 10-12 bhaands. The lot was placed on a giant tray, which a waiter carried up to people waiting on roads or inside cars. One tray was full to empty in a few minutes before the entire process repeated itself. All of this unfolded as a police control room (PCR) van was parked right opposite the dhaba. Two policemen chatted outside the van.  Sarat Bose Road The road is dotted with several restaurants, some of them known for late-night buzz. Most of the eateries were shut. But a dhaba — which, for many Calcuttans, is the best place for north Indian food in the city and exceptionally popular with nightbirds — was open. A usual Friday night outside the dhaba would mean scores of cars, often parked in double lines as the night progressed. The stretch would be buzzing with waiters and the air filled with the aroma of tadka, kebabs and other delicacies. Even inside, a meal would usually need a waiting time. On Friday, the scene was nothing like. There was hardly any car parked on the road outside. One of the shutters was rolled down. But a portion of the ground floor dining section was open. A counter there was operational. In around 20 minutes this newspaper spent outside the eatery, three people came and ordered food for takeaway. A notice was pasted on the walls outside. “Only takeaway and home delivery allowed after 8pm,” it read. “What are the non-veg options,” a man asked at the counter. “Please have a look at the menu, place your order and stand aside. A crowd at the counter would catch the attention of police,” said the man sitting at the counter. A handful of online food delivery executives also dropped by on their two-wheelers for collecting food. According to the existing curbs, online delivery of food is allowed through the night. From 9pm, the night curfew sets in and any movement of people or vehicles is barred. Ballygunge Circular Road The Telegraph had reported a few days ago how two eateries on the road flouted the night-curbs rampantly by serving diners inside cars as well as inside the restaurants late into the night. On Friday, the long queues of cars outside both eateries were not to be seen. The stretch outside both eateries was deserted. A police vehicle was parked outside one of the joints, next to the IAS officers’ quarters. As soon as a white sedan arrived at the eatery, a cop went rushing to the vehicle and spoke with the man at the wheels. Within seconds, the car left the spot. The gates of both the restaurants were half shut and only online food delivery executives dropped by once in a while.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
01-08-2021||Business||GST revenue stands at over Rs 1.16 lakh crore in July, says finance ministry||GST revenue for the month of July stood at over Rs 1.16 lakh crore, 33 per cent higher than the collection in the same month of 2020, indicating that the economy is recovering at a fast pace, the finance ministry said on Sunday. Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in July 2020 was Rs 87,422 crore, Sequentially, it was Rs 92,849 crore in June this year. The gross GST revenue collected in the month of July 2021 is Rs 1,16,393 crore of which Central GST is Rs 22,197 crore, State GST Rs 28,541 crore, Integrated GST Rs 57,864 crore (including Rs 27,900 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 7,790 crore (including Rs 815 crore collected on import of goods). The revenues for the month of July 2021 are 33 per cent higher than GST collected in the same month last year and include GST returns filed between July 1-31 as well as IGST and cess collected from imports for the same period. During the month, revenues from import of goods were 36 per cent higher and the collection from domestic transactions (including import of services) were 32 per cent higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year. "GST collection, after posting above Rs 1 lakh crore mark for eight months in a row, dropped below Rs 1 lakh crore in June 2021 as the collections during the month of June 2021 predominantly related to the month of May 2021...," the finance ministry said. During May 2021, most of the states/union territories were under either complete or partial lockdown due to COVID, it said. "With the easing out of Covid restrictions, GST collection for July 2021 has again crossed Rs 1 lakh crore, which clearly indicates that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The robust GST revenues are likely to continue in the coming months too," the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-08-2021||Business||India's power consumption reaches pre-Covid level in July||India's power consumption grew nearly 12 per cent in July to 125.51 billion units (BU) and returned to pre-pandemic level mainly due to easing of lockdown curbs and delayed monsoon, according to power ministry data. In July 2020, power consumption stood at 112.14 BU, lower than 116.48 BU in the same month of 2019 (pre-pandemic level). Thus, consumption of power has not only grown year-on-year but also returned to pre-pandemic level. Experts say recovery in power demand and consumption in July 2021 is mainly due to delayed monsoon and surge in economic activities amid easing of lockdown restrictions by states. They said power demand as well as consumption returned to pre-Covid levels in July and a strong recovery is expected in coming months. The commercial and industrial power demand and consumption got affected April onwards this year due to lockdown restrictions imposed by states. Experts said that amid decline in the number of daily Covid-19 positive cases across the country and easing of lockdown restriction by the states, the commercial and industrial demand for power would definitely rise from July onwards. Peak power demand met or the highest supply in a day touched an all-time high of 200.57 GW in July (recorded on July 7, 2021). Daily power consumption also touched an all-time high of 4,508 million units on July 7, 2021. Peak power demand met for the entire month of July 2020 was 170.40 GW. Therefore, peak power demand met recorded growth of nearly 18 per cent in July 2021, compared to 170.40 GW (recorded on July 2, 2020). The peak power demand met was recorded at 175.12 GW in July 2019. Last year, the government had imposed a lockdown on March 25, to contain the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown was eased in a phased manner, but it had hit the economic and commercial activities and resulted in lower commercial and industrial demand for electricity in the country. Power consumption in April 2021 saw year-on-year growth of nearly 38.5 per cent. The second wave of Covid-19 started in the middle of April this year and affected the recovery in commercial and industrial power demand as states started imposing restrictions in the latter part of the month. Power consumption in the country witnessed 6.6 per cent year-on-year growth in May at 108.80 BU despite a low base of 102.08 BU in the same month of 2020. As per the latest data, power consumption in June grew nearly 9 per cent to 114.48 BU, compared to 105.08 BU in the same month last year. Power consumption in February this year was recorded at 103.25 BU, compared to 103.81 BU a year ago. In March this year, power consumption grew nearly 22 per cent to 120.63 BU, compared to 98.95 BU in the same month of 2020. After a gap of six months, power consumption had recorded 4.6 per cent year-on-year growth in September 2020, and 11.6 per cent in October 2020. In November, power consumption growth slowed to 3.12 per cent, mainly due to early onset of winters. In December, it grew 4.5 per cent, while this was 4.4 per cent higher in January 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-08-2021||Business||SBI waives processing fee on home loans till August-end||The State Bank of India (SBI) on Saturday said it has waived the processing fee on home loans till August-end. At present, the processing fee on home loans is 0.40 per cent while it stands at 50-100 basis points of the loan amount for most of the other lenders. The latest relaxation is part of its limited period “Monsoon Dhamaka Offer”. The country’s largest lender claimed that in availing the scheme, a home loan customer can gain substantially and that it will also help revive consumer sentiments. “There could not be a better time to buy a house, considering SBI home loan interest rates start at just 6.70 per cent,” SBI said in a statement. The Monsoon Dhamaka Offer is for a limited period ending August 31, 2021, it added. Observers said the offer was another attempt by the state-owned lender to improve its market share in the competitive home loan segment, particularly at a time credit to industry is sluggish. The SBI’s move comes ahead of the three-day monetary policy committee meeting that is set to begin on August 4. However, the RBI is largely expected to retain the policy rate and its accommodative stance given the patchy economic recovery. “This offer of processing fee waiver will facilitate and encourage home buyers to take a decision with ease, as the interest rate is at its historic low. We strive to be a banker to every Indian and, thereby, be partners in nation building,” C.S. Setty, MD (retail and digital banking), SBI, said. There will be a concession of five basis points for home loans applied through the bank’s YONO app. Women borrowers will also be eligible for a concession of five basis points on the card rate which starts from 6.80 per cent. Data from the central bank on the sectoral deployment of bank credit showed credit growth to industry contracted 0.3 per cent in June 2021 from a 2.2 per cent growth in June last year. Housing loans showed a rise of 9.8 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-08-2021||Business||Globalisation tripled India GDP but workers have been left out: Economist Eric Maskin||Globalisation has tripled India’s GDP in a generation but workers in the country have been left out, eminent economist and Nobel laureate Eric Maskin said on Saturday while observing that the problem of increasing inequality may be harder to solve than the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing students of Ashoka University virtually, he mentioned that globalisation has brought overall prosperity in emerging economies and has increased wages and income inequality. “Globalisation has tripled Indian GDP in a generation, an amazing accomplishment...but the workers of India have been left out,” Maskin, a professor of Economics and Mathematics at Harvard University, said. Noting that the rise of inequality in so many developing countries is surprising, he said inequality cannot be solved by market forces. “Yet, India will still be facing some huge challenges, challenges that may be even harder to solve than the pandemic....the problem of increasing income inequality,” he noted. Maskin said even though the world has witnessed enormous economic growth in the last 25 years, the gap between the haves and have-nots in developing countries has risen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-08-2021||Business||India formulating standards for services sector for high quality: Piyush Goyal||India is formulating standards for the services sector so that the country can have high quality of services to offer to the rest of the world, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. He said services trade between India and the US will play a very important role in the relations between the two countries. Participating at the IACC-NIC’s second Indo-US Services Summit, he said India was rapidly progressing across sectors such as healthcare, home delivery, telecom and technology. “In India, we are formulating standards for the services ecosystem so that we can have a very high quality of services to offer to the rest of the world. India is also rapidly progressing to become one of the world’s largest digital markets, be it fintech, edutech or telemedicines,” the minister said. On legal services, he said Indian lawyers are top class and have huge opportunities opening up for them across the globe. “We can make sure that we can provide adequate safeguards for lawyers in the lower courts and a larger ecosystem in the legal profession,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-08-2021||Business||NTPC profit rises 17 per cent to Rs 3,443 crore in April-June quarter||State-owned power giant NTPC on Saturday posted a nearly 17 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 3,443.72 crore for the April-June quarter on the back of higher revenues. Profit of the company in the corresponding previous quarter of 2020 was Rs 2,948.94 crore. Total income rose to Rs 30,390.60 crore from Rs 26,794.68 crore in the same period of the last year. NTPC’s gross power generation in the June quarter was 71.74 billion units compared with 60.18 billion units (BU) in the same period a year ago. Domestic coal supply (for its plants) in the June quarter stood at 45.81 million tonnes, up from 40.19 million tonnes in the year-ago period. IDFC First Bank suffers loss Private lender IDFC First Bank on Saturday reported a net loss of Rs 630 crore in the April-June quarter because of higher provisioning to cushion the impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The bank had posted a net profit of Rs 93.55 crore a year ago and Rs 127.81 crore in the preceding three months. “Covid provision pool increased from Rs 375 crore to Rs 725 crore during the current quarter,” IDFC First Bank said. The bank expects to collect a reasonable proportion of these dues in due course, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-08-2021||Business||China's factory activity expands at slower pace in July||China’s factory activity expanded in July at the slowest pace in 17 months as higher raw material costs, equipment maintenance and extreme weather conditions weighed on business activity, adding to concerns about a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy. The official manufacturing Purchasing Manager’s Index (PMI) eased to 50.4 in July from 50.9 in June, data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed on Saturday, but remained above the 50-point mark that separates growth from contraction. Analysts had expected it to slip to 50.8. It was the lowest figure since the index slumped to 35.7 in February 2020, after China began lockdowns to control the coronavirus pandemic. An NBS official said in a statement the PMI’s sub-index for production slipped to 51.0 from 51.9 in June, pointing to equipment maintenance and extreme weather. The new order sub-index fell to 50.9, from 51.5, reflecting a slowdown in demand. “The most alarming signal is the new export order index, which is at the lowest level since July last year,” said Zhiwei Zhang, chief economist of Pinpoint Asset Management. The sub-index for new export orders has dropped for three straight months starting in May. It stood at 47.7 in July. A sub-index for raw material costs stood at 62.9 in July compared with June’s 61.2, pointing to an increase in costs. High raw material prices have eaten into the profitability of industrial firms and deterred some Chinese exporters from taking on orders. Authorities are eager to prevent high factory-gate prices being passed on to consumers, which would only add to current economic headaches as underlying demand remains weak. Hit by extreme weather, the construction index dropped to 57.5, from June’s 60.1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-08-2021||India||Karnataka extends Covid guidelines imposed till 2nd August for the next 15 days||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said, "The guidelines imposed till 2nd August will be extended for the next 15 days," as reported by ANI. This came after the state reported 1,875 new cases and the figure was higher than the number of people who recovered. Karnataka chief minister  Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday had directed the administrations of districts bordering Kerala, that has seen a spurt in Covid-19 cases, to take up special surveillance measure, aimed at controlling the spread of the infection. ”There is a spurt in the number of Covid cases in Kerala in the last one week. It is a cause of worry. We have to take it very seriously. The borders have to be monitored strictly. I have ordered senior officials- Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to take the responsibility,” Bommai said. Speaking to reporters after a meeting on the COVID situation in eight districts, especially those bordering Kerala and others where effects can be felt, on his arrival from Delhi, he said, Assistant Commissioners and DySPs should supervise every day, and District Health Officers (DHOs) should ensure health units for testing. Meanwhile ANI reported that apartments in Bangalore have become containment zones because residents are not disclosing their travel history and information. According to reports, there are 108 active micro-containment zones in Bangalore. Most of them were added in July as on the 1st of the month the number of was 44.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||BJP's 'Tiranga Yatra' in Haryana plan to instigate and defame farmers: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday appealed to Haryana farmers not to oppose the 'Tiranga Yatra' of the state's BJP unit claiming that it was a devious plan to instigate and defame farmers.  The umbrella body of 40 farmer unions said in a statement that the other programmes of boycott and flag protests against the BJP and the JJP will continue.  "The proposed 'Tiranga Yatra' of the BJP's Haryana unit is mainly to instigate farmers and defame them. SKM urged farmers to see through this devious plan of BJP, and to not let this dirty tactic, under the guise of the national flag, succeed," it said in the statement.  The Haryana BJP's two-week-long 'Tiranga Yatra' ahead of the 75th Independence Day began from Bhiwani on Sunday, with party's state chief O P Dhankar claiming that thousands of farmers also joined the event.  Dhankar, along with state Agriculture Minister J P Dalal, rode a tractor with tricolour fixed on its both sides during the 'yatra', which was taken out on a 30-km-long route from Bahal to Loharu.  The SKM also said the 'Kisan Sansad' will continue at Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Monday.  "The Kisan Sansad, despite the site of the Sansad in Jantar Mantar being flooded with water, is functioning in a disciplined manner, with detailed deliberations. In Chhattisgarh, a parallel Kisan Sansad was run by the state Kisan Sabha on Friday, in solidarity with the Kisan Sansad near the Parliament," it said.  The Kisan Sansad is part of the latest strategy of the farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three contentious farm laws at multiple Delhi borders since November last year.  The farmers have expressed fear that the new laws will eliminate the Minimum Support Price system and leave them at the mercy of the big corporations.  Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.  As part of these Kisan Sansad sessions, 200 farmers from the protest sites participate in a mock Parliament session at Jantar Mantar during which issues concerning the farming community are discussed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs to visit J&K and Ladakh from August 17 to 22||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs is likely to visit Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh from August 17 to 22, sources said on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on June 24 held the first high-level interaction between the Centre and political leadership mainly from Kashmir after August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated it into two union territories. Among the 14 leaders who participated in the meeting were Congress's Ghulam Nabi Azad, Tara Chand and GA Mir; National Conference’s Dr Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah; PDP's Mehbooba Mufti, J-K Apni Party's Altaf Bukhari. The issue of restoration of statehood was also raised by several participants in the meeting. The PDP chief told reporters after the 3.5 hour-long meetings that she has told the Prime Minister that the people of Jammu and Kashmir do not accept the manner in which Article 370 was abrogated “unconstitutionally, illegally and immorally”. “People of Jammu and Kashmir are in a lot of difficulties after August 5, 2019. They are angry, upset, and emotionally shattered. They feel humiliated. I told Prime Minister that people do not accept the manner in which Article 370 was abrogated unconstitutionally, illegally and immorally.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||Indian and Chinese armies establish hotline for Sikkim sector||A hotline has been set up between the Indian and Chinese armies in the North Sikkim sector to further boost confidence along the Line of Actual Control in the region, officials said on Sunday.  The hotline is between the Indian Army in Kongra La, North Sikkim and China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) at Khamba Dzong in Tibetan Autonomous Region, they said.  The Army said the hotline is aimed at furthering "the spirit of trust and cordial relations along the borders".  The opening of the hotline coincided with the PLA Day on August 1, it said.  "The armed forces of the two countries have well-established mechanisms for communication at ground commanders level," the Army said.  "These hotlines in various sectors go a long way in enhancing the same and maintaining peace and tranquility at the borders," it said in a statement.  The inauguration of the hotline was attended by ground commanders of the two sides and a message of friendship and harmony was exchanged, the Army said.  The setting up of the hotline came amid a continued standoff between the two armies in a number of friction points in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||UP govt to create 134-acre urban forest in Mathura ||The Uttar Pradesh government will be creating an urban forest covering 134 acres in Sunrakh village on the outskirts of Vrindavan and work is set to begin in September, officials said on Sunday. It would be blending the heritage of Vrindavan with other similar developments made in the 'land of Radha Rani'," Mathura District Magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal said, while talking to a group of reporters. He said the landscape would be inspired by the ancient culture of Braj Bhoomi, known for its expansive forest cover. In the Rig Veda, the chosen location is described as the abode of sage Saubhari Rishi who had gone there to seek penance by meditating inside the Yamuna river, said Shailjakant Mishra, Vice-President, UP Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad. The project will be a joint venture of the UP Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad, forest department, district administration and Mathura Vrindavan Development Authority (MVDA), officials said. Under the programme, nearly 77,000 saplings will be planted at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore, the officials said. After levelling work is completed, the area will be demarcate with barbed fencing by the MVDA while a pond and a park would also be developed inside the premises later. DM Chahal said the urban forest will be a natural habitat for animals, especially monkeys, and it would attract domestic as well as international tourists with a scenic location along the river. It would not only be a model of greenery in urban areas but would act as an "oxygen factory", he said. Nagendra Pratap, Vice-Chairman, MVDA, said the final phase of the forest will involve developing a pathway for tourists inside the urban forest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||BJP's Tiranga Yatra in Haryana aims to instigate, defame farmers: SKM||Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday appealed to Haryana farmers not to oppose the 'Tiranga Yatra' of the state's BJP unit claiming that it was a devious plan to instigate and defame farmers. The umbrella body of 40 farmer unions said in a statement that the other programmes of boycott and flag protests against the BJP and the JJP will continue. "The proposed 'Tiranga Yatra' of the BJP's Haryana unit is mainly to instigate farmers and defame them. SKM urged farmers to see through this devious plan of BJP, and to not let this dirty tactic, under the guise of the national flag, succeed," it said in the statement. The Haryana BJP's two-week-long 'Tiranga Yatra' ahead of the 75th Independence Day began from Bhiwani on Sunday, with party's state chief O P Dhankar claiming that thousands of farmers also joined the event. Dhankar, along with state Agriculture Minister J P Dalal, rode a tractor with tricolour fixed on its both sides during the 'yatra', which was taken out on a 30-km-long route from Bahal to Loharu. The SKM also said the 'Kisan Sansad' will continue at Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Monday. "The Kisan Sansad, despite the site of the Sansad in Jantar Mantar being flooded with water, is functioning in a disciplined manner, with detailed deliberations. In Chhattisgarh, a parallel Kisan Sansad was run by the state Kisan Sabha on Friday, in solidarity with the Kisan Sansad near the Parliament," it said. The Kisan Sansad is part of the latest strategy of the farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three contentious farm laws at multiple Delhi borders since November last year. The farmers have expressed fear that the new laws will eliminate the Minimum Support Price system and leave them at the mercy of the big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties. As part of these Kisan Sansad sessions, 200 farmers from the protest sites participate in a mock Parliament session at Jantar Mantar during which issues concerning the farming community are discussed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||Cong ‘James Bond of spying’ when in power; Pegasus a ‘fabricated issue’, claims Mukhtar Naqvi||Attacking the Congress which has been protesting in Parliament demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday said the party was "James Bond of spying" when in power and it now wants to waste Parliament's time over "fake and fabricated" issues. Naqvi, who is the Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader, also accused the Congress and a few other Opposition parties of working with the policy of "rant and run" by making allegations and scooting off. The Minority Affairs Minister said the government is ready to discuss all issues that are related to people and expressed hope that the impasse between the government and the Opposition will be broken allowing Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to function smoothly. Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have failed to transact any significant business, except passage of some bills, amid continued protests by Opposition parties over the Pegasus and farmers' issues since the Monsoon session of Parliament commenced on July 19. The Opposition and the government are locked in a standoff with the former seeking a debate over the Pegasus issue. The senior BJP leader also rejected talk of the Parliament's Monsoon session being curtailed and said there was no basis of such "rumours" as the session was to scheduled till August 13 and business is listed till then. Asked if a middle path can be found to end the deadlock in Parliament, Naqvi said the Congress and a few other Opposition parties are adopting a "rant and run" formula and are not interested in participating in debate and discussion on people's issues. "They first said that we want a discussion on corona but then later did not agree to it. They said we want a discussion on farmers and then did not agree on that. There has been the problem of floods in various parts of the country, they are not showing any interest in that also or on the price rise issue that they talk about," he said. On the Opposition insisting on debating the Pegasus issue, Naqvi said they want to waste Parliament's time on “fake and fabricated issues that have no identity”. "Without wasting time, IT Minister (Ashwini Vaishnaw) had made a statement and they had an opportunity to get a clarification in Rajya Sabha. But instead of taking a clarification they created a ruckus and adopted a violent attitude," he alleged. Naqvi said most of the Opposition parties are interested in debate and discussion but unfortunately the Congress is trying to be their self-appointed head and in that attempt it is "propagating its own negative attitude as that of the Opposition". "They (the Congress) are trying to hijack the thinking of even those opposition parties that are thinking on constructive lines. Congress is trying to become a self appointed leader of the Opposition," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Naqvi said the Congress also tried to "mislead" people on the Rafale jets issue and wasted Parliament's time and everybody knows what happened as they were exposed. "These people (Congress) were the James Bond of spying (when in power). They spin a web of spying when in government and when in opposition create a hullabaloo alleging surveillance," Naqvi said, making a reference to the fictional super spy character that novelist Ian Fleming created on which several movies have been made. In the UPA time, their own finance minister had accused his government of spying on him, he said. "They want to create that atmosphere even now, though there is no substance in these allegations," the minister asserted on the Pegasus snooping row. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers -- Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw -- businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked. The Congress and several other Opposition parties are demanding a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the allegations and also asking the government to come clean whether Pegasus spyware was used or not. Naqvi said the government has stated that it is ready to discuss all issues that are related to the people and the Opposition parties should give notices over it on which the Speaker in Lok Sabha and the chairman in Rajya Sabha will decide. The Rajya Sabha deputy leader said the government is reaching out to opposition leaders and there is no communication gap. "In a day, three-four times discussion is happening with opposition leaders but unfortunately what path the leadership of the grand old party wants to adopt is baffling," he said. Asked about the Opposition's charge of the government passing bills amid din without debate, Naqvi said they should look at their own history as to how many bills were passed by the UPA amid din. "The din during their time would have been due to Commonwealth, 2G spectrum scams, but they don't have any issue. It is an issueless Congress party," he alleged. "We humbly request the Opposition to participate in debate and discussion. They can give notices on the issues they want to discuss and the speaker and chairman will allot time and day," he said. On the call for Opposition unity during Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's Delhi visit recently, Naqvi said there are more than one dozen prime ministerial candidates in the Opposition with many leaders trying to project themselves as PM probables. "Opposition unity is good, we have no issues with it but neither they have leadership nor do they have a programme or policy. Their only programme or policy is (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi bashing," he said. Modi bashing will not pay any dividends, Naqvi added. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||Duty of society to give chance to a criminal to defend themselves, says SC judge||It is the duty of every member of an orderly society to offer every possible opportunity to a "criminal" to defend himself, Supreme Court judge U U Lalit said on Sunday. He said that even though a criminal must be brought to book and punished for his wrong deeds for an orderly society, legal representation is part of everyone's fundamental rights. Justice Lalit was speaking at the launch of the year-long campaign Quality of services is key to access to justice for all , organised by Haryana Legal Services Authority in Gurugram in Haryana. "It is true that for an orderly society a criminal must be brought to book, a criminal must be proceeded against, a criminal must be punished for his wrong deeds. "But at the same time, as an orderly society, it is the duty of every member of the society to offer to him every possible opportunity to defend himself, he said. He said that during the last year and a half, when the entire humanity has been on the back foot because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the virtual platform has emerged as a "platform of solution". All interactions, whether through public offices or other modes, even entertainment and other things have gone for a toss completely due to the pandemic situation, he said. However, this situation has also taught us to improvise, innovate "and to sort of bring out the best within us. "It has taught us that the virtual platform can be a platform of solution, where many of our problems can get sorted out." Today all the courts are functioning through virtual modes, he noted. Justice Lalit also inaugurated the video conferencing facilities in all 22 DLSAs (District Legal Services Authorities) in the state, which will facilitate an interactive platform to fill the communication gap between legal aid counsel and client. He also inaugurated 'Kids Zones' in 18 DLSAs to cater to the needs of children who accompany young couples whose cases are referred for mediation. Besides Justice Lalit, Punjab and Haryana High Court Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and HC judges - Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Rajan Gupta - also spoke at the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||No security clearance for passport, govt services for stone pelters||The CID wing of Jammu and Kashmir Police has ordered the denial of security clearance required for passport and other government services to all those involved in stone-pelting or subversive activities. In an order issued on Saturday, the senior superintendent of police (SSP), CID, Special Branch (SB), Kashmir, has directed all the field units under it to ensure that the person's involvement in law and order, stone-pelting cases, and other crime prejudicial to the security of the state be specifically looked into during verification related to passport, service and any other verification related to government schemes. The same must be corroborated from the local police station records, the order read. The SSP also said digital evidence like CCTV footage, photographs, videos and audio clips, quadcopter images available in the records of the police, security forces, and security agencies be also referred during the verification. Any subject found involved in any such cases must be denied the security clearance, the SSP, CID-SB, Kashmir said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Rainfall seven per cent below normal in July: IMD||After its vigorous revival in the first week of July that saw floods, cloudburst and landslides in several parts of the country, the Southwest Monsoon ended with a seven per cent deficit for the month, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. The rainfall in July was minus seven per cent which comes to around 93 per cent of the Long Period Average, IMD Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said. Rainfall in the range of 96-104 is normal whereas precipitation in the range of 90-96 is classified as below normal. July recorded extremely heavy rainfall over coastal and central Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka. Several towns and cities in Maharashtra were deluged to very heavy rainfall which resulted in catastrophic events like landslides claiming scores of lives and damaging property. The north Indian states -- Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh -- also saw cloudburst events that claimed several lives. The national capital too recorded a very good rainfall activity. But overall, the rainfall recorded for the month was seven per cent less. The IMD had predicted normal rainfall in July. "We had predicted normal rainfall for July which was somewhere around 96 per cent of the LPA. July brings maximum rain over the country, but there was no rainfall activity over north India until July 8 which could have been the reason behind the deficit," Mohapatra said. The Southwest Monsoon arrived over Kerala on June 3, two days after its normal schedule. But it very rapidly covered the east, west, south and parts of north India by June 19. But after that it entered into a phase that witnessed a spell of no rainfall activity. It started reviving from July 8. The Southwest Monsoon reached Delhi on July 13 after a delay of 16 days and covered the entire country the same day. June received 10 per cent more rainfall than normal. Of the four-month rainfall season, July and August receive the maximum precipitation. Overall, the country has received one per cent less rainfall than normal from June 1 to July 31. The deficit was minus 13 per cent in the east and northeast subdivision of the IMD. Northwest India division which covers north India recorded a two per cent deficit. The south peninsula division which covers the southern states received 17 per cent more rainfall while the central India division that comprises west and central India recorded one per cent more rainfall than the normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya takes swipe at Rahul, says jab drive to get a major boost||The vaccination drive in the country is set to get a major boost this month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said Sunday as he took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for questioning the government's vaccine delivery programme. The minister asked Gandhi to join everyone in feeling proud about the work done by the country's health workers. In a response to Gandhi's tweet questioning the availability of vaccines last month, Mandaviya said more than 13 crore doses were administered in July and the drive is going to accelerate this month. "More than 13 crore doses were administered in India in the month of July. It is going to accelerate this month. We are proud of our healthcare workers for this achievement. "Now you too should be proud of them and the country," Mandaviya said in a tweet in Hindi in response to Gandhi's post. Earlier during the day, Gandhi had tweeted in Hindi saying "July is gone, but the shortage of vaccine hasn't gone away." He used the hashtag #WhereAreVaccines. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 47 crore with 60,15,842 doses being administered in a span of 24 hours, the Health Ministry said Sunday morning. More than 3 crore balance and unutilised doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals, it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Muslim Women’s Rights Day observed across India||'Muslim Women's Rights Day' was observed by different organisations across the country on Sunday to mark the enactment of the law against triple talaq with victims of the "social evil" hailing the government for the legislation in their interaction with three Union ministers. Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani and Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav attended the "Muslim Women Rights Day" programme here, an official statement said. The Union ministers also interacted with several Muslim women, who were triple talaq victims, it said. The Muslim women thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing the law against the criminal practice on August 1, 2019 which has made the social malpractice a criminal offense, it said. The Muslim women, while interacting with the ministers, said the Modi government has strengthened "self-reliance, self-respect and self-confidence" of the Muslim women of the country and protected their constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights by bringing the law against triple talaq. Addressing the Muslim women on the occasion, Irani said August 1 is a day to salute the struggle of Muslim women against triple talaq. She said the Ministry of Minority Affairs, the Ministry of Women and Child Development and the Labour Ministry will work unitedly to encourage entrepreneurship among Muslim women. Muslim women have immensely benefitted through schemes such as 'Mudra Yojana', 'Jan Dhan Yojana', 'Stand Up India' and 'Poshan Abhiyan', she said. On the occasion, Yadav said the Modi government has been working to ensure dignity and empowerment of women from every section of the society. “The Modi government has ensured dignity of Muslim women by bring the law against triple talaq,” Yadav said. The Modi government's policy of "development without discrimination' has created an atmosphere of trust across the country, he said. The Modi government's decision to provide quota for OBC and economically backward section in medical/dental studies will also benefit poor sections of the Muslim community, he added. Yadav said the Modi government has always worked for welfare of the needy. In his remarks, Naqvi said the law against triple talaq has proved to be a "big reform" to ensure constitutional rights of Muslim women. There is a significant decline in triple talaq cases across the country after the law came into effect, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Police get defamed due to either 'no action' or 'extreme action', says Amit Shah||Police get defamed due to either "no action" or "extreme action", Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday as he laid emphasis on "just action". "I often say that police get defamed due to two reasons -- one is no action, and the second is extreme action. No action is not right as indolence cannot rectify the law and order system. And extreme is also not correct as it triggers reaction. So, the police should come out of no action and extreme action, and move in the direction of just action," he said. He was addressing a function after laying the foundation of the UP State Institute of Forensic Sciences here. Shah said the institute along with the National Forensic Sciences University in Gandhinagar will help the police move ahead in the direction of natural action. "Today policing is not confined to what was imagined 20 years ago, be it counterfeit notes, narcotics, narco-terror, cyber crime or cow smuggling. The day is not far when every district in UP will have a mobile forensic van, and there will be regional FSLs (forensic sciences laboratories)," he said. The government will work towards making the utilisation of FSL compulsory for conviction in crimes carrying punishment of more than 6 years, he said. "Today, the seeds of the UP State Institute of Forensic Sciences have been sown. Once it becomes a banyan tree, a number of children will make their career from here, they will take part in research and will prove to be the backbone of the country's law and order. When (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji was the chief minister (of Gujarat), he had established the first-of-its-kind forensic sciences university in Gandhinagar. The Government of India has approved Rs 15 crore for establishment of a DNA centre here." He also said that the institute will prove to be a milestone in terms of police modernisation. "Though law and order is a state subject, the Centre is taking some initiatives so that the law and order of the country can be strengthened. Many colleges in the country are going to start after taking affiliation from the National Forensic Sciences University, Gandhinagar. By 2024, half of the states in the country will have forensic science colleges," he said. Highlighting the low rate of conviction in the country, Shah said, "The rate of conviction in the country is very low. In some countries like Israel, it has been taken to 90 per cent. India is lagging behind, and the main reason is lack of professional education." He said forensic sciences university will help in conviction, leading to punishment. "When there will be punishment...the crime rate will automatically come down," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||India takes over United Nations Security Council’s presidency for August||India will always be a voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue and a proponent of international law, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Sunday as the country takes over the presidency of the United Nations Security Council for August. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi described it as a ‘momentous day’ and referred to the Sanskrit phrase 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' (the world is one family) to describe India's worldview. “As we take over UNSC Presidency for August, look forward to working productively with other members. India will always be a voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue and a proponent of international law,” Jaishankar tweeted. Bagchi said India's tenure at the UN Security Council has been guided by five 'S' --- 'Samman (respect), Samvaad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation), Shanti (peace) and Samriddhi (prosperity)'. The first working day of India's Presidency will be Monday, August 2. India began its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the UNSC on January 1. It is India's seventh term on the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member. India has previously been a member of the UN Security Council in 1950-51, 1967-68, 1972-73, 1977-78, 1984-85, and 1991-92. Following its election to the global body, India said that it will promote responsible and inclusive solutions to international peace and security and would pitch for a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Cabinet expansion order from BJP likely by tomorrow, says Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the cabinet expansion won't take a week and the direction from the BJP high command in this connection was likely by tomorrow. Speaking to reporters here ahead of his meeting with the officials on a host of issues, Bommai said the cabinet expansion won't take a week. He was responding to a query on whether it would take a week for him to receive directions from the party high command in this connection. The Chief Minister said, "I expect it today or tomorrow." On July 28, Bommai had taken oath as the Chief Minister following the resignation of his predecessor B S Yediyurappa who resigned on July 26. He is the lone cabinet member of his government as of now. On the flood relief measures, the CM said he has convened a meeting with the senior officials to discuss the flood situation, funds for rescue and relief operations. He has sought details from officials of various districts about the measures taken so far and directed them to prepare a list of steps to be taken on a priority basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Unnao rape survivor alleges harassment by personal security officers, moves court||The Unnao rape survivor has moved a Delhi court alleging harassment by the personal security officers (PSOs) deputed on the directions of the Supreme Court for her protection. District and Sessions Judge Dharmesh Sharma has directed the investigating officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to submit an impact assessment report in this regard with the assistance of the local police. "Application has been moved on the behalf of the complainant that she and her family members were harassed by the PSOs who are deputed as per the direction of the Supreme Court, in a sense that they are not allowing her to enjoy her liberties," the judge said on July 31 through video-conferencing. He further said that a sealed envelope was also received from the police in which certain allegations were levelled against the complainant and her family members. "It is directed that this application be taken up for consideration," the sessions judge added. The woman was kidnapped and raped by expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in 2017 when she was a minor. The case was transferred from Unnao to Delhi and was probed by the CBI. On August 1, 2019, the apex court had directed that the survivor, her mother, and other members of the family be provided security by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). On December 20, 2019, Sengar was sentenced to jail for the "remainder of his natural biological life" in the rape case. On March 4, 2020, Sengar, his brother, and five others were convicted for the death of the rape survivor's father in judicial custody and were sentenced to 10 years imprisonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||BJP works for the poorest and not on basis of caste, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asserted that BJP governments do not work on the basis of caste, but for the development of the poorest person and to revamp law and order. Addressing a function after laying the foundation stone of the UP State Institute of Forensic Sciences here, Shah heaped praise on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for taking the state to the top spot in terms of law and order. "The BJP governments do not work on the basis of caste, families, or for the people who are close to them. The BJP governments work for the development of the poorest person and to revamp law and order," Shah said. "For six years till 2019, I travelled a lot in UP. Hence, I know the earlier UP very well. There was an atmosphere of fear in western UP because of which people were leaving the area, women felt unsafe, the land mafia was grabbing the land of the poor people, incidents of firing in broad daylight and riots were rampant, Shah said. "In 2017, the BJP promised that we will make UP a developed state and also revamp its law and order. Today in 2021, I can say with pride that Yogi Adityanath and his team have taken UP to the top spot in terms of law and order," he added. "Today, in 44 development schemes, UP is on the top spot in the country. Making schemes is very easy, but implementing them, removing the intermediaries, and ensuring the benefits reach the beneficiaries without any bribe is very tough," he said. Adityanath along with the Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were present at the function.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India|| Supreme Court to hear pleas over Pegasus snoopgate on August 5||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on August 5 the pleas, including the one filed by senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, who have sought an independent probe by a sitting or a retired judge into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. According to the cause list uploaded on the apex court website, a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant would hear on August 5 three separate petitions seeking probe into the reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli spyware Pegasus. On July 30, the top court had said it would hear next week the plea filed by Ram and Kumar in the matter. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the senior journalists, had told the court last week that the plea needed an urgent hearing in view of its wide ramifications. According to the plea, the alleged snooping represented an attempt by agencies and organisations to muzzle the exercise of free speech and expression of dissent in India. The petition also seeks a direction to the Centre to disclose if the government or any of its agencies obtained licence for Pegasus spyware and used it, either directly or indirectly, to conduct surveillance in any manner. The petitioners have claimed that investigations involving several leading publications around the world have revealed that several Indians, including journalists, lawyers, ministers, opposition politicians and activists, have been identified as potential targets for surveillance using the Pegasus software. Besides the plea filed by Ram and Kumar, two separate petitions on the issue have been filed in the apex court by advocate M L Sharma and John Brittas. In his plea, Sharma has sought a court-monitored probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) into the reports of alleged snooping. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. The targeted surveillance using military-grade spyware is an unacceptable violation of the right to privacy which has been held to be a fundamental right under Articles 14 (equality before the law), 19 (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) by the Supreme Court, said the plea, filed by the two journalists. The hacking of phones belonging to journalists, doctors, lawyers, activists, ministers and opposition politicians seriously compromises the effective exercise of the fundamental right to free speech and expression, it said. Such an act has an obvious chilling effect on expression by threatening invasion into the most core and private aspects of a person's life, it added. According to the petition, hacking of phones using the Pegasus spyware constituted a criminal offence punishable under Sections 66 (computer related offences), 66B (punishment for dishonestly receiving stolen computer resource or communication device), 66E (punishment for violation of privacy) and 66F (punishment for cyberterrorism) of the IT Act, punishable with imprisonment and/or fine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Parts of Delhi Metro to open from August 6||The Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand extension of Grey Line of the Delhi Metro and a small segment of the Pink Line corridor at Trilokpuri are set to be inaugurated on August 6, officials said on Sunday. Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs, Hardeep Singh Puri and the Delhi chief minister will open the two sections via video conferencing, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said. While the inauguration function will be held online in the morning on August 6, passenger services will commence on the same day at 3 PM on both the sections, officials said. The nearly one kilometre (891 m) long Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand section will take the metro further into the interior areas of Najafgarh. The opening of the Trilokpuri section, about 289 m, between the Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations, will fully link the entire 59 km-long Pink Line and will connect important landmarks of the city, such as the Anand Vihar Railway station, Anand Vihar ISBT, Nizamuddin Railway station, markets in South Extension, INA and Lajpat Nagar, officials said. The Pink Line spans 38 stations. However, a small portion in east Delhi's Trilokpuri area had proved a bottleneck for the DMRC authorities for a long time, due to which, the line had remained disjointed for some distance there. With the opening of these sections, the Delhi Metro network span will become 390 km with 286 stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Covid: India records 41,000 new cases, active caseload rises for fifth straight day||India saw a single-day rise of 41,831 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,16,55,824, while the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country have crossed 47 crore, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,24,351 with 541 daily fatalities. Registering an increase for the fifth consecutive cases, the active cases have climbed to 4,10,952 and comprises 1.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,032 Covid cases has been recorded in the total number of Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,89,472 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 46,82,16,510, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent . The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.42 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,08,20,521, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 47.02 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Yamuna water levels rise again, over 100 families moved||The water level in the Yamuna in Delhi increased again and was recorded at 205.30 meters on Sunday morning, just below the danger mark of 205.33 meters, as rains continued to lash Delhi and upper catchment areas of the river, officials said. According to the officials, over 100 families living in the Yamuna floodplains have been moved to higher areas over the last few days. On Friday, the Delhi administration had sounded a flood alert and expedited efforts to evacuate people from vulnerable areas, as the river in the capital breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres amid heavy rains in the upper catchment areas. The water level was recorded at 205.30 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 9 am. On Friday, the Yamuna had breached the danger mark and swelled to 205.59 metres by 9 pm. It had receded to 204.89 metres on Saturday evening, according to the Delhi flood control room. With Haryana discharging more water into the river from the Hathnikund Barrage, the Delhi Police and the East Delhi district administration have been evacuating people living on the floodplains of the Yamuna in the capital. "The flood alert remains in place. We have deployed boats in different areas and families living in vulnerable areas are being temporarily moved into tents and shelter homes of the city government," an official of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said. A flood alert is declared when the Yamuna crosses the "warning mark" of 204.50 metres. The Delhi flood control room reported a discharge rate of 17,827 cusecs from the Hathnikund Barrage in Haryana's Yamunanagar district at 9 am. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. It had peaked to 1.60 lakh cusecs on Tuesday, the highest this year so far. The water discharged from the barrage normally takes two-three days to reach the capital. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second. A Met Department official said "moderate to heavy" rains are predicted in northwest India over the next few days, which is likely to increase water levels in the rivers flowing through the region. In 2019, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 metre-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres. In 1978, the river had swelled to the all-time record water level of 207.49 metres. In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 metres.Yamun||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Delhi court upholds CBI report ruling out foul play in Unnao rape survivor's accident||A Delhi court has upheld the investigation conducted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that had ruled out any foul play in the Unnao rape survivor's accident in 2019. In 2019, the rape survivor, her family, and lawyer were travelling in a car when it was hit by an overspeeding truck in Rae Bareli, killing two aunts and leaving her and the advocate critically injured. Pursuant to this, a murder case was filed against expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who was also awarded life-term imprisonment for raping the minor survivor, and nine others after her family filed a complaint alleging "conspiracy" behind the accident. Dismissing these allegations, District and Sessions Judge Dharmesh Sharma held that the objections of the complainant party read like an engrossing thrilling story but were based on mere surmises and conjectures. He further said that there are no grounds to suspect the fidelity, accuracy, and sincerity of the investigation conducted by the CBI and that the agency came out with a plausible version of the incident. Notably, the investigating agency had concluded that there was no evidence regarding criminal conspiracy hatched between those named in the FIR, including Kuldeep Sengar, and the truck driver or the cleaner or for that matter owner of the offending truck. Upholding the probe, the judge stated in an order dated July 31, "I have no hesitation in holding the findings of the CBI in the chargesheet, that there is no case against the accused persons so as to take cognisance and proceed against them under Section 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) read with Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), cannot be faulted." The sessions judge, however, framed charges against the truck driver for causing death by negligence and doing an act to endanger human life, besides framing charges of criminal intimidation against Sengar and his associates. Besides this, on December 20, 2019, Sengar was sentenced to jail for the "remainder of his natural biological life" in a separate case for raping the minor in 2017. On March 4, 2020, Sengar, his brother, and five others were also convicted for the death of the rape survivor's father in judicial custody and were sentenced to 10 years imprisonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Caution on Centre's plan to fortify rice with iron to combat anaemia||A proposal by the Narendra Modi government for mandatory fortification of rice with iron to combat anaemia is based on flawed assumptions and haemoglobin measurements and could harm segments of the population through excessive iron intake, experts have cautioned. Eighteen experts in health economics, nutrition, paediatrics and public health have urged “extreme caution” against mandatory fortification — the addition of tiny amounts of iron into the rice cereal — saying the proposed cure could itself become a malady. Harsh Pal Singh Sachdev, a senior paediatrician in New Delhi and one of the experts, and his colleagues have estimated that rice fortification alone will cost Rs 2,600 crore a year. “What the plan proposes is avoidable and (is) wasteful expenditure with no palpable benefits,” Sachdev told The Telegraph on Friday. “On the contrary, it carries the risk of harm.” The Union health ministry has estimated through household surveys that more than half of children below five years, adolescent girls between 15 and 19, and women in their reproductive age have anaemia, or haemoglobin below 12g per decilitre. The fortification plan gained traction after the National Family Health Survey 2019-20 found little change in the anaemia situation since the previous 2015-16 survey, triggering concerns that the existing iron syrup or tablet supplementation programme for children and women hadn’t worked. Proponents of the fortification have contended that rice fortification that involves adding vitamins or minerals during the post-harvest phase is a cost-effective strategy to combat micronutrient deficiencies in countries with high per capita rice consumption. The Union food and public distribution department had in 2019-20 initiated a rice-with-iron fortification scheme that has been rolled out in at least six states — Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. Now, the 18 experts have said the proposed mandatory rice fortification represents a misguided and potentially harmful policy because health surveys rely on finger-prick drops that yield misleadingly lower values of haemoglobin. The plan for rice fortification, which is an addition to the existing iron supplementation programme, appears to be aimed at “supplying more” instead of “doing it right”, the experts have cautioned in a report published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. “The correct way to measure haemoglobin is via venous blood samples,” Sachdev, the senior paediatrician, said. “By using finger-prick blood, we’re overestimating anaemia in India.” A rice fortification plan that is mandatory for all rice cereal made available through the public distribution system or in midday meals could therefore needlessly expose to excess iron children and adults who are not genuinely suffering from anaemia. Limited studies have suggested that excess iron intake could adversely affect foetal development or birth outcomes in pregnant women, alter populations of human-friendly gut microbes, or increase the risk of chronic diseases such as diabetes or cardiovascular disorders. “The fortification plan seems to be driven more by wanting to be seen to be doing something good than doing the right thing,” said Anura Kurpad, a senior nutrition scientist and former head of physiology at the St John’s Medical College, Bangalore, and the report’s co-author. “Mandatory rice fortification with iron may appear attractive because it is logistically easier. But the correct approach is precision public health — finding ways to ensure that the extra iron is delivered only to those who need it.” Kurpad and his colleagues had three years ago through a study involving women volunteers in Uttar Pradesh shown that finger-prick blood samples on average yielded a haemoglobin level 1mg/dl lower than venous blood samples from the women. The Food Safety Standards Authority of India, a unit of the health ministry, has said that rice fortification has the highest potential to fill the gap in micronutrient deficiencies as it is the staple food of 65 per cent of the country’s population. Critics of fortification argue that micronutrient deficiencies should be addressed by encouraging diversity of diets and not through mass fortification. “Dietary diversity should be the main strategy for micronutrient sufficiency,” said Vandana Prasad, a community paediatrician in New Delhi, who was not associated with the study.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Danish Siddiqui’s body badly mutilated while in custody of Taliban, say officials  ||The body of Danish Siddiqui, a Pulitzer Prize-winning Reuters photojournalist who was killed in Afghanistan this month, was badly mutilated while in the custody of the Taliban, officials said this week. The revelation comes amid concern that the fighting in Afghanistan, where the Taliban have carried out an aggressive military offensive since the US withdrew nearly all its troops, has become increasingly brutal as peace talks have stalled. Siddiqui, 38, an Indian national who took some of the most memorable news photographs from South Asia in recent years, was killed on the morning of July 16, when Afghan commandos he had accompanied to Spin Boldak, a border district recently captured by the Taliban, were ambushed. Initial photographs from the scene showed Siddiqui’s body with multiple wounds but fully intact. But by that evening, when the body was handed over to the Red Cross and transferred to a hospital in the southern city of Kandahar, it had been badly mutilated, according to two Indian officials and two Afghan health officials there. The mutilation was reported by an Indian website, Newslaundry, in the days after Siddiqui’s killing. The New York Times reviewed multiple photographs, some provided by Indian officials and others taken by Afghan health workers at the hospital, that showed Siddiqui’s body had been mutilated. One Indian official said that the body had nearly a dozen bullet wounds and that there were tyre marks on Siddiqui’s face and chest. One of the health officials in Kandahar said the body, along with Siddiqui’s press vest, had reached the city’s main hospital around 8pm on the day he was killed. His face was unrecognisable, said the official, who added that he could not determine exactly what had been done to the body. A Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, denied any wrongdoing on the part of the insurgents, saying that they were under orders to treat bodies with respect and to hand them over to local elders or the Red Cross. But the Taliban were in control of the area at the time, and some photographs showed what appeared to be the group’s fighters standing around Siddiqui’s body, which was then intact. “Danish always chose to be on the front lines so that abuses and atrocities could not remain hidden,” said Meenakshi Ganguly, the South Asia director for Human Rights Watch. “The brutality with which Taliban fighters punished Danish proves the abuses that he was documenting.” Human Rights Watch and other watchdog groups say the Taliban have carried out a series of revenge killings in Kandahar province, where some of the most brutal episodes in Afghanistan’s last four war-torn decades have occurred. The Taliban rose to power from the southern province in the 1990s, promising to end atrocities carried out by local militias. In recent years, Afghan forces led by Abdul Raziq, a general who was assassinated in 2018, were accused of ruthless tactics as they fought the Taliban in Kandahar. Spin Boldak, where Siddiqui died, was General Raziq’s hometown. Reports have emerged of the Taliban detaining, and in some cases executing, people who had been associated with the general. There are conflicting reports about what happened on July 16, as the Afghan special forces with whom Siddiqui was travelling tried to retake Spin Boldak. Accounts from local officials, as well as Taliban members, suggest that Siddiqui and the Afghan unit’s commander were killed in crossfire when their convoy was ambushed from multiple directions. Their bodies were left on the battlefield as the rest of the unit retreated, according to this version of events. Some news outlets reported that Siddiqui might have been captured alive by the Taliban and then executed. Those reports could not be confirmed. One Indian official, however, said some of Siddiqui’s wounds appeared to be from gunshots at close range. Three days before his killing, Siddiqui had posted a video on Twitter in which he said several rocket-propelled grenades had struck the armoured vehicle in which he was travelling. His body, in a closed coffin, was returned to his home in New Delhi two days after his death. The narrow alley leading to his house was crowded with neighbours and friends. Colleagues — many of whom had accompanied him as he covered some of India’s most tumultuous recent events, such as mass protests and the coronavirus pandemic — wept, hugged and consoled one another. Siddiqui was buried late at night in a cemetery at Jamia Millia Islamia, the university in New Delhi from which he had graduated. At a candlelight vigil, reporters held pictures of him wearing his press vest. The text read simply, “Danish Siddiqui, Killed in Afghanistan.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Pegasus may have been an attempt to collect personal information of judges, says NGO||A non-government organisation, the Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR), on Saturday added its voice to the chorus for a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the Pegasus controversy, expressing fears that the alleged surveillance operation may have involved an attempt at blackmailing judges. “Phone hacking via Pegasus could have been an attempt to collect personal information of judges without their knowledge, or like with the Bhima Koregaon activists and lawyers, an attempt at implanting compromising information on the phones of the judges, either of which might have been attempted with a view to blackmail such judges,” the CJAR said. The NGO said “this would per se be an attack on the independence of the judiciary that requires a response from the highest court in order to get to the truth of the matter and address the public’s concerns about such illegal attempts to compromise its independence”. “With the Union government continuing to obfuscate the issue in the public domain, not allowing a debate in Parliament and showing no interest in investigating the criminal activities outlined in the revelations concerning the NSO Group (the Israeli firm that owns the Pegasus spyware), we repose our faith in the judiciary to help bring out the facts and fix responsibility for the illegal action of phone hacking,” the CJAR added. The NGO, which takes up issues related to legal and constitutional infirmities and whose patrons include former judges and senior advocates, appealed to the Supreme Court to take the following steps: ⚫ Set up a special investigation team of independent and credible investigators, headed by a retired Supreme Court judge, to inquire into the allegations of phone hacking. ⚫ Inquire into who authorised the use of Pegasus on phone numbers of a Supreme Court judge and those of a woman employee (and her family) who had complained of sexual harassment by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi. ⚫ Inquire into whether there was improper collusion between Justice Ranjan Gogoi and the executive in respect of the sexual harassment allegations levelled against him. ⚫ Make public the report of the Justice A.K. Patnaik committee, which looked into the allegations of “conspiracy” in relation to the sexual harassment case against Justice Gogoi. The NGO expressed deep concern about the possibility that Pegasus was used to hack into the phones of Indian citizens. “Such large-scale intrusive surveillance of personal phones of political leaders, journalists and activists is a flagrant violation of the right to privacy as upheld by the Supreme Court and an affront to the civil liberties of citizens. That the Pegasus software was inserted in some of the target phones has been established by cyber forensic analysis of some of these phones…. That this was done at the behest of the Indian government is evident from the fact that NSO sells this software only to ‘vetted governments’,” it said. Referring to allegations that the phone of a sitting judge of the Supreme Court and the family members of the woman staffer of the apex court were potential hacking targets, the NGO said: “These allegations, made by respected media organisations on the basis of worldwide collaborative investigative efforts, need to be taken with utmost seriousness, not only for the patent illegality of such actions but the potential threat to the independence of the judiciary that they represent.” The CJAR added: “While the name of a sitting judge of the Supreme Court whose phones were the target of hacks has not been made public yet, the very fact that phones belonging to a judge were targets of hacking, reportedly by the central government, is itself sufficiently serious to merit investigation and apportion responsibility.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Central Information Commission gives Modi govt 10-day deadline to reveal medical oxygen data||The Narendra Modi government’s refusal to share with citizens the official records detailing the preparations and response to Covid-19 on the ground that it would threaten national interests seems “far-fetched” and “not justified”, the Central Information Commission (CIC) has said. The CIC, a statutory agency created under the Right to Information Act in 2005, has directed the Centre to reveal within 10 days information relating to an empowered group subcommittee — a panel of officials and experts —dealing with medical oxygen. The subcommittee, under the Union commerce ministry’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), had been tasked with managing medical oxygen in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The CIC order, addressed to the DPIIT’s central public information officer (CPIO), follows appeals for information on records relating to medical oxygen filed by Saurav Das, a New Delhi-based transparency activist and investigative journalist. Das had, under the RTI Act, asked for the dates on which the oxygen subcommittee had met, the agendas of its meetings, copies of the presentations made during the meetings, the minutes of the meetings and information on oxygen stocks and rollout plans. Many Covid-19 patients across India, including over-40 patients in two hospitals in Delhi, had died after their hospitals, overwhelmed with patients, ran out of medical oxygen during the peak phase of India’s second Covid-19 wave in April-May. The CPIO had responded on June 11, denying the information under Sections 8(1)(a) and (d) that allow officials to withhold details that would prejudicially affect India’s “security, strategic, scientific, or economic interests” or information that includes trade secrets or intellectual property. The CIC, in its order released on Saturday after a July 22 hearing on the appeals filed by Das, said: “The information sought being denied in a blanket manner is not justified at all.” It has ordered the CPIO to provide “maximum information as disclosable in the letter and spirit of the RTI Act”. The CIC noted that the DPIIT’s CPIO had provided a “cursory reply” to Das, claiming exemptions under Sections 8(1)(a) and (d), but “had failed to amplify the same with reasons”. “The denial was not justified in its reply,” the CIC said, adding that the CPIO’s invocation of Section 8(1) during the hearing appeared an afterthought that seemed far-fetched. “As far as the denial under 8(1)(a) is concerned, the same was also not justified,” the CIC said. “The government has been adamant in not wanting to share records on its Covid-19 responses,” said Das, who had last year too applied for information relating to the official records of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (Negvac) for Covid-19, and was denied. “I’m hoping that this order will have broader implications, that the government will now be bound also to share information relating to Negvac,” Das told The Telegraph. Das has also sought information on data based on which India had approved the two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — currently being used in the campaign. Some public health experts believe that India’s currently limited supplies of Covid-19 vaccines are the direct outcome of decisions taken by Negvac or other government departments. India did not order any vaccines until January 2021, unlike many other countries that had signed pacts with vaccine makers between July 2020 and December 2020. Health officials have declined to discuss details of the decisions taken by Negvac.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Covid: Centre flags concerns about daily rising cases in 10 states ||The Union health ministry on Saturday flagged concerns about daily rising Covid-19 infections and growing epidemics in 10 states and asked 46 districts across India to consider imposing strict curbs on people’s movements. The 10 states — Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Andhra Pradesh and Manipur — are reporting either a rise in daily new infections or increases in test positivity rates, implying growing epidemics. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a meeting with officials from the 10 states, urging them to intensify surveillance, contact tracing and containment, especially in areas with clusters of cases, and to augment health infrastructure, including on-site oxygen plants in private hospitals. During the meeting, the officials also conducted a “granular analysis” of “districts of concern” in the 10 states, taking into account their inventories of healthcare infrastructure such as oxygen-supported beds, ventilators, oxygen concentrators and on-site oxygen plants, the ministry said. The ministry said districts with 10 per cent or higher positivity rates — the fraction of people diagnosed with Covid-19 among those tested — should consider restrictions to curb movements of people and formation of crowds. Over the past week, 46 districts — 11 in Kerala, eight in Manipur, six in Mizoram, six in Nagaland, five in Meghalaya, four in Arunachal Pradesh, two in Assam and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry, Rajasthan and Sikkim — have reported test positivity rates higher than 10 per cent. India’s daily new infections fell sharply from over 414,000 on May 6, the date that marked the peak of the second wave, to around 48,000 cases on June 30. But since then the counts have remained steady at about 40,000 daily new infections, or four-fold higher than 10,000 daily cases in early February. Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex health research agency, who participated in the meeting, warned against any complacency, pointing to the 40,000 daily new infections. The ICMR had earlier this year released guidelines that require districts to constantly monitor their test positivity rates, daily new infection counts and hospital bed occupancy rates to introduce restrictions, including lockdowns if those parameters rise too high. Health experts suspect the steady emergence of around 40,000 new cases daily over the past month is the result of the virus getting opportunities to infect susceptible people. A survey by the ICMR released earlier this month had found that at least 400 million people across India remained susceptible to the infection. Public health experts say it is unclear whether the current near-steady counts of daily cases might surge in the future or how high they might rise. Some epidemiologists have predicted that a nationwide third wave is unlikely because over 67 per cent of the country’s population is protected through either prior natural infections or vaccinations. Such a large proportion of possibly protected people would imply India is approaching the so-called herd immunity threshold — the point at which so many people are protected that the virus finds it difficult to spread. “But it is tricky — we can’t say this for certain,” a senior government epidemiologist told The Telegraph. “We have to take into account the possibility of waning immunity. We don’t know exactly how long immunity lasts after prior infections or vaccinations.” Multiple studies have suggested that immune responses against Covid-19 can last months. A US study earlier this year had found that 95 per cent of those who had recovered from Covid-19 had at least three out of five immune system components that could potentially protect them from the virus eight months after the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Virtual classes unable to spark interest in school students||Udhav Santa, 17, was packing at home on Monday. His residential school in Odisha had reopened after 16 months and he looked forward to classes and hostel life. The tribal student of the Ekalavya Model Residential School in Nabarangpur, one of India’s poorest districts, had scored 84 per cent in the CBSE Class X boards last year. He will take his Class XII board exams next year in physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology and English. But for the boy from Dhanubanga Guda village, Nabarangpur, the excitement of returning to school was tempered with worry. He said the school’s pandemic-induced closure had “severely” affected his learning, because online classes lacked the rigour and fun of the physical classroom while the home environment did not allow an unstinted focus on studies. “I used to feel deeply curious about all the topics taught at school. But I could not sustain the interest after the school closed,” Udhav said. “At home you don’t get the study environment. You somehow get involved in household issues, including the economic stress.” Udhav’s parents don’t earn enough from growing paddy, maize and vegetables to feed a family of five and also pay the Internet data charges for him to download the study material and videos the teachers send on WhatsApp. “So I began working as a construction labourer (unlawful for a minor); sometimes I also worked on our farmland. My sister arranged for a second-hand Redmi 6 phone,” Udhav said. “My parents did not tell me to work but I realised their situation and started working. I spent my own money to buy data and books.” Udhav said five of his friends had dropped out of school after the closure of the hostel, where “everything was free”. “Five of my friends are working as labourers in Gujarat and Bangalore because of financial problems in their families. If their parents received good wages here, and if the hostel were open, they would not have dropped out,” he said. Students, parents and teachers told The Telegraph that the learning levels of most schoolchildren had declined over the last 16 months, with online education replacing in-person classes. Sanjay Kumar Pradhan, a parent from Sonua in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district, said his two daughters’ education had suffered because the teachers were unable to clarify the students’ doubts in a 30-minute online class. “Both my daughters have three 30-minute classes a day. The teacher comes and delivers a lecture; there isn’t much scope for discussion. I try to give them time but it’s not always possible,” Pradhan, who runs a mobile phone shop, said. A teacher at a Delhi government school said that when physical mid-term tests were held last December, about 10 per cent students did not turn up. Those who did fared poorly. “Only seven to eight per cent students scored over 60 per cent. In pre-Covid times, about half the students would score over 60 per cent. Learning levels have fallen sharply,” the teacher said. He said a standard complaint from the parents was that after attending online classes, the children used their phones to play online games or watch YouTube. They also spent longer hours watching TV at home. “In our class, attendance is about 50 per cent. The rest keep their mobiles switched off. As for those that attend classes, you don’t know if they have understood the lesson,” the teacher said. A Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan teacher said the parents of children enrolled in elite private schools monitored their education. But the parents of children studying in budget private or government schools left the education of their wards entirely to the institutions. “The large proportion of children enrolled in budget private and government schools are not learning anything. Their parents are not chasing them. If a survey is done, this will be clear,” he said. However, the Centre appears in no hurry to either carry out a survey or work at a remedy, having apparently left the matter for the states to handle. Ironically, it has cited the pandemic to postpone by a year the routine, three-yearly National Achievement Survey conducted by the NCERT to assess the learning standards of students of Classes III, V, VIII and X. On Monday, Lok Sabha members Sushil Kumar Singh (BJP) and Sriniwas Dadasaheb Patil (NCP) had wanted to know: “(a) Whether there has been any attempt to gauge learning levels and learning loss due to the ongoing pandemic and if so, the details thereof; (b) if not, the reasons preventing the government in carrying out such exercise and whether the government has any plans to do so.” Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s written reply said: “Education (is on) the concurrent list of the Constitution and majority of the schools are under the domain of respective State and UT (Union Territory) governments. The department has shared a Covid action plan with the States and UTs which includes tracking of children and their learning levels. “States and UTs have been advised to develop effective home learning programme which includes access to grade-appropriate textbooks; content identification and curation; content dissemination physically or through various platforms —WhatsApp, website, TV, radio; content engagement; assessment of learning and tracking and monitoring.” To another question, Pradhan said the National Achievement Survey — which was to be carried out in December last year — would be conducted in November this year. As for Udhav, the forced familiarity with technology has helped him in one unexpected way. He and his friends have now started their own YouTube channel, Nitesh Video, which popularises tribal music and dance. The channel will bring in some revenue for them after it achieves 4,000 watch hours by viewers, Udhav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Pulwama encounter: Security forces gun down Jaish-e-Mohammad commander Saifullah||Security forces on Saturday killed Jaish-e-Mohammad commander Saifullah alias Lamboo, a kin of the outfit’s founder Masood Azhar and one of the alleged masterminds of the 2019 Pulwama attack, in an encounter, the army said, claiming it to be the “biggest strike of the year”. Saifullah, who had other aliases including Ismail, Adnan and Fauji Bhai, was killed along with another militant in the upper reaches of Dachigam forests in Pulwama. Army’s Valley chief Lt General D.P. Pandey said Saifullah was one of the masterminds of Pulwama attack and his death brings a closure to the incident. “He was one of the masterminds, having trained a local boy Adil who eventually blew himself up in an IED attack (in Pulwama). Ever since he has been responsible to continue to train people in making of IEDs and deployment of IEDs against security forces,” he said. In February 2019, a suicide bomber drove a car laden with explosives into a convoy in Kashmir’s Pulwama, killing 40 soldiers — the deadliest attack on Indian forces in the region — bringing India and Pakistan to the brink of another war. Pakistan has denied any involvement in the attack. “Based on an input generated by the police, boys from Victor Force launched an operation in the dense woods of Dachigam area of Pulwama on July 27. Given the fact that weather was inclement, so all cautions were taken,” Lt Gen. Pandey said. Major General Rashim Bali, who heads the South Kashmir-based Victor Force, which along with the police and CRPF conducted the operation amid inclement weather, said the forces deliberately took a “very circuitous route” to surprise the militants. “Today morning they (soldiers) had closed in on area where we were suspecting them to be. No sooner had we reached there, the dogs started barking,” he said. The officer claimed the militants tried to use women and children as human shields and opened fire and lobbed grenades from behind them to escape. The claim could not be independently confirmed. “But the cordon was very tight. No civilian suffered a scratch and they (militants) were dropped dead within two to three minutes. This is the biggest strike of the year,” the officer said. Inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar, who addressed a joint briefing with top army officers, said Saifullah was the seventh militant involved in planning and execution of the Pulwama attack to be killed by the forces. He said there are 19 accused in the attack, of whom seven have been killed and seven arrested, while five more are still absconding. Kumar said Saifullah was named in 14 FIRs and his name featured in the chargesheet filed by National Investigation Agency in the Pulwama attack. He said Saifullah was an IED expert and his death will minimise the IED threats across the Valley. The other accused in the Pulwama attack include Pakistan-based commanders of Jaish —Azhar, 53, Rouf Asgar, 48, and Ammar Alvi, 47.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
01-08-2021||India||Dial M for Yogi||The Uttar Pradesh government spent in excess of Rs 160 crore on publicity over the last year, most of it lavished on its strongarm boss, Adityanath. It could have saved some of that kitty; Prime Minister Narendra Modi advertised him like no advertising could. It came cheap, and it was priceless. Arriving in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency, last month for the first time since the deadly second Covid-19 wave overwhelmed the city and UP, Modi rained superlatives on Yogi: “UP ke yashasvi, urjawan aur karmath mukhyamantri” (UP’s celebrated, energetic and hardworking chief minister). Flying in the face of deathly images from the Ganges banks, Modi called Yogi’s handing of the pandemic “unparalleled” and spelt out a list of achievements so long that it was difficult to decide what to flag and what to leave. The saffron-clad Hindu monk was his chosen one. In hailing Yogi, Modi swept aside images of dead bodies floating in the rivers and jutting out of shallow graves from riverbeds as crematoria and hospitals were overwhelmed. He also closed his eyes to the brutal rape of a Dalit girl by upper caste Thakurs, arrest of journalists under sedition laws for publishing reports critical of the state government and persistent hounding of the minorities. Assembly polls in UP are due early next year and Modi is clearly telling Yogi’s competition and dissenters to shut up and fall in line. One of India’s most divisive leaders is, unsurprisingly, also Modi’s best bet to retain UP. Brand Modi and the BJP desperately need to win UP. Bruised badly by rejection in Bengal and his halo dimmed by rampant Covid-19 mismanagement, victory in UP is a must for the Modi scheme to roll out. But if the “yashashwi, urjawan and karmath” Yogi is able to secure victory for Modi, he will also emerge as a strong claimant to succeed Modi. The foregrounding of Yogi by Modi shows the present regime loves divisive leaders. In 2017, the choice of Yogi had surprised many. In retrospect, it appears to have been a deliberate one. Since taking over, Yogi has turned into a role model for other BJP chief ministers. His aggression in dealing with anti-CAA protesters, his promotion of encounter killings of “criminals”, pushing a law against inter-faith marriages christened “love jihad” by Sanghi outfits, and the latest population control law, to name a few, have turned him into a darling of the BJP’s core Hindutva support base. Chief ministers of BJP-ruled states, including veterans like Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan, have rushed to emulate Yogi’s “love jihad” law, underscoring that polarisation is popular. Yogi’s idea of making the existing cow slaughter law more stringent and the move to recover damages to public property from anti-CAA protesters was also emulated by other BJP chief ministers. Assam’s new chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, a Congress import, is also trying to copy Yogi by pushing an anti beef-eating law and embracing the encounter killing model. Yogi, who has never been an organic part of the RSS-BJP and whose influence was confined to Gorakhpur, UP’s eastern edge, has over the last four years turned into a national figure. He has been sent to canvass for the BJP from Bengal to Kerala and Maharashtra to the Northeast, on demand, though to debatable purchase. BJP leaders maintain he is a crowd-puller. Unlike Modi and many other BJP leaders, Yogi never joined the RSS. Born in Uttarakhand and brought up as Ajay Bisht, he was given his current name by his mentor, Avaidyanath, the then chief priest of Gorakhnath temple. Avaidyanath was elected from the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat four times, initially as an independent, then as a Hindu Mahasabha candidate and finally on a BJP ticket. Avaidyanath never needed the BJP but the BJP needed him. Yogi won his mentor Avaidyanath’s trust and emerged his religious and political heir. He got elected on a BJP ticket for five terms beginning 1998, but retained a separate identity and outfit — the Hindu Yuva Vahini — often seen as his private militia. Many BJP leaders believe the top brass picked Yogi in 2017 under pressure from the RSS, which wanted to assert Hindutva symbolism in India’s largest state. “Now he (Yogi) has turned so big that the central leadership is wary of sidelining him so close to the polls,” one BJP leader in Lucknow said. Yogi’s detractors in the party in Lucknow, who had launched a bid for change of leadership, however, are hoping the post-poll numbers could change the game. They believe the simmering anti-incumbency against Yogi, due to Covid-19 mismanagement, the farmers’ stir and Thakurvad (dominance of Yogi’s Rajput caste brethren) would hobble the party to a degree that Yogi’s leadership would come into question. Yogi, meanwhile, appears to be moving with his eye firmly on his goal. Not in a hurry though. He is only 49, considered very young in politics, and so has a long innings ahead. He has made Modi his new mentor, like Avaidyanath. He may be the chief priest of the revered Gorakhnath temple but he projects himself as an obedient disciple of “aadarniya Pradhan Mantri”. He repeatedly underlines that he is working under the “margdarshan (mentorship) of Modiji”. That doesn’t mean the disciple has given up his objective of becoming “guru” one day; after all, Modi too was disciple to L.K. Advani at one time. The polls are in UP but the Yogi hoardings have started to spring up in Delhi and elsewhere too. With just two photographs — Modi (larger) and Yogi (smaller) — the hoardings declare Uttar Pradesh the “No.1 State in the country”, using the pretext of the state bagging the first prize on some Indian smart cities’ award. “He (Yogi) is trying to make Modi and Yogi synonymous. The effort seems to be to convert Modi-Shah into Modi-Yogi,” one BJP leader quipped. Clearly, if Modi benefits from Yogi’s success in UP, Yogi himself is using the Modi currency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Only time will tell what I do next: Babul Supriyo after decision to quit politics||A day after kicking off a political storm over his announcement to quit politics over Facebook, former Union minister and BJP leader Babul Supriyo on Sunday said he has met top leaders of the saffron party, but was yet to take a call on his next course of action. The Asansol MP told a TV channel that "only time will tell what I do in the future". Taking a dig at TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh for his assertion that Supriyo was staging a drama and didn't have the guts to quit as MP, the parliamentarian said, "I have already sought time from the Lok Sabha speaker as his consent is required before I take a decision." "I have already met the top leadership of my party last night but only time will tell what is going to be my future move," he maintained. Sources in the BJP said Supriyo met party president J P Nadda in Delhi around midnight on Saturday. Lashing out at Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, who had asked reporters to cross-check if the Asansol MP "actually resigned as such decisions cannot be announced over Facebook", Supriyo said he has nothing to do with people who make "narrow-minded and nasty remarks", no matter which camp they belong to. "By not dealing with such people, I save my positive energy every day," he stated. Reacting to the broadside, Ghosh, without naming anyone, said, "The more my name is taken by people who want to be in news through theatrics, the more I become aware they tend to seek importance by doing that." He is still in the BJP, as far as my knowledge goes , the state BJP president said. Supriyo (50), who has served as a Union minister for the Narendra Modi government, was removed earlier this month in a major cabinet rejig. "Leaving, Goodbye. I spoke to my parents, wife, friends, and after listening to the advice, I am saying that I am leaving. I am not going to any other party - TMC, Congress, CPIM, nowhere. I am confirming that nobody has called me. "I am going nowhere. I am a one-team player! I have always supported one team, #MohunBagan - Have been with only one party - BJP West Bengal. That''s it!! Leaving," Supriyo said in the first Facebook post. The singer-turned-politician said that he will vacate his government accommodation within a month. "I have stayed for too long. I have helped somebody, have disappointed someone...it is for the people to decide. If you want to do social work, you can do it without being in politics. Yes, I am resigning from the post of MP," his post read. He hinted that difference with the state leadership was one of the reasons that prompted him to take the decision. Supriyo had unsuccessfully contested assembly polls against TMC's Aroop Biswas in the March-April assembly elections. "I think I need not be an MP or a minister to distribute tarpaulin or blanket among 500 people. Sans any vote politics there won't be any conflict of interest. "My long term plan to set up a trauma centre in my late mother's name will perhaps be more feasible now as some of my doctor friends will feel more free to come on my side with no political strings attached," the MP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||CPI(M) Bengal unit does not support party member's contribution in TMC mouthpiece||The CPI(M) on Sunday said it does not support the decision of its member Ajanta Biswas, who is also the daughter of late Left leader Anil Biswas, to write a series of articles in the Trinamool Congress daily mouthpiece, 'Jago Bangla'. Last week, a four-part series, titled "Bangorajneetitey Narishakti (role of woman power in Bengal politics), by the Rabindra Bharati University associate professor of history was published in the editorial page of the TMC daily, which raised eyebrows of several leaders of the Left party. "What she has done cannot be supported. Our Kolkata unit is looking into the issue," CPI(M) West Bengal committee secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra told reporters while responding to a question. He said the party's state committee will take a decision after getting a report from the Kolkata unit along with the view of Biswas, the Presidency University alumna. Another CPI(M) leader said Biswas has been asked to explain why she had penned the articles in the TMC mouthpiece. "Seeking consent is a must for any CPI(M) member. She is also part of the party's college and university teachers' wing," the leader said on condition of anonymity. Biswas could not be reached for her comment on the issue. TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh had earlier said "the series of articles by an academician should be judged by its merit and not by her political identity". "Her articles encapsulated the role of women in politics from the time of revolutionaries such as Beena Das, Phulrenu Guha to Gita Mukherjee, Renu Chakraborty. "It ended by touching on the phase of Mamata Banerjee whose role in Bengal politics cannot be ignored. It is a historic document and is based on research. Unfortunately, the merit of the write-up is being overlooked," Ghosh had said. TMC leader and state minister Sujit Bose said the CPI(M)'s decision to seek an explanation from Biswas for writing articles in 'Jago Bangla' shows the Left party does not believe in personal liberty of its members".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee to visit Tripura on Monday||As part of the outreach campaign in BJP-ruled Tripura, TMC National General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee will on Monday visit the north-eastern state, where the party claims it has a sizeable support base. The visit of Banerjee, nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and defacto number two in the party, comes day after a controversy had erupted over "detention" of poll strategist Prashant Kishor's I-PAC team in an Agartala hotel room by the police, citing COVID-19 restrictions. The incident prompted back-to-back visits to Tripura by TMC leaders, including West Bengal ministers Bratya Basu and Malay Ghatak and TMC MP Derek O'Brien, who decried the "illegal detention of young boys and girls" of a professional firm. Banerjee will offer prayers at the Tripureswari temple in Agartala during the day, hold a meeting with party members and address the media in the afternoon, sources in the TMC said. Elections in the northeastern state are slated to be held in 2023. Deputy leader of TMC in Rajya Sabha, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, told PTI, "Abhishek will lead the party's journey in Tripura where Bengalis and other communities are rooting for us, our leader Mamata Banerjee. They are frustrated with the performance of the Biplab Deb-led BJP government." The "landslide victory of the TMC in West Bengal on the face of BJP blitzkrieg" has encouraged a majority of Bengali voters in Tripura to pledge their support for Mamata Banerjee, the parliamentarian said. Abhishek Banerjee is immensely popular among Tripura electorate -- youth and women in particular. He will chalk out the road map of our Tripura journey, he added. Veteran TMC leader and Lok Sabha MP Sougata Roy claimed that "Abhishek's visit will be the precursor to the storm that will be raised by our supremo Mamata Banerjee in Tripura in the near future". Making light of the visit by TMC national general secretary, Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh pointed out that the Mamata Banerjee-led party has no base anywhere outside this state. "In the past, too, the TMC had made futile attempts to gain foothold in Tripura. They (TMC leaders) are still day dreaming... people of Tripura, including Bengalis, stand solidly behind the BJP. The TMC should protect its flock in Bengal, where the BJP has increased its assembly tally to 77 from just three, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo announces decision to quit BJP and Parliament||Babul Supriyo, the Asansol MP who lost his berth in the Union ministry in the recent shuffle, on Saturday wrote a Facebook post signalling his decision to quit the BJP and Parliament. The announcement came at a time the BJP’s Bengal unit is still grappling with the Assembly election setback. Supriyo acknowledged that his recent removal from the Union ministry had “at least partly” fuelled his decision, admitted to his “differences” with the state leadership and said the “disputes” among senior leaders were hurting the party and demoralising the cadre. “After answering all the questions that had arisen in my mind, I want to say, in my own way, that I’m leaving,” the 50-year-old singer who had joined the BJP before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections wrote. “One can do social work without being in politics. I need to organise myself a bit before that…. Resigning from my MP-ship too (obviously),” he added in his long Bengali post, peppered here and there with English expressions and sentences. Until Supriyo sends his resignation to party president J.P. Nadda and personally hands over a quit letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, the Facebook announcement will remain only a statement of intent. If he resigns from Parliament, it will necessitate a by-election in Asansol where Trinamul won five of the seven Assembly segments this summer. Calls to Supriyo, and WhatsApp messages asking when he might formally send his resignations to the party and the Speaker, remained unanswered. Supriyo was a newcomer in politics when he defeated Trinamul heavyweight Dola Sen in 2014 to become MP. He defeated Moon Moon Sen in 2019 but lost to Aroop Biswas from Tollygunge when he contested the Assembly elections this year. He was junior minister for urban development and then for heavy industries and public enterprises in the first Narendra Modi government. However, he was shifted to the relatively lightweight environment, forests and climate change in 2019 before being eased out from the government in the July 7 shuffle this year. Party insiders said Supriyo, whose differences with state BJP president Dilip Ghosh were an open secret, had been unhappy for some time over the goings-on in the Bengal unit. He became deeply upset after being dropped from the Union ministry, but his resignation still came as a surprise, an insider said. “There will be questions why I have decided to quit politics. Has it any links to my losing the ministership? Yes it has, at least partly,” Supriyo wrote in his Facebook post. A senior BJP member said a couple of phone calls from Delhi could well prompt a rethink by Supriyo, known as a “temperamental person” in party circles. But even if Supriyo deletes his post and continues in both party and Parliament, a BJP source said, he has already damaged the party by writing openly about disunity in the state unit. “It’s more proof that the BJP’s central leaders are clueless not only about the political situation in Bengal but also about the infighting and the state of affairs in the Bengal unit,” the source said. In his post, Supriyo said the central leaders were aware of his desire to quit. “I went to respected (Union home minister) Amit Shah and respected Naddaji several times over the past few days with the intent of quitting politics. I’m eternally grateful to them that every time they inspired me in some way and sent me back,” he wrote. Supriyo said he was not interested in “bargaining” for “any post”. In his original Facebook post on Saturday, Supriyo had called himself a “one team player” and said he would not join any other party: neither Trinamul nor the CPM nor the Congress. He later deleted this portion. But late at night, he put out a new post saying he had inadvertently deleted this part while editing his original post and reaffirmed that he would not join any other party. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed surprise after Supriyo’s removal from the Union ministry was announced. On Saturday, Supriyo wrote that his differences with the state leadership predated the Assembly polls and that some of it had become public. “Sometimes I was responsible for it (I had made a Facebook post that amounted to breaching party discipline); sometimes other leaders too were very much responsible — though today I don’t want to get into who was at how much fault,” he wrote without naming anyone. He said the rifts in the party and the manner in which they were becoming public was demoralising the grassroots workers. “This is why with all due respect and love for the people of Asansol, I quit,” Supriyo wrote. Several leaders loyal to Ghosh were unable to hide their joy at Supriyo’s resignation. “Such people have no place in our party. Good that he has quit,” said a BJP functionary with whom Supriyo had got into a scuffle at a party event in Midnapore that was addressed by Modi. Ghosh’s initial reaction made it clear that Supriyo’s departure didn’t matter much to him. “I don’t see anyone’s Facebook or Twitter posts. How can I say who is going where? Whether someone will be in politics is his or her personal decision,” he said. “Has he resigned? He is still in the Lok Sabha. He is still an MP, our colleague. I don’t know anything yet.” Party sources said it was time the central leadership put its Bengal house in order. “Look at how Mukul Roy was sidelined, forcing him to return to Trinamul. Mukulda helped us win 18 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but Dilipda would not let him work properly and so he left. Babulda’s departure reminds us of that,” a source said. Roy, a former Trinamul number two, had joined the BJP in 2017. He won from the Krishnanagar North constituency in 2021 but soon after went back to his old party. Another state BJP leader said: “We lost the election badly. Now leaders are leaving the party. What do we tell our supporters?” He said the central leaders “seem to have forgotten Bengal” since the Assembly election rout and were now focused solely on Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||29 dengue cases reported near Siliguri in July, Darjeeling health department raises alert ||The Darjeeling district health department has raised an alert after at least 29 dengue cases were reported in July from Dudhia, a tiny hamlet located on the outskirts of Siliguri. Tulsi Pramanik, the deputy chief medical officer of health-II of Darjeeling, said around 140 blood samples had been collected from suspected dengue patients from Dudhia, under St. Mary’s — III panchayat of Kurseong block, and sent to Siliguri district hospital for examination. Health officials have found that the mosquito variant which is causing the vector-borne disease is the Aedes albopictus. Health officials said earlier this month, two suspected dengue patients were admitted to the primary health centre in Sukna from Dudhia. “However, in the past two weeks, the number of cases has increased to 29. We have initiated spraying of MLO (mosquito larvicide oil),” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||‘Creator’ of girl's fake profile found dead in Alipurduar||A 17-year-old boy of a locality under Falakata police station of Alipurduar district, accused of morphing the picture of a girl and creating her fake profile on social media, was found dead near the village on Saturday. On Friday, the girl’s kin had reprimanded the boy and forced him to delete the fake profile. On Saturday, some people spotted him dead at a deserted place near the village. A rope around his neck was tied to a tree but his body was lying on the ground. The boy’s family have accused the girl’s family of murder. Police started an investigation and arrested the the girl’s father. Sources said the boy, who passed his higher secondary exams this year, was running the girl’s fake profile for a while. “We are waiting for post mortem reports to know the cause of his death. Probe is on,” said Kuntal Banerjee, the additional superintendent of police of Jaigaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling District Legal Aid Forum forum helps Covid orphans||The Darjeeling District Legal Aid Forum, a voluntary organisation that gives legal aid to children and women, has taken up the task to identify children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 in Siliguri subdivision and adjacent areas of Jalpaiguri district. “We are working to identify those children orphaned in the pandemic. Over the past couple of months, 10 such children have been identified. We have submitted their details to the administration of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts so that they can get all necessary aid from the government,” said Amit Sarkar, general secretary of the forum. “All are minors from various areas of Siliguri subdivision and adjoining areas of Jalpaiguri,” Sarkar added. According to Sarkar, two of these children are from Matigara block, three from Naxalbari block and the rest five from the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) area. The lists, sources said, have been submitted through the child welfare committees. Sarkar said the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights had recently acted on an order issued by the Supreme Court where it was ordered that the all states have to ensure the safety and security of children who lost their parents in the pandemic. He said their organisation formed a 10-member team, named disaster risk management team, in May this year. “The team has academics, law students engaged in research and social workers. They are identifying orphans and keeping tabs on them to prevent child abuse, child marriage and trafficking. The team members are in close touch with the local administration. The task of identifying more such children is on,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Three workers associated with Sevoke-Rangpo rail project still traceless in Kalimpong ||Three workers associated with the Sevoke-Rangpo rail project, whose tent was swept away by the swollen Mamkhola hilly rivulet in Kalimpong district on Friday, are still traceless. On Friday, as their camp was washed away by the rivulet running between Rangpo and Melli, and debris fell on the site, two workers had lost their lives and two others were rescued. However, Arun Rai from Tarkhola of Kalimpong, Bikash Tamang of Sangsey, also in Kalimpong, and Damber Ram, who is from Nepal, went missing. “Search is on to locate the missing workers. Every effort is on to find them,” said Hari Krishna Pai, the SP of Kalimpong said. The site where the incident happened is around 23km from the district headquarters. The swollen rivulet as well as the debris it brought down have also damaged a number of machinery at the site for laying the railway tracks, senior officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) said on Saturday. “Heavy monsoonal downpour had suddenly swelled the rivulet that is adjacent to the approach of tunnel 10 of the rail project. Three people are still missing. We have urged the NDRF to carry out the rescue operations,” said S.Chanda, the chief public relations officer of NFR. Chanda added the water and debris choked the approach to the tunnel. Also, equipment like the boomer machine used to dig tunnels, a diesel generator and a concrete pumping machine have been damaged. “Experts will check the machinery,” he said. Sources in the NFR said senior officers are worried over the back-to-back mishaps in the project in less than a month. On June 17 this year, boulders had fallen at Bhalukhola, another site of the project. A portion of the tunnel had collapsed, leading to deaths of two workers. Five others had sustained injuries. The Sevoke-Rangpo rail project is considered to be one of the ambitious railway projects of the country. The plan is to lay railway tracks along 45km to connect Sevoke station, which is some 20km from Siliguri, with Rangpo, the bordering town of Sikkim. The project was initiated in 2009 by then rail minister Mamata Banerjee and aims to include the Himalayan state of Sikkim on the Indian railway map. “It is indeed an uphill task (given the terrain). But we are confident that the project will finish by December 2023. The accidents have put us on alert and all necessary precautions will be taken,” said a senior official of NFR.. Additional reporting by Rajeev Ravidas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Hoteliers’ association sets up two camps to provide Covid test facilities to tourists in Digha||The Digha-Sankarpur Hoteliers’ Association has set up two camps in association with local polyclinics in the East Midnapore seaside town to provide rapid antigen test (RAT) facilities to tourists who come without Covid-negative certificates. “Tourism in East Midnapore has taken several hits over the past 18 months (owing to the pandemic). Setting up Covid-19 testing facilities is a part of our endeavour to revive tourism in a protected way,” said an official of the hoteliers’ association. The two camps are at Old Digha and New Digha. The cost of testing per person is Rs 240. “The government will keep track of the testing formalities,” said Ramnagar-I BDO, Bishnupada Ray. Sources said that last week, hoteliers had told the district administration that turning away tourists without Covid-negative certificates had hit their earnings badly, following which district magistrate Purnendu Majhi met  hoteliers and approved the idea of tying up with polyclinics to test tourists without certificates in Digha itself. “The decision is a timely one. Every year there is an ‘August rush’ in Digha, starting from Independence Day and ending around Rakhi,” said a member of the hoteliers’ association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 769 new infections and eight deaths||Bengal on Saturday reported 769 new infections detected, 819 recoveries and eight deaths. The state also logged the 41st straight day of a fall in the total number of active cases, by 58 to 11,113. Bengal now has 2.73 per cent of India’s active cases and is 10th among states with the most active cases. Bengal’s recovery rate is at the state’s all-time high of 98.09 per cent. The national rate is 97.34. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, is 1.82 now. Calcutta logged 75 new infections and one death. New Covid-19 cases detected fell in North 24-Parganas that logged only nine on Saturday. Because of this development, not one among 23 Bengal districts on Saturday reported a three-digit figure of new infections, after a three-day gap. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day, while South Dinajpur, Malda and Murshidabad reported single-digit figures. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday. Calcutta apart, West and East Midnapore, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.28 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first reported in March 2020, including nearly 14.99 lakh recoveries and 18,136 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Austerity drive damper on proposed bridges in Bengal||The fate of 13 proposed bridges across the state, urgently needed to replace old ones, seems uncertain as the state government’s austerity drive amid the pandemic has put a clamp on new infrastructure projects that cost more than Rs 1.5 crore. According to sources in the state administration, the projects may be delayed indefinitely as the estimated cost of each bridge exceeds Rs 1.5 crore. Sources said that groundwork of the majority of the 13 bridges is complete and cost estimates of 11 of these 13 bridges have been drawn up. The bridges are slated to come up in districts such as South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Nadia and Murshidabad. A source said altogether Rs 86.6 crore have to be spent for 11 bridges while the total outgo for all the 13 would be in excess of Rs 100 crore. “The average cost of a bridge is around Rs 7 crore. This is the cause of concern for us as the finance department has allowed the department to spend only up to Rs 1.5 crore on a new project” said a PWD official. “A survey after the Majerhat bridge mishap revealed that more than 50 bridges need to be replaced. A majority of these 13 bridges were in the list, but work for the new bridges taken up in the first phase is likely to be delayed owing to the poor financial condition of the state,” said a senior bureaucrat. The final estimate for the Suryapur Bridge in South 24-Parganas, pegged at Rs 6.45 crore, was sent to Nabanna for  approval a few months ago, but the finance department hasn’t cleared it. The final approval for a bridge on Chunkhali-Jalangi road in Murshidabad is yet to be secured from Nabanna though the estimated cost was pegged at Rs 2.14 crore. An official said that not only these projects, but the Talla Bridge, the state government’s priority project, estimated to cost Rs 348 crore, is also facing a financial crunch. “About 60 per cent work for the project has been completed, but the department is running from pillar to post to get a sum of Rs 20 crore to pay the agency carrying out the project. In such a situation, the fate of other bridges is clearly evident,” said an official. Sources said that recently the finance department has started an austerity drive under which departments like PWD and PHE were allowed to initiate new projects worth Rs 1.5 crore or less. “It is clear from the Murshidabad project that the finance department is not clearing any project that crosses the Rs 1.5 crore mark. This is why the fate of the new bridges hangs in balance,” said a source. In fact, projects like Maniktala bridge in Nadia, delayed because of the model code of conduct during the Assembly polls, was yet to secure approval as its projected cost has been pegged at Rs 7.73 crore, sources said. “The construction of all these bridges are important given the poor condition of old bridges. We hope that the financial condition of the state improves over next few months, as with the new Covid cases are decreasing significantly, and that these projects are cleared,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
01-08-2021||West Bengal||PhD scholar helps Sunderbans resident repay Rs 40,000 she raised to treat her husband wounded by a tiger ||A PhD scholar of Assam University and his family and friends teamed up to help a Sunderbans resident repay Rs 40,000 she had raised by mortgaging her land to treat her husband wounded by a tiger this April. Shankar Shee and his wife Jyotsna of Bhubaneshwari-Koilagheri village had on April 3 gone to catch crabs near a river when a tiger pounced on Shankar. Jyotsna put her hand inside the tiger’s ear to irritate it so that it would free Shankar. It saved Shankar’s life. Ujjwal Sardar, a PhD student researching on the economy of the Sunderbans, found her presence of mind “magical”. A fan of P.C. Sorcar Jr, Ujjwal raised Rs 40,000 to gift Jyotsna on the magician’s 75th birthday on Saturday so that she could free her land from the moneylender. Ujjwal and his hero P.C. Sorcar Jr on Saturday gave the cheque of Rs 40,000 to the couple at an event in Baruipur. “I heard my husband’s screams to see a tiger’s paw on his left shoulder. I had no time to shout or think. I immediately put my fingers inside the animal’s ear in a bid to to make the tiger go and save my husband’s life. After half an hour, I could drive away the tiger,” Jyotsna, 45, and the mother of two girls, said at the event. Shankar’s life was saved but the tiger had crushed many bones of his shoulder. “I have been treated at several private hospitals and to meet the expenses we had to take loans. A local doctor (a rural health service provider) helped me with Rs 3 lakh. But it was not enough as the cost of treatment has crossed Rs 5 lakh. So, my wife had to mortgage our land to a moneylender,” said Shankar. “The 15 cottah of land was our only property that I mortgaged as there was no other option,” said Jyotsna. As the couple struggled to repay the money or lose the land, Ujjwal came forward to help the couple. “I am a fan of P.C. Sorcar Jr., who says every person is a magician in his own field. This lady who saved her husband after a fight with a tiger is a real-life magician. So, I tried my best to help the family,” said Sardar, who is researching the economic history of the Sunderbans. Ujjwal pitched in with Rs 5,000 from his pocket and his friends and family raised another Rs 35,000. “I know my effort was not enough. But I thought if I can help them get back their farmland, the family can at least survive,” Ujjwal, the son of a Calcutta Police constable, added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
01-08-2021||North East||Northeastern states to be demarcated by satellite imaging||The Centre has decided to demarcate boundaries of the Northeastern states through satellite imaging to settle inter-state border disputes that are often becoming a cause of concern and sometimes even leading to violence. Two senior government functionaries said the task has been given to the North Eastern Space Application Centre (NESAC), a joint initiative of the Department of Space (DoS) and the North Eastern Council (NEC). The NESAC helps augment the developmental process in the Northeast region by providing advanced space technology support. The inter-state border disputes have come under fresh focus recently after six Assam Police personnel were killed in clashes along the Assam-Mizoram border. The idea for demarcation of inter-state boundaries through satellite imaging was mooted by Union Home Minister Amit Shah a few months ago. Mr Shah had suggested roping in NESAC for mapping the inter-state borders and forests in the Northeastern region and coming up with a scientific demarcation of boundaries between states. The Shillong-based NESAC is already using space technology for flood management in the region. Since there will be scientific methods in the demarcation of borders, there will be no scope for any discrepancy and there shall be better acceptability of the boundary solutions by the states, the government functionaries said. Once the satellite mapping is done, the boundaries of Northeastern states could be drawn and the disputes could be resolved permanently, they said. The major objectives of the NESAC are: to provide an operational remote sensing and geographic information system-aided natural resource information base to support activities on development, management of natural resources and infrastructure planning in the region. It provides operational satellite communication applications services in the region in education, health care, disaster management support, and developmental communication. The other objectives include taking up research in the area of space and atmospheric science and establishing an instrumentation hub and networking with various academic institutions of the region. Also, to enable single window delivery of all possible space-based support for disaster management and to set up a regional level infrastructure for capacity building in the field of geospatial technology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
01-08-2021||North East||Abhishek Banerjee to meet Tripura party members on Monday||As part of the outreach campaign in BJP-ruled Tripura, TMC National General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee will on Monday visit the north-eastern state, where the party claims it has a sizeable support base. The visit of Banerjee, nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and defacto number two in the party, comes days after a controversy had erupted over "detention" of poll strategist Prashant Kishor's I-PAC team in an Agartala hotel room by the police, citing COVID-19 restrictions. The incident prompted back-to-back visits to Tripura by TMC leaders, including West Bengal ministers Bratya Basu and Malay Ghatak and TMC MP Derek O'Brien, who decried the "illegal detention of young boys and girls" of a professional firm. Banerjee will offer prayers at the Tripureswari temple in Agartala during the day, hold a meeting with party members and address the media in the afternoon, sources in the TMC said. Elections in the northeastern state are slated to be held in 2023. Deputy leader of TMC in Rajya Sabha, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, told PTI, "Abhishek will lead the party's journey in Tripura where Bengalis and other communities are rooting for us, our leader Mamata Banerjee. They are frustrated with the performance of the Biplab Deb-led BJP government. " The "landslide victory of the TMC in West Bengal on the face of BJP blitzkrieg" has encouraged a majority of Bengali voters in Tripura to pledge their support for Mamata Banerjee, the parliamentarian said. Abhishek Banerjee is immensely popular among Tripura electorate -- youth and women in particular. He will chalk out the road map of our Tripura journey, he added. Veteran TMC leader and Lok Sabha MP Sougata Roy claimed that "Abhishek's visit will be the precursor to the storm that will be raised by our supremo Mamata Banerjee in Tripura in the near future". Making light of the visit by TMC national general secretary, Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh pointed out that the Mamata Banerjee-led party has no base anywhere outside this state. "In the past, too, the TMC had made futile attempts to gain foothold in Tripura. They (TMC leaders) are still day dreaming people of Tripura, including Bengalis, stand solidly behind the BJP. The TMC should protect its flock in Bengal, where the BJP has increased its assembly tally to 77 from just three," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
01-08-2021||North East||Former Manipur Congress chief joins BJP||Former Manipur Congress president Govindas Konthoujam joined the BJP on Sunday, saying he was impressed with the Modi government's development work for the region. He joined the BJP in the presence of Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh, state BJP chief A Sharda Devi, Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni and the party's in-charge for the state Sambit Patra, among others. A six-time consecutively elected MLA from the Bishnupur seat, Konthoujam had quit the Congress a few days back and his decision to join the saffron party would be a boost to it ahead of the assembly elections in the state early next year. The chief minister, who was also in the Congress before joining the BJP, called Konthoujam a friend and asserted that more leaders will be joining the party. People of Manipur like the Modi government's agenda for the entire northeast's development, he said, noting that the presence of five ministers from the region in his dispensation showed the attention and care it had given to the place. Manipur was associated with frequent blockades, violence and strikes but since the BJP came to power in the state in 2017, progress and peace have prevailed, he added. Patra described Konthoujam as a well-known face from the northeast region and referred to his vast administrative and legislative experience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
01-08-2021||North East||Assam-Mizoram border situation 'unacceptable', Sarma calls for talks||Six days after a violent clash between police forces of Assam and Mizoram claimed seven lives and injured over 50 people, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said the incidents along the inter-state border are "unacceptable" to people of both the states and advocated a resolution through talks. Assam Chief Minister Sarma, who has been charged with criminal conspiracy and attempt to murder in an FIR by Mizoram Police, also spoke of keeping alive the spirit of the North East in a twitter post. The tweet comes after Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to both Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and Mizoram CM Zoramthanga telephonically earlier in the day to defuse the border tension between the two Northeastern neighbours. "Our main focus is on keeping the spirit of North-East alive. What happened along the Assam-Mizoram border is unacceptable to the people of both states. "Honble CM @ZoramthangaCM had promised to call me post his quarantine. Border disputes can only be resolved through discussion," Sarma said in his tweet. Despite an attempt by Shah to resolve the long standing border disuptes between Assam and its neighbours earlier this month through a meeting he chaired, at least six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed while defending a disputed boundary with Mizoram and more than 50 people injured, including the police chief of the district of Cachar. The Mizoram police had lodged an FIR against Sarma and six Assam officials under various charges, including charges of attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy, at Vairengte police station. The Assam Police has also issued summons to six officials of Mizoram government, including the deputy commissioner and superintendent of police of Kolasib district, and ordered them to appear at Dholai police station on Monday. Centre to demarcate boundaries using satellite The Centre has decided to demarcate boundaries of the Northeastern states through satellite imaging to settle inter-state border disputes that are often becoming a cause of concern and sometimes even leading to violence. Two senior government functionaries said the task has been given to the North Eastern Space Application Centre (NESAC), a joint initiative of the Department of Space (DoS) and the North Eastern Council (NEC). The NESAC helps augment the developmental process in the Northeast region by providing advanced space technology support. The inter-state border disputes have come under fresh focus recently after five Assam Police personnel and a civilian were killed in clashes along the Assam-Mizoram border. The idea for demarcation of inter-state boundaries through satellite imaging was mooted by Union Home Minister Amit Shah a few months ago. Shah had suggested roping in NESAC for mapping the inter-state borders and forests in the Northeastern region and coming up with a scientific demarcation of boundaries between states. The Shillong-based NESAC is already using space technology for flood management in the region. Since there will be scientific methods in the demarcation of borders, there will no scope for any discrepancy and there shall be better acceptability of the boundary solutions by the states, the government functionaries said. Once the satellite mapping is done, the boundaries of Northeastern states could be drawn and the disputes could be resolved permanently, they said. Five Assam Police personnel and a civilian were killed and over 50 others including a superintendent of police were injured when the Mizoram Police opened fire on a team of the Assam officials on July 26 following clashes along the two states' border. While the Mizoram government claimed that a 509 square-mile stretch of the inner-line reserve forest notified in 1875 under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation of 1873 belongs to it, the Assam side insisted that the constitutional map and boundary, drawn by the Survey of India in 1993, was acceptable to it. After a massive tussle in 2018, the border row resurfaced in August last year and then in February this year. However, the escalating tensions were successfully defused after a series of parleys with the intervention of the Centre. On June 5, two abandoned houses along the Mizoram-Assam border were burnt down by unidentified persons, fuelling tension along the volatile inter-state border. Nearly a month after this incident, a fresh border standoff cropped up again with both trading charges of encroachment on each other lands. The major objectives of the NESAC are: to provide an operational remote sensing and geographic information system-aided natural resource information base to support activities on development, management of natural resources and infrastructure planning in the region. It provides operational satellite communication applications services in the region in education, health care, disaster management support, and developmental communication. The other objectives include taking up research in the area of space and atmospheric science and establishing an instrumentation hub and networking with various academic institutions of the region. Also, to enable single window delivery of all possible space-based support for disaster management and to set up a regional level infrastructure for capacity building in the field of geospatial technology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
01-08-2021||North East||Situation tense at Assam-Mizoram border, central forces on vigil||Tension was palpable at the Assam-Mizoram border on Sunday as the restrictions on the movement of vehicles, including trucks carrying essential supplies, entered the sixth day, officials said. The situation in and around Lailapur, which was rocked by deadly violence, along the interstate border remained calm with a large number of CRPF troops patrolling the National Highway-306, they said. An all-party delegation, led by Assam Chief Minister's Political Secretary Jayanta Malla Baruah, visited the house of one slain Assam Police personnel and praised the valour of the force in handling the situation on Monday. Officials in Assam's Barak Valley said the vehicular movement has totally been stopped even though there is no bar in travelling from one state to the other. Dozens of trucks with essential supplies, including Covid-19 materials, are waiting at the Kabuganj-Dholai stretch in Cachar district. “The organised blockade on roads leading to Mizoram were lifted and no group is now on the streets to stop trucks or other vehicles. But aggrieved civilians are now stopping vehicles. Also, trucks and other commercial vehicles are not taking any risk and they themselves are not trying to move,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
01-08-2021||North East||Mizoram government ready to withdraw FIR against Assam CM, says chief secretary||The Mizoram government is ready to withdraw the FIR filed against Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Chief Secretary Lalnunmawia Chuango said on Sunday. Even Chief Minister Zoramthanga did not approve the inclusion of Sarma's name in the FIR, he said. "In fact, our chief minister did not really approve of mentioning the name of the Assam chief minister in the FIR. He suggested to me that we should look into it," he told reporters. Chuango said that he will discuss the matter with police officials concerned and remove the name of the Assam chief minister if there is no legal validity to substantiate the allegations against him. "I will hold discussion with the police officer who filed the FIR, and if there is no legal fit, we would like to remove the name of Assam chief minister from the FIR," he said, adding that he was unaware of the development when the criminal case was filed against Sarma. The chief secretary, however, did not mention whether the cases filed against six Assam officials and 200 unidentified police personnel will be withdrawn. The Mizoram Police booked Sarma, four senior Assam Police officers and two officials on different charges, including 'attempt to murder', 'criminal conspiracy' and 'assault'. The FIR was registered at the Vairengte police station by its officer-in-charge Lalchawimawia on July 26 soon after the violent clash with the Assam Police. At least seven people from Assam, including six police personnel, were killed in the violence amid the border dispute between the two Northeastern states. The four senior Assam Police officers named in the FIR are Inspector General of Police (IGP) Anurag Aggarwal, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Cachar Devojyoti Mukherjee, Cachar's Superintendent of Police Cahndrakant Nimbalkar, and Officer-In-Charge of Dholai Police Station Sahab Uddin. Cachar Deputy Commissioner Keerthi Jalli and Cachar Divisional Forest Officer Sunnydeo Chaudhary were also booked. Besides, the Mizoram Police also registered criminal cases against 200 unidentified personnel of the Assam Police. The four senior Assam Police officers and two officials were asked to appear before the investigating officer at the Vairengte police station on Sunday. Meanwhile, the Assam Police also summoned Mizoram's Rajya Sabha MP K Vanlalvena and six others officials, including Kolasib's Deputy Commissioner H Lalthlangliana and Superintendent of Police Vanlalfaka Ralte, for questioning on Sunday. Amit Shah talks to CMs Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and Mizoram CM Zoramthanga over the phone on Sunday to defuse the border tension between the two Northeastern states. During the phone call, it was decided to resolve the border issue amicably through meaningful dialogue, Zoramthanga said. "As per telephonic discussion with Union Home Minister and Assam Chief Minister, we agreed to resolve the Mizoram-Assam border issue amicably through meaningful dialogue," he tweeted. Zoramthanga also urged the people of Mizoram to refrain from posting provocative messages and misuse of social media in order to de-escalate the ongoing tension. "In the meantime, in order to prevent any possible escalation of the situation, I request the people of Mizoram to avoid posting sensitive messages and make judicious use of social media platform," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
01-08-2021||North East||Assam and Nagaland sign pact, agree to withdraw forces along disputed border||Assam and Nagaland signed a pact on Saturday to withdraw forces and de-escalate tension along their disputed border, a move seen as an attempt to avoid a confrontation between the police of the two states. A flare-up on the contested border between Assam and Mizoram that led to the death of six policemen on Monday prompted Assam and Nagaland to find ways to ease tensions, sources said. Assam has border disputes with four of the six states it shares its boundary with — Nagaland, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh. Flare-ups have become frequent of late, affecting life and traffic along the border. The police forces of Assam and Nagaland had been locked in an “eyeball-to-eyeball” confrontation since May-end, sources said. Under the pact, they will retreat from the disputed area simultaneously. The minutes of the meeting at which the pact was signed, accessed by The Telegraph, said the agreement was reached to de-escalate tensions in the disputed Dessoi Valley Reserved Forest/ Tsurangkong Valley. Both states claim this area as their own. While Assam calls the area Dessoi Valley, Nagaland identifies it as Tsurangkong Valley. The agreement was signed by Nagaland chief secretary Jan Alam and his Assam counterpart Jishnu Baruah at the Chumukedima Police House in Nagaland in the presence of Nagaland deputy chief minister Y. Patton and Assam education minister Ranuj Pegu. The key features of the agreement are: ⚫ As part of steps towards maintaining peace in areas around Ao Senden village and Vikuto village (as known in Nagaland) and Jankhona Nala and Nagajankha and Compartment No. 12 (as known in Assam), both states will withdraw their security personnel “simultaneously” from their present locations to their respective base camps “in the next 24 hours as far as possible”. ⚫ The police superintendents of Mokokchung (Nagaland) and Jorhat (Assam) shall ensure orderly withdrawal of the respective forces. ⚫ Both states will carry out surveillance of the area using unmanned aerial vehicles and satellite imagery to maintain status quo. The Assam-Nagaland border is 512km long. Border disputes started after the state of Nagaland was carved out of Assam in 1963. Assam’s Jorhat, Sivasagar, Charaideo, Golaghat and Karbi Anglong districts border Nagaland. Efforts have been made by the Centre and the states since 1971 to resolve the dispute. Assam moved the Supreme Court in 1988. The apex court has asked the two states to maintain status quo till a final solution is found. While Assam insists on going by the constitutional boundary decided in 1963, Nagaland wants to go by its “historical boundary” comprising Naga-inhabited areas till 1826, the year the British annexed Assam. The British India government created the Naga Hills district as part of its Assam province in 1866. According to Assam’s revenue department, people from Nagaland have encroached on 19,819.62 hectares. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Saturday that a “major breakthrough” had been achieved towards de-escalating tensions at the Assam-Nagaland border. Sarma thanked Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio for the “historic step”, adding that Assam was committed to ensuring peace along all its borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
01-08-2021||North East||Amit Shah launches afforestation drive to restore ecology of Sohra||Union home minister Amit Shah last week launched a mega afforestation drive to restore the ecology of Sohra, earlier known as Cherrapunjee, a tourist destination in Meghalaya which once had the distinction of being the wettest place on earth. The first-of-its-kind initiative of the National People’s Party (NPP)-led Meghalaya government is “aimed at bringing together” the Union ministry of home affairs (including defence officials), its own officials and village communities for a “novel and humanitarian” cause of natural resource management in what is considered a “very important and ecologically fragile landscape”. In addition to ecological restoration of the Sohra plateau, the project is expected to address the area’s water shortage during the dry season, boost tourism, provide livelihood to the local populace and enhance resilience to climate change. Launching the Green Sohra Afforestation Campaign to be run by the Meghalaya government with the help of Assam Rifles at Sohra, Shah said earlier Cherrapunjee, around 56km from Shillong, used to receive rainfall throughout the year, but the situation has changed because of indiscriminate harvesting in the name of development. Shah said an ambitious project to “make Cherrapunjee green again has started’ and the entire area is going to be adopted by Assam Rifles for the purpose of plantation. The Sohra plateau, spread over an area of about 39,000 hectares, receives average annual rainfall of 11,000-12,000mm. “Trees are cut for fuel and other uses. So 80 per cent of the total land will be planted with traditional and long lifespan trees. The remaining 20 per cent will be used for animal feed, ornamental plants and nursery which will meet all the requirements and help reduce the felling of long lifespan trees...,” Shah said. The project will greatly benefit eco-tourism in Meghalaya, Shah said while underlining the need to fight global warming and climate change. Officials said the project is an outcome of Shah’s interest in restoring Sohra’s ecosystem during a visit to Shillong in January. An official of the chief minister’s office said the trigger for launching the project are the ecological challenges which are evident from the large barren areas in the Sohra plateau, water crisis apart from the rainy season and severe soil erosion in barren areas during heavy rainfall causing sedimentation in streams and other waterbodies. The project will see block plantations in 3,000 hectares — fuelwood in 2,000 hectares and broom grass in 1,000 hectares — and 50,000 ornamental trees to enhance the tourism potential. The project will also see establishment of 14 nurseries, forest fire control measures and capacity building of local communities in natural resource management. “The plantations, which also include aromatic plants, would be completed within three years and maintenance support would be provided for up to five years. We plan to cover 1,000 hectares in the first year but the target is to cover 10,000 hectares,” the official said. Exbucklandia populnea (pipli in Hindi and Diengdoh in Khasi), betula alnoides (bhojpatra in Hindi and Dienglieng in Khasi), engelhardtia spicata (mauwa in Hindi and Dieng lyba in Khasi) and eugenia jambolana (jamun in Hindi and Diengsohum in Khasi) are some of the species that will be planted as part of the drive. Minister for development of north eastern region (DoNER) G. Kishan Reddy, minister of state for science and technology and department of space Jitendra Singh, minister of state (DoNER) B.L. Verma, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma and senior central and state government officials were present during the launch. Shah met the chief ministers and senior officials of the northeastern states to review law and order, border disputes, use of space technology for development and mitigating disasters and drug trafficking. He urged the chief ministers to launch a coordinated effort for development and check law and order. Shah also laid the foundation stone of Tamulpur Medical College under the Bodoland Territorial Region in Assam through videoconference and also handed over cheques to the families of Covid-19 victims at a function in Guwahati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
01-08-2021||North East||Assam's all-party delegation to visit Delhi, urge Centre to resolve Mizoram boundary dispute||A 19-member all-party delegation of Assam assembly, headed by Speaker Biswajit Daimary, on Saturday decided to visit Delhi and urge the Centre to resolve the state's boundary dispute with Mizoram at the earliest.  The delegation visited Lailapur close to the inter-state border where the clash took place on July 26 in which six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed, and later held a meeting at Silchar.  "It was decided at the meeting that an all-party delegation will meet the central government authorities and urge them to resolve the border dispute at the earliest as well as ensure that the constitutional boundaries were maintained," an official release said.  The delegation members unanimously decided to support the Assam government in all measures it takes to "protect the border" at any stage of the ongoing dispute in the interest of the people of the state.  The speaker also appealed to everyone to remain united to protect Assam's land and its people.  "Just as all parties in Mizoram are united in protecting the borders of their state, all parties in Assam must also be united," Daimary said.  He said that there is a need to formulate new policies or enact laws in the interest of inter-state border security to ensure that not an inch of the state's land was encroached upon.  Besides Daimary, the delegation comprised Deputy Speaker Numal Momin, BJP MLAs Jayanta Malla Baruah, Bhuban Pegu, Rupak Sarmah and Krishna Kamal Tanti, Congress members Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha, Misbahul Islam Laskar, Siddeque Ahmed and Khaliluddin Mazumder.  Other members of the delegation were AGP's Ramendra Narayan Kalita and Prodip Hazarika, AIUDF's Zakir Hussain Laskar, Suzamuddin Laskar and Karimuddin Barbhuiya, UPPL's Lawrence Islary, BPF's Charam Boro, CPI(M)'s Manoranjan Talukdar and Independent MLA Akhil Gogoi.  Cutting across party lines, 15 MLA from the three Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi have assured full support to the Assam government in dealing with the inter-state border situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
01-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Why we need to thank Draupadi for our 'phuchka'||Sir — I did not know that phuchka, a favourite of Indians across class, caste and regions, was allegedly first prepared by Draupadi for her husbands as per the instructions of her mother-in-law (“Oh please, give me a mouthful now”, July 25). There is a popular myth that these mouth-watering treats are especially a hit with the ladies. In fact, a phuchka vendor surrounded by ladies is a common sight in films. But I have always accompanied my wife and daughter to relish this delicious dish. I can never enjoy it without them. Outside shopping malls, theatres and schools, phuchka vendors are always busy selling the round puffs filled with mashed potato and tamarind water no matter what the season. Truly tasty, one can forego a lot of other treats but not phuchkas. But from next time, whenever we put that delicious snack in our mouth, we should be thanking Draupadi. The phuchka is a point of pride for us Indians, wherever we are and by whatever name we call it. This delicacy must get a place in the pages of history and be included in retellings of the Mahabharata. Alok Ganguly,Kalyani Sir — While much was made of panta bhaat being served on MasterChef Australia, few batted an eye-lid when phuchka made it to the judges’ table. This is because in spite of its humble origins on the street, phuchka is undoubtedly the star of the Indian culinary world. Michelin-starred restaurants across the world have some or the other version of phuchka on their menu. In spite of occasional skirmishes over whether the phuchka came first or the golgappa and which is better, this king of chaat is approved by all and unsullied by gastronomic politics. Irrespective of whether it is phuchka, pani puri, batasha or golgappa we are eating, our eyes and noses are equally watery with all the spice; we each have a gulp of the sour water at the end, followed by a sookha — a dry phuchka — to conclude. The rituals are the same. Indeed, the one thing people across India have most missed during the lockdown — besides social contact — may have been the phuchka. This is perhaps why a food company has invented the golgappa ATM to dispense contactless phuchkas. If these machines are installed in the country, the queues outside these ATMs would not move for none can ever have too many. Yashodhara Sen,Calcutta Sir — The organizers of one of the planet’s largest gatherings to celebrate the human body, ironically, get very stressed out about one of the human body’s most basic needs: sex. At a time when the world is living through a pandemic, the International Olympic Committee has imposed strict rules regarding physical contact among everyone that is part of the bubble. Yet, condoms are being used to mend kayaks and an exclusive dating app for Olympic participants is doing brisk business in Tokyo. No virus is potent enough to stop nature from taking its course. Suman Padhi, Calcutta Sir — For many, the rise of commercial space tourism is a vulgar display of wealth and power. Amid several global crises, including climate change and a pandemic, billionaires are spending their cash on launching themselves into space for fun. But critics will not deter the super-rich. Space tourism is now a reality for those who can afford it. But it will have repercussions for everyone, especially those who cannot ever dream of making such a trip. The carbon footprint of launching oneself into space in one of these specially-engineered rockets is incredibly high, close to about 100 times higher than if one takes a long-haul flight. A 2010 study found that the soot released by 1,000 space tourism flights could warm Antarctica by nearly one degree Celsius. This would play havoc with the Paris agreement goal of reducing global temperatures. As ever, the pointless enjoyment of a handful of spoilt billionaires will cost the majority of earth’s residents dearly. Space tourism must be strictly regulated, if not completely banned. Rima Roy, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Opinion||How many IAS, IPS officers send their children to govt schools, asks Patna High Court ||The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee recently got its new president in Bhupen Kumar Borah, who has previously been the secretary of the All India Congress Committee. The appointment ended months of speculation, especially after the outgoing chief, Ripun Bora, put in his papers soon after the party’s second straight loss in the state assembly polls in May. Borah’s appointment, along with that of three working presidents, seemed to have the Rahul Gandhi stamp. Like the recently-appointed Punjab PCC chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu, and Kerala PCC chief, K Sudhakaran, Borah is also close to former party chief, Rahul Gandhi. Borah made it to the coveted post in spite of not being a sitting member of the legislative assembly or member of parliament. He has lost three successive polls — one Lok Sabha and two state assembly elections. This appointment thus reflects the confidence Rahul Gandhi has in him. Borah came up through the ranks, has impressive oratorial skills and is politically astute. But he is taking over at a time when the state unit is riven with factionalism and desertions, and has been in a free fall since 2014. Congress insiders said the party high command will need to provide him all the support, at least until the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, if it wants to revive the party in the state. Jyotiraditya Scindia appears to have settled well in the saffron family, more than a year after he quit the Congress and embraced the Bharatiya Janata Party. He has been rewarded handsomely, having been appointed the minister for civil aviation and he looks more than happy. This week he was in the Lok Sabha to introduce a bill. In front of him, his former colleagues from the Congress were waving placards and shouting slogans against the government. Battling the din, Scindia remained focused and kept hailing the prime minister, Narendra Modi. He said that Modi was fulfilling the vision of Mahatma Gandhi with his commitment to ensure that the poor who wear “hawai chappal” get to fly in the “hawai jahaz”. Scindia seemed to have understood very well that in order to remain in the good books of the BJP leadership, it was essential to keep on hailing the prime minister. He slammed his former colleagues for resorting to raising slogans and trying to block Parliament proceedings, thereby hindering the process of the country’s development. Scindia clearly chose to forget that not long ago, during the first Modi government, he was on the other side, protesting. A simple query by the Patna High Court on how many Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service, Class I and II officers send their children to study in the government schools of Bihar has left the entire gargantuan governance and administration machinery in a bind. The implication of the question raised in a case discussing the quality of education in government-run schools is so enormous that everybody is looking for an escape route, especially in the light of the fact that it would be difficult to find a senior administrative officer sending his or her children to study in such educational institutions. “If we tell the high court that no such officer, or just a negligible few, send their children to government schools, it will mean that the quality of education in them is very low. It will also mean that the Bihar government and its ministers had been brazenly making unsubstantiated tall claims about the expansion and development of school education in the state,” a senior IAS officer said. “It will also make it clear that just construction of school buildings and inducting below average teachers is not the same as providing quality education.” In recent years, the education provided by many schoolteachers in Bihar has come to be questioned. The Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Lalu Prasad, has been talking about his return to Patna for the last couple of months. His wife, Rabri Devi, and his sons and daughters, have also reportedly been saying that he is coming back soon. The imminent return of the charismatic leader adept in forging new political equations, especially at a time when his son, Tejashwi Yadav, is leading the Opposition’s Grand Alliance and the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government in Bihar is clinging to power by a thin majority, is striking terror among the parties in the ruling coalition. “Ab aur bardaasht nahi hota (I can’t take it any more). I have lost my sleep and am worrying about the future of our government in the state. This suspense and fear is taking a toll on my mental and physical health. I also now want him to return as soon as possible. I will be very relieved,” a first-time minister in the NDA government said. Lalu Prasad has been away from Bihar for over three-and-a-half years following his conviction in various fodder scam cases. He got bail in April and is currently in Delhi after being released from treatment under incarceration at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. Karnataka’s leader of the Opposition, PC Siddaramaiah, never minces words, especially when it comes to Opposition parties. The latest to get a taste of his sharp choice of anecdotes is the newly-picked chief minister, Basavaraj Bommai. When asked to rate Bommai, the son of the former chief minister, SR Bommai, of the Janata Party, Siddaramaiah commented that children need not inherit the virtues of their fathers. But senior Congress leaders have stayed away from the remark since they did not want to trigger a war of words with political rivals waiting to pounce on one another. Now that BS Yediyurappa is out of the Chief Minister’s Office, his admirers have just one question to ask. The BJP forced him out citing his age among other reasons, when, at 78, Yediyurappa is no less active than some of his juniors in the ministry. But when the BJP campaigned heavily in the Kerala state polls in April, the party pitched for ‘metro man’, E Sreedharan, who was already 88. So why the double standards, many ask. But obviously the party is not ready to answer such queries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Opinion||Changing stripes||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has moved from the margins to the mainstream of the Indian polity in recent decades. This has forced critics like me to think of a difficult question: how to deal with it? I believe this can be done in two ways: through sangharsh (struggle) as well as samvaad (dialogue). We must oppose it for fomenting Hindu communalism. Specifically, we must counter it for providing ideological and organizational heft to the government of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah whose politics of polarization and contempt for constitutional values spell disaster for democratic and secular India. However, I differ with those critics of the RSS who see it as nothing but evil. Few things in this world are binary. The sangh, despite its majoritarianism, is a patriotic organization, even though its patriotism is selective. Dialogue with it, even cooperation (sahyog), is necessary for three reasons. First, it has grown into the largest, most organized, and most ideologically influential Hindu body, commanding the support of millions across India. Denying this reality is futile and foolhardy. Second, the RSS has not been monolithic and unchanging in the way it looks at India and the world. Some recent shifts in its thinking, especially towards Indian Muslims, are welcome, albeit inadequate. These shifts are being driven by none other than the RSS chief, Mohan Bhagwat, and its newly-appointed general-secretary, Dattatreya Hosabale, who is likely to succeed him. Third, India’s way of settling differences cannot emulate that of China (which witnessed a civil war), Russia (where opponents were killed and jailed in large numbers) or several Muslim countries (bloodied by sectarian violence). We must follow a non-violent and democratic path in which both struggle and dialogue must ultimately lead to reconciliation (samanvay). This task requires us to recognize two contradictory features of the RSS. On the positive side, it seeks, through its various parivar entities, to organize, unite and revitalize Hindu society. There is nothing objectionable about this mission. Who can say that Hindu society is not in need of revitalization through internal social reforms? The RSS campaigned against untouchability and has been striving to rid Hindu society of caste discrimination in a slow but steady way. (A minor but significant point: even before the Supreme Court verdict in 2018, Hosabale had declared in 2016: ‘Homosexuality should not be criminalized, but not glorified either.’) It would be equally legitimate for a Muslim or a Christian counterpart of the RSS to want to organize, unite and reform its own society. India’s national revitalization is a sum total of the reform and egalitarian development of its myriad communities, castes and other social entities. The sangh has another positive trait: it trains its volunteers and inspires its supporters to run a large number of social service projects, which help the needy regardless of their caste or creed. Rahul Gandhi would do well to know that its seva activities far outnumber those of the moribund Congress Seva Dal. On the negative side, India needs to guard against the sangh’s agenda to turn it into a Hindu rashtra. Its propagation of Hindutva being synonymous with Indian nationalism is flawed, divisive and dangerous. Although it calls itself the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, it is essentially a Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh. It does not represent Muslims and Christians, who are an integral and equal part of our nation. It does not represent all Hindus either. A large number of pious and patriotic Hindus reject both the sangh’s narrow conception of the Indian nation and its political agenda based on that conception. Nevertheless, the sangh’s critics should ponder: why and how did it succeed in influencing a vocal section of the majority community? The answer lies in its sustained campaign over a set of issues that appeal to many Hindus — Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the abrogation of Article 370, uniform civil code, cow protection, campaign against conversions through unethical means and so on. The ill-treatment of non-Muslims in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan and the acts of terrorism, extremism, and bigotry by Islamist organizations in many parts of the world have played no small part in expanding its mass appeal. Undeniably, and condemnably, some of its supporters have indulged in bigotry and violence in raising these issues. But equally undeniable is this fact: one of the reasons for the concomitant decline in the influence of the Congress has been its inability — also hesitation and unwillingness — to respond to the legitimate Hindu angst over these issues. It has paid the price for summarily opposing everything the RSS says and does. This does not mean the sangh and its affiliated organizations now have a free-run to implement their majoritarian agenda. After moving to the centre stage of the Indian polity, the RSS is facing peculiar constraints imposed by India’s unchangeable diversity, democracy and its civilizational allegiance to secularism. The greatest of these constraints is that it is in no position to change the Indian Constitution, much as many in the sangh parivar want to. Neither the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political strength (which has now peaked) nor the sangh’s own capacity to build the requisite social support is sufficient to achieve this purpose. Cognizant of this reality, the RSS is no longer attempting to challenge and replace the Constitution but, rather, to co-opt it. When Bhagwat delivered a three-part lecture series on ‘Future of Bharat — An RSS Perspective’ in Delhi in September 2018, he affirmed his organization’s faith in the Constitution, including in its preambular principles of ‘secularism’ and ‘socialism’. Ram Madhav, a prominent RSS-BJP insider, went so far as to describe it as a moment of glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) in the sangh. Bhagwat gave another hint of glasnost in the sangh’s thinking in a widely discussed speech in early July. While releasing a book, The Meeting of Minds: A Bridging Initiative, by Khwaja Iftikhar Ahmed, he unequivocally endorsed the author’s call for Hindu-Muslim harmony through RSS-Muslim dialogue. He acknowledged mistrust and alienation in the Muslim community and called for joint efforts to remove them. “How can we consider Muslims as foreigners when they are our brothers, when their blood and DNA are the same as ours?” he asked. “People may have different faiths, but India has never disrespected the diversity of faiths,” he averred. “Confrontation harms both”, he remarked. He also asserted emphatically that the RSS envisions an India in which there is neither “Hindu domination” nor “Muslim domination” — rather, domination of only “Rashtra heet” (national interest). He implicitly acknowledged that the BJP also practises divisive politics when he said, “Politics cannot bring about unity in society. Politics divides people, it does not unite them.” Muslim organizations and secular parties should respond positively to this change in the sangh’s thinking and seek ways of common action to strengthen communal harmony, national unity and the well-being of all Indians. India’s multi-party democracy has placed another constraint before the RSS. Its exclusive association with a single political party has exposed it to the danger of becoming a ‘BJP Swayamsevak Sangh’ and, now, a ‘Modi Swayamsevak Sangh’. People’s resentment against the Narendra Modi government is growing rapidly. The prime minister’s own popularity is waning. This has prompted many voices within the sangh, including at leadership levels, to wonder if the time has come to look beyond Modi. They are acutely aware that the BJP as a party has changed for the worse under Modi and Shah because of their arrogant style of functioning. The sangh is known for long-term thinking and planning, which is not personality-centric. Hence, it is likely that the RSS itself may seek dialogue and cooperation with patriotic non-BJP entities in the coming, uncertain years. Such possibilities should be seized, not shunned, because India’s future is at stake. Sudheendra Kulkarni served as an aide to the former prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Far from progress||A law being formulated does not guarantee that it will be implemented or that it will change attitudes. The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 followed India’s ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but the conditions of the target group show little noticeable change. Further, certain state governments appear to be untouched by the sensitization sought for by the UNCRPD and, supposedly, by the 2016 law. Population control measures demonstrate this most clearly. It would seem that the Uttar Pradesh draft population control bill aims to achieve the national target of reducing or stabilizing the population by 2045. Along with coercive and constitutionally questionable provisions intended to enforce a two-child norm, the bill makes a concession in the case of ‘death or disability of child’. A third child will not be in contravention of the law when one or both children of a couple have died or are disabled. From a state perfectly in tune with the Centre, this ‘placing’ of the divyang — the prime minister’s label for the disabled — is deeply disturbing. Disability is equated, by implication, with death, exposing a regressive and dangerously discriminatory mindset. It is as if the equality and inclusiveness enshrined in the 2016 law and its enumeration of the responsibilities of governments and of society to ensure these did not exist. Rajasthan, too, has a law for population control with a similar provision. These provisions devalue the person with disabilities, singling him or her out as ‘inferior’, a burden, and outside the social mainstream. The Rajasthan law predates the 2016 one, but the UP draft bill has no such excuse. It not only institutionalizes the dominant attitude of Indians towards the disabled, but it also evades expectations of entitled government support by passing full responsibility on to the parents by ‘conceding’ a third child. The 2016 law is far from perfect, but it could have evolved had there been an effort to implement its provisions by the Centre and the states. But it is obviously little more than a polite nod to the UNCRPD. The disappointment of the heads of government departments and agencies created for the aid of disabled people and of activists in the low budget allocation for this segment, especially in a pandemic year, indicates the Centre’s casualness. States are little better. How much has been done for access in public spaces for the disabled, for special teacher training, for providing support to and information for underprivileged people with disabled children or, simply, for the understanding of problems, physical and otherwise? Perhaps the criticism that the UP draft bill has attracted will make other states planning population control laws — whether these are needed is another question — think twice. No law that discriminates against anyone on the basis of ability, community or any other principle, directly or indirectly, is acceptable. And without political will and sensitiveness, the best laws, too, will fail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Opinion||The book of never before records||We shall talk about it later, all this fuss being made about poppulashun. When you lot are going to do so much coppulashun, there is bound to be so much poppulashun. Seedhi Baat. We will have to do something about the rate of coppulashun. Get the numbers, set up a kamishan, let’s talk about this think frankly and directly. Munn ki Baat. Do it. No sorry, I meant to say don’t do it, not so often. Take time off, watch some or the other tamasha, there’s enough of that happening all around you. And all the time. When did you last see the length of the, you know what I mean, the length of the only thing that has shown signs of growth lately? And what was the last count of strands in that growth, chalo not growth, overgrowth? Chalo not even overgrowth, undergrowth. It is growing under you see, reaching down. To the lowliest, to those unable to reach higher; it’s towards them that it is growing and growing and one day will soon come when it shall reach them. And then, one by one they will be able to climb on and make their way higher and higher until they would want to go higher no more because they will have hit something, something that discourages climbing higher than itself. But you get the idea, don’t you? This scheme, this growth, the undergrowth. It’s all meant for the greatest public good, a ledge and a ladder for folks to rise along. So back to the question we go. How many strands? How many that are reaching down so people can clamber up? Get the numbers. Do a count. We are losing the art of counting and putting numbers together. We seem to have counts for nothing these days. People are asking all the time, give us this number and give us that number. And we do not have numbers so we say, like always, the truth and nothing but the truth and we tell them we do not have the numbers. No numbers so we have no records, although we have made nothing but record upon record. We have recorded what has never happened, we have put an end to the era of Nothing Happened and that in itself is a big record. Is it not? But keeping numbers? That’s a problem. And why will it not be? There is so much poppulashun we cannot keep up, and that is because there is so much coppulashun. How are we to keep count? Or how much coppulashun? Can you? You do it then. Meantime: Here is this fat volume For you to consume There’s in it not a wee bit So your reading will be swift.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Opinion||A medal for your dreams||Mary Kom’s loss in Tokyo last week was heart-rending for many in India, and perhaps for good reason. But not all losses are defeating. Hend Zaza of Syria lost in the table tennis preliminaries to the Chinese born Austrian Liu Jia. Zaza is 12 to Jia’s 39. But the bigger challenge that Zaza faced and overcame was training and qualifying for the Olympics, belonging as she does to a war-ravaged country. Hama city, where she is from, is known for the Islamic uprising of the 1980s and the massacres that followed. There was also the siege of Hama in 2011 that led to the deaths of a number of civilians at the hands of security forces. Unfit training conditions, rag-tag infrastructure, inability to participate in international competitions for visa issues, postponed funding were some of the other things Zaza faced. She said after she lost, “Fight for your dreams, try hard…” Not many would be able to find Benin on a map, but there it is, a fist-shaped republic in West Africa. Privel Hinkati became the first rower to represent Benin in the Olympic Games at Tokyo. Hinkati lost last week, but remained a winner. In Benin football and basketball are popular sports, but it was through Hinkati’s efforts that the country got itself a rowing federation in 2012. Crowdfunding paid for his training and equipment, still he failed to qualify for the Rio Olympics in 2016. This is what he said about the time he qualified for the 2020 Olympics, “I kept rowing past the finish line. I kept rowing towards the second and third rings. I didn’t want to take any chances. I just wanted to be sure. It wasn’t until the announcer said, ‘Everyone must stop now’ that I stopped." Cyclist Masomah Ali Zada finished 25th out of 25 athletes in the women’s individual time trial at the Olympics, but you wouldn’t know that from her demeanour. Ali Zada, who is part of the Refugee Olympic contingent, and her sister met with serious disapproval and even death threats in their home country of Afghanistan when they took up cycling. In 2017, the family found asylum in France, where the sisters continued to train. After her loss, she said, "I'm already a winner against people who think that women don't have the right to ride a bike.” Coming back to India, it seems Mary Kom hasn’t ruled out participating in the 2024 Paris Olympics, if the rules permit. But no matter if the rules don’t, as Rajya Sabha member too she can play some power packed bouts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Judge's death: Auto owner's husband, who filed false FIR, arrested||Police, investigating the alleged killing of a Dhanbad judge,arrested the husband of the owner of the autorickshaw that was used to run him over late on Saturday, and conducted searches across 50 locations in Dhanbad district till Sunday morning during which time officers questioned over 200 people. Ramdev Verma, the husband of the auto owner Saguni Devi, lodged a false FIR at Patherdih police station, alleging that his auto was stolen on July 27, the day before judge Uttam Anand was hit with the auto while he was on his mornoing walk, leading to his death in hospital. The false FIR, filed to seek insurance claims, came to light after the regular driver of the auto, Gopal Lohar, was arrested and taken into police custody on July 30. A special investigation team is probing the death of the judge that the Supreme Court says "constitues the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country". Chief minister Hemant Soren recommended a CBI probe into the alleged killing on Saturday. ADJ (operations) Sanjay Anand Latkar,  who is heading the state-level SIT team, is camping in Dhanbad to supervise the probe. The police,that had on Thursday arrested two youths alleging one of them was driving the auto when it hit the judge, took the auto’s regular driver Gopal Lohar into custody for questioning on Friday. So far, the police have refused to divulge details of their findings. But sources claimed that the duo, Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma, had told police that the judge's death was an accident since they were drunk and could not control the vehicle when it hit Anand. On Sunday,  ADJ Latkar and his team inspected the site of the incident once again with a large number of policemen, including City SP R Ramkumar. He also took stock of CCTV camera placements at the site and at the nearby intersection. Dhanbad SSP Sanjeev Kumar has suspended OC of Patherdih police station Umesh Manjhi for lodging Ramdev Verma's false FIR without proper verification  and also for failing to arrest him. Later, ADJ Latkar held a marathon meeting with the senior police officers of the district to go thrpugh detaiols of their findings so far.  Sources said the police were thinking of conducting Narco tests on the suo that was in the vehilce at the time of the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Inter-state buses back on the road after 3 months||Inter-state bus services from the Sitaramdera Bus Terminus, Kolhan's biggest bus depot, resumed on Sunday after three months as the state government made further relaxations in lockdown rules. The inter-state long distance bus services had to be stopped in the last week of April this year due to a spike in Covid-19 cases during the second wave. On Sunday morning, bus operators came to the bus terminus with their staff and started booking tickets from passengers for various destinations in Bihar, Bengal and neighbouring Odisha. Over 300 inter-state buses ply from Sitaramdera bus terminus to different states. "Today, being the first day, the number of passengers was less. Buses for various destinations are expected to run in full capacity in the next couple of days," said Upendra Sharma, chief patron of Jamshedpur Bus Owners Association. He said that with the steep rise in diesel prices they would be forced to hike the bus fare for various destinations. "During the last three months the diesel price witnessed a rise of about Rs 40. So, it is very difficult for us to sustain with the old fare.  The bus operators will meet here on Tuesday for a discussion on the fare hike, "said Sharma. Most of the inter-state buses start their journey from the Sitaramdera Bus Terminus in the evening and night. Notably, the inter-district buses have resumed operations from July 1. The state government had on Friday further relaxed Coronavirus-induced curbs as part of the unlock process, following a dip in Covid-19 cases. The provisions related to observance of the Health Safety Week in the context of Covid-19 shall stand extended till further orders. Vegetable, fruit, grocery stores remained open in the steel city on Sunday. All shops barring vegetable-fruit grocery/restaurant/bar, eatables and essential services (milk and fuel outlet) remained closed  in steel city on Sunday. People flocked to the vegetable and fruit stalls at Sakchi, Bistupur and other places. The curbs which came into effect on other shops from 8 pm on Saturday  will remain effective till 6 am on Monday. As per the government directive all shops in all districts can remain open till 8 pm between Monday and Friday. However, restaurants and bars can remain open till 10 pm. "Because of the weekend lockdown for the last couple of months we had  to make necessary purchases - vegetables, fruits, fishes  and other foods on Saturday  itself. But, with the government providing further relaxations it enabled me to buy vegetables and groceries on Sunday, " said  Anita Gupta, a homemaker at Sakchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal rain disrupts train services for third day||Train services in Howrah- Mumbai main line via Tatanagar and several other routes remained affected for the third consecutive day on Sunday, due to water logging at Howrah and Tikiapara railway yards in Bengal. Several South Eastern Railway trains were short terminated and rescheduled on Sunday. The Howrah-Mumbai CSMT Special (02260) scheduled to leave Howrah at 2.05 pm on Sunday will originate from Santragachi at 3.15 pm instead of Howrah railway station. The Howrah-Yesvantpur Special (02245) scheduled to leave Howrah at 10.50 am on Sunday  will originate from Shalimar  railway station at 12.05 pm  instead of Howrah. The Howrah-Bhubaneswar Special (02073) scheduled to leave Howrah at 1.25 pm on Sunday will originate from Kharagpur railway station at 3.10 pm instead of Howrah. Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway issued a list of trains which would short-terminate at Santragachi instead of Howrah railway station on Sunday, August 1. The trains included Mumbai CSMT-Howrah Special ( 02259),  Ahmedabad-Howrah Special ( 02833 ), LTT-Howrah Special ( 02101)  Pune-Howrah Special ( 02279 ) and Mumbai CSMT-Howrah Special (02809 ) . All these five trains travel via Tatanagar railway station. Apart from this four more trains - Hyderabad-Howrah Special ( 08646), Adra-Howrah Special ( 08012 ),  Ranchi-Howrah Special ( 02803) and  Puri-Howrah Special ( 02838 ) would also short - terminate at Santragachi railway station. The couple of trains including   Purulia-Howrah Special  ( 02228) and Bhubaneswar - Howrah Special ( 02074)  will be short terminated at Kharagpur instead of Howrah  on Sunday. A spokesman of South Eastern Railway said that apart from opening help desks and special counters for providing refunds for cancellation of tickets  at Howrah and Santragachi railway stations, necessary measures have been taken to ensure that passengers are not inconvenienced. SER gets new GM Archana Joshi, an officer of Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) of 1985 Batch assumed the charge of general manager of South Eastern Railway on Saturday. She replaced Sanjay Kumar Mohanty, the erstwhile general manager who had served the zone for about two years. Prior to joining as general manager, SER, she worked as an additional member (Tourism & Catering), Union ministry of railways, Railway Board. She is the first lady officer to become the general manager of South Eastern Railway. She is also the first lady IRTS Officer to become a general manager. Joshi has worked in different zonal railways viz. Northern Railway, North Western Railway, West Central Railway and North Eastern Railway in various capacities. She also has the distinction of having worked in the Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Environment and Forests dealing with international cooperation issues in both the ministries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Virtual kick off for XLRI human resource conclave||The two-day XLRI’s flagship Human Resources Conclave KRONOS -21, kicked off on Sunday on a virtual platform. The theme for the conclave was "Re-defining the Role of Human Resources for the Future.” The conclave was inaugurated with the Dean Academics of the B-school Ashish K. Panis delivering his speech. The inaugural session of the conclave was also addressed by Anita Sarkar, chairperson, HRM Area, XLRI and chief guest  Deepa Narayan, vice-president, Employee Success at Salesforce. This was followed by a keynote address by Rajlakshmi Saikia, vice- president, Global Learning Operations, Genpact on “Next-Gen HRM”. This was followed by a panel discussion  on "Decoding Diversity and Inclusion" and the session was moderated by Shreyashi Chakraborty, chairperson, Centre for Gender Equality and Inclusive Leadership, XLRI. There was an experience sharing session by Susan Mathew, HR Head India, LinkedIn - Human Resources Planning on the Covid-19 situation. The first day of the conclave concluded with a session "Experts ki Pathshala" conducted  by  Anish Raj, director HR, Sentieo and Vipin Sharma, head HR  Strategy, Analytics and HR Innovation Lab, Tata Steel. The audience comprised an eclectic mix of professionals and students across various fields like IT, manufacturing, banking, finance, insurance, construction etc., faculty members, and guests. On the first day, the conclave witnessed HR experts and leaders from various industries which include  Sweta Mohapatra, associate director HR, Fortune 500;  Shriya Dutt, director HR, Qualcomm;  Monica Dhar, general manager HR, Reliance Industries and  Puneet Rajput, HR head, Thermofisher Scientific. In her welcome address  Anita Sarkar, chairperson, HRM Area, XLRI said, ”  The two-day conclave is a unique initiative by our Executive Post Graduate Diploma in Management ( Ex PGDM) students where industry and academia meet and together explore the role of HR, and employees and employer relationship. A very relevant theme has been chosen - Redefining the role of Human Resource for the future’. The pandemic has taught many lessons and has similarly posed many questions. I believe the two-day conclave will help us to seek answers to many such questions and even help us to generate a few more infringing questions.” While speaking on Rethinking HRM Amidst Disruptions Deepa Narayan, vice- president, Employee Success at Salesforce said, “What happened to all of us a year and a half ago, Covid came like whiplash, it nudged all of us hard to think and it redefined our choices. We are talking about how we can be optimistic at the same time to be grounded with realities. The world going forward will require leaders that can blend courage and compassion together”. The concluding day of the conclave tomorrow will start with a keynote session on Leadership Agility by Suresh Narayanan, chairman and managing director, Nestle India Ltd and How to be the best candidate for hiring? by  Anurag Patnaik, Head of Human Resource, Nestle. It will be followed by a plenary address by author-cum- management consultant Abhijit Bhaduri who will speak on the topic "Careers in a Hybrid Corporate World."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-Sindri train back on track after a year||The Dhanbad-Sindri passenger train, which served as a lifeline for Sindri residents, resumed operations from Dhanbad Railway station on Sunday morning after remaining suspended for 17 months. Sindri residents gathered at the station to welcome the train that reached the station at around 8.10 am. The gathering of around 100 persons of retired employees of fertilizer factory, traders and different social workers also offered shawl, water bottles and masks to the train staff members, including the driver, guard and other station officials. Dipak Kumar Deepu, President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce who was leading the gathering said, "The resumption of train services has solved the woes of more than 1 lakh residents of the town who were compelled to make extravagant and uncomfortable journey to district in auto rickshaw due to lack of train services." "A delegation of Sindri Chamber of Commerce would soon meet, Ashish Bansal, Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad requesting him to restore all the three ferries of the train as per pre lockdown schedule," said Deepu. The passenger train service was launched in October 1982. It used to make three journeys from Sindri at 8.30am, 1.40pm and 7.15pm till the pre-lockdown period before its suspension. After its resumption from Sunday, a special train has been allowed from Sindri at 8.40am. The fare, fixed at Rs 10 per passenger before its suspension, has also been increased three times to Rs 30 per passenger. D.N. Sindri a retired employee of Fertilizer factory of Sindri said, "We were facing a lot of difficulty due to suspension of passenger train as no regular bus service for Dhanbad also and we were compelled to make break journeys in autorickshaw to Dhanbad who used to charge exorbitant fare ranging up to Rs 80 per passenger taking advantage of situation." "We raised the issue several times before the district administration officials and railway authorities and also met Lalit Chandra Trivedi, general manager of East Central Railway, Hajipur during his Dhanbad trip on February 17 demanding restoration of passenger train service and today feel quite relaxed as railways restored the train," further said Singh. "Large number of students, office goers, daily wage earners were facing the most difficult time since the suspension of train service and in jubilant mood following the restoration of train services," said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS joins global research project on neurological impact of Covid||A team of doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi will be part of an international research project involving experts from the US and some European countries aimed at studying the effects of Covid-19 on the nervous system and brain of survivors, doctors from Jharkhand’s premiere healthcare facility said on Sunday. Research will be conducted under the guidance of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and American research agency National Institute of Health (NIH). RIMS Director and Padmashree awardee Dr Kameshwar Prasad, a globally renowned neurologist, who is already a member of the WHO’s expert team for neurology, will head the team of doctors from Ranchi for the project, RIMS sources said. The team of doctors from RIMS participating in the research includes the coordinator of RIMS’ Covid-19 task force, Dr. Prabhat Kumar. Besides, Dr. Surendra Kumar and Dr. Ganesh Chauhan, who have been treating patients at RIMS since the Covid-19 pandemic hit Jharkhand, will also be a part of the  team. Dr. Prasad was unavailable for comment on Sunday. However, Dr. Prabhat Kumar, who will be assisting the former in the research, said that the research will cover people from various countries and how the virus affected them. “Many Covid survivors have complained of neurological disorders after recovering from the viral infection. The research will be aimed at studying how the virus affects the nervous system and brain of survivors gradually after recovery and what are the major symptoms,” said Dr. Kumar. As of now, RIMS is the only Indian healthcare facility selected to participate in this research project, a source from the institution said. Several such scientific researches were being conducted across the world to study the long-term impact of SARS-CoV-2 on people belonging to different ethnicity and geographical locations, he added. According to the official website of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, a part of the US’ NIH, “In some people, response to the coronavirus has been shown to increase the risk of stroke, dementia, muscle and nerve damage, encephalitis, and vascular disorders. Some researchers think the unbalanced immune system caused by reacting to the coronavirus may lead to autoimmune diseases, but it's too early to tell.” The effect of Covid-19 on the neurological system of members of the tribal community in Jharkhand could also be a part of the research, a doctor from RIMS said. Doctors from the United Kingdom, Spain, Germany and Italy are also likely to participate in this research. RIMS will also use the data of patients admitted in the hospital due to post-Covid complications during the research, sources said. As per government data, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and 5128 of them could not survive. RIMS also functioned as a centre of excellence for treating mucormycosis, a Covid-induced fungal infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town residents demand trauma centre after judge 'killing'||Coal town residents raised the long pending demand for establishment of a trauma centre equipped with advanced facilities for treatment with sufficient manpower in the wake of the death of judicial officer Uttam Anand, who was hit by an autorickshaw and remained unattended till a passerby admitted him to SNMMCH. Gopal Bhattacharya, a Dhanbad based renowned social worker and General Secretary of Bengali Welfare Society, in a social media message said, “Had there been a trauma centre in Dhanbad. Life of Judge Uttam Anand could have been saved.” Responding to his post, Samiran Paul, a senior lawyer of Dhanbad, said,“True, even a lower level of trauma centre could have initially stabilized the traumatic injury and then referred to a higher level centre.” “We Dhanbad people don’t have adequate and far less sophisticated health care units,” added Paul. Madhurendra Singh, a citizen rights activist and former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce wrote to the prime minister, demanding establishment of a trauma centre in Dhanbad. Singh in his letter, copies of which were sent to Chief Minister Hemant Soren, Supreme Court of India and Jharkhand High Court, pointed out, “There is no higher centre of treatment in a place like Dhanbad situated on National Highway -2 where regular road accidents besides mine mishaps take place.” “It is pathetic that we could not save the life of a sitting judge due to lack of a trauma centre in Dhanbad and thus we demand immediate fund allocation for a trauma centre in Dhanbad,” said Singh. In 2011, the trauma centre was to be launched in SNMMCH and a land was also identified for the purpose near its main gate at Saraidhela but due to dispute over the ownership with local residents the project was stalled. Several attempts to identify an alternative land near the national highway 2 near Panduki in Govindpur were also made during last year but all failed due to the inability of the district administration to find land for the purpose along the highway. In October last year, after the visit of Kailash Kumar, regional director of Directorate General of Health services of Union Ministry of Health and family welfare, a 10-bed trauma centre was established at the Emergency ward of SNMMCH without any extra manpower. Talking to Telegraph Online on Saturday, Arun Kumar Chaudhary Superintendent of SNMMCH, said,“The existing trauma centre at Emergency of our hospital is devoid of any advance equipment and extra manpower and we are just operating it on an ad hoc arrangement basis due to lack of any separate building and manpower.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro reports first mucormycosis death||The first incident of death due to black fungus was reported in Bokaro on Saturday, which took the mucormycosis toll in Jharkhand to 31, the latest data with the health department revealed. The state, however, did not report fresh cases of the fungal infection on the day. As per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has so far reported 104 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis, a disease that was notified as an epidemic by the Jharkhand government earlier this year. Ranchi has reported 40 confirmed and 22 suspected cases of black fungus, which claimed 11 lives here – the highest among Jharkhand districts. Of the 162 confirmed and suspected patients, at least 108 have been discharged from the hospital so far. The state on Saturday vaccinated over 1 lakh residents, including over 75,000 from the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, against Covid-19, provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per NHM data, the first dose of vaccine was administered to 75,362 residents, while at least 30,171 beneficiaries got their second jab. At least 1337 session sites for vaccination were operational on the day, as per the Co-Win platform. As many as 84 vaccination centres were open in Ranchi, while 46 session sites administered vaccines against Covid-19 in East Singhbhum. As per figures released by NHM on Saturday evening, the state has administered at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to close to 95 lakh residents. The state had 4.7 lakh vaccine doses in stock on Saturday, the figures highlighted. Jharkhand distributed 91,130 doses of Covaxin among the 24 districts in the past two days. Ranchi got the highest share of 7430 doses in the latest allotment, while 5300 doses were given to East Singhbhum. The state distributed 31,130 doses on Thursday and 60,000 more doses on Friday. Meanwhile, 44 Covid recoveries against 36 fresh cases brought the active caseload of Covid-19 down to 252 in the state, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties on the day and the toll remained 5128. Ranchi reported the highest spike of eight cases against the same number of recoveries. At least 49 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Saturday. At least 10 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day, while Bokaro continued to witness a spike in active cases as it reported seven cases against four recoveries. The state on Saturday tested 56,045 samples and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the virus and 98.45 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren calls for CBI probe into Dhanbad judge's death||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday recommended a CBI investigation into the alleged murder of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand, which the Supreme Court says “concerns the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. Currently, a special investigation team (SIT) formed by state police is probing the case and has been directed by Jharkhand High Court to hand in its report by August 3. Additional district judge Anand was knocked down and killed on a Dhanbad street around 5am on Wednesday by an apparently stolen auto-rickshaw that, CCTV footage shows, had swerved sharply from the middle of the lane. Judge Anand had recently rejected the bail petitions of Abhinav Singh and Ravi Thakur, two alleged shooters. The suspected shooters were linked to Uttar Pradesh gangster Aman Singh who is in custody over the murder of former Dhanbad deputy mayor Niraj Singh. Judge Anand was also hearing the murder case of Ranjay Singh, aide to former Jharia MLA and BJP politician Sanjeev Singh, who too is in jail custody over Niraj Singh’s murder. On Friday, the high court bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan said: “We are directing the SIT to submit a report on the next date of hearing (August 3). Let an affidavit be filed disclosing as to when the information regarding the occurrence was received by the police and the time when the FIR was registered.” Relatives of Judge Anand have expressed dismay that the FIR was registered only around 12.30pm on Wednesday and that a copy of the post-mortem report has not been given to them. “Let information be also given to us as to whether the procedure of post-mortem was video-graphed or not,” the high court said. It also directed Jharkhand DGP Neeraj Sinha to submit a report on the crime rate in the state since February 2020. Soren met Judge Anand’s relatives on Friday. The family requested him to provide the judge’s wife with a job on humanitarian grounds. Auto ‘intrigue’ The police, who had on Thursday arrested two youths alleging the stolen auto was in their possession, on Friday took the auto’s regular driver Gopal Lohar into custody for questioning. Police sources quoted Gopal as saying that Ramdev Lohar, husband of the auto’s owner Sugni Devi, had said on Monday he would get the three-wheeler stolen and claim the insurance. “We are trying to trace Ramdev, who is known to be involved in the sale of illicit liquor and has gone into hiding since Thursday,” an SIT member said. “He can tell us whether the auto was deliberately stolen to hit the judge, or whether it was an accident.” The police are scanning the mobile call details of the two arrested youths, Lakhan Kumar Verma and Rahul Verma, who officers say were inside the auto when it hit the judge. “Some eyewitnesses are being questioned,” said additional director-general of police (operations) Sanjay Anand Lathkar, who heads the SIT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
01-08-2021||Jharkhand||At least seven persons die as rain wreaks havoc in Jharkhand||At least seven persons have died in Jharkhand since Friday afternoon in incidents triggered by incessant rainfall. Low-lying areas have been submerged and roads waterlogged in different parts of the state. A 40-year-old villager identified as Subhash Hembrom was swept away in the strong current of the Subernarekha river on Friday afternoon when he went to take a bath in Hatia under Jagannathpur police station of Ranchi. An NDRF team has been pressed into service to trace his body. In Latehar district, brothers Shankar, 10, and Monuwa Oraon, 6, died and their parents were critically injured after the mud wall of their house in Kuldaga village under Manika police station collapsed in the heavy rain on Friday night. Father Sohrai Oraon, 41, and mother Chinta Devi, 38, were admitted to the Sadar Hospital in critical condition. In Jamtara district, three persons lost their lives after the car they were travelling in fell off a bridge on the Narayanpur-Karmatand main road into the Loharangi river under Narayanpur police station on Friday night. Police on Saturday said the driver who was speeding failed to notice the water-filled potholes on the bridge and lost control and the vehicle plunged into the river. The deceased are Sourav Suman, 28, Avinash Singh, 25, and Sitanshu Nayan, 30, while another occupant Ranu Singh managed to swim to safety. Police said the passengers were going to Bhagalpur in Bihar after buying the second-hand car in Ranchi when the mishap happened. In Giridih district, Surajlal Murmu, 38, of Beldih village under Gandey police station died on Friday night after his thatched hut collapsed in the heavy rain. Police recovered his body on Saturday morning after villagers informed about the incident. Disaster management minister Banna Gupta on Saturday asked the department’s secretary to direct all district heads to send a damage assessment report at the earliest so that compensation can be disbursed to affected families. “I have asked the secretary (Amitabh Kaushal) to direct all the 24 deputy commissioners to send a damage assessment report to the headquarters at the earliest. We will disburse the compensation at the earliest,” said Gupta. Almost all the major rivers, including the Subernarekha, Kharkai and Damodar, were in spate with dam gates opened to release excess water. Opening of two gates of the Bankabal Dam in neighbouring Mayurbhanj district of Odisha led to the water level in the Kharkai crossing the danger level which raised the threat of inundation of low-lying areas in Jamshedpur. In state capital Ranchi, most of the important roads, including Argora-Harmu Road, Ratu Road and Kanke Road, were waterlogged, while basements and parking spaces of several residential apartments were submerged. Congress spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey blamed Ranchi BJP legislator and former urban development minister C.P. Singh for the waterlogging. “During the tenure of the erstwhile Raghubar Das government, more than Rs 400 crore was spent on building drains and sewage system. But all drains are overflowing which shows that there was only mismanagement of government funds in the name of urban infrastructure projects. We demand a high-level probe into the projects,” said Dubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
