02-08-2021||Calcutta||East Bengal will play ISL, differences with SCL will be sorted, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee once again has come forward and assured the fans of East Bengal that the club would play in the Indian Super League despite its management's ugly tussle with investors Shree Cement Limited (SCL). Banerjee, who had played a key role in the tie-up of SCL with East Bengal in their last minute bid to play in ISL last season, took a dig at the club management for being adamant in not signing the final agreement. “Ektu chere khelun, ektu chere khelle ota hoe jabe (Allow some space. It will be alright then),” Mamata said during a programme at the Netaji Indoor Stadium here. The club's participation in India's top tier league for the upcoming season was put in jeopardy as East Bengal club executive members refused to sign the final agreement with Shree Cement, claiming discrepancy in the initial term sheet. The initial document was signed by both parties in the presence of Banerjee in September 2020, that paved the way for a dramatic entry of East Bengal into ISL. “Last time also I had interfered at the last moment as there was no other way after Mohun Bagan had tied up with ATK. Now also as per my information, they will be able to play in ISL. It's about being flexible, and allowing some space (to SCL),” Banerjee said. “I want the Bengal clubs to compete in the ISL, and play a proactive role in the development of Indian football.” She said the "little differences" will be solved and soon the East Bengal fans will have their smiles back on their faces and the club will play in the ISL. “Taking responsibility for five years is also not a joke. The investor has to spend close to Rs 50 crores. Last time we had convinced them to come and invest in the club.” Banerjee's assurances came less than a month after two groups of East Bengal supporters had clashed in the Maidan. One group had planned a protest against the club officials and demanded Banerjee's intervention to end the logjam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Roof collapse kills 50-year-old woman on Bondel Road||A 50-year-old woman died after a portion of a roof of a dilapidated building on Bondel Road collapsed on Sunday afternoon. Disaster management personnel and police rescued Jashbindar Kaur and took her to SSKM Hospital, where she died. Police said the victim's husband and son were not at home when the roof collapsed around 2.10pm. A portion of a second-floor balcony of a three-storey building on Nanda Ram Sen Street in Shyampukur collapsed on Sunday afternoon. Police said no one was injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Several pockets in New Town and VIP Road remain under water till Sunday||Many pockets in New Town and stretches of VIP Road, including a 1-km section near the Haldirams outlet, remained under water till Sunday, more than 36 hours after the intense spell of rain had stopped. The areas remained flooded despite the deployment of suction machines on gully pits and rainwater channels by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). Traffic crawled through the flooded stretches while workers cleared gully pits and opened manholes so the water could be drained out. “We deployed men and suction machines but gully pits and channels are completely choked by cement, sand and stone chips,” said a PWD official, who was overseeing the drainage operations along VIP Road. In New Town, a 1.5-km stretch that leads to Derozio College from the first signal after crossing City Centre II was under knee-deep water till late on Saturday. Samaresh Das, a resident of Greenwood Elements, which is on this stretch, wondered why the authorities had not cleared the gully pits and drainage networks before the onset of the monsoon. “This is unacceptable in a planned city that has come up only recently,” Das said. The entire Balaka Abasan in Action Area I and the road in front of it were flooded. An NKDA official said most of the rainwater channels and gully pits had been choked by construction materials dumped along roads. “Despite deploying suction machines, we could not clear gully pits and channels. Most of them were choked as sand, cement and stone chips had fused together. Labourers with hammers and chisels were deployed to chip away the blocks,” the NKDA official said. Construction materials dumped along roads in New Town are not hard to miss in this otherwise planned township of parks, boulevards, smart residential highrises and mixed-use buildings. A Hidco official said they had asked construction material.supply syndicates not to dump the items on the streets but they rarely comply. “We tried to impose fines but since the syndicates are all politically connected, nothing much could be achieved,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Forehand fit for world champions||The first time Samir Chatterjee played table tennis was at a friend’s place, just after the Matriculation examination. “It was March, 1939,” says Chatterjee. They had placed a net on a dining table, though they had proper racquets. Chatterjee’s life changed that day. “It was as if I found a part of me that was lost,” says Chatterjee, who turned 99 in July. He went on to become a table tennis star in Bengal, feared for his forehand topspin and smash. A state champion, he met world champions, though could not represent India officially ever, to his regret. Later in life, he would be considered a “living encyclopedia” on table tennis, a master of every aspect of the game, as a player, coach, umpire and mentor of younger players. He was also a prolific writer on table tennis who contributed articles to several newspapers and journals in Bengal and outside. His friend Kumar Ghosh, at whose dining table it all began, would become another top player. Nothing came easy to Chatterjee. But nothing diminished his passion. A resident of Bhowanipore, he is waiting for me at the Ballygunge residence of a family friend. He is a small, frail, gentle man and he cannot see very well. But his eyes light up as he begins to talk. His memory remains surprisingly sharp. He remembers the year and month and sometimes the exact date of an event — and these are delivered with a stunning precision, memory marking a triumph against time. He has seen many ups and downs, and material rewards have eluded him, but he looks at his long life as a wonderful, rich, exciting journey. He dwells on every detail. Growing up in a large family in Bhowanipore, he loved every sport, including football and cricket. “But I was a thin child and a bhalomanush (simple) and was teased for being both,” smiles Chatterjee, who was a student of South Suburban school and Mitra Institution, where stalwarts like the poet Kalidas Roy and the mathematician K.C. Nag taught him. So he stayed away from the rough sports. Then table tennis struck. Like fate. “I passed Matric in the first division and took admission in the science stream in Asutosh College,” but he was obsessing about table tennis. “I could not sleep or eat. The books looked frightening, too big, and the War had started,” recalls Chatterjee. “Prices were going up.” His family had limited resources. “And I was making progress neither in studies nor in table tennis. I could not take the Intermediate examination,” he says. He felt guilty. Being the eldest of nine siblings, also responsible for his family. “On August 19, 1941, at 19, I took up a job as a clerk at the war office, in the department of the chief controller of purchases department (munitions), at Dharamatalla, for Rs 45 a month,” he says. A year or so later, Japanese war planes began to mark the Calcutta sky and the bombings began. “I remember the shattered glass at a bombed building in Dalhousie,” says Chatterjee. All the while he had been practising table tennis, mainly at the Bhowanipore YMCA, which later became Khalsa School. He began to travel to other Indian cities to participate in major tournaments. An encounter at a Hyderabad tournament in 1943 made him find his game. It had basically been “chop-defence” and an occasional backhand smash. He could never master the forehand. At the tournament he saw a player from Bombay (Indian cities were still known by their colonial names), 40ish, who wore adjusting heels because one of her legs was shorter. Her forehand smashes were electrifying. “I got a 440 volt shock,” says Chatterjee. “If she can, why can’t I? I asked,”. He mastered the forehand, his biggest weapon, the very same day, after missing it for years. He did not ever need any distraction, not even romance. “No woman ever came as close to me as table tennis,” laughs Chatterjee. He remained a bachelor all his life. He lives alone now, with some family members living close to him. He quit his job too, after a promotion, as he could not manage the greater responsibilities and keep practising. Being in the game itself was tough. Table tennis was never a star sport. “I left my job in January, 1945. On January 13, 1947, I would join my next job at Indo-Burma Petroleum, where my father also worked, and from where I would retire,” he says. “But in March, 1946, I enrolled at YMCA Chowringhee. It was the best place for table tennis, along with the College Street YMCA.” The best five years of his life followed, to end rather drastically. He remembers with great pleasure the “historic” tournament held at the University Institute Hall in Calcutta in 1947, “between December 22 and 31”. “It was the first time a reigning world champion, the Czech player Bohumil Vána, was participating at an Indian tournament.” Vána’s forehand was a legend. In a match, Chatterjee and Vána were even for long, till “19-19”, but Vána won at “21-19”, says Chatterjee, recalling every score. “We could not organise enough matches those days because of the price of the balls. They cost Rs 60 a dozen,” he says. A few months earlier, India had become independent, which had brought its own trauma. Returning from Puri a few days after Independence, Chatterjee had seen the body of a riots victim being eaten by vultures in front of Government House (Raj Bhavan). In 1948, Chatterjee became the Bengal champion, and also won two other titles with the singles. In 1949, in an exhibition match in Batanagar, he met reigning world champion Richard Bergmann, an Austrian-British player. Chatterjee gave Bergmann grief and was ahead in the game at “17-13”, but Bergmann won at “21-18”. He is very clear-sighted about his strengths and weaknesses. “I would have been ranked between No. 8 and No. 10 in India if there was ranking system then,” he says. “My defence was weak. There were better players than me in Bengal itself, such as my friend Kumar Ghosh and Tej Bahadur Kichlu. But my forehand had class,” he says. Talent is not the everything, however. In 1949, Chatterjee found himself inexplicably excluded from the India team. He and others were convinced that he deserved a place. “I came back home and tore up my racquet in front of my mother and then burnt it. I was so hurt.” Though he represented Bengal at Colombo the next year, he decided not to play at major tournaments any more. But not everything is winning and losing. Among his friends, Chatterjee counted another world champion, British-Hungarian player Viktor Barna, who became a mentor. Chatterjee remembers Barna as a warm, generous person, whom he could interview once at length at Grand Hotel, Calcutta, just walking in. For years, Barna kept sending high quality racquets to Chatterjee. Chatterjee considers Barna’s interview one of his best pieces. The best piece he has written, says Chatterjee, is one about Shri Ramakrishna, whose devotee he is. Among Chatterjee’s other friends are also the numerous younger people that he coached and mentored. He was a well-known referee and umpire. He proudly mentions another close friend, filmmaker Hrishikesh Mukherjee, his classmate. They were in touch always. Chatterjee has left his major trophies and all his writings, in five bound volumes, with his grandniece, in case anyone is interested. By the way, he is also a champion bridge player, which he started playing at 53. First auction bridge, then contract bridge. He is up for a tournament right now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
02-08-2021||Calcutta||23-year-old abducted woman rescued from Mathura||A woman abducted from Maheshtala in South 24-Parganas five months ago was rescued in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura on Friday after police tracked down her location with the help of the SIM card that she had retained keeping her abductors in the dark. Raju Kumar Singh, the woman's elder brother-in-law, has been arrested for his alleged role in facilitating the abduction. Police said the 23-year-old’s phone had two SIM cards when she was kidnapped. Her abductors had asked her to destroy the SIMs but she managed to retain one. Investigators tracked her down after the woman exchanged messages with a friend, who was among the few who knew the second number and dropped a message a month back. Senior officers of the Diamond Harbour police district refused to reveal from where in Mathura the woman was rescued, saying more arrests were likely. On Saturday, the woman recorded her statement before a magistrate under Section 164 of the Indian Penal Code. The police later handed her to her parents, who live in Ranaghat in Nadia. The woman, who has a two-year-old child, was abducted moments after she had stepped out of her in-laws’ house in Maheshtala on a February afternoon. She told the police that she was stopped by a few men in a car, who asked her to read an address on a piece of paper for them. While she was reading out the address, the abductors allegedly pulled her in and injected something into her. She immediately passed out. The woman’s in-laws informed her parents that their daughter had gone missing. Her parents reached Maheshtala from Ranaghat and lodged a missing diary with the police. “She was carrying two SIM cards. The abductors wanted her to destroy both but she managed to retain one. But it did not have any balance left,” said an officer. In June, one of her friends, who were among the few who knew the number, sent her a message. When the woman didn't respond, she called her. “The woman answered the call and asked the friend to top up the card. The conversation lasted less than a minute. The woman told her friend the two would be in touch only through messages,” said a senior officer of Maheshtala police station. That was in June; four months after the woman had gone missing. Once the friend learnt that the woman was held up somewhere in Mathura, she alerted the police, triggering a search based on her mobile location. A police team left for Uttar Pradesh, while another monitored the woman’s tower location till the members of the other team rescued her. “We came to know during our investigation that the woman's elder brother-in-law had facilitated her abduction by tipping off the abductors after she had stepped out," the officer said. “An inter-state racket could be at work. We need some time to unearth it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Three arrested for smuggling in cannabis from US and Canada||Two women in their late 20s and a 30-year-old man have been arrested for allegedly smuggling in cannabis from the US and Canada. One of the accused women has an MBA degree. “They would sell the high-quality cannabis smuggled in from abroad in all major cities,” said an officer of the Narcotics Control Bureau. Shraddha Surana, 25, and Tareena Bhatnagar, 26, were picked up from their homes in Ballygunge. “Bhatnagar has an MBA degree and was working as a financial analyst. Surana was involved in family business,” the officer said. The third accused is Karan Kumar Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
02-08-2021||Calcutta||RKM college to admit undergraduate students through online screening||Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous), Narendrapur, will admit undergraduate students in all departments through online screening. The college on Saturday said the students applying to study honours in history, physics, English and economics will be screened through online admission tests and viva. The other eight departments, including chemistry, mathematics and statistics, will shortlist candidates based on their plus-II marks and then screen them based on online viva. “Dates of the online interview and viva have been mentioned in the notification (issued on Saturday),” said Swami Shastrajnananda, the principal of the college. The college, which used to admit students through on-campus admissions tests till 2019, had last year admitted students based only on board marks in all departments other than English. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will screen students for admission to undergraduate courses in 12 out of 15 subjects through online viva voce. The state government has barred colleges and universities from conducting admission tests for undergraduate programmes this year. RKM institutions are outside the purview of the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Twin events mark Prince Dwarkanath Tagore’s 175th death anniversary||Across continents, Prince Dwarkanath Tagore was remembered in the lands of both his birth and death on his 175th death anniversary on Sunday. The Bengal Heritage Foundation (BHF), a UK-based group of diaspora members promoting Bengali heritage and culture across the world, held a memorial meet at Kensal Green Cemetery in London where the merchant prince was laid to rest in 1846, two and half hours after heritage enthusiasts of Narayankuri village near Raniganj commemorated him on the Damodar bank beside the jetty that Carr, Tagore & Company had built for running the coal mine he had acquired. “Dwarkanath was a pioneer in Indo-British trade relationship in being the first Indian to hold an equal partnership in a company with the British. This was a tremendous achievement in that period. He had personal audiences with Queen Victoria and knew her family, so when he passed away at a London hotel, royal carriages were sent to carry his remains,” BHF president Sourav Niyogi told The Telegraph from London. BHF has worked with the cemetery authorities to clean the Aberdeen granite tombstone and restore his resting place in 2018. Other than BHF members, the event was attended by Henry Vivian-Neal from the Friends of Kensal Green Cemetery, Rohit Vadhwana, first secretary, High Commission of India, and Neil Mukherjee, a Tagore descendant. Jonathan Kennedy, director, arts, British Council India and British deputy high commissioner Nick Low delivered virtual addresses. “It is great that Dwarkanath’s contribution to industry and his enterprise are being celebrated,” said Mukherjee, a London-based anesthesiologist whose great great grandmother was Dwarkanath’s niece. On the Damodar banks, villagers of Narayankuri, 12 km from Raniganj station, have fought to preserve the remains of Carr, Tagore & Co. under the banner of a memorial committee which bears the year 1832 in its name. “This is when Dwarkanath first visited the area to start work on acquisition of the coal mine from a British company. He would start scientific mining and transportation to turn the business around. The company built a jetty on the bank to facilitate coal transportation by schooners. Earlier elephants did the job. A section of the jetty wall still stands,” said Santanu Banerjee, a teacher of Kazi Nazrul University, who is part of Asansol Heritage Research Group which is helping the villagers preserve local history. Tagore, who had imported steam engines from England, had tried to get permission to start a rail service from Calcutta but was refused by the East India Company till nine years after his death. “The haulage room where coal brought from the pit was dumped is there but the manager’s bungalow has crumbled. The villagers have resisted attempts at mining at the site so three of its walls remain,” said Banerjee. The group collected video comments from its own members as also key figures involved in research on the topic like Bashabi Fraser, who heads the Scottish Centre of Tagore Studies at Edinburgh Napier University. “The comments were sent to be screened at the London event,” Banerjee added. The villagers hold a three-day fair during Makar Sankranti in memory of Dwarkanath and have installed his bust near the jetty wall. “Sourav (the BHF president) is from Asansol and during his visit here this February, he proposed an event parallel to theirs on August 1. We are planning to mark this day annually henceforth,” said Gautam Chowdhury, a village heritage committee member. Raniganj MLA Tapas Banerjee, who had got the jetty base concreted on the committee’s request, attended the event held next to Mathurachandi temple where the Tagore bust is installed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
02-08-2021||Calcutta||Youth holding two pistols arrested in Maniktala, 1 pistol seized||The picture of a youth holding two pistols that had gone viral on social media led to the arrest of the 24-year-old in Maniktala on Saturday and has turned the focus on arms dealers who lure potential buyers with pictures. Kishan Jayasara was arrested after a team of officers went around looking for someone with a watch similar to the one in the youth's post. Police said an 8mm pistol with a few bullets was seized from him. Kishan has denied links with illegal arms trade and claimed that someone had hacked his Facebook profile and planted the picture. “Asked about the second pistol, he denied before saying it was with a friend in Bhatpara,” said an officer of Maniktala police station. The police conducted a raid in Bhatpara but did not find the accused. Officers said they learnt that the Bhatpara youth was a murder accused and part of a criminal gang. “It seems the two were trying to form a close group to sell improvised firearms,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-32
02-08-2021||Business||Zomato announces limited edition 'Pro Plus' membership for select customers||Online food delivery platform Zomato on Monday said it is launching a limited edition 'Pro Plus' membership for its select customers. "We have 1.8mn Zomato Pro members as of today. And one of the most requested features from our customers has been Unlimited Free Deliveries (something like Amazon Prime). So in a few hours, we are launching our Limited Edition *Pro Plus* membership for select customers," Zomato Founder and Chief Executive Officer Deepinder Goyal said in a tweet. The Pro Plus will have no surge fee, no distance fee, and all Pro benefits. "All Zomato Edition Black credit cardholders will automatically be upgraded to Zomato Pro Plus. Everybody else will need to buy the Pro Plus upgrade from the Zomato app. Fatafat le lena, baad mein shayad nahin milega" Goyal said in another tweet. Earlier in 2020, Zomato had launched an initiative to rechristen Zomato Gold to Zomato Pro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 364 points to close at 52,950||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 364 points on Monday, driven by gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and TCS amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share index ended 363.79 points or 0.69 per cent higher at 52,950.63, while the broader NSE Nifty surged 122.10 points or 0.77 per cent to 15,885.15. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by M&M, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, TCS, Maruti and Infosys. On the other hand, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's and HDFC Bank were among the laggards. Domestic equities recovered sharply as positive cues from global equities and strong rebound in auto supported benchmark Nifty, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, modest recovery in financials, IT and pharma also supported market, he said, adding that realty stocks were in focus after sharp improvement in property registrations in Mumbai for July, while decent improvement in monthly auto sales volume aided original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). He further noted that most key sectoral indices traded in green, while volatility index broadly stood flat. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 1.35 per cent to USD 74.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||No formal proposal from Cairn to settle dispute, says Centre||Facing a payout of USD 1.2 billion-plus interest after an arbitration award went against it, the government on Monday said it has not received any formal proposal from Britain's Cairn Energy plc to resolve the issue within the country's legal framework. A three-member international arbitration tribunal that consisted of one judge appointed by India, had in December last year unanimously overturned the levy of taxes on Cairn retrospectively and ordered refund of shares sold, dividend confiscated and tax refunds withheld to recover such demand. Since then, Cairn has been pressing India to pay while the government has looked for possible solutions within the existing framework. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said the arbitral tribunal, which had its seat in the Hague, on December 31, 2020, ruled in favour of Cairn. "It has asked India to pay Cairn an award amount of USD 1.2328 billion-plus interest and USD 22.38 million towards arbitration and legal costs," he said. With New Delhi refusing to pay and instead challenged the award before a court in The Netherlands, Cairn has got the order registered in several jurisdictions and has begun recovering the money by seizing Indian assets overseas. "An order has been passed by a French court freezing certain Indian Government properties" in Paris, he said. "The same has been communicated through diplomatic channels." Asked if Cairn has offered any kind of amicable solution to the dispute, Chaudhary said, "No formal proposal for a solution within the country's legal framework has been received." He did not elaborate. In the initial months after the award, the government wanted the dispute to be settled under the 'Vivad se Vishwas' Scheme. The now-closed scheme provided for settling of a tax dispute if the taxpayer pays 50 per cent of the tax demand upfront in return for waiving of penalty and interest as well as the closing of the case. For Cairn, this would have meant getting about a third of USD 1.2 billion claim. This because the original tax demand that the government sought from it was Rs 10,247 crore - half of this would be Rs 5,123.5 crore. The government had recovered about Rs 7,600 crore by selling shares belonging to Cairn, seizing its dividends and withholding tax refunds. Netting it too, the due amount to be paid to Cairn would have been Rs 2,477 crore or less than USD 400 million. As of present, there is no tax dispute resolution scheme in vogue. Cairn has identified USD 70 billion of Indian assets overseas for the potential seizure to collect the award, which now totals to USD 1.72 billion after including interest and penalty. In June, Cairn brought a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York pleading that Air India is controlled by the Indian government so much that they are 'alter egos' and the airline should be held liable for the arbitration award. Similar lawsuits are likely to be brought in other countries, primarily with high-value assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||India's manufacturing sector sees strongest growth rate in three months in July||India's manufacturing sector activities witnessed the strongest rate of growth in three months in July amid improved demand conditions and easing of some local COVID-19 restrictions, a monthly survey said on Monday. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) rose from 48.1 in June to 55.3 in July, pointing to the strongest rate of growth in three months. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion while a score below 50 denotes contraction. "It's encouraging to see the Indian manufacturing industry recover from the blip seen in June. Output rose at a robust pace, with over one-third of companies noting a monthly expansion in production, amid a rebound in new business and the easing of some local COVID-19 restrictions," said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics Associate Director at IHS Markit. Lima further noted that "should the pandemic continue to recede, we expect a 9.7 per cent annual increase in industrial production for calendar year 2021." On the recruitment front, there was a marginal increase in employment in July that ended a 15-month sequence of job shedding. "Although marginal, the rise in employment was the first since the onset of COVID-19. With firms' cost burdens continuing to rise, however, and signs of spare capacity still evident, it's too early to say that such a trend will be sustained in coming months," Lima said. On the inflation front, there was a softer but still sharp increase in input costs. Output charges rose only slightly, however, as several companies absorbed additional cost burdens amid efforts to boost sales. "Policymakers will welcome evidence that inflationary pressures are starting to abate. Firms signalled the slowest increases in input costs and output charges for seven months. "Hence, we expect the RBI to keep interest rates unchanged in its August meeting as it continues to support growth," Lima said. The RBI is scheduled to announce its bi-monthly monetary policy review on August 6 at the end of the three-day meeting -- August 4-6 -- of its Monetary Policy Committee (MPC). Experts believe, amid fears of a third wave of coronavirus pandemic and hardening of retail inflation, the Reserve Bank is likely to maintain status quo on interest rate and watch the developing macroeconomic situation for some more time before taking any decisive action on monetary policy. The survey further noted that, Indian firms foresee output growth in the year ahead, with the end of the pandemic and rising sales expected to support the upturn. "The overall level of positive sentiment rose from June's 11-month low, but remained historically subdued as some companies were concerned about the path of the pandemic," the survey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC, Reliance Industries and Infosys amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share index was trading 333.69 points or 0.63 per cent higher at 52,920.53 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 101.65 points or 0.64 per cent to 15,864.70. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Bharti Airtel, HDFC, Maruti, Bajaj Finserv, Infosys and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Sun Pharma, NTPC, PowerGrid and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex slipped 66.23 points or 0.13 per cent to close at 52,586.84, while the broader NSE Nifty dipped 15.40 points or 0.10 per cent to 15,763.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,848.31 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. "Barring financials, June quarter earnings so far have been encouraging and most companies succeeded to beat consensus estimates, which offered comfort and aided to restrict sharp fall despite selling pressure in global equities," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, persistent soft monetary policy stance of Federal Reserve along with least possibility of any reversal of monthly bond buying in the near to medium term and recent softening of dollar index augur well for emerging markets including India, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 1.14 per cent to USD 74.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Unacademy raises USD 440 million in fresh funding at USD 3.44 billion valuation||Learning platform Unacademy on Monday announced it has raised USD 440 million in a funding round led by Temasek, with super pro-rata participation from General Atlantic, Tiger Global, and Softbank Vision Fund. The latest fundraise takes the valuation of Unacademy Group to USD 3.44 billion, it said in a statement. The Series H funding round also witnessed participation from Aroa Ventures, the family office of OYO Founder Ritesh Agarwal, and Deepinder Goyal, Co-Founder and CEO at Zomato. Some angel investors of Unacademy have exited in this round, it said. Over the last 18 months, the valuation of the Unacademy Group has risen almost 10X, one of the fastest growth rates witnessed by a mid-stage consumer internet startup in India, the statement said. The latest round follows one in January 2021 when Tiger Global, Dragoneer Investment Group, Steadview Capital and General Atlantic doubled down on their earlier investments through a secondary transaction, it was stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Adani ports-to-energy conglomerate has floated a subsidiary||Billionaire Gautam Adani’s ports-to-energy conglomerate has floated a subsidiary that will set up refineries, petrochemical complexes and hydrogen plants — businesses that will directly compete with Mukesh Ambani’s company Reliance Industries Limited (RIL). In a stock exchange filing, Adani Enterprises  said it has incorporated Adani Petrochemicals Ltd (APL) as a wholly owned subsidiary to “carry on the business of setting up refineries, petrochemicals complexes, specialty chemicals units, hydrogen and related chemical plants and other such similar units”. The conglomerate has operations spanning sea ports to airports to electricity generation and transmission, renewable energy, mining, natural gas, food processing, defence and infrastructure. Its foray into petrochemicals and other related areas will directly compete with RIL. Reliance Industries Ltd is the largest producer of petrochemicals in the country and among the top-10 in the world. It also owns and operates the world’s largest oil refining complex. Green goals In June, Ambani announced a mega Rs 75,000-crore investment in setting up four “giga factories” to make solar modules, hydrogen, fuel cells and to build a battery grid to store electricity over the next three years. The solar modules will enable 100 gigawatts of  energy by 2030. Adani, who earlier this year took his spot behind Ambani as Asia’s second-richest man, has previously announced plans to become the world’s largest renewable energy producer by 2030. He has got France’s TotalEnergies SE as partner in Adani Green Energy Ltd — the group’s renewable energy arm. The French giant has also invested directly in some of the projects in the firm’s 25 gigawatts solar-energy portfolio. Chemical interest The Adani group had in January 2019 signed an initial pact with German chemical giant BASF to invest about 2 billion euros in a chemical factory at Mundra in Gujarat. This was expanded in October that year by involving Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) of UAE and Borealis AG. The four partners completed a joint feasibility study for a $4-billion chemical complex in Mundra, comprising a propane dehydrogenation (PDH) plant, a polypropylene (PP) production and an acrylics value chain complex, according to a BASF press statement of November 5, 2020. This project was, however, put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Petrochem arm In April this year, Adani Enterprises incorporated a wholly owned arm — Mundra Petrochem Ltd (MPL) — with the aim to “set up various feedstock based refinery, petrochemical and chemical plants in a phased manner in India and and to undertake all such activities associated with land acquisition, design and engineering, procurement... and other related undertakings”. It isn’t clear if MPL was incorporated as a follow up of the 2019 pact with BASF and others, and if the new subsidiary will set up plants at sites other than Mundra. Adani Petrochemicals Ltd is one of the numerous subsidiaries Adani group has incorporated since the beginning of this fiscal. The conglomerate had ventured into cement business in June with its new subsidiary Adani Cement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Pay-by-mile option for Ashok Leyland electric vehicles||Switch Mobility, Ashok Leyland’s electrical vehicle arm, is looking at a subscription based model to drive zero carbon mobility on a mass scale. As battery costs and the consequent EV acquisition remains a high-value proposition, the company is launching OHM Mobility Solutions that will be offering custom-based mobility solutions to bus operators, fleet operators and its LCV customers “Our strategy is around elimination of carbon. Zero emission is no longer enough, we have to eliminate carbon from manufacturing, charging, end-of-life battery and also from our supply chain. At the same time, our primary aim is to keep ownership cost at a minimum and this will be driven by mass adoption of EVs (eMaas) through various models such as pay-by-mile. We are basically changing from a capex model to an opex model where OHM Mobility Solutions will have bespoke solutions for our customers,” said Andrew Palmer, executive vice-chairman and CEO of Switch Mobility UK. Switch Mobility will invest about $150-200 million over the next few years in its next phase of EV development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-08-2021||Business||Insurers urge for re-pricing of Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak policies||Insurance policies Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak have turned out to be loss-making products for most insurers, prompting them to seek for a re-pricing from the regulator as the high claims payouts are eating into their profits. “It has turned out that Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak have been making losses for most of the insurers. All of us launched these products in July (last year). “We are severely under-priced on Corona Raksha and Corona Kavach policies,” a top executive from a general insurance company said on the condition of anonymity. Based on data available till June this year, the official said comparing the peak of the pandemic of other countries and of India, the country’s peak was higher than the other countries. “Our second peak has been double of our own peak and higher than any other country in the world. And, I would be surprised if this product is making money for any of the insurers,” said the official. The official said most of the insurers and the reinsurers have asked the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai), for re-pricing of these two policies. However, the official said it would be difficult to suggest what kind of price revision they are seeking as it differs from company to company. Another official from the industry said, “As per my understanding, Corona Rakshak and Corona Kavach are loss-making policies for the insurers.” “Given that there are such huge underwriting losses, companies have been speakingto the regulator that an increase in the premium will help (them). In life, we have already seen an increase in premiums,” said the official. According to an Icra report in June , based on analysis of  17 general insurers representing 90 per cent of the industry gross direct premium, the underwriting losses are set to rise this fiscal due to higher claims payout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Auto component industry to report 20-23% revenue growth in 2021-22||The auto component industry is expected to report a 20-23 per cent revenue growth in 2021-22, supported by strong export demand and a recovery in the domestic original equipment and aftermarket segments, rating agency Icra has said. The growth would come in on a low base of the last two fiscals and will look strong because of the exceptionally weak first half of 2020-21. However, chip shortages, slow vaccination roll-out in some regions, logistics challenges and further lockdowns/curfews, if any, could be demand dampeners. Commodity prices are also expected to remain at multi-year highs in the first half of the current fiscal , before softening in the second half of the financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Venugopal Dhoot moves NCLAT against Anil Agarwal's Twin Star takeover bid for Videocon group||Venugopal Dhoot, former promoter of the Videocon group, has moved the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) against an order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) which in June had approved a Rs 2,962-crore takeover bid by Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies for 13 firms of the debt-ridden group. Dhoot in his petition has requested to set aside the order passed by the Mumbai bench of the NCLT and to direct the lenders to consider a Rs 31,789-crore settlement plan submitted by him under Section 12A of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC). His move comes weeks after the appellate tribunal had stayed the acquisition by Twin Star Technologies following a petition by dissatisfied creditors — Bank of Maharashtra, Sidbi and IFCI who felt that the resolution value was low. In the appeal filed through his counsel Sandeep S. Ladda, Dhoot said the NCLT Mumbai bench through its order on December 15, 2020, said the foreign oil and gas assets of the Videocon group held through its foreign subsidiaries were purchased by Videocon Industries Ltd (VIL) and are to be treated as assets of VIL. He claimed that the liquidation value of these oil assets is not less than Rs 15,000 crore. Dhoot wants the oil and gas assets to be included in the resolution plan. Dhoot in his petition has said that the resolution professional (RP) or the committee of creditors has no authority to sell the oil assets and consumer durables separately and that “if the RP had sold the two together, the RP would have got a minimum Rs 25,000 crore against a loan of Rs 49,000 crore (Rs 29,000 crore of VIL consumer durables and Rs 20,000 crore of the oil assets). Thus recovery would have been around 50 per cent and not five per cent as seen today”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Passenger carmakers report double-digit growth in July||Passenger carmakers reported double-digit growth in July, riding on the back of pent-up demand. Market leader Maruti Suzuki witnessed a 50 per cent increase in sales at 1,62,462 units in July, while sales at Tata Motors were up 92 per cent to 51,981 units even as automakers continued to face shortage of semiconductors and components. Maruti had sold 1,08,064 units in July last year. Its domestic sales increased 39 per cent to 1,41,238 units last month against 1,01,307 units in July 2020, the company said. Sales of compact segment, including models such as Swift, Celerio, Ignis, Baleno and Dzire, rose to 70,268 units from 51,529 cars in July last year. Tata Motors said its total domestic sales rose 92 per cent over 27,024 units sold in July 2020. Its passenger vehicle sales in the domestic market stood at 30,185 units in July against 15,012 units in the same month last year. The second-largest car maker, Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL), reported a 46 per cent increase in total sales at 60,249 units in July against 41,300 units sold in the same month last year. “A positive growth momentum is clearly visible in the passenger vehicle industry with the stabilisation of macro-economic factors, good monsoons and increase in consumer shift towards personal mobility,” said Tarun Garg, director (sales, marketing & service), Hyundai Motor India. Honda Cars India Ltd dispatched 6,055 (5,383) units in the domestic market and exported 918 (282) units in July this year. Rajesh Goel, senior vice-president and director, marketing & sales, Honda Cars India, said, “The market sentiment has improved amid prevailing lower Covid infection rate and we expect the upcoming festive period will help the industry to maintain this momentum. However, we will keep a closer watch on the challenges related to the pandemic and rising cost of acquisition of cars due to the price hike from this month.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Fuel demand picks up in July, petrol at pre-Covid level||The country’s fuel demand picked up in July as the easing of pandemic-related restrictions accelerated economic activity, helping petrol consumption reach pre-Covid levels, preliminary sales data showed on Sunday. State-owned fuel retailers sold 2.37 million tonnes of petrol in July, up 17 per cent from 2.03 million tonnes in the year-ago period. It was 3.56 per cent higher than pre-Covid petrol sales in July 2019. Sales of diesel — the most used fuel in the country — rose 12.36 per cent to 5.45 million tonnes over 4.85 million tonnes sold in the previous year, but was down 10.9 per cent from July 2019. This is the second straight month that showed a rise in consumption since March. Fuel demand had recovered to near-normal levels in March before the onset of the second wave of Covid-19 infections led to the re-imposition of lockdowns in different states, stalling mobility and muting economic activity. Consumption in May slumped to its lowest since August amid lockdowns and restrictions in several states. Fuel demand showed signs of resurgence in June after restrictions began to be eased and the economy gathered pace. Consumption of LPG, the only fuel which showed growth even during the first lockdown because of free supplies by the government to the poor, rose 4.05 per cent year on year to 2.36 million tonnes in July. It was up 7.55 per cent over July 2019. With airlines yet to resume full-scale operations because of travel restrictions around the globe, jet fuel sales at 2,91,100 tonnes was up 29.5 per cent year-on-year but 53.1 per cent lower than July of 2019. Steel output India’s crude steel production rose 21.4 per cent year-on-year to 9.4 million tonnes (mt) in June, according to the World Steel Association. The crude steel output was 6.9mt in the same month a year ago. “The production for the 64 countries reporting to the World Steel Association (worldsteel) was 167.9mt on June 2021, an 11.6 per cent increase compared with June 2020,” the global industry body said in its latest report. China remained the global leader in the production of steel in June, registering a 1.5 per cent year-on-year growth in output at 93.9 mt compared to 91.6mt last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||GST collections at over Rs 1.16 lakh crore in July||GST revenues in July jumped to Rs 1.16 lakh crore, the second-highest collection for the fiscal in a sign of economic revival as states relax their coronavirus restrictions. The data showed the collections grew 33 per cent year-on-year to Rs 1,16,393 crore against Rs 87,422 crore in July 2020. The finance ministry said the spike in the collections in the goods and services tax (GST) “clearly indicates that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The robust GST revenues are likely to continue in the coming months too”. Central GST accounted for Rs 22,197 crore in July and state GST collections were at Rs 28,541 crore. While integrated GST collections stood at Rs 57,864 crore in July, including Rs 27,900cr from imports, that from cess was Rs 7,790 crore, including Rs 815 crore from imports. The collections in April had hit an all-time high of Rs 1.41 lakh crore. They fell to Rs 1.02 lakh crore in May and further below the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark at Rs 92,849cr in June, before the rebound in last month. “In our view, this is further evidence that the graduated unlocking in June has triggered an incomplete recovery, which is expected to strengthen in July 2021, further boosting the August collections. The pace of growth across the states was highly uneven in July, with some industrial heavyweights recording a sharp expansion,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra said. Deloitte India senior director M.S. Mani said the “sharp increase in the collections indicates the resumption of economic activities in June and will raise expectations of better collections in the coming months. “ “The improvement in GST collections both on domestic transactions and imports, accompanied by the fact that major producing states have shown significant increases, would indicate that the economic activities have resumed across the country.” EY tax partner Abhishek Jain said the  collection was a definite indicator of economic recovery and the uptrend was expected to continue in the coming months. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co partner Rajat Bose said collections were higher on the back of economic revival in June. “If the country is able to resist the third wave, the GST collections should increase from here on,” he said. The GST collections in July 2021 are primarily for supplies and sales made in June when the states were easing the lockdown restrictions. In April and May, most states were under different levels of lockdown, which reduced business activity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Kutchina plans to establish as a pan-India player||City-based appliance and kitchen solution company Kutchina is all set to step out of the eastern region and establish itself as a pan-India player with notable presence in Mumbai, Delhi and the cities of southern India. The company is approaching this audacious goal with a two-pronged strategy: setting up its own manufacturing base to cut dependence on the erratic and ever challenging imports from China and bulking up on presence in these new markets with exclusive showrooms and deeper retail outreach. The plant, which aims to more than double Kutchina’s capacity to manufacture modular kitchen capacity and make kitchen chimneys in-house, is coming up on Kalyani Expressway near Calcutta, the headquarters of the company. Namit Bajoria, managing director of Kutchina, said the plant, to be ready by December, would be able to take the load of the increase in volume coming from the new territories. “No matter how much business we do in the east, there will be a limitation on volume. We have to go to markets such as Mumbai or Delhi which are very big,” Bajoria said over the phone. The company plans to establish its presence in Mumbai and Delhi this year and target the southern states next. Bajoria said Kutchina can only become widely known if it can establish itself in these markets. Bajoria said each market would require customisation, which could now be more easily possible with the company’s own manufacturing plant. Mumbai, for instance, is all for compact designs as apartments there are smaller than rest of the metropolises. The company plans to set up a few showrooms to display its entire suite of products in these markets. Even though chimney continues to be the mainstay of the business, Kutchina is ambitious to present itself as a complete kitchen solution company. Apart from the chimney and modular kitchen, it has ventured into hobs, dishwashers, water purifiers, oven, mixer grinder, juicer, toaster, non-stick pans among others. The size of the market where Kutchina operates is estimated to be Rs 5,700 crore, with the unorganised sector having a larger chunk. The company outsources majority of the items from China while some were jobworked at India. The plan will skew it in favour of inhouse products in 23 years and cut dependency on import. It is investing around Rs 45 crore for the unit, which will be vertical in design, in order to save on the land cost. Despite the pandemic led disruptions, Bajoria said the target is to end the year with at least Rs 300 crore revenue, up by 15 per cent from the last fiscal, powered by expanded presence. Kutchina will be facing stiff competition from established players such as Italian company Elica and Faber, another Italian giant which popularised kitchen chimneys in India. The success of Kutchina will depend on how effectively it can take on the might of these giants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Businesses can now self-certify GST annual returns, instead of CA audit||GST taxpayers with a turnover of over Rs 5 crore can now self-certify their annual return, instead of a mandatory audit certification by chartered accountants, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs said in a notification. Under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), filing of annual return — GSTR-9/9A — for 2020-21 is mandatory for all registered businesses, barring those with an aggregate annual turnover of up to Rs 2 crore. Besides, taxpayers with a turnover of over Rs 5 crore have to submit a reconciliation statement in form GSTR-9C. This statement was required to be certified after an audit by a CA. This will give compliance level relief to thousands of taxpayers, AMRG & Associates senior partner Rajat Mohan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||Titagarh Wagons rolls out first Pune Metro train||Titagarh Wagons has modernised its existing plant at Uttarpara where production of the first aluminum metro coach in India has started. The company expects to deliver the first train from the plant for Pune Metro by the end of this year. Titagarh Wagons along with its Italian subsidiary Titagarh Firema SpA plans to execute a Rs 1,100-crore order for 34 trains for Pune Metro (Maharashtra Metro Corporation). The first three trains will be built at the company’s plant at Caserta, Italy, and the remaining 31 will be made in India. The first of the three trains from Italy was flagged off on Friday. “We have centralised  wagon manufacturing in Titagarh and Uttarpara is now almost a brand new plant where coach and propulsion will be done,” said Titagarh Wagons MD Umesh Chowdhary. The company said the coaches combine the highest safety standards with modern Italian styling. The contract was signed in 2019 and is expected to be executed by the end of financial year 2023. “..we began our journey to manufacture passenger trains (EMU) in India in 2007 with a dream to design and manufacture modern passenger trains for the Indian Metro System. With this first train being constructed by us for MahaMetro, it is a moment of great pride and satisfaction for Titagarh and a dream come true for me personally,” said Chowdhary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||Business||A close look at deposit insurance bill||Last week, the Union cabinet decided to extend the benefits of deposit insurance to banks under moratorium, which would bring some relief to customers whose funds are stuck with banks that are financially stressed. This has wide-ranging implications for the banking ecosystem as well as the common man. Let’s take a deeper dive into the announcement. What changed? Following Wednesday’s announcement by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, changes have been recommended to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act, 1961. Under this act, bank savings — savings and current accounts, fixed and recurring deposits — are insured up to Rs 5 lakh per depositor per bank, subject to terms and conditions. A deposit insurance claim is made when a stressed bank, which is unable to repay its depositors, has its licence cancelled by the Reserve Bank and is liquidated. Deposit insurance secures a vast majority of low-value accounts held in the bank during such an event, thus ensuring that depositors aren’t at a total loss. With the latest announcements, insurance claims may also be made after a moratorium is imposed on a bank during which its business operations are restricted and its depositors’ access to funds is cut off. Why this happened There’s a long journey between the first signs of financial trouble and the process of liquidation. We’ve seen recently that a few banks were put under moratorium during which depositors could not withdraw their hard-earned money. The RBI imposes these restrictions to protect the bank from collapse and by extension, also protect depositors who will be harmed by the bank’s collapse. While some banks come out of these restrictions, some don’t. Their depositors are, therefore, cut off indefinitely from their funds, sometimes for years. To address depositors stuck in this limbo, the finance minister had announced earlier this year in the Union budget that the DICGC provisions will be extended to banks under moratorium as well. Now, the announcement will be operationalised. What is DICGC? The DICGC is an RBI subsidiary. Banks are required by the DICGC Act to pay a premium on their deposits to the DICGC. All commercial, cooperative and rural banks, as well as foreign banks with Indian branches, must comply with this requirement. According to the DICGC, 2053 banks are insured by it, including 89 government, private, foreign, and small finance banks, which constitute some of the largest commercial banks in the country. Among the banks are over 1,900 cooperative banks. The chances of large banks failing are remote. The RBI will see to their stability. However, cooperatives are more vulnerable. According to the DICGC, in 2021 alone so far, main claims against as many as six cooperatives were settled. In 2020, there were seven. Therefore, cooperative banks going under is routine. Who benefits? The finance minister said the latest decision will also apply to banks under moratorium. The problems at the PMC Bank —another cooperative — are now well-documented. Its moratorium may have triggered these policy updates. The bank’s small depositors can hope to finally get some relief. However, the coverage limit will be strictly imposed. Payouts only up to Rs  5 lakh can be expected towards the principal and interest owed to depositors of such banks. The FM suggested that the claims settlement process will be time-bound and must be wound up in 90 days. If much more than Rs 5 lakh is owed to the depositor, the wait for redemption may continue indefinitely. Are banks safer? The depositor insurance limit, which was just Rs 1 lakh, was increased five-fold last year. According to statistics provided by the finance minister, 98.3 per cent of all deposit accounts fall within this new limit. Hence, depositors can be assured that their funds are safe to this limit should their bank fail. The latest announcement would also increase customer interest in cooperatives and small finance banks which often pay higher rates of interest to depositors, who nevertheless haven’t gone rushing to them because of doubts over the banks’ track record, NPAs, corporate governance, stability and customer service. With the latest announcements, depositors will be empowered to try those banks. We are in a low interest period. Higher interest returns will help depositors, especially pensioners. However, the DICGC safety net is only for depositors. Banks that have high NPAs and poor corporate governance will still have their struggles. Hence, like with investments, one must not just diversify their savings but also keep an eye on the goings-on at their banks. Deposits will be safer with the DICGC Act updates, but only to a limit. Therefore, while chasing higher returns, one most never lose sight of the risks. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-08-2021||India||Covid: India likely to see a third wave as soon as in August ||India may see another rise in Covid-19 cases as soon as August with the third wave peaking with less than 100,000 infections a day in the best-case scenario or nearly 150,000 in the worst scenario, researchers have said. Bloomberg reported citing researchers led by Mathukumalli Vidyasagar and Manindra Agrawal at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Hyderabad and Kanpur respectively that the surge in Covid-19 cases will push the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which may peak in October. Vidyasagar told Bloomberg in an email that states with high Covid-19 cases, such as Kerala and Maharashtra, could “skew the picture.” The third wave is unlikely to be as brutal as the second wave when India reported 400,000-plus daily cases and came down after that. The prediction by the researchers, who accurately forecast the lessening of the surge in Covid-19 cases earlier this year, is based on a mathematical model. In May, Vidyasagar, a professor at IIT Hyderabad said India’s coronavirus outbreak could peak in the coming days based on the mathematical model. “Our predictions are that the peak will come within a few days. As per current projections, we should hit 20,000 cases per day by the end of June. We will revise this as needed," Vidyasagar told Bloomberg by email. However, in April, Vidyasagar’s team's prediction that the wave would peak by the middle of last month was incorrect. He wrote on Twitter at the time that it was because of incorrect parameters as “the pandemic was changing rapidly, even wildly, until about a week ago." He also told Reuters that the peak would be between May 3-5 and to India Today that it would come on May 7. India reported 41,831 Covid-19 cases and 541 deaths on Sunday even as the Centre cautioned 10 states, including Kerala, Maharashtra and northeastern regions, amid the rising infections and asked them to take steps to arrest the spread of the coronavirus. Experts have also warned that the Delta variant of the coronavirus, which spreads as easily as chickenpox and can be passed on by vaccinated people, can fuel the surge. According to data from the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG), nearly 8 of every 10 Covid-19 cases in May, June and July were caused by the highly infectious Delta variant of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
02-08-2021||India||India, China agree to resolve issues in eastern Ladakh expeditiously||The Indian and Chinese armies on Monday described as "constructive" the 12th round of military talks on the eastern Ladakh row during which they agreed to resolve the pending issues in an "expeditious" manner, even as no concrete outcome came out of the negotiations on the much-anticipated disengagement process in the remaining friction points. A joint statement released here by the Indian Army, two days after the talks, said the two sides had a "candid and in-depth exchange" of views relating to the disengagement and that the meeting further enhanced mutual understanding. People familiar with the talks said some forward movement was made on the disengagement in the friction points of Hot Springs and Gogra and both sides will discuss about a detailed plan on it in the next round of talks. The joint statement said the two sides agreed to resolve the remaining issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations. Top commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies held a nine-hour meeting on Saturday with a focus on the disengagement process in remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh. "The two sides had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Western Sector of India-China border areas," the statement said. "The two sides noted that this round of meeting was constructive, which further enhanced mutual understanding. They agreed to resolve these remaining issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations," it said. The government usually refers to the eastern Ladakh region as Western Sector. The two sides also agreed that in the interim they will continue their effective efforts in ensuring stability along the LAC in the Western Sector and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity, the statement said. During the talks on Saturday, India insisted on resolving outstanding issues in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. Ahead of the talks, sources in the military establishment had said that India was hopeful of a positive outcome on the disengagement process. India has been insisting that the resolution of the outstanding issues, including at Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra, is essential for the overall ties between the two countries. The latest round of the meeting was held following talks between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe on July 14 on the sidelines of a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). During the meeting, Jaishankar had told Wang that any unilateral change in the status quo along the LAC was "not acceptable" to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. The two sides had also held diplomatic talks under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) on June 25. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February in line with an agreement on disengagement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Kashmiris considered guilty until proven innocent: Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday alleged that former Jammu and Kashmir police officer Davinder Singh, who was caught ferrying militants in a vehicle last year, was let off the hook by the Centre while innocent Kashmiris rot in jails for years under anti-terror laws. Accusing the government of having double standards, Mehbooba Mufti said Kashmiris are "considered guilty until proven innocent". Ms Mehbooba's remarks came after a copy of a government order dated May 20 dismissing Davinder Singh, a deputy superintendent of police, from service went viral on social media. Lt Governor Manoj Sinha had ordered Davinder Singh's dismissal from service with "immediate effect" under Article 311 of the Constitution, according to the official order. This provision enables the government to withdraw presidential pleasure without holding an inquiry and the decision can only be contested in the high court. "Innocent Kashmiris arrested under anti-terror laws rot in jails for years. For them the trial becomes the punishment. But GOI (Government of India) doesn't want an enquiry against a cop caught red-handed with militants. Is it because he colluded with the system to orchestrate certain dodgy incidents?" Ms Mehbooba asked in a tweet. She said Kashmiris are "considered guilty until proven innocent".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||EAM Jaishankar to attend swearing-in ceremony of newly-elected Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is likely to represent India at the swearing-in ceremony of newly elected Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi in Tehran on August 5, people familiar with the development said on Monday.  Raisi, a hardliner and known to be close to Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, won the presidential election in June by a landslide.  India has already accepted an invitation by Iran for the event, which is likely to be attended by leaders and representatives of a number of countries.  Last month, the external affairs minister called on President-elect Raisi during a stopover at the Iranian capital on his way to Russia.  Jaishankar also held extensive talks with his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif in Tehran covering a range of key issues including the fast-evolving situation in Afghanistan.  His visit to Iran coincided with Iran's hosting of an intra-Afghan dialogue in the country.  "External Affairs Minister Jaishankar is scheduled to pay a brief visit to Tehran to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Raisi," said one of the persons cited above.  Iran has been a key country for India in the Gulf region.  The two sides have been jointly focusing on improving connectivity between South East Asia and Central Asia.  At a connectivity conference in Tashkent last month, Jaishankar projected Iran's Chabahar Port as a key regional transit hub.  Located in the Sistan-Balochistan province on the energy-rich Iran's southern coast, the Chabahar port is being developed by India, Iran and Afghanistan to boost connectivity and trade ties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Delhi minor, raped and murdered , forcibly cremated by attackers||A nine-year-old girl was allegedly raped and murdered and her body forcibly cremated by her attackers in Delhi. The police have detained a priest in the case along with three others and investigations are on. The locals are holding a protest in the area demanding justice. The child, from an economically backward family, lived with her parents in Purana Nangal in the Delhi Cantonment area, close to the crematorium. She had gone to the crematorium last evening to fetch drinking water from the cooler but never returned. Around 6 pm, some locals who knew the cremation ground priest Radheshyam, called her mother to the crematorium and showed her the body. They said she got electrocuted while drinking water from cooler. There were burn marks on the child's wrist and elbow. Her lips were also blue, her mother said. The priest and his companions then told the girl's mother not to inform the police. Filing of a case would mean postmortem, where the child's organs will be stolen, they told her mother, suggesting that a cremation be held immediately. Apparently they prevailed, locals speculate that the girl's parents were paid some money as incentive. But later, the woman and her husband raised an alarm. Around 200 villagers of old Nangal village gathered at the crematorium and the police was informed. Pratap Singh, a senior officer of the South West district police said they received a call about the case around 10.30 pm. A case has been filed with charges under the stringent laws against child sex abuse and crimes against scheduled castes and tribes. The investigation is continuing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||TMC candidate Jawhar Sircar elected unopppsed to Rajya Sabha||Trinamool Congress candidate for Rajya Sabha by-election, Jawhar Sircar, was on Monday declared elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from West Bengal, state assembly sources said. After the scheduled period for withdrawal of candidature was over this afternoon and there was no other nomination from the opposition BJP and the ISF, Sircar was declared elected unopposed and was handed over the certificate in the state assembly. The BJP last week had announced that it would not field any candidate for the by-poll to the Upper House of Parliament, paving the way for Sircar, a former CEO of Prasar Bharati, to be elected without contest from the state. The Rajya Sabha seat was vacated by former TMC leader Dinesh Trivedi earlier this year, necessitating the by-election which was supposed to be conducted on August 9. The TMC last month announced his name as their name for the Rajya Sabha bypoll. With Sircar occupying the seat vacated by Trivedi, the strength of TMC remains at 11 in Rajya Sabha, the third highest after BJP's 94 and 34 of Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Maharashtra government announces Covid curbs relaxation in 25 districts, malls allowed||The Maharashtra government on Monday announced further relaxations of coronavirus curbs in 25 districts showing low positivity rate of the infection, extending the existing business timings of shops and allowing shopping malls to operate in these districts.  Also, all government as well as private offices can operate with full capacity, it said.  The relaxations will come into effect from Tuesday morning, said a government order.  The state government has not taken any decision on allowing common people to travel by suburban trains in Mumbai.  All shops and other establishments which are currently allowed to operate till 4 pm can now remain open till 8 pm and till 3 pm on Saturdays, it said.  Non-essential shops will have to remain closed on Sundays, the order said.  The Maharashtra government as also allowed shopping malls to open and operate as per the new guidelines. Outlets such as yoga centres, spa, saloon and gyms can operate with 50 per cent capacity and without the use of air conditioning, the order said.  Though the malls will open, no multiplexes, theatres and cinema halls will operate till further order, it said.  There will be no restriction on movement of people between 9 pm and 5 am on these 25 districts, the order said.  The state government has asked the disaster management authorities in Mumbai and Thane districts (which figures among 25 districts with low positivity rate) to decide on their own set of restrictions.  Many traders in the state and the opposition BJP have been demanding that the timings of shops be extended till 8 pm from the current deadline of 4 pm.  Shops and restaurants in the remaining 11 districts (out of total 36), where the coronavirus caseload is high, will continue to operate under existing restrictions. As per the existing rules, shops and restaurants in these districts are allowed to operate till 4 pm on weekdays. But they have to remain shut on weekends.  These districts are Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Pune, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Beed, Raigad and Palghar.  Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had said his government will issue orders on Monday allowing shops to remain open till 8 pm in the districts where the COVID-19 positivity rate is low.  He said said allowing all segments of the society in Mumbai local trains would be difficult "in the first phase" as the easing of curbs is being done slowly.  Speaking to reporters in Sangli, some 230 kilometres from Pune, Thackeray sought cooperation from people in areas where relaxing the norms was not possible currently due to the caseload.  Thackeray said the pandemic situation in the 11 districts with not so encouraging COVID-19 indicators was a cause of worry.  "I have asked district collectors to increase the number of tests as well as doctors to ensure people are protected for COVID-19 as well as water-borne diseases," he said.  Speaking on the issue of medical oxygen, the CM said as per an estimate, the amount of medical oxygen required in a possible third wave might be double of what was needed in the second wave, when Maharashtra had to procure it from other states.  He appealed to the private sector to split office timings to reduce attendance in their premises at any one point of time, as well as opt for work from home and work in office turn by turn. With the Maharashtra government granting relaxations in COVID-19 curbs in many districts mainly for traders, the Mumbai civic body on Monday also decided to allow all shops to remain open till 10 pm on all days and okayed resumption of shooting for films and television serials besides sports activities.  The new guidelines were issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner I S Chahal on Monday night.  However, the order is silent on allowing commoners to travel in suburban trains despite Mumbai reporting a low number of new COVID-19 cases.  Mumbai reported 259 new cases and nine deaths on Monday, which raised the overall case-load to 7,35,366 and the count of fatalities to 15,908, as per the Maharashtra health department.  All the shops and establishments under the BMC limits can now remain open till 10 pm on all days in a week, however, restaurants and hotels can function till 4 pm only, the order said.  The civic body also allowed all the indoor and outdoor games and sports clubs to operate except for swimming and other games where physical contact may take place. They can operate on all seven days as per regular timings, the order said.  Shooting for films and television serials is also permitted in Mumbai.  The civic body has warned of strict action if COVID-appropriate behaviour is not followed by people in public places. Maharashtra on Monday reported 4,869 fresh COVID-19 cases and 90 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 63,15,063 and the toll to 1,33,038 while 8,429 patients recovered, the state health department said. With the new additions, the tally of recoveries in Maharashtra now stands at 61,03,325, leaving the state with 75,303 active cases with a recovery rate of 96.65 per cent. The case fatality rate is 2.1 per cent, it said. Mumbai reported 259 new cases and nine deaths, which raised the overall case-load to 7,35,366 and the count of fatalities to 15,908, the department said in a statement. Mumbai division reported 730 cases during the day and 15 deaths, taking the tally to 16,42,223 and the toll to 34,380. Nashik division saw 829 new cases including 739 cases in the Ahmednagar district. Pune division reported 1,574 cases during the day, including 621 in Satara, 413 in Solapur and 260 in Pune districts. Kolhapur division added 1,399 fresh cases, including 359 from the Kolhapur district, to its tally. Aurangabad division reported 49 cases, Latur division 255, including 166 in the Beed district, 26 in the Akola division and seven in the Nagpur division, the department said. Akola, Hingoli, Nandurbar, Wardha, Bhandara, and Gondia districts did not report a single COVID-19 case on Monday. With 1,67,117 new tests, the number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra rose to 4,83,52,467. The COVID-19 figures in Maharashtra are: Positive cases 63,15,063, deaths 1,33,038, recoveries 61,03,325, total tests 4,83,52,467, active cases 75,303, tests today 1,67,117.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||University Grants Commission declares 24 universities as fake ||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has declared 24 "self-styled" institutes fake and found two more in violation of norms, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Monday. Pradhan made the statement in response to a written question in Lok Sabha. "Based on the complaints received from the students, parents, general public and also through electronic print media, UGC has declared 24 self styled institutes as fake universities. "Besides, two more institutes namely Bhartiya Shiksha Parishad, Lucknow, UP and Indian Institute of Planning and Management (IIPM), Qutub Enclave, New Delhi are also found functioning in violation of the UGC Act, 1956. The matters of Bhartiya Shiksha Parishad, Lucknow and IIPM, New Delhi are sub-judice in the court," he added. Uttar Pradesh has the highest eight such fake universities -- Varanaseya Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya, Varanasi; Mahila Gram Vidyapith, Allahabad; Gandhi Hindi Vidyapith, Allahabad; National University of Electro Complex Homeopathy, Kanpur; Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Open University, Aligarh; Uttar Pradesh Vishwavidyalaya, Mathura; Maharana Pratap Shiksha Niketan Vishwavidyalaya, Pratapgarh and Indraprastha Shiksha Parishad, Noida. Delhi has seven such fake universities Commercial University Ltd, United Nations University, Vocational University, ADR Centric Juridicial University, Indian Institution of Science and Engineering, Vishwakarma Open University for Self Employment and Adhyatmik Vishwavidyalaya (Spiritual University). Odisha and West Bengal have two such universities each. These are: Indian Institute of Alternative Medicine, Kolkata and Institute of Alternative Medicine and Research, Kolkata as well as Nababharat Shiksha Parishad, Rourkela and North Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology. Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Puducherry and Maharashtra have one fake university each. They are Sree Bodhi Academy of Higher Education, Puducherry; Christ New Testament Deemed University, Andhra Pradesh; Raja Arabic University, Nagpur; St John's University, Kerala and Badaganvi Sarkar World Open University Education Society, Karnataka. Elaborating on the steps taking by the UGC against the fake or non-recognised universities, Pradhan said, "the UGC issues public notices about the list of fake universities/institutes in national Hindi and English newspapers." He said, "The commission writes letters to state chief secretaries, Education secretaries and principal secretaries to take action against such universities located in their jurisdiction". "Show cause and warning notices are issued to the unauthorized institutes awarding invalid degrees when any self-styled institution is found or noticed functioning in violation of the UGC Act, 1956."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar favours inquiry into Pegasus controversy||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday favoured a thorough inquiry into allegations of phone tapping with the help of Pegasus spyware which has led to a logjam in Parliament. Kumar, whose JD(U) is an ally of the BJP at the Centre as well as in the state, however, qualified his statement with the remark "I know of this controversy only from whatever I have read about it in the newspapers". "It is a known fact that modern technology can be put to sinister uses. If there have been any attempts to intercept people's telephonic conversations, it would be better to get the matter probed for suitable action", he told reporters here on the sidelines of his weekly public interaction programme. Asked about the opposition's demand that the matter be probed by a Joint Parliamentary Committee, Kumar, who has been a former Union minister himself, said "I cannot comment on what is taking place on the floor of the Parliament". "But those who have any concrete information with regard to such alleged snooping, must share the same with the government. I am sure the issue will be squarely addressed", he added. Opposition parties have been aggressively protesting over Pegasus snooping case in Lok Sabha as well as in Rajya Sabha, crippling functioning of both houses of Parliament. Responding bashfully to his party colleague Upendra Kushwaha's statement that the Bihar Chief Minister was a "Prime Minister material", Kumar who was at one point seen as a "secular alternative" to the Narendra Modi juggernaut said "I have no such aspirations. I wish to serve Bihar for as long as I can". Kumar expressed surprise when his attention was drawn towards a remark by his cabinet colleague and BJP leader Samrat Chaudhary who had complained about "compulsions of coalition politics" and "our voice is not being heard". "He never expressed such sentiments at meetings or even during the recent assembly session. In any case, our coalition has been running smoothly for decades. He may enquire from his seniors in his own party", said the JD(U) leader, who has been a BJP ally since the mid 1990s except for a 2013-17 hiatus. He also rejected the possibility of his recent meeting, at New Delhi, with former Haryana Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala leading to apprehensions in the BJP camp. "We share a very old relationship which goes beyond the political. We were in the same party at one point of time", Kumar said referring to Chautala's Indian National Lok Dal having been a splinter group of the erstwhile Janata Dal. A splinter group of the INLD headed by Chautala's estranged grandson Dushyant Chautala is currently sharing power with the BJP in Haryana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||NIA to HC: Pune court's move causes no prejudice to Elgar Parishad case accused||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) told the Bombay High Court on Monday that in taking cognizance of the charge sheet against lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj and some others in the Elgar Parishad case in 2018, the sessions court in Pune did not cause any prejudice to the rights of the accused. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA, told HC the NIA took over the case only in January, 2020, and, hence, there was nothing wrong in a sessions court and not a special court taking cognizance of the charge sheet filed by Pune police and remanding Bharadwaj and others to custody. Singh made the submissions before a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar, which is hearing a plea filed by Bharadwaj seeking default bail. Bharadwaj, through senior advocate Yug Chaudhry, said in her plea that KD Vadane, the judge who remanded her to custody following her physical arrest in 2018 and who had taken cognizance of the charge sheet filed by Pune police in the case, had pretended to be a designated special judge. Chaudhry had earlier told HC that as per Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), offences under UAPA were scheduled offences, and while the state police was permitted to continue probing the case so long as the NIA does not take over, cognizance of such a case can be taken only by a special court. On Monday, however, ASG Singh said, "Taking cognizance is irrespective of the default bail application. Even if UAPA is applicable, there is a difference in trial and pre-trial stage of a case. Till the case stands transferred to the special court, the power remains with the sessions court (to preside over it). In all this, there is no pleading that prejudice is caused to them. On these grounds, the petition need not be entertained." During previous hearings, the NIA and the Maharashtra government have opposed Bharadwaj's bail plea and urged HC to not grant her any relief. The HC will continue hearing the plea on August 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Home minister trying to defuse inter-state tension, says Mizoram Governor K Hari Babu||Amid tensions between Assam and Mizoram over the recent border clash, Mizoram Governor K Hari Babu met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday and said the Centre is trying to find a solution to the issue. Later, Babu also met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Parliament and discussed the prevailing situation in the state. He said the home minister will resolve the situation. Talking to reporters in Parliament after meeting the prime minister, Babu said the incident was "very unfortunate". "The home minister is trying to defuse the tension and he is trying to find a solution. Both chief ministers (of Assam and Mizoram) have committed that peace will be restored," he said. At least six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed and more than 50 people injured, including the police chief of Cachar district, in a firefight between the police of the two states on a disputed stretch of their boundary near Dholai in Cachar on July 25. Tensions along the border with Mizoram in Cachar and Hailakandi districts of Assam have been escalating since October 2020 with frequent incidents of burning of houses and encroachment of land. The two states share a 164.6-km border along Assam's Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts and Mizoram's Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl districts. Both states have differing interpretations of their territorial border. While Mizoram believes that its border lies along an 'inner line' drawn up in 1875 to protect tribals from outside influence, Assam goes by a district demarcation done in the 1930s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Ex-Australian PM in India as Special Trade Envoy ||Former Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott is undertaking a five-day visit to India from Monday to boost bilateral trade relations and hold talks with Indian leaders on the comprehensive economic cooperation agreement (CECA). Abbott is visiting India in his capacity as the Australian Prime Minister's Special Trade Envoy for India. "Abbott is in India from August 2 to 6, and looks forward to meeting with Indian ministers, businesspeople and think tanks to energise the bilateral economic relationship," Australian High Commissioner Barry O'Farrell AO said. "In particular, Abbott looks forward to discussions on the India-Australia Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement, which will propel our economic relationship to its full potential, to the mutual benefit of the Indian and Australian people," he added. The High Commissioner said that Australia is keen to deepen its trade and investment links with India and take the economic relationship to the "next level". "Increasing bilateral trade and investment will help drive economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic, and build secure and resilient supply chains," he said. He also said that the Australia-India bilateral relationship is at a "historic high". "In 2020, Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Morrison elevated our relationship to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. We also committed to strengthening our economic relationship," he said. In June last year, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison. The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) allows militaries of the two countries to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies, besides facilitating scaling up of overall defence cooperation. The Australian Navy was part of the Malabar naval exercise hosted by India in November last. The navies of the US and Japan were also part of it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin effective against Delta Plus, says ICMR study||Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin (BBV152) is effective against Delta Plus (AY.1) variant of the coronavirus, according to a study published in biorxiv by the Indian Council of Medical and Research (ICMR). “Here, we have evaluated the IgG antibody titer and neutralizing potential of sera of Covid-19 naive individuals full doses of BBV152 vaccine, Covid-19 recovered cases with full dose vaccines and breakthrough cases post-immunization BBV152 vaccines against Delta, Delta AY.1 and B.1.617.3,” the study said. The recent emergence of the SARS-CoV-2 Variant B.1.617.2 (Delta) variant with its high transmissibility has led to the second wave in India. Covaxin, a whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine used for mass immunization in the country, showed a 65.2 per cent protection against the Delta variant in a double-blind, randomized, multicentre, phase 3 clinical trial. Subsequently, Delta has further mutated to Delta AY.1, AY.2, and AY.3. Of these, AY.1 variant was first detected in India in April 2021 and subsequently from 20 other countries as well, the study said. The study is a pre-print and has not been peer reviewed. Covaxin demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic COVID-19 and 65.2per cent protection against the B.1.617.2 Delta variant, Bharat Biotech had said while concluding the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase3 trials on July 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Minorities have to be treated as weaker sections, says National Commission for Minorities to SC||The National Commission for Minorities (NCM) has told the Supreme Court that minorities have to be treated as the weaker sections in the country, where majority community is so predominant. The NCM said despite the safeguards provided in the Constitution and the laws in force there persist amongst the minorities a feeling of inequality and discrimination. In a country like India where the majority community is predominant, the minorities have to be treated as the weaker sections within the meaning of Article 46, the NCM said in an affidavit. In 40-page affidavit, it stated that numerically smaller or weaker classes are bound to be suppressed and overpowered by the dominant majority groups if special provisions and schemes were not framed by the government. The submission was made in an affidavit filed in response to a petition which said welfare schemes cannot be based on religion. Article 46 states that "The State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation." The NCM also contended that it was founded with objective to integrate minority in the main stream to improve their social and economic status. It also clarified that it does not administer any scheme nor provides grant to any community and in fact it is the government which runs schemes for them. Earlier, the Centre had told the top court that welfare schemes for religious minority communities are legally valid which aims to reduce the inequalities and does not violate the rights of members of Hindus or other communities. "It is submitted that the schemes being implemented by the Ministry are to reduce the inequalities among the minority communities and to improve the level of education, participation in employment, skill and entrepreneurship development, reducing deficiencies in civic amenities or infrastructure. "The schemes are not in contradiction to the principles of equality as enshrined in the Constitution. These schemes are legally valid as they are only enabling provisions so as to achieve inclusiveness and do not suffer from any infirmity. The support given to disadvantaged/ underprivileged children /candidates of minorities communities through these schemes cannot, therefore, be faulted with," the affidavit had stated. The Centre had said the welfare schemes are meant only for the economically weaker sections/underprivileged, children/candidates/women of the minority communities and not for everyone belonging to a minority community. In addition, the scholarship scheme, coaching schemes etc have academic merit, as well as earmarking for girl students, it added. The petition, filed by Neeraj Shankar Saxena and five others, had said the petitioners are being unconstitutionally deprived of benefits available to similarly situated members of religious minorities in violation of their fundamental right. The petitioners and other members of Hindu community are suffering because they have been born in majority community. The State cannot promote or give any benefit to any religious community whether minority or majority keeping in view the secular ethos embedded in the Constitution of India, the petition said. The petitioners contended that by giving such undue advantage, the Centre is treating the Muslim community above law and the Constitution since no such benefits are given to the institutions of Hindu community. It has also sought the scrapping of the National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992, as there is already a Backward Classes Commission to find out the conditions of the backward classes that need aid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Pegasus row: Rahul Gandhi invites Opp leaders for a breakfast meet at Constitution Club||Amid the ongoing stalemate in Parliament – the non-stop disruption of the on-going session over 14 Opposition parties are all set to meet Tuesday morning to decide on staging a "mock parliament" outside. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has invited leaders of Opposition parties to a breakfast meeting at the Constitution Club on Tuesday to chalk out a joint strategy on the Pegasus snooping issue. According to sources, the meeting is being held to forge unity among the Opposition’s ranks. All Opposition MPs and floor leaders of various parties have been invited for the meeting. Most of the Opposition leaders have been alleging that they are not being heard in Parliament. According to an NDTV report, Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, said, “All floor leaders and other MPs will join the meeting.” This breakfast meet, which will be hosted at the Constitution Club, will be the second Opposition meet since last week. The Opposition leaders of various parties have been discussing a coordinated strategy to mount pressure on the government to speak on the Pegasus row. Since the monsoon session began on July 19, Parliament has barely functioned because of the protests and demands being made by the Opposition for discussions on the Pegasus snooping scandal and the farmer protests, among other points of conflict. According to Government sources a total of Rs 130 crore has been lost because of the Parliament deadlock. Even today Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day as Opposition MPs continued their protest over the Pegasus snooping row and other matters. When Rajya Sabha reassembled at 3.36 pm, the government moved two Bills for consideration, but Opposition members, some of them carrying placards, kept raising slogans in the Well of the House. Bhubaneswar Kalita, who was in the Chair, tried to pacify the protesting members, but in vain. Lok Sabha procceding were also adjourned till Tuesday as Opposition continued to protest against Pegasus issue and farm laws. The Opposition has been demanding a discussion in Parliament on the Pegasus row and its leaders have been giving adjournment notices everyday. The government has been saying that the Opposition is citing a "non-issue" and the IT minister has already given a reply in both Houses of Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Centre rushes high-level team to Maharashtra to keep tab on Zika virus situation||The Union Health Ministry has rushed a multidisciplinary team to Maharashtra to monitor the Zika virus situation and support the state government in the management of cases. A case of Zika virus has been reported in Pune district recently, the health ministry said in a statement. The three-member central team consists of a public health expert from the office of Regional Director, Pune; a gynecologist from Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi; and an entomologist from National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR), ICMR, New Delhi. The team shall work closely with the state health department, take stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether the Union Health Ministry's action plan for Zika management is being implemented. It will also recommend necessary public health interventions for the management of Zika virus cases in the state, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Police charge sheets Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar, others in murder case||Delhi Police on Monday filed a charge sheet against Olympic medalist wrestler Sushil Kumar and 19 others in connection with the alleged murder of a former junior national wrestling champion at Chhatrasal Stadium here. The final report, which named Kumar as the main accused, has been filed before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Satvir Singh Lamba. Fifteen accused have been arrested in the case, while five are on the run. Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. Sagar succumbed to the injuries later. Police had earlier called Sushil the main culprit and mastermind of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar with sticks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||BJP MPs from North East meet PM over recent tension between Assam and Mizoram||BJP MPs from northeastern states on Monday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the recent tension between Assam and Mizoram on border row and accused the Congress of politicising the sensitive issue. Talking to media after the meeting, Union Minister Kiren Rijiju alleged that foreign forces are fuelling fire in the region by making inciting statements and promoting manipulated contents. The prime minister told the MPs that the northeast is very close to his heart and his love for the region is very natural. Quoting Modi, Rijiju said the PM asserted that he doesn't look at the region from the prism of politics. In a memorandum given to Modi, the BJP MPs said that they want to convey to all those elements who view the Assam-Mizoram issue as a means of "spreading chaos in India that their shenanigans will not work". The MPs further said in the memorandum that they would like to unequivocally state that under the NDA government led by Modi "development work in the Northeast has been historic and unparalleled". There were 16 MPs in the meeting with the prime minister, 12 from Assam, two from Arunachal Pradesh and one each from Manipur and Tripura. The fresh round of skirmishes between the two states started late last month along the Kolasib (Mizoram)-Hailakandi (Assam) inter-state border but escalated around July 2-3 after Mizoram police accused their Assam counterparts of entering  their territory, clearing banana plantations and dismantling two of the three camps set up by them. Both sides had mutually agreed to set up camps in the Kolasib-Hailakandi border to keep an eye on encroachment in the area claimed by both states. The  inter-state border is about 164.6km long. Three districts of Mizoram — Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit — share borders with south Assam’s Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts. The border skirmishes between the two states has become frequent since August last year, triggered first by a row in Karimganj which then spread to Cachar. The fresh round of tension involves Hailakandi and Kolasib districts. Hailakandi locals allege people from Mizoram have entered and occupied at least 10 km of Assam’s territory while Mizoram locals say 2.5 km of their land has been encroached by people from Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||SC advises mediation to AP, Telangana for settling Krishna water sharing dispute||The Supreme Court Monday suggested mediation to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for settling their dispute over sharing of Krishna river water, saying it did not want to interfere unnecessarily . A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana was hearing the plea of Andhra Pradesh which has alleged that the Telangana has deprived it of its legitimate share of drinking and irrigation water. "I don't want to hear this matter legally. I belong to both the states. If the matter can be settled in mediation, please do that. We can help with that. Otherwise I will transfer this to another bench," the CJI, who hails from Andhra Pradesh, observed during the hearing. "I wish that both of you (lawyers representing the two states) convince your governments and settle the matter. We do not want to interfere unnecessarily," said the CJI who was heading the bench also comprising Justice Surya Kant. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Andhra Pradesh along with lawyer Mahfooz Ahsan Nazki, sought time for seeking instruction. The bench then kept the plea for further consideration on Wednesday and senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan, appearing for Telangana, agreed to this. In July, Andhra Pradesh government had moved the top court claiming that the Telangana government refused to follow the decisions taken by the Apex Council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, the directions of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) formed under this Act, and the Centre's directives. The petition said the fundamental rights including right to life of the people living in Andhra Pradesh was "seriously impaired and infringed" upon as they were being deprived of their "legitimate share of water" due to "unconstitutional, illegal and unjust" acts of the Telangana government and its officials. "The present petition is being moved because the state of Telangana is refusing to follow decisions taken in the Apex Council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, directions of KRMB, and directions of government of India," it said. "This has caused immense hardship for people of Andhra Pradesh as availability of water has been seriously prejudiced by depletion in Srisailam Dam project as well as other projects such as the Nagarjuna Sagar Project and the Pulichintala Project," it added. The petition urged the top court to direct the Centre to take control of the common reservoirs of Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and also Pulichintala reservoirs along with all their outlets and operate them as per the rules in vogue as per the binding award. If necessary, with the help of police protection, operate both the common reservoirs of Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and also Pulichintala reservoir without causing prejudice to Andhra Pradesh, it urged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Bengal finance minister writes to Sitharaman against privatisation of insurance companies||Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, urging her not to go ahead with the privatisation of public insurance companies. He said the move to privatise has brought a great sense of insecurity and distress among the people of the country. "May I express my shock and alarm at the policy decision of the Government of India venturing to privatise public sector insurance companies which are the pillars of the economy," Mitra said in the letter. The government plans to privatise public general insurer United India Insurance Company in the first instance as well as sell-off Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), considered to be the fulcrum of financial security for most of the Indians, he said. Privatisation of LIC, which has a massive quantum of investments in the economy running into Rs 36.76 lakh crore, will open up a 'Pandora's Box' and throw into insecurity 30 crore policyholders, he said. The privatisation of United India Insurance will cause major disruption and destabilise the future of almost two crore retail insurers, Mitra added. The privatisation will initiate hydra-headed financial problems while undermining the confidence of the common retail insurers of the poorer sections of the society, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Cabinet expansion possible on Wednesday, says Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said cabinet expansion can take place most likely on Wednesday if the list is finalised in a meeting with the BJP central leadership later during the day. The chief minister, who reached the national capital late on Sunday night, said the cabinet exercise will be done in a balanced way keeping in mind the previous team. His meeting with BJP president J P Nadda is scheduled in the evening. "The list may get finalised either today or tomorrow. If it gets finalised tonight, the cabinet expansion can take place on Wednesday," Bommai told reporters before leaving for Parliament to meet Home Minister Amit Shah. A comprehensive discussion will be held with the BJP chief in the evening about the cabinet formation, including whether it should be done in several stages or one go, he said. Even balancing of regional and social representation will be kept in mind while deciding names, he added. "Based on these factors, the numbers and names will be decided. Even how many deputy CMs should be made will also be decided in the meeting," Bommai said. The chief minister further said that in the current political situation efforts will be made to take every one together. "We are hopeful that cabinet making will be fruitful. Not only fruitful, it should serve the purpose of serving the people of the state," he said. The CM also said some aspirants have met met him here and held discussions. "They also know not everyone can become ministers," he added. "We will do in a balanced way keeping in mind the previous cabinet team," he said. Bommai took oath as the chief minister on July 28 after the resignation of his predecessor B S Yediyurappa on July 26. He is the lone Cabinet member in the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||SC notice to states, UTs on people being still booked under scrapped section 66A of IT Act||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to states, Union Territories and registrar general of all high courts on the plea of an NGO that people are still being booked under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act that was scrapped by an apex court verdict in 2015. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai said that since police is a state subject, it will be better that all the state governments and Union Territories are made party and "we can pass a comprehensive order so that the matter is settled for once and for all". Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for NGO PUCL, said that there are two aspects in this matter, one is police and the other is judiciary where such cases are still being tried. The bench said that as far as the judiciary is concerned it can take care of that and will issue notice to all the high courts. The top court listed the matter for further hearing after four weeks. On July 5, the top court had said it is "amazing" and "shocking" that people are still being booked under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act that was scrapped by an apex court verdict in 2015. Under the scrapped section, a person posting offensive messages could be imprisoned for up to three years and also fined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||India records over 40,000 fresh Covid cases, 422 casualties in a day||India registered 40,134 fresh COVID-19 infections, pushing its virus tally to 3,16,95,958, while the number of active cases registered an increase for the sixth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll from the pandemic climbed to 4,24,773 with 422 daily fatalities. The number of active coronavirus cases has increased to 4,13,718 and comprises 1.31 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,766 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 14,28,984 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 46,96,45,494, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.81 per cent . The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.37 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,08,57,467, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 47.22 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore COVID-19 cases on May 4, and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Heavy rains expected in Delhi today||The national capital is likely to witness heavy rains on Monday, the India Meteorological Department said. The city registered 13 mm rain in the last 24 hours and the minimum temperature was recorded at 26.1 degrees Celsius, it said. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 90 per cent. The city's maximum temperature on Monday is expected to hover around 29 degrees Celsius. Delhi's air quality was in the 'satisfactory' category on Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 9 am was 74. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Rarely invoked Rule 267 in Rajya Sabha attracts attention||The Rajya Sabha has for nearly five years not allowed discussions under Rule 267, which provides for the suspension of listed business to discuss a subject raised by one or more members. The long gap has attracted attention at a time Parliament has been paralysed by demands to debate issues such as the Pegasus controversy, farmers’ agitation and price rise. “I am receiving 10 to 15 notices under Rule 267 every day on different issues,” House Chairperson M. Venkaiah Naidu, who has rejected all these written notices from members, acknowledged on Friday. Any member can give a notice to the Chair for a discussion on any subject under Rule 267. Historically, most such notices are denied. Two such notices were allowed in 2016 and one in 2015, when Hamid Ansari was the Chairperson. According to Parliament records, the last time the Rajya Sabha witnessed a discussion under Rule 267 was on November 16, 2016. The issue was the demonetisation. Naidu — Chairperson since August 11, 2017 — has rejected several hundred notices under Rule 267, on subjects ranging from the Rafale deal to the GST implementation. Trinamul member Sukhendu Sekhar Ray — one of more than a dozen members to have given notices on the Pegasus allegations under Rule 267 — on Friday brought up the five-year gap. “Sir, I would like to draw your kind attention to the fact that since November 2016 till today, on no occasion has Rule 267 been allowed in the past five years,” Ray said in the House. “I strongly believe that the rule still exists in the rules book, and kindly allow us to discuss under Rule 267.” Naidu stressed that Rule 267 was rarely used and suggested the matter be taken up by the House’s General Purposes Committee, “whenever” it met. According to the Rajya Sabha website, the committee’s functions are to “consider and advise on such matters concerning the affairs of the House as may be referred to it by the Chairman from time to time”. “Right, Sukhendu Sekharji, you have made your point. We have to discuss it also whenever we meet in GPC or whatever it is,” he said. Naidu then shifted the focus to the Opposition’s stalling of House proceedings, saying: “If the House has to be adjourned on those… that is not good. I want the House to function and discuss the issues. That is why, there is difference of opinion. We will see to it.” Ray told The Telegraph: “If matters of national importance are not discussed in Parliament, where will they be discussed? Will they be discussed in coffee houses?” Sources said the Rajya Sabha had discussed the agrarian crisis on April 23, 2015, and the Kashmir situation on August 10, 2016, under Rule 267. The Lok Sabha has a corresponding provision — the adjournment motion — for members to demand discussion on unlisted matters they deem important. Sources said the last adjournment motion to be allowed was six years ago in August 2015. The subject was then foreign minister Sushma Swaraj’s alleged role in getting British travel papers for a fugitive Lalit Modi whose passport Indian authorities had revoked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor alerts South against seat recast possibility ||The Narendra Modi government might advance the delimitation of Lok Sabha constituencies from the constitutionally mandated timetable of 2026 if it feels unsure of winning the 2024 general election, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor has warned. The “reapportionment of seats” in Parliament “is a very serious threat” because “as a percentage of Parliament (total seats) we will no longer form an effective bloc from the southern states”, the former Union minister said. A delimitation is expected to reduce the proportion of seats from states like Kerala, Tamil Nadu or Punjab, which have done well on population control and where the BJP has less influence, compared with states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan. Tharoor was speaking at a webinar on “Modi’s India” hosted by the Dravidian Professionals Forum on Thursday evening. Among the participants were French political science and sociology scholar Christophe Jeffrelot and Tamil Nadu finance minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan. The 84th amendment to the Constitution in 2001 mandated a freeze on the total seats in the Lok Sabha and the state Assemblies till 2026, when a delimitation was to be taken up on the basis of the 2021 population census. Tharoor suggested that the BJP “may move even sooner” to conduct a delimitation, bringing in a constitutional amendment through its majority in Parliament. He went on to question the BJP’s ideology, drawing a distinction between Hinduism and “Hindutva” and accusing the party of practising a “malignant form of nationalism” that involves the use of religious identity as a “litmus test of who is an Indian”. “I am also concerned about the imposition of Hindi-Hindutva on the southern states,” he said, echoing the concerns of the Dravidian Professionals Forum. Tharoor said people had in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls voted for “Modi’s messaging” on issues of development and corruption, but the Prime Minister didn’t deliver on his promises. He said the BJP had taken its increased majority in 2019 “as a licence for majoritarian nationalism”, as witnessed in the measures taken on Jammu and Kashmir and the criminalisation of the instant triple talaq. “The majoritarian agenda is now being openly advocated.” Jeffrelot, in his opening remarks and interactions later, attributed the rise of a new kind of majoritarian, ethnic democracy under Modi to a “decline in the checks and balances” in the system. “From 2017, we have not seen the Supreme Court resisting any decision of the Government of India,” Jeffrelot, director of research at CERI-Sciences Po/CNRS in Paris and professor of Indian politics at King’s College, London, said. Parliament has been “sidelined”, the mainstream media has come under intense pressure, and the Pegasus spyware controversy has revealed a new dimension of “blackmail”, he said. These and the “privatisation of violence by vigilante groups” have all contributed to the “decline of democracy” in India. Jeffrelot said the “groundwork” of 100 years by the RSS, which advanced its agenda through every segment of society via its outfits like the Seva Bharati and the Vidya Bharati, should not be forgotten. “This was underestimated in the 2014 polls.” It’s the “federal structure of power in India” that has so far held all the states together, he argued. “But today, we are seeing an attack on federalism unprecedented in India since Indira Gandhi’s days. Decisions are being taken (by the central government) without consulting the chief ministers,” Jeffrelot said. “How could you do something like the demonetisation without consulting the states? If you undermine federalism, you repeat the mistakes of the past, re-ignite centrifugal forces. It is counter-productive.” Jeffrelot’s just published book, Modi's India: Hindu Nationalism and the Rise of Ethnic Democracy, attempts to show how “Modi’s government has moved India towards a new form of democracy, an ethnic democracy, that equates the majoritarian community with the nation and relegates Muslims and Christians to second-class citizens who are harassed by vigilante groups”. State finance minister Thiagarajan wondered why the RSS had suddenly become so politically ambitious to control a vast, diverse country. He reckoned that the “RSS has made the deal with the devil, but I don’t think they signed up for this kind of incompetence in administration and economic mismanagement (by the Modi government)”. Thiagarajan argued that the efforts to move towards a “unitary state” and the “cultist model” (around Modi’s personality) were unsustainable and would reach a “tipping point”. He underlined that the BJP’s attempts to influence voters through social media had come a cropper during the recent Assembly elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Bengal. In Tamil Nadu, he said, the Hindutva messaging had some influence only among segments “of the upper caste and upper economic strata”. The ordinary people who go out for work daily “are less likely to be influenced by their propaganda”, he said. Thiagarajan said the “charisma of the Prime Minister can be overstated”, asserting that his six-week tour of Tamil Nadu ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had revealed that the “number one anti-Modi vote was from rural women, followed by urban women”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||India-China: 12th round of military talks end without 'breakthrough'||The 12th round of military talks between India and China ended without any “breakthrough” on Saturday amid growing concern in the security establishment about the Chinese army’s foot-dragging on disengagement from the remaining friction points in Ladakh. Neither India’s army nor its government had by late evening issued a statement. India and China have been locked in a border standoff at multiple friction points in Ladakh since May last year, with the Chinese estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Sources said that at Saturday’s meeting, India had pressed for disengagement from the remaining friction points – Hot Springs, Gogra and the Depsang Plains – but the Chinese army again set preconditions. There have been “partial” disengagements from the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake, with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines, and India retreating by the same distance -- thus ceding more territory. “The talks were held in a very cordial atmosphere where both sides put forward their stands. The Chinese reiterated their claim that the occupied zones in the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra belonged to them and demanded that Indian troops move further back,” a defence ministry official said. He said the Chinese wanted buffer zones to be created at the remaining friction points similar to those within India-claimed territory on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks and in the Galwan Valley. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. It has cut off the Indian army’s access to five traditional patrolling points — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began. China had in July last year agreed to disengage from Hot Springs and Gogra but has gone back on its word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Amit Mitra asks FM to reconsider LIC and  United India Insurance Company's privatisation||Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra is learnt to have written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman urging a rethink on the government’s plans to privatise public-sector insurance companies including the Life Insurance Corporation and the United India Insurance Company. In a letter sent on Saturday evening, Mitra detailed the scale of people and sectors, including the government itself, that would be affected by the privatisation of these two insurance companies. He referred to the Rs 11,396 crore invested by United India in government securities, government guaranteed bonds and short-term treasury bills and said privatising the company would “itself raise hydra-headed financial problems while undermining the confidence of the common retail insurers of the poorer sections of society”. Mitra said the same held true for the LIC, underscoring that its volume of investment in the Indian economy stood at a “staggering Rs 36.76 lakh crore (FY 2020-2021), out of which Rs 23.75 lakh crore is in government securities”. Besides, the LIC’s loans to the government, government bodies and corporate groups add up to more than Rs 21,000 crore. “Privatising LIC would lead to opening a Pandora’s box, throwing into insecurity 30 crore (300 million) policyholders. Also, such privatisation of LIC would put into jeopardy the livelihoods of 12 to 15 lakh insurance agents. This will also throw into uncertainty the lives of 1.14 lakh employees.” Mitra wrote to Sitharaman following reports that the cabinet had approved an initial offering of the LIC as part of the agenda of disinvestment. Also, there are reports that the cabinet has approved amendments to insurance laws to facilitate the privatisation of a state-owned general insurance company. The proposed privatisation of these two companies is likely to be added to the mix of issues that the Opposition is trying to raise in Parliament this session. Still, pinning the government down on the alleged Pegasus-enabled snooping remains the topmost agenda of the Opposition, which is demanding a structured discussion in both Houses in the presence of the Prime Minister or the home minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||CDSCO asks medicine companies to justify 19 fixed dose combinations||India’s apex drug regulatory authority has asked drug companies to justify 19 cocktails of medicines, or fixed dose combinations (FDCs), which its own expert panel had three years ago deemed risky for humans and unfit for sale. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has in a notice issued on Monday asked “concerned stakeholders” to submit information on “the rationality, safety and efficacy” of the 19 FDCs that companies have produced in India since before 1988. The FDCs include combinations of two or more medicines sold as single formulation products such as paracetamol plus nimesulide, paracetamol plus phenylephrine plus caffeine, or amoxycillin plus bromhexine, among others. Drug companies have promoted the nimesulide-paracetamol formulation for relief from pain and fever, the paracetamol-phenylephrine-caffeine formulation for relief from symptoms of common cold or influenza, and the amoxycillin-bromhexine cocktail for relief from asthma or bronchitis. Among the 19, there is also a five-drug FDC promoted for relief from cold, allergies and headache. “The move to get these FDCs examined is right,” said Sourirajan Srinivasan with the All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN), a consortium of doctors and patients’ rights advocates who have been urging the Centre to ban irrational FDCs since 2015. “But the CDSCO had already had them examined by an expert committee which scrutinised these FDCs from a technical, pharmacological viewpoint,” Srinivasan told The Telegraph. “What is the need for going through this exercise again?” The CDSCO’s Monday notice underlines that the Supreme Court had in December 2017 passed an order saying the Centre may “de novo” (afresh) carry out an inquiry whether FDCs licensed prior to 1988 should be examined. The notice said an expert committee led by M.S. Bhatia, professor of psychiatry at the University College of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, tasked with examining these FDCs, had sought data on rationality, safety and efficacy by August 25. But an earlier expert panel under the CDSCO’s drug technical advisory board had in July 2018 recommended a ban on more than 300 FDCs that it had examined after a process during which it heard arguments from FDC manufacturers. The earlier panel, chaired by Neelima Kshirsagar, former head of pharmacology at the King Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, had also examined the rationality of pre-1988 FDCs and labelled many as unjustified. A query sent to the CDSCO by The Telegraph asking about the need for a fresh expert review of the FDCs already deemed unfit for sale by the Kshirsagar panel did not evoke a response. But Srinivasan said some drug companies had approached the courts arguing that the Kshirsagar panel should not have examined pre-1988 FDCs. The Kshirsagar panel had, for instance, underlined concerns that both paracetamol and nimesulide had the potential to harm the liver and that there was “no convincing scientific or clinical evidence” to justify this FDC. It had said the paracetamol-phenylephrine-caffeine formulation might expose some patients to medicines they did not need and underlined that the caffeine content in some formulations was not adequate to justify the claim of “analgesic” effects. “There could be several reasons for the irrationality of certain FDCs,” Kshirsagar said. Some FDCs might contain drugs that, when combined into a single formulation, carry the risk of enhanced side-effects or lead to dose mismatching. For instance, a drug that needs to be taken twice a day when combined with a drug to be taken four times a day can, when consumed as an FDC, expose the patient to either a lower dose or an extra dose of one of the two. The Kshirsagar panel had in its comments on the five-drug FDC expressed concern that it contained some medications that worked against each other — the antihistamine called chlorpheniramine dried up secretions, while bromhexine and guaifenesin both increased secretions by thinning the mucus in the airways. All three are part of the five-drug FDC. The AIDAN consortium had nearly six years ago submitted a plea to the Centre seeking a ban on what it considered irrational FDCs that it said were exposing patients to potential harm and unnecessary medications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Shailaja advocates mandatory premarital counselling||The CPM’s Kerala chief whip, K.K. Shailaja, on Sunday advocated mandatory premarital counselling for all couples as a way of improving mutual understanding and reducing violence against women. The former health minister’s comments came against the backdrop of reports about a spate in dowry torture in Kerala, which she blamed on the growth of materialism and consumerism. “Pre-marital counselling is needed for both the man and the woman entering wedlock to make them understand that married life is not entirely based on money or sex but is also a lifelong friendship that needs to be nurtured,” Shailaja told an online seminar organised by the Calcutta Malayalee Samajam on “Violence against women: A continuing story”. “In many cases the seed of love can be sown in couples who are getting married by providing them with proper counselling. But that (igniting love) may not be possible in all cases and that’s when law enforcement authorities must step in whenever there is violence,” she added in her pre-recorded video message. Shailaja called for a panchayat-organised local council to be formed in each village in Kerala to watch out for, and counsel people against, domestic violence. “Even small girls should be given the courage to speak up whenever there is a violation of their mind or body,” she said. She suggested that society keep a close watch on whether cases were being registered following complaints of violence against women. “It’s important for us to check if cases are being registered and charges are being framed, and whether they (accused) are being put to trial. Only then we can build a society that respects women,” Shailaja said. Kerala Women’s Commission member Shahida Kamal expressed similar views and said the pre-marital counselling that most churches in Kerala had made mandatory for their flock could be a model. “It’s mandatory for Christians to attend pre-marital counselling. We have to introduce a secular pre-marital counselling for couples, irrespective of their religion, and issue a certificate that should be a requirement to get a marriage certificate,” she said. Kamal said the commission had asked the Kerala government to make it compulsory for all public marriage venues — such as community halls and temple halls — to display large billboards reminding people that dowry is illegal. “At least that should make some, if not all, cringe if they have either given or accepted dowry,” she said. Another recommendation from the commission is to increase the marriageable age from 18 to 21 for women and from 21 to 25 for men. The central government is already considering raising the marriageable age for women to 21. “Sex education is seen as a key solution to many issues: we see a lot of couples developing marital problems because of misunderstandings about their sex life,” Kamal said. CPI leader Annie Raja said it was a shame that such a seminar had to be held nearly 75 years after Independence, that too to discuss violence against women in a state often considered a model for others. “A deadly cocktail of capitalist ideology and consumerism is what is happening in our state. While there is a vulgar display of wealth on one side, there is a false sense of pride in most Malayali minds,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Covid: Odisha govt announces guidelines for unlocking in August||The Odisha government has announced guidelines for the unlocking process in August with focus on livelihood. According to the new guidelines, all shops, malls, parks, sea beaches and restaurants will open now but function by strictly following the Covid protocol. All the shops will remain open from 6am to 8pm across the state. After 8pm, night curfew will come into force and remain effective till the next morning. All adults visiting malls and restaurants, especially in cities such as Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri, will need to produce proof of full vaccination against Covid-19 for entry. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena said at a media conference here on Saturday: “In Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri, for entry into malls, restaurants, bars and dhabas, adults will have to produce final vaccination certificates.” Considering the Covid-19 caseloads in cities, the state government has decided to continue with the weekend shutdown (Saturday and Sunday) in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri. The new guidelines will remain in force till September 1. District collectors and municipal commissioners have been empowered to open religious places, including temples, mosques and other establishments, in their respective areas in consultation with the stakeholders. “In case of the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple and Lingaraj Temple in Bhubaneswar, the respective temple administrations will take a call after consulting with the stakeholders. Compliance with Covid safety protocols and appropriate restrictions is a must,” Jena said. However, devotees will not be allowed to take bhoga or prasad in the temples. Jena said: “All the hotels, bars and restaurants will be allowed to do business with 50 per cent seating capacity in compliance with Covid guidelines. Similarly, cinema halls, auditoriums and assembly halls will open with 50 per cent capacity. Jatra and opera parties can also run with 50 per cent capacity.” With the government’s announcement that beaches can be opened, hotel owners in Puri said the tourism industry, which had suffered a setback due to the pandemic, can be revived again. “It’s a welcome step by the government to open hotels, restaurants and sea beaches. We are hopeful that the tourism industry will be revived. Tourists will flock to Puri again. However, we will ensure that everyone follows the Covid guidelines,” said Ram Krushna Das Mohapatra, president of the Puri Hotel Owners Association. Street vendors will be allowed to offer on-spot eating following Covid protocol. Inter-state and intra-state public transport will function with seating capacity. All educational institutions, including coaching centres, will function in accordance with the Covid guidelines. The Nandankanan zoo in Bhubaneswar will also be opened. All official meetings, including business-to-business meetings shall be allowed with participation of maximum 100 people and official programmes for inauguration and laying of foundation stones will be allowed with the participation of 30 people. Odisha reported 1,578 new Covid-19 cases during the last 24 hours, taking the total caseload to 977,268. The state also reported 68 deaths due to the virus on Saturday, taking the toll to 5,902, which continues to be a cause for concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Parliament panel to visit J&K and Ladakh from August 16 to 22||The parliamentary standing committee on home affairs will tour Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh from August 16 to 22 for an “in-depth” understanding of the region’s issues. The multi-party panel of 28 MPs is scheduled to visit a few border outposts on the Line of Actual Control, but not near the friction points where Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a standoff since May last year. Between August 17 and 21, the panel members will meet officials, ordinary people and other stakeholders in both Union Territories. Sources said the panel, led by Congress member Anand Sharma, would arrive at Leh in Ladakh on August 16 and hold meetings there on August 17. The MPs will then fly to Srinagar to hold meetings on August 18, 19 and 20. The panel will meet stakeholders in Jammu on August 21 before returning to Delhi on August 22. During the tour, the panel will review the functioning of the CRPF as well as the ITBP and the BSF, which are deployed on the India-Pakistan border and the India-China frontier. The panel members will visit some of the ITBP outposts on the China frontier as well as CRPF camps in Srinagar. The Rajya Sabha secretariat has asked the Union home ministry to organise the visit and arrange for lodging and local transport. Last October, the Centre had opposed a proposal for a Ladakh visit by a parliamentary committee that wanted to see how well the soldiers deployed in high-altitude forward areas had been clothed and equipped for the biting winter. The House panel was examining a CAG report that had flagged shortages of snow goggles and multi-purpose boots for the soldiers deployed in high altitude in Siachen and Ladakh. The defence ministry had in a letter said it would not be advisable for Parliament’s public accounts committee to visit Ladakh given the continuing border standoff with China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
02-08-2021||India||Govt should come clean on  former J&K DSP Davinder Singh: Congress||The Congress on Sunday said the Narendra Modi government should come clean on former Jammu and Kashmir police officer Davinder Singh who was sacked on May 20 on charges of having links with terrorists. “Who is J&K DSP, Davinder Singh? Why can’t the Government hold an enquiry? Why does the enquiry threaten national security?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted. “What is his role, if any, in (the) Pulwama (attack)? Who was he arrested with? What’s the name of his accomplices? What is the Modi Government hiding? Nation has a right to know!” The order signed by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on May 20 said the Lt Governor was satisfied “that the activities of Mr Davinder Singh, DSP Pulwama, are such as to warrant his dismissal.” However, the order also said the Lt Governor was “satisfied that in the interest of the security of state, it is not expedient to hold an enquiry in the case of Mr Davinder Singh.” The Congress wants to know how an inquiry into a senior police officer’s alleged terror links can hurt the interests of State security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Will stay MP, says Babul Supriyo after announcing to quit politics||The BJP on Monday managed to persuade Babul Supriyo against resigning as a Lok Sabha member even as the singer-turned-politician insisted that he will no longer be part of active politics. Speaking to reporters after meeting BJP president J P Nadda, the Asansol MP said he will continue to discharge his constitutional responsibilities as a parliamentarian but withdraw from politics and leave his official residence in the national capital. His decision will be a big reprieve to the BJP as it would not have liked to be forced to contest a bypoll against the Trinamool Congress, which is upbeat after handing a comprehensive defeat to the saffron party in the recent West Bengal assembly polls. Upset at being dropped from the Union Council of Ministers by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the two-term MP had announced that he will resign as MP and quit politics. The Asansol MP who lost his berth in the Union ministry in the recent shuffle, on Saturday wrote a Facebook post signalling his decision to quit the BJP and Parliament. The announcement came at a time the BJP’s Bengal unit is still grappling with the Assembly election setback. He told reporters on Monday that Home Minister Amit Shah and Nadda had spoken to him, and he has taken a final decision after thinking over their suggestions. "I will continue as an MP but I will leave politics. I will continue to use the constitutional post. I will discharge the constitutional responsibility without engaging in any political activity," Supriyo said after meeting Nadda. "I'm not joining any political party. I'm leaving the bungalow and will shift to Kolkata or Mumbai." He asserted that whatever he had said recently, some of which was seen to be critical of the party's affairs in the state, was in the interest of the BJP and that he stood by that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||India to witness ‘khela’ in near future, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said TMC's poll slogan khela hobe (there will be a game) has become immensely popular among people, and the entire country will be witness to a match that will be played in the days to come, apparently hinting at the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The TMC supremo also said that Bengal will take pride in showing India the way. "You may or may not agree but it's a fact that the slogan has become very popular in the country. In Parliament and several states like UP and Rajasthan, too, the slogan was raised," she maintained after inaugurating here the 'Khela Hobe' scheme, under which footballs will be distributed among sports clubs. Banerjee further said that a brief game has been played thus far, and more is in the offing. "Bengal can take pride in showing people the way in this match. Remember, in the near future, the entire country will be witness to a game. There cannot be any life without khela (game)," she asserted. The feisty TMC boss said she has heard people chanting the slogan everywhere she went during electioneering for the assembly polls, held earlier in the year. The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to observe Khela Hobe Divas' on August 16, taking after its popular slogan, to commemorate the death of 16 football fans who had died in a stampede during a Derby match in the city in 1980. Distributing 10 footballs each to 303 clubs affiliated to the Indian Football Association (IFA), she said over one lakh more will be handed over to players and coaches in the rural areas. Noting that her government has provided financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to at least 25,000 clubs in the state, Banerjee said those taking part in matches organised on the occasion of the 'Khela Hobe' Divas would be given additional Rs 15,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Scientist calls for Bengal education policy overhaul||The Bengal government needs to overhaul its education policy for science and technology, says scientist Bikash Sinha. He proposes an institution in Bengal comparable to the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Mamata Banerjee is finalising her plan for the coming five years. Would you like to propose any specific agenda? First, I would congratulate her for her stunning (election) victory, (which) ensures that religion-based chauvinism opposed to science and reason will not find a berth in our state. Second, I would draw her attention to the condition of science and technology, especially its education which has turned somewhat moribund in Bengal. This is disappointing if one considers the rich history of science and technology in this state. The situation is so desperate that we need an overhaul of this branch of education. My appeal to her is: hammer out a new science and technology policy with the emphasis on education, so that after five years Bengal can claim to be the frontline state in this sphere, in no way inferior to states like Maharashtra and Karnataka. While Maharashtra has the excellent Tata Institute of Fundamental Research and Karnataka has the Indian Institute of Science, Bengal has nothing comparable to offer.... That is why I earnestly request the chief minister to build such an institution that will draw the world’s attention, as was the case about 100 years ago. There is no dearth of science institutions in Bengal — from the IISER, IIT, SINP, IICS, Bose Institute and the S.N. Bose Centre to the VECC and so on. But none of them is comparable to the excellence achieved by the IISc, Bangalore. Our institute must have teachers who can motivate and stimulate the students. The institute must produce world-class research, hold frequent conferences and seminars. It shall be a part of the world theatre of high science. The city that has nurtured C.V. Raman and been home to international science celebrities like Jagadish Chandra Bose, Satyendranath Bose and Meghnad Saha deserves such an institute. If the chief minister decides to build one such research hub or centre, we shall extend our helping hand.... I dream of an international conference hosted by our still-to-come-up institute at which guests like Roger Penrose and Carlo Rubbia will participate. Just imagine the boost such a conference will give to the image of the state and the good it will do to the youngsters. Bengal will be the best again. Let us not forget that the renaissance period of Bengal achieved supreme excellence in both science and the humanities. The “two cultures” were thriving simultaneously. Such an institute will represent the final step. But what about science and technology education at the school, college and university levels, and at the level of the research centres functioning in Bengal? I have to be candid while answering this delicate but necessary question. First, the existing research centres are doing nothing really worthwhile. The scientists working there are drawing handsome salaries and comfort-providing allowances. But they are not engaged in path-breaking research. Could you name one scientist working in Bengal who has produced an excellent paper that has drawn the attention of the international community in the last 10 years? I’m certain you will draw a blank. What they lack is the passion and drive needed to produce remarkable analysis and brilliant fruits of research. The working scientists of the state have to be prompted and provoked and this prompting will come if a solid research institute like the Indian Institute of Science is constructed in Calcutta or nearby. Now I come to the quality of teaching and reception at the school, college and university levels. This whole business of teaching and being taught is pedestrian. Certain texts are prescribed (and) taught in a listless manner, and the ultimate gain from this entire process is close to naught. The students learn by rote and gargle out the matter they have supposedly learnt. What I deplore is that neither the teachers nor the students adopt a scientific attitude and scientific outlook.... This business of teaching is more mechanical than anything else. Would you believe that there is no appropriate textbook on the phenomenal contributions by Jagadish Chandra Bose, Satyendranath Bose and Meghnad Saha? Had there been a proper scientific attitude and outlook, there would have been small theatre groups on their lives and discoveries, almost as in Copenhagen or London. These names prove that we have an unparalleled scientific tradition in Bengal, not to speak of scientist-entrepreneurs like Prafulla Chandra Ray? First, I will address the issue of entrepreneurial science. Productive technology cannot advance on its own, it needs the backup of scientific discovery. The latter, when applied, prompts the former. Dr Prafulla Chandra Ray is an example of a gifted being who could combine both. It’s a matter of pride that Bengal Chemical, which he founded, is still going strong in this age of fierce competition. Now I come to the question of scientific tradition. We in Bengal may well be proud of our scientists. We here are overtly conscious of our glorious past and icons. Then why don’t we recall the pillars of our own scientific tradition and imbibe their insight, brilliance and path-breaking exploits? Why should we limit ourselves to the traditions of creative literature and music only? Where is our tomorrow’s magic tune of science? I think even in this sphere the Olympian Rabindranath Tagore has something worthwhile to offer. Without a doubt. Just turn the pages of his seminal work of science, Visva Parichay, and you will realise his phenomenal contribution. It’s a pity that this memorable text has not been included in the science syllabus at our schools or even colleges. Even after so many years in research and technology and institution-building, I always find the book refreshing and tremendously exciting, almost intoxicating with its ideas, fresh and brilliant. My age becomes irrelevant, I experience the same exhilaration as Kabiguru possibly felt while writing this text just four years before his death. We wax eloquent over Tagore’s creative contributions to poetry and drama, ballet and music. But we tend to forget that he wrote Visva Parichay for the young ones so that they could develop a scientific attitude towards life and the world from an early age. The great poet was thus a rationalist to the core and knew how to maintain the balance between creative science and creative arts. I shall give you one telling example. After the devastating earthquake in Bihar in 1934, Gandhiji commented that this was divine wrath that the horrible caste system in Bihar had provoked. Rabindranath disagreed strongly. He said natural causes were the reason for the calamity and one should not read any “divine wrath” into it. In order to instil this rational, scientific attitude among the young ones he wrote his engagingly readable Visva Parichay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Gangetic dolphin washed ashore on Laxmipur sea beach in Bakkhali ||A 17.38-ftl-ong mature Gangetic dolphin was washed ashore on the Laxmipur sea beach in Bakkhali on Sunday early morning. Fishermen spotted the mammal, gasping for life then, and informed forest department officers. But it died before help could arrive. The carcass was later taken (in picture) to the Bakkhali forest range headquarters, where an autopsy was conducted to ascertain the cause of the death. Gangetic dolphins fall under Schedule I of the Indian Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, and are declared an endangered species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Divisional forest officer (South 24-Parganas) Milan Kanti Mondal said: “The cause of the death could not be immediately ascertained. The mammal was quite aged and could even have died of natural causes.” Sources in the forest department said the corpse was cremated after the autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Wary of blame, Delhi tries to make Babul reverse resignation move||BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda has apparently requested the party’s Asansol MP Babul Supriyo to reconsider his decision to quit politics, sources said on Sunday, even as leaders close to state party president Dilip Ghosh publicly questioned the singer-turned-politician’s commitment to the  organisation. Supriyo had taken to Facebook on Saturday to announce his decision to quit the Lok Sabha and politics. Sources in the BJP said Union home minister Amit Shah had also spoken to Supriyo in the wake of the Asansol MP’s decision to quit politics. The disparity between the efforts of Nadda and Shah to retain Supriyo in the BJP and the way leaders close to Ghosh reacted exposed the disconnect between the state and the central units of the party. Nadda got in touch with Supriyo and the two met at the BJP office in New Delhi on Saturday night. According to sources, Nadda asked Supriyo to reconsider his decision and also assured him that his concerns would be taken care of. “Babulda has a good rapport with our top leaders. Naddaji doesn’t want him to leave the BJP and hence, asked him to stay back. Babulda has also mentioned his reservations about Dilipda at the meeting,” a BJP source said. However, the source couldn’t clarify what Supriyo had told Nadda in reply to his request. The Ghosh loyalists who attacked Supriyo hold posts in the BJP’s youth and woman fronts in Bengal. “Dada, you had lost the game, you know why? Because you had played for money and fame. We had played for the country. And you sing for money....Hence, please leave as soon as possible,” Kaushik Ghosh, a state functionary of the Yuva Morcha, wrote on FB. The central leadership is desperate to prevent Supriyo from quitting for yet another reason, another source in the party said. “Both Mukul Roy and Supriyo were recruited by the central leaders. Mukulda has already quit and if Babulda also leaves, it would be a double blow to the central leadership,” this leader said. Supriyo on Sunday hit back at Ghosh for his “uncouth comments” on Saturday regarding the former’s decision to quit politics. In another Facebook post, Supriyo said he would not have to deal with “personalities” and “uncouth comments” (after quitting politics). He shared screenshots of two comments, each made by Ghosh and Trinamul’s state general secretary Kunal Ghosh. Asked to react to Supriyo’s post on him, Dilip Gosh, said: “I’m a man of importance and hence a lot of people attack me. Those who don’t have any importance need to create news to remain important.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Train enters Bangladesh through new Haldibari-Chilahati route||The first train from India chugged into Bangladesh along the Haldibari-Chilahati railway route on Sunday, around seven-and-a-half months after the route, closed in 1965, was reopened by both the nations. Loaded with 2,200 metric tonnes of stone chips, the goods train with 40 wagons entered the neighbouring country through what is the third such route between India and Bangladesh in north Bengal and the fifth in Bengal. Around 4.35pm on Sunday, the train that started from Damdim, a station in the Dooars, crossed the international border and reached Chilahati station in Bangladesh. “It is a major development in the rail network of north Bengal and will largely boost bilateral trade with Bangladesh. A number of neighbouring countries can send their goods through this route. In due course, the passenger train service will also commence through this route between Dhaka and Siliguri,” said Jayanta Roy, the BJP MP of Jalpaiguri. The link provides a shorter transit route for goods to be sent to Bangladesh from Bengal and Northeast, and Nepal and Bhutan and viceversa, pointed out an NFR official. Senior officers of the NFR, the BSF and Customs were present at Haldibari station for necessary formalities after which the train headed to the zero line. Officers of the Border Guards Bangladesh and Bangladesh Railway were present on the other side of the border, said sources. On December 17 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina had inaugurated virtually the route on pause since 1965. “Trains bound for north Bengal and Northeast used to run along the route even after Partition through then East Pakistan. But, during the 1965 war, train movement stopped on the route,” said an official of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR). However, the longstanding demand of north Bengal residents to reopen the route eventually made the issue come up in bilateral talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling leader S.P. Sharma starts indefinite hunger strike to nudge BJP on tribal status ||The general-secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang faction), S.P. Sharma, launched an indefinite hunger strike in Darjeeling on Sunday, demanding an explanation from the BJP and its Darjeeling MP Raju Bista on what they had done so far to get tribal status for 11 hill communities and a “permanent political solution” for the hills. Earlier, some other hill leaders had questioned the BJP and the Centre on these two issues. However, in recent times, this is the first indefinite hunger strike against the saffron camp and Bista. Sharma launched his hunger strike at the central office of the ABGL located in Laden La Road of the hill town. “The MP has spent half of his (five-year) tenure but is yet to elaborate how he would fulfill the promises,” Sharma said. Bikram Adi Rai, vice-president of the ABGL, demanded Bista should quit if he could not clarify his stand on these two issues that the BJP had cited in its poll manifesto before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “The BJP MP should clearly say, with evidence, what he has done on these issues. He should tell us the steps the Centre has taken for a permanent political solution of Darjeeling,” said Rai. ABGL leaders also wanted Bista to fix a deadline by which these commitments would be fulfilled. “Or else, he should accept his failure in writing and resign as MP,” said Rai. “It is obvious that such a move of the ABGL will mount pressure on both the MP and his party. It will be interesting to see how they handle the situation,” said a veteran in hill politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 701 new infections, 13 deaths ||Bengal on Sunday logged 701 new Covid-19 cases, 827 recoveries, and 13 deaths. The state also recorded six consecutive weeks — 42 uninterrupted days — of a fall in the total number of active cases. On Sunday, active cases fell by 139 to 10,974, below 11,000 again for the first time since April 4, 119 days ago. “The next target is to get the total of active cases to fewer than 10,000, an important landmark psychologically. We have come a long way since the all-time high of 1,32,181 active cases on May 21,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate is at the state’s all-time high of 98.09 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.32. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Calcutta logged 60 new cases and one death on Sunday. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, is now 1.61 per cent, indicating the shrink in Covid spread. With North 24-Parganas recording 93 new cases, Sunday was the second consecutive day, after a three-day gap, of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta apart, West Midnapore and East Burdwan reported one death each. Bengal now has nearly 15.29 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15 lakh recoveries and 18,149 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Residents of former Bangladesh enclaves celebrate 6th anniversary of merger with Indian mainland||Residents of erstwhile Bangladesh enclaves on Saturday night and Sunday celebrated the sixth anniversary of their merger with the Indian mainland. They lit candles, hoisted the Indian Tricolour and organised cultural and sports events to observe the day. On the midnight of July 31, 2015, 51 Bangladesh enclaves landlocked within the Indian mainland, and 101 Indian enclaves landlocked within Bangladesh had merged with the respective countries under the Land Boundary Agreement inked between the two countries. Under the LBA, citizenship was offered by the respective countries to residents of enclaves. Hence, those in 51 Bangladesh enclaves on Indian mainland became Indian citizens. “For us, it’s no less than Independence Day. Six years ago, it was on this day that we became Indian citizens,” said Jainal Abedin of Mashaldanga, a former enclave and now a village in Cooch Behar. On Sunday, a number of political leaders turned up at the enclaves to join the celebrations. Udayan Guha, former Trinamul MLA of Dinhata, arrived at Mashaldanga with some of his party leaders. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was instrumental in the exchange of the enclaves. She has also taken the task of infrastructure development of these enclaves after they became Indian villages,” said Guha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri, Bihar cops jointly nab youth accused in murder of former mayor of Katihar town||Teams of Bihar police and Siliguri Metropolitan Police jointly on Saturday night nabbed a youth who is the main accused in the murder of the former mayor of Bihar’s Katihar town. Last Thursday, Shivraj Paswan, who was the mayor of Katihar Municipal Corporation till June-end, was gunned down at Santoshi Chowk area of the town. A case was filed with the Town police in Katihar. Police had nabbed four persons. However, Bihar police sources said the name of Saket Shubham, in his late 20s, came up as a principal suspect. “During investigation, the Bihar police came to know that Saket had fled to Siliguri. Accordingly, they reached here and along with the local police, arrested him from a house in Milanpally (ward 26),” said Sushanta Neogi, a government lawyer in Siliguri. Saket, police sources said, was hiding at a relative’s place. On Sunday, Saket was produced at a local court. “We have filed a petition for his transit remand. The Bihar police want to take him to Katihar for further investigation,” added Neogi. Paswan’s brother, who had filed a complaint, had also named the nephew of the BJP MLA of Katihar as one of those involved in the murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
02-08-2021||West Bengal||False bomb alarm near Tenzing Norgay Central Bus Terminus in Siliguri||A bomb scare near the Tenzing Norgay Central Bus Terminus here on Sunday turned out to be a false alarm. Sources said around 10.30am, policemen spotted an unclaimed bag near the traffic guard office, cordoned it and informed their superiors. A team from the CID’s bomb disposal squad examined the bag with laser guns and scanners and triggered a minor blast to open it. However, the bag contained some clothes and a pressure cooker. In Cooch Behar district, a team of Sitalkuchi police station arrested one Benu Barman on Saturday night with two swords, a bow and two arrows. Police are probing why he had stocked those items.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
02-08-2021||North East||Trinamul Congress will end BJP misrule in Tripura, form govt in 2023, says Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamul Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, who was in Tripura on a day's visit, asserted on Monday that his party would end the misrule of the BJP and form government in the state in 2023. The TMC MP, who faced fierce protests by BJP workers on his way to Tripureswari temple earlier in the day, said if a parliamentarian is not safe in this state, people are definitely more vulnerable to attacks. “Democracy is withering in Tripura, there is no attempt to generate employment for the youth, law and order has completely collapsed... We would wil here to restore democracy and deliver good governance as we did in West Bengal,” Banerjee told a press meet here. The TMC, having registered a resounding victory in West Bengal polls, is trying to expand its base in other states, including Tripura, ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “If a convoy of an MP is attacked in this matter, one can clearly understand that common people have no security in the state. I would like to tell the people of Tripura that more they increase their attacks, stronger the TMC would become. We would not leave any stone unturned to topple this anti-people government,” he said. Assembly polls in Tripura are slated to be held in the first half of 2023. Banerjee, who is also the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, further said that he would return to Tripura after a fortnight and announce the formation of a state committee of his party His visit comes days after a controversy had erupted in the state over “detention” of poll strategist Prashant Kishor's I-PAC team in an Agartala hotel room by the police, citing Covid-19 restrictions. The incident prompted back-to-back visits by TMC leaders, including West Bengal ministers Bratya Basu and Malay Ghatak and TMC MP Derek O'Brien, who decried the “illegal detention of young boys and girls” of a professional firm. Criticising Deb over the deterioration in the law and order situation, the TMC MP said the central government “runs him with a remote control”. He claimed that many MLAs from Tripura have contacted the TMC and met the party's leadership in Kolkata, expressing their willingness to join the camp. The parliamentarian, nevertheless, clarified that his party does not want to break away legislators and disrupt the functioning of the present BJP government He appealed to all anti-BJP parties to join hands with the TMC and said, “Anyone outfit can come join hands with us and revive democracy in Tripura. We shall put up a united fight and form the next government here.” However, when asked if the TMC would consider forging an alliance with opposition CPI(M) here, Banerjee said there was no question of stitching a coalition with the Left party. “The spontaneous response that I have received from people on the way to Tripureswari temple indicates that they are looking for a platform against the BJP. Mark my words, the TMC will form the next government in Tripura for sure,” Banerjee asserted. Lashing out at the Biplab Deb dispensation over the “attack” on his convoy, he said, “I am overwhelmed by the reception that I was accorded on my arrival here,” he pointed out. Agitators, allegedly bearing allegiance to the saffron party, were seen trying to stop Banerjee in places when he was heading towards the temple in the morning. Many were also heard raising Go back Abhishek' slogans Banerjee, taking to Twitter, shared a video of the incident and said, “Democracy in Tripura under @BJP4India rule! Well done @BjpBiplab for taking the state to new heights.” Rebutting allegations that his party members attacked the convoy of the TMC MP, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said the saffron camp workers were simply staging a protest over the ongoing political violence in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
02-08-2021||North East||Assam, Mizoram CMs talk about amicably resolving border standoff||Chief ministers of Mizoram and Assam on Sunday talked about amicably resolving the inter-state border standoff, six days after a flare-up left six Assam policemen dead. Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted on Sunday morning: “As per telephonic discussion with Union Home Minister and Assam Chief Minister, we agreed to resolve the Mizoram-Assam border issue amicably through meaningful dialogue.” He also urged the people of Mizoram to avoid posting sensitive messages and make judicial use of social media platforms. Hours later, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted: “Our main focus is on keeping the spirit of North-East alive. What happened along the Assam-Mizoram border is unacceptable to the people of both states. Honble CM @ZoramthangaCM had promised to call me post his quarantine. Border disputes can only be resolved through discussion.” He also said in Guwahati that Assam was all for peace. “We should sit once with the Centre and decide how we will live in the future because we are all for peace and development.... Assam government is ready to talk to Mizoram government at any point of time... whether it is in Aizawl or Silchar or Guwahati or Delhi. We have absolutely no issue if Mizoram CM wants any discussion,” Sarma said. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah had asked both states to ensure peace and sort things out amicably. The clashes in which six Assam policemen died had erupted days after Shah discussed the inter-state border disputes in the Northeast with the chief ministers of the region. Saturday’s agreement between Assam and Nagaland to withdraw their police forces from their disputed inter-state border along Dessoi Valley Reserve Forest appears to have played a role in the two states adopting a conciliatory tone. The border dispute between Assam and Nagaland dates back to 1963 when Nagaland was carved out of Assam. Sarma, however, reiterated the Assam government’s plan to move the Supreme Court in connection with the border issue within the next 15 days. Sources said an agreement on the lines of the Assam-Nagaland pact, where the state forces would withdraw and their space would be taken up by neutral force to maintain order, might be reached. Both states will also maintain status quo on the border, not allowing any fresh encroachment or construction till a final decision is taken. Officials said things had started moving in the right direction. “After the public posturing by both sides, it is difficult to pull back unilaterally. It will have to be a simultaneous withdrawal just like what we are witnessing on the Assam-Nagaland front but it is a good sign that both sides are willing to talk things out. We can expect some kind of breakthrough very soon,” a source said. Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts of Assam share a border with Mizoram’s Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl districts. The border dispute started after Mizoram was carved out of Assam in 1972. The length of the border is 164km. While Mizoram claims the inner-line reserve forest area as the actual boundary between the two states, Assam relies on the constitutional boundary drawn by the Survey of India in 1933. Mizoram says the 1933 boundary had been “imposed” on it. The inner-line reserve forest was notified in 1875 under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation of 1873. It was demarcated by the British to protect tribal land and not allow non-tribals to intrude.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
02-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Labour pangs||The latest Periodic Labour Force Survey data for July 2019 to June 2020 released by the Central government shows a rise in the labour force participation rate and a fall in the unemployment rate even when the economy registered a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth. This is surprising because what the result suggests is that there are more workers coming into the labour force looking for work and that many more are actually obtaining employment. This looks awkward in a year when growth was abysmally low. The claim is made more problematic by the fact that other surveys, including the one carried out by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, have yielded exactly the opposite results. The reason may be because of a difference in the methodology used in the surveys to measure unemployment. The international norm and the one followed by the CMIE focus on the current weekly status where workers are asked about their employment position during the past seven days. The other method, adopted by the government, looks at the usual status, which checks for the employment record 365 days prior to the survey. The responses of workers could differ legitimately. For instance, a worker employed during the past year but recently unemployed might be recorded as employed in the US method but unemployed in the CWS method. India, typically, has a very low LFPR, indicating not many people come into the labour force looking for work. A high unemployment rate reinforces the fact that even out of the relatively few who join the labour force a large number are unable to get jobs. This trend is consistent with the macroeconomics of the country. The deviation in the results of the US method can be explained by the fact that the pandemic led many small traders and businessmen to lose their incomes and they were forced to enter the labour force under distressed circumstances. The participation rate would then increase. Now, even with an unchanged absolute number of people unemployed, the rate of unemployment would decrease because the denominator of the ratio has increased. The differences are significant. The UER by the US method declined from 5.8 per cent to 4.8 per cent between 2018-19 and 2019-20. The UER arrived at by the CWS method remained constant at 8.8 per cent for the two consecutive years. Most experts believe that the CWS is a more accurate method of measuring UER simply because it helps focus on the present situation rather than the past. Trying to make the results look artificially attractive by the government may only be an attempt at self-deception.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
02-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: P.V. Sindhu wins bronze at Tokyo Olympics, football and Bengalis||Fall short Sir — It was heartening that P.V. Sindhu managed to bag a bronze at the Tokyo Olympics. But it was sad to see her slip during the semi-final. She seemed a bit sluggish on the court after her win in the quarter-finals; it did not look like she had the determination to fight, to go for gold. Encouragingly, the hat-trick of goals by Vandana Kataria enabled the Indian women’s hockey team to qualify for the quarter-finals of the Olympics after four decades. Now that the men’s hockey team has won the quarter-final against Great Britain, fans are hoping the women’s team, too, will play with aggression and confidence while taking on Australia in the upcoming game. We wish them all the very best. Indians are desperate for more medals. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — Every four years, forecasts are made on how many medals India will win at the Olympics, a practice that leads to widely polarized opinions. A leading data and technology company, Gracenote, had foretold that India would finish the Tokyo Olympics with 19 medals, four of them being gold. Such hopes seem to have little chance of being fulfilled. Be it because of a faulty rifle, poor judging or loss of focus, the majority of Indian athletes have not been able to gain a toehold as far as the Olympics are concerned. This is no different from any other year at the Olympics. But it is pointless to blame athletes for this. India does not encourage sports, and those who take it up have to brave insurmountable odds. One can hardly play well when one bears the burden of having to perform just to live a decent life. Players must be given the assurance that irrespective of how they perform, they will have livelihood options that enable them to take care of themselves and their families. More important, sports must be made integral to education. At the school level, ‘physical training’ classes that pass for sport education prepare students for next to nothing. In most schools there is one measly PT period a week, which is taken lightly since its grades do not have an impact on the student’s promotion at the end of the year. If India wishes to win more medals, sports must be taken seriously early on in life and be taught on a par with the curriculum. Riya Ghosh,Calcutta  Not fun and games Sir — Cricket may be India’s most popular sport, but nothing matches the ability of football to tug at a Bengali’s heartstrings. A huge part of the emotionally high-strung club games at the Maidan tents and the Salt Lake stadium were the snacks and sweets that were ferried around for the supporters. While football fans are now missing the snacks as much as the games, few are thinking of the fate of the vendors whose livelihoods have been disrupted drastically. Fans should come together to help them out. Kallol Pramanik,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
02-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Gain and loss||New Delhi may have reasons to feel that the outcome of the recent visit of the secretary of state of the United States of America was a bit of a mixed bag. The convergence of views between India and the US on the unfolding situation in restive Afghanistan is reassuring. Antony J. Blinken made it unambiguously clear that the atrocities being inflicted by the Taliban on opponents and civilians are deeply troubling. Mr Blinken’s view was echoed by the Union external affairs minister who said that the fate of that embattled country should not be decided by a show of force. The meeting of minds between the US and India could be an important diplomatic morale booster for the latter. New Delhi, unlike Islamabad, Beijing or even Moscow, finds itself on the sidelines in the goings-on in Kabul; a common view on matters with the US could hand India much-needed leverage. This is critical because developments in Afghanistan have a direct influence on New Delhi’s strategic and security map. Mr Blinken’s deliberations, however, also unveiled an important point of divergence between the two democracies. There has been a general consensus in the international fraternity about the partnership between India and the US being predicated on such shared values as freedom, democracy, pluralism and so on. Yet, what is apparent today is a strange contradiction. Even though the US and India are cooperating closely on geo-strategic issues — their views on Afghanistan are one manifestation — gaps seem to be opening up when it comes to their commitment to uphold the architecture of democracy. The US under its new president has made noises about human rights violations around the world. That does not mean that the Joe Biden administration is blind to America’s own challenges. Indeed, Mr Blinken’s description of American and Indian democracies as ‘works in progress’ is an honest, welcome appraisal. The US continues to battle entrenched discrimination and racism. India, especially in recent years, has been accused of distancing itself from its constitutional legacy. Indeed, the US has led the world in voicing such concern: the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, a federal entity constituted by the US Congress, has expressed its unhappiness with the state of minorities in India. The common strategic vision notwithstanding, New Delhi must not be smug in its belief that Mr Biden’s administration would desist from the occasional rap on the knuckles. This could further dent India’s international credibility as a bulwark against ‘autocratic democracy’, the rash that is spreading globally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
02-08-2021||Opinion||Bolt from the blue||Thirty-two people died in West Bengal on account of lightning strikes in June. Alarmingly, 27 deaths had been recorded on a single day — June 7. Should these deaths serve as a warning for Bengal? Bengal has recorded the highest number of lightning strikes from cloud to ground per square kilometre in India in 2020 as per the 2020 South Asia Lightning Report. The state ranks eighth in terms of annual accidental deaths due to lightning with a total of 1,641 mishaps during the period, 2010-2019, say data from the National Crime Records Bureau. However, the yearly accidental death in Bengal is still under 200; the highest number of deaths — 186 — took place in 2012. This was followed by death tolls of 180 and 179 in 2014 and 2018, respectively. Newspaper reports also suggest that an estimated 10-12 people had died in lightning strikes on one day between 2010-2019; the highest death toll was 12 in 2018. If this estimate is correct, then the average number of days of lightning events annually would be around 15-18. The average number of lightning events, the daily death toll and an increasing number of ‘cloud-to-ground’ lightning strikes mean that the total casualty figure at the end of 2021 could exceed previous estimates, making Bengal the state with the highest number of annual accidental deaths due to lightning in India. What are the causes behind the phenomenon? Is it the lack of public awareness combined with government apathy? Lightning deaths are not new. This rules out the first possibility. Moreover, these days, people receive text alerts about thunderstorms on their mobile phones. The reason then must lie somewhere else. Climate change, meteorologists say, lies at the heart of all extreme weather events. According to the West Bengal State Action Plan on Climate Change, temperature and rainfall regimes are highly varied across the six agro-climatic zones. A spatial analysis based on 116 years (1901-2016) of India Meteorological Department data demonstrates that the three anomalies of temperature regimes — mean, maximum, and minimum temperatures — are spiking at various rates. Furthermore, rainfall from the southwest monsoon had declined over the Indo-Gangetic Plains of Bengal between 1901 and 2012. The twin effects of rising temperature and declining rainfall exacerbate weather conditions in the state, resulting in extreme weather events like heat waves, thunderstorms and lightning. Among the 27 people who died on June 7, 11 were from Hooghly district. What do Hooghly’s residents think of this phenomenon? Mohanlal Bag, a resident of East Beraberi village in Hooghly, said that people used to die from lightning strikes earlier as well but the death rate used to be much lower. People, he said, do not get sufficient time to seek shelter because thunderstorms are instantaneous. Although they receive text messages from electricity companies, these notify recipients only about the dates of occurrence of storms. People who have to go out for chores become victims of lightning. The frequency of strikes and the discharge of electricity, Bag believes, are higher these days, adding to the death toll. Interestingly, Bag’s views have been echoed by meteorological departments and agencies. According to a report by the IMD and the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, the number of lightning strikes in Bengal has doubled between April 2020 and March 2021 compared to the same period the year before. The key to saving lives would be to discover technology to accurately predict the time span of thunderstorms and put in place a system of disseminating information by local governments. The government and other institutions must incentivize research in these aspects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
02-08-2021||Opinion||Pegasus: Inside the panopticon||The allegations of governments spying on their citizens with Pegasus, a spyware developed by an Israeli firm, is an unwitting revelation of the bigotry of some of these nations. India’s prime minister has claimed that democracy is an ancient tradition in this country. However, the charges of snooping, if they are true, would force India to share space with autocratic countries. That some Islamic nation states are keeping tabs on Muslim citizens with an Israeli product shows that traditional enmity can be swept aside for the sake of power. Unsurprisingly, countries suspected of using the spyware are at the bottom of the 2021 World Press Freedom Index. The NSO Group, Pegasus’s manufacturer, claims that it only works with governments and that the clients have to be approved by the Israeli State. This may not give the Indian government much room to extricate itself from the charge of using what is described as a weapon against its citizens. Significantly, the government has not used the bogey of China or Pakistan as a fig leaf. The statement released by India does not rebut the allegations but expounds on its commitment to free speech as a fundamental right while also explaining the checks and balances to prevent the misuse of phone-tapping. Spokespersons of the Bharatiya Janata Party and its government have been casting doubts on the report by the media collective and the timing of its release — the eve of the monsoon session of Parliament — while also aggressively suggesting that it is a conspiracy to discredit the nation. In 2019, a lawsuit filed by WhatsApp in the United States of America had revealed the use of Pegasus against Indian citizens. In a written response to Parliament, the then minister of state for home affairs, G. Kishan Reddy, had explained the laws that govern interception and monitoring of communication. Even then, the government had not provided clarity on its role in the matter. The BJP government has observed that the disclosures of Pegasus usage do not specifically mention the party. Even then, does it not behove the government to be concerned about the well-being of citizens? Should it not announce a commission to determine the identities of those targeting Indians and the reasons for the use of surveillance? This is a major breach in security and the Indian government should reassess the measures that failed to prevent senior officials from becoming potential targets. Instead, the BJP is suggesting that the aggrieved parties should file police complaints. Moreover, what can one deduce from the government’s claim that there has been no ‘unauthorized interceptions’? That the use of Pegasus has been sanctioned by the Indian State? Autocratic countries like China do not need to use foreign spyware to keep a tab on their citizens. Not only have they developed similar technology but the idea of Big Brother watching is integral to the notion of statecraft. The Hong Kong police has a hotline open for neighbours and families to snitch on each other. Such a system, the government claims, apprehends criminals. What happens instead is that the voicing of opinion becomes a potential crime, intimidating people into consuming and regurgitating official lines. Information and its conversion into knowledge have always been a source of power and control. However, when governments target citizens, it creates a state of fear and people begin to self-regulate. Governments spying on their populace serves two purposes. The first is active coercion — finding critics and punishing them. The second is passive coercion — the chilling effect on citizens stemming from the knowledge that the government is watching them. The BJP has a brute electoral majority in India. With the near absence of a counter-narrative and the alleged subversion of democracy’s sentinels in this country, does the BJP government have any need for intrusive technology? But then Shakespeare’s Henry IV had bemoaned, “Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.” This is true not only for individuals but also for political parties. Complete political domination can only be predicated upon the distrust of critics and citizens alike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
02-08-2021||Opinion||Rousing text||It feels strangely disquieting to celebrate Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav amidst the untold suffering caused by the pandemic. Perhaps the anxiety about an uncertain present and an even more unpredictable future compels us to turn to the past and deliberate on the unexplored aspects of the Indian national movement in the hope that the return will rejuvenate the present and the future. This path is guided by T.S. Eliot’s concept of the three imbricating phases of time: “Time present and time past/ Are both perhaps present in time future,/ And time future contained in time past.” In contrast to nationalism in the modern West that disinherited the past and the pre-modern, nationalism in India recalled the past, thus connecting the present with its history. The range of the past that is remembered is rather wide — from Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay recalling Sankhya to Swami Vivekananda the Vedanta, to Babasaheb Ambedkar’s recalling of Kapila and Buddha. The Bhagavad Gita, a part of the epic, the Mahabharata, is yet another interesting work recalled for the freedom movement. In his well-known commentary, Shrimad Bhagavad Gita Rahasya, Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak outlined similarities between the war of the Pandavas and the Kauravas and the Indian struggle for freedom against the British. He also found justification for the use of violence against the British in Lord Krishna’s advice to Arjuna. The intention behind refurbishing the ancient text with a new commentary was to energize Indians and rouse them to participate in the freedom struggle. Tilak, like Getafix in the Asterix series, brewed the magic potion from this ancient text.  Nations in the West were based on modern political ideals, cemented by path-breaking discoveries in science and innovations in technology that kick-started industrialization. The developments in their present thus contributed to their future. However, British imperialism used these modern resources, political ideas, science, technology and industry to colonize and exploit India, robbing Indians of the opportunity to build their future with the resources from the present. The ingenuity of Tilak lay in quickly grasping which options were closed and the ones that could be explored as alternatives. In the next phase, Mahatma Gandhi continued the legacy of Tilak, his guru, by continuing to rally around the Gita but he interpreted it differently. There are two parts to Tilak’s rendering of the Gita. One, he only used the Gita, not the larger epic. Two, he interpreted the Gita as justifying violence. Like Tilak, many have used the Gita to support their ideas of the national movement. However, in my limited reading, at least at the national level, the Mahabharata has been used by only a few. In addition to Gandhi’s Essays on Bhagavad Gita and Shashi Tharoor’s The Great Indian Novel, the Mahabharata and the national movement are implicit in two more works — Sri Aurobindo’s Savitri: A Legend and a Symbol and Ashis Nandy’s The Intimate Enemy. While Sri Aurobindo draws out the underlying parallels between Savitri losing her husband to Yama, the god of death, and India losing its freedom to the British, Shakuni is the underlying symbol in Nandy’s account of the loss and recovery of the self under colonialism. To make a limited use, like Shakuni, colonialism is India’s intimate enemy. Gandhi, however, uses the epic to formulate the programme of non-violence for the national movement. To return to Tilak, there is a radical difference between Tilak’s and Gandhi’s interpretations of the Gita. For Tilak and many others, the Gita promotes violence, as Lord Krishna advises, nay, incites a reluctant Arjuna to fight the war. However, going against the entire tradition of interpretations of the Gita, Gandhi found a justification for non-violence and a denouncement of violence in this text. He accomplished this by making two important moves: one, from the part to the whole, that is, from the Gita to the epic, the Mahabharata and, two, from the content to the context. From ancient times, the Gita has been discussed as an independent text. Gandhi, in contrast, saw a close relationship between the Gita and the Mahabharata. He then moves to the context — Vyasa, Gandhi said, narrated the Mahabharata “to depict the futility of war”. The epic was recounted by the sage, Vaisampayana, a disciple of Veda Vyasa, to Janamejaya, the son of Parikshit, at the Sarpa Sastra yajna to dissuade Janamejaya from killing all living snakes merely to wreak vengeance on a serpent that had disturbed the penance of Parikshit. On a close reading of Gandhi’s work on the Gita, tweaking it a bit here and there while remaining within the purview of the text, we can discern a dichotomy between the content of the epic that essentially promotes and justifies violence and the context of the narration, which was to dissuade from committing violence. This relationship between the context and the content, part and whole, is a unique distinguishing feature of this epic with reference to world literature. Gandhi was the first to recognize this. His interpretation is a rare academic adventure in hermeneutics by a politician at a global level. More importantly, this intellectual feat was deployed as an instrument in support of the national movement. To return to Eliot, while he does propose the imbricated relationship within the three phases of time, the latter part of the poem is a reaction to the fractured relationship between the present and the past in the West. Thus, Eliot is not as useful to understand the different relationships between the past and the present in India. For Eliot, the possibilities from the past are mere abstractions and in the realm of speculation. However, Tilak successfully demonstrated that the texts from the past are solid actualities. Unlike in Eliot, where the passage was not taken, and the door never opened, Tilak did take the passage, which opened up new horizons for the Indian national movement. It is the divergent relationship between the present and the past that makes the Indian model different. Recognizing this is not tantamount to endorsing it. In fact, on the occasion of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, we can resolve to explore new avenues in finding out creative solutions to both actual and possible problems in Indian society, taking inspiration from our national leaders from our immediate past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand HC seeks Hemant's reply in case related to objectionable remarks against him||The Jharkhand High Court on Monday issued a notice to Chief Minister Hemant Soren and sought his reply in a case related to an individual making objectionable remarks against him on social media.  In this case, the accused has filed a petition in the Jharkhand High Court seeking bail.  The matter was heard in the court of Justice Rajesh Kumar of the High Court.  The court said that under section 15 (a) of the SC-ST Act, the court cannot pass any order without hearing the victim.  Therefore it is imperative to hear the victim (CM Hemant Soren) in this matter.  On being asked by the state government to continue the trial, the court has issued a notice to Soren asking him to present his side.  A case has been registered against the accused Rishikesh Kumar, a resident of Garhwa, under the SC-ST Act for making objectionable remarks on social media against CM Hemant Soren.  During the hearing, the counsel for Rishikesh said that no criminal case is made out against him in this case. Therefore, they should be given the facility of bail.  Additional Advocate General Sachin Kumar told the court that if someone writes a post on social media to humiliate any person, then it is considered a criminal case under the provisions contained in the SC-ST Act.  It was also told at present the investigation in the matter is going on.  On June 4, an FIR has been registered in Garhwa regarding this. On this, the court issued notice to the CM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records 13% surplus rain in July||The second monsoon month of July ended with 13 per cent surplus rain in Jharkhand. Met statistics revealed that against a normal of 522.2 mm till July 31, the state actually recorded 588.9 mm, an excess of 13 per cent. Last year, July had ended in 13 per cent deficit rain. Data revealed that this year's June, the first monsoon month too, ended in a surplus rain of 34 per cent. Weathermen said that this was for the first time in recent years both the initial monsoon months - June and July - ended on a surplus note. July had begun well with most districts finding place in rain gainers list but after mid- July due to subdued monsoon activity the rainfall reached a deficit figure. But, heavy to very heavy rainfall because of the impact of a low pressure originating from the Bay of Bengal towards July - end helped in turning the deficit rain to surplus. According to rain data, Lohardaga district with 81 per cent surplus rain topped the districts registering excess rain. Jamtara with 70 per cent surplus rain was placed second followed by Koderma which at the end of July recorded surplus rain of 53 per cent. Dhanbad was next with 51 per cent surplus rain while Ramgarh followed close with 47 per cent surplus rain. According to rain data,15 districts figure in the rain surplus list while nine other districts including Godda, Gumla, Pakur, Garhwa and Simdega figure in rain losers list. Data further revealed that on July 31, Ranchi recorded 182.4 mm, the second highest rainfall ever. The capital has in its credit recorded the highest ever rainfall of 204.8 mm on July 26, 2017. On July 1, 1990 Ranchi had recorded 146.2 mm. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said widespread heavy rain in the last few days of July helped in recovering the deficit and registering surplus rain. He said that rainfall activity would be restricted in the next one week due to a subdued monsoon. However, the Met official said that they were expecting normal monsoon rain in August. IMD - New Delhi had already announced that the monthly rainfall in August over the country as a whole is likely to be normal - 94 to 105 per cent of Long Period Average (LPA ). The normal rain in the month of August, calculated on the basis of a 30-year long-term average is around 280 mm. This year, the southwest monsoon arrived three days early in Jharkhand on June 12. After a good shower show and heavy rains in several districts due to a vigorous monsoon, the surplus figures kept increasing and reached 109 per cent around June 19. The figures witnessed a gradual decrease later as the monsoon currents became weak over Jharkhand as the trough shifted towards the foothills of Himalayas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town students protest JAC 'faulty' evaluation||More than 200 examinees of Jharkhand Academic Council who were declared unsuccessful (fail) in the recently issued Plus Two results, on Monday, carried out a massive demonstration at Dhanbad district headquarter protesting against the alleged erroneous system of evaluation followed by the board. The protesters, belonging to different colleges of the district including, P.K. Roy Memorial College, SSLNT Women’s College and BSS Women’s College, congregated at Randhir Verma College at around 11am and continued their demonstration for more than two hours till 1 pm during which they also shouted slogans against the JAC administration and later also blocked the Luby Circular for around 15 minutes. Some of the agitating students however charged their respective college administration of not conducting their practical examination on time due to which they were marked absent leading to them being declared unsuccessful by JAC. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Rohit Kumar, a Plus two Commerce candidate of P.K. Roy Memorial College, Dhanbad said, “I have been marked absent in the practical examination due to which I was declared unsuccessful but the fact remains that the practical examination was not conducted for several candidates including me due to fault of the college administration.” “Our practical examinations were being conducted in phase wise manner as per the roll number of students and since the government declared lockdown on May 22 the practical examination of several candidates could not be held in our college,” said Kumar. Kumar said the issue was brought up several times but the P.K. Roy Memorial college administration did not bring it forth before the JAC administration leading to their failure. Soni Kumari, an unsuccessful candidate of Arts stream of BSS Women’s College who also took part in the demonstration said, “The JAC administration has adopted faulty policy of evaluation due to which some to candidates who have secured less than 180 marks been declared pass while several others who have secured over 250 marks have been declared fail.” “When we enquired with college authorities today about the reasons for our failure they conjectured that as the evaluation was carried out on previous year performance and since we remained unsuccessful in 11th examination also we were declared fail in 12th final examination also,” said Kumari. Akansha Kumari, another Arts candidate of SSLNT Women’s College said “The JAC has made provision for reappearing in examination for candidates who are unsatisfied with their results but we also protest against this provision because it means only those who were declared unsuccessful due to faulty evaluation of JAC will have to appear for examination while others who were declared successful due to same erroneous evaluation will not be required to write examination.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||At Salima Tete's home in Jharkhand, they got a genset to watch the match||Olympian Salima Tete’s village in Badkichapara in Jharkhand’s Simdega district was without electricity since Sunday owing to incessant rain during the last few days. So, her family and a few neighbours pooled in resources to arrange for a generator set watch their girl play against Australia in Tokyo. As the hockey eves stunned their opponents with a  1-0 victory in a nail-biting finish on Monday, the whole of Simdega erupted in joy, celebrating India women's maiden entry to the hockey semi-finals of the Olympics. Even chief minister Hemant Soren joined the rest of India to heap praise on the national women's team for inching closer to a medal. Congratulations to the entire women’s team for the historic feat by entering the semi-finals and prayers for further success, he said in a Hindi tweet. Two players from Jharkhand—Salima Tete (Simdega)  and Nikki Pradhan (Khunti) _ played Monday's high-octane quarter finals. While this is Salima’s first exposure on the Olympics stage, Nikki is representing the country in the Olympics for the second time. The Indian women will now take on Argentina in the semifinals on August 4. Celebrations in Salima’s native district of Simdega, known as the hockey cradle of Jharkhand, continued through Monday.  Players of all ages sang songs and danced to the beat of the nagada at the local astroturf hockey stadium built by the state government to nurture talent. Some players even took out a  rally that marched through town areas hailing the team’s success. Salima’s father Sulakshan Tete, a former player and now a  small-time farmer, told  local media that every family member harboured a single dream — a medal.  “We are naturally excited to see our daughter in the Olympics. But we are more happy to see  the team doing well after a poor start in the earlier matches. We are all  praying that Team India returns with a medal,” he said. An official of Hockey Simdega said that everyone in the village was worried after power lines tripped due to inclement weather. “We contacted the district administration for help and officials tried hard to repair the transformer. But  due to the erratic weather, power wasn't restored. However, Salima’s family, along with local residents, managed to organise a  generator set to watch the match,” the official said. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said that the ongoing Olympics would help hockey regain some of  its lost glory in the country. “Both the  men's and women’s teams have entered the semifinals. The entire country is now pinning hopes on them like never before. Win or lose, this tournament is sure to help the game and scores of budding players will start to dream big once again,” he said. Also, Simdega, he added, would live up to its reputation of being  the nursery of hockey in the state and churn out more promising players. "Emotions are running high within the sporting fraternity. Currently,  it’s hockey, hockey, hockey everywhere in the district. People are excited even more because two daughters of Jharkhand  are also playing,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||New heads for MGM medical college and hospital ||The superintendent and principal of the MGM medical college hospital and medical college were replaced on Monday. Established in 1961, the MGM medical college hospital is the largest government-run health hub across Kolhan. Presently it is a 610-bed facility. Patients from the twin districts of Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan visit the hospital for treatment. While the hospital superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar was replaced by Dr Arun Kumar, the principal of the medical college Dr R.K. Mandhana was replaced by Dr K.N. Singh. The outgoing superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar had started in May 2019 and had to cope with the first and second wave of Covid-19 during his 21 months stint. A highly-placed source of the medical college hospital said the number of medical negligence cases had increased considerably during his stint prompting the hospital to find a replacement. "Though running this medical college hospital with limited resources is a tough job, anyone can see the difference in the overall performance of the hospital soon," said Dr Arun to The Telegraph Online after taking charge as the hospital superintendent. Dr Arun, working in the ENT department of the hospital, said cleanliness and security of the patients will be his top priority, but at the same time he would try to ensure that no instance of medical negligence may come to his notice. The new superintendent, when asked, said that the hospital has received adequate funds for the treatment of Covid-19 and informed that he would gear up preparation for combating the third wave of the ongoing pandemic. Dr K.N. Singh who was earlier posted at the Dhanbad Medical College in Dhanbad took charge as principal of MGM medical college from the outgoing principal R.K. Mandhana on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi to get direct flights to Lucknow, Bhubaneshwar ||Passengers travelling to Uttar Pradesh and Odisha will soon have the option of taking direct flights to Lucknow and Bhubaneshwar from Ranchi. Indigo Airlines is set to launch direct passenger flight service to Lucknow four days a week later this month, while Alliance Air will start flights connecting Kolkata, Ranchi and Bhubaneswar from August 11, officials from the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi said on Monday. The Indigo flight to Lucknow will be the first direct flight to any of the cities in Uttar Pradesh from Ranchi. As per details shared by the airport authorities, the flight will take off from Lucknow at 10.55am and land in Ranchi at 12.05pm. The aircraft will take off from Ranchi at 12.45 pm and land in Lucknow at 1.40pm. “Direct flights to Lucknow will begin in the first week of August. The exact date for the first flight has not been announced by the airline as yet,” said the director of Birsa Munda Airport, Vinod Sharma. The business community in Jharkhand had a long-pending demand for direct flights to Lucknow. The Airport Advisory Committee (AAC) had also stressed on starting flights to Tier Two cities from Ranchi, and the new flights have been launched as a part of the initiative. Alliance Air is also set to operate new flights on Kolkata-Ranchi-Bhubaneshwar route. The company will use its 70-seater aircraft with only aisle and window seats for the service and this will be the first ever direct flight to Bhubaneshwar from the Jharkhand capital. "Flight 9I 720 will depart from Kolkata at 0800 hrs and arrive in Ranchi at 0940 hrs further departing from Ranchi at 1010 hrs and arrive in Bhubaneswar at 1115hrs," a communique from the airlines company stated. The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) has been pressing for new flight services from Ranchi, while the transport department has held several meetings in the past with the focus on connecting Ranchi to tier two cities like Guwahati, Trivandrum, Bhubaneshwar and Chandigarh by air. The trade body had also expressed displeasure over the delay in construction of the Deoghar airport, which once ready, will be the second largest airport in Jharkhand after Ranchi. At present, at least 20 flights connect Ranchi to New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) last year, at present has a 75-meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The state capital was likely to get more flights earlier this year, but the second wave of Covid-19 caused a delay in the process, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||70,000 residents vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to about 50,000 residents and the second dose to nearly 20,000 beneficiaries, taking the total count of those who have received at least one dose of vaccine closer to the 1 crore mark, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 49,460 residents got the first jab of vaccine, while 19,822 beneficiaries got their second jab on Sunday. Close to 50,000 residents between 18 and 44 years were inoculated on Sunday, NHM data highlighted. As per government data released on Sunday evening, the state had about 5 lakh doses of vaccines in stock. The state is likely to receive fresh supplies on Monday, health officials said. Jharkhand on Sunday reported another Covid death, which took the Covid toll to 5,129, while the active caseload also witnessed a marginal spike as fresh cases outnumbered Covid recoveries, a separate report from the NHM highlighted. As per NHM data, at least 27 fresh cases of infection against 24 recoveries took the active caseload to 254 on Sunday. The sole casualty was reported in Bokaro, a district which has so far seen 285 Covid fatalities. At least 12 of 24 districts in the state did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day, while East Singhbhum reported the highest spike of six cases and the active caseload there rose to 16. The district reported four Covid recoveries on Sunday. Two cases against three recoveries brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 48, the highest among Jharkhand districts. Bokaro reported five cases against the same number of recoveries and Dhanbad was among the districts that did not report fresh cases on the day. Jharkhand on Sunday tested 47,907 swab samples and 0.05 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus and 98.44 per cent of them survived, while 1.47 per cent of patients died. No fresh cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis were reported in Jharkhand on Sunday. The state has so far reported 104 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of Black Fungus and 31 patients have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand  news digest: Dhanbad new superintendent takes charge||Dhanbad: Dr Arun Kumar Barnwal, newly appointed Superintendent of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital took  charge as office and post on Sunday from the outgoing Superintendent Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary. Talking to media after assuming charge he said, "providing best possible health care facility to the people during the time of pandemic will be my top priority." "I am fortunate to have a  good and cooperative team and, Dr Shailendra Kumar,  principal of the College is my batchmate, who has assured to extend all cooperation in the smooth operation of the hospital" said Barnwal. "The previous team under the leadership of my predecessor Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary has done a tremendous during the time of pandemic and I will try to carry forward their legacy" said Barnwal. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Concerned with inordinate delay in execution of the multi-crores sewage and drinking water projects in Adityapur, a local social outfit in Adityapur has declared to launch agitation. Jan Kalyaa Morcha (JKM), the social outfit has on Sunday in a meeting of its executive members resolved to stage a day-long dharna at Patel Chowk in Adityapur on August 14. "The one-day dharna will be staged to protest the excessive delay in the two Megan projects being executed by the state urban development department in Adityapur. If the department fails to expedite the pace of ongoing works, then we will be compelled to intensify the agitation, " said Om Prakash, president, JKM while talking to The Telegraph Online. Stressing on the need to launch an agitation, Om Prakash said that the two projects concerning the basic civic necessities are not only getting delayed, but also have thrown the local residents' life out of gear. "Due to the sewage and drinking water projects, the executing agencies have dug up the roads, lanes and bylanes in the residential as well as the industrial areas in Adityapur. As a result of which the rest are finding it very difficult to negotiate through.  The situation has aggravated due to the waterlogging during the current rainy season," said the JKM president. He pointed out though the executing agencies have repaired the dug up roads at most of the areas, but the repairing work were done in haphazard and substandard way, causing the waterlogging. The sewage project worth Rs 235 crores was supposed to be completed in December 2020 and the drinking water project worth Rs 400 crores was supposed to be completed in May this year. As there is a forest clearance hurdle in the way of both the projects, it may take another year or more for the completion of them. City manager, Adityapur Municipal Corporation (AMC), Ajay Kumar who monitors both the projects on behalf of the AMC confirmed about further delay in completion of these projects due to the forest clearance hurdle. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
02-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government to offer jobs to a dozen sportspersons||The Jharkhand government will offer jobs to a dozen sportspersons on Tuesday, besides presenting cash awards to some prominent others. This may please a section of sportspersons but may not help the state government to live up to the expectations raised by its earlier announcement of observing 2021 as “the year of employment”. In order to promote sports in the state, the Hemant Soren government first offered employment to 24 sportspersons by appointing them as sports officers in as many districts of the state in October last year. It was followed up by appointing 27 other sportspersons — 17 women and 10 men — as police constables in March this year. Though 27 of the selected 39 sportspersons were given appointment letters in March, the rest 12 will be given those on Tuesday, informed sports secretary Pooja Singhal. “Three of them — Madhumita Kumari, Ritesh Anand and Bhagyavati Chanu — would be offered the job of sub-inspector (of police),” she informed,  adding others would receive offer letters for the posts of constables that day. Those who will get the offer letters for joining as constables are Biplab Kumar Jha, Dinesh Kumar, Krishna Khalko, M. Vijay Kumar, Lovely Choubey, Lakhan Hansda, Santa Tirkey, Farzana Khan and Reena Kumari. Besides, some prominent sportspersons “who excelled in their games and brought glory and honour for the nation as well as Jharkhand” would also be given cash awards that day, the sports secretary further informed, adding those would include archer Deepika Kumari and hockey players Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete who represented the country in Tokyo Olympics. This gesture may please a section of the sporting community but the youths in general who are seeking employment will not be impressed, feel many who consider this to be too less compared to the need. There is already a sense of disappointment among such youths, more so because they did not find much employment opportunities despite the government declaring 2021 as the year of employment. Some of their organisations have already planned to organise protests at district level on August 8 and then also at state level in Ranchi on August 10. “Unemployment is a major issue at present and we will also organise a series of programmes at block and distract levels for mobilising youths towards their right to employment between August 15 and 30,” informed CPI-ML state secretary Janardan Prasad, adding their protest would be against failure of both the state and Central governments in providing employment to the youths. Meanwhile, the BJP also declared the party would demonstrate across the state from August 20 for expressing support to the youths and pursuing other issues including that of law and order. Addressing the media at the party's state headquarters in Ranchi on Sunday, BJP state president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash alleged that the Soren government "was cheating the youths by not offering them them jobs though there are 3.29 lakh vacancies in the state ".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
