03-08-2021||Calcutta||ATM snoop waits in line and steals Rs 90,000 from 74-year-old woman||A 74-year-old woman from Golf Green who had gone to withdraw money from an ATM with her son’s debit card met a man in the queue outside the kiosk who offered her his place and allowed her to withdraw money before him. However, the man allegedly entered the kiosk after her and confused her by saying that double the amount she typed had been debited from her account. He then apparently advised the woman to take out a mini-statement to verify the withdrawal. The man allegedly spied on her PIN when she entered it to take out the mini-statement before replacing her ATM card with another card of the same private bank where her son has an account. Even before Sanghamitra Ghosh could return home, a short walk from the ATM, Rs 90,000 had been withdrawn from her son’s account. Police suspect the card handed to the woman was a stolen one. Ghosh, who has lodged a complaint with Golf Green police station, went to an ATM of the State Bank of India on Uday Shankar Sarani on Saturday morning, the police said. “She mentioned in the complaint that she saw a man standing outside the ATM kiosk waiting for his turn to enter. But on seeing her, he offered to let her go in first. The woman had withdrawn Rs 10,000 when she suddenly realised that the man had entered the kiosk and was standing behind her,” an officer of the police station said. The woman’s son, Bodhisatwa, a senior executive at an advertising agency, said he was on an office call when he started receiving text messages about money being debited from his account. “I knew my mother had stepped out to withdraw Rs 10,000. But then there were messages of withdrawal of another Rs 90,000 in multiple transactions,” Ghosh said. As his mother returned home and told about the person who “helped” her at the ATM, he discovered that the card she was carrying was not his. It belonged to one “Rupam Das”, Bodhisatwa said. “I am worried about my stolen money. I am equally concerned about the safety and security of all elderly persons, who are so vulnerable to such frauds. Is it not the duty of the bank to deploy a guard to help people of her age so they can’t be duped like this?” said Bodhisatwa. The police said the Golf Green kiosk from where Ghosh had withdrawn the money was unguarded. “Despite repeated communications, banks are reluctant to deploy guards at ATMs,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The majority of the banks — private as well as nationalised — do not deploy guards at ATM kiosks as a cost-curtailment measure, several bank officials told The Telegraph. A bank official said guards are only posted at the ATMs that are attached to branches. “There are CCTVs in the ATMs and in case of any crime, if the victim can fill in a form and prove that he or she was not at fault, the amount is usually compensated,” the bank official said. “As the money is insured, banks, too, do not incur any loss.” The officers investigating the Golf Green case said they had collected the details of “Rupam Das”, who is a customer of the private bank where Bodhisatwa has an account. Das has not yet reported any ATM card theft, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Blockade by passengers delay trains in Howrah-Burdwan section||Scores of special trains and long-distance trains were delayed on Monday morning after a section of passengers staged a blockade at Pandua station in the Howrah-Burdwan section, said an official of the Eastern Railway. Local train services are suspended as part of the Covid curbs. Only special trains meant for essential service providers are running. But such trains are being crowded by daily commuters. On Monday, a scuffle broke out after some essential service providers protested the crowding of trains by others, the official said. The daily commuters demanded trains for them and blocked the tracks from around 7am till 10am, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Presidency University to admit undergraduate students solely based on board marks||Presidency University will admit students to its undergraduate courses this year solely based on board marks as admission tests could not be held following an objection from the state government. An admissions notification issued on Monday says the merit lists for all subjects, except statistics and economics, would be prepared on the basis of marks obtained in the Class X and Class XII board exams. For economics and statistics honours, students will be admitted based on their plus-II board marks. The details of the selection process for the 665 undergraduate seats have been uploaded on the university’s website. Aspirants have to submit applications between August 2 and 20, in keeping with a deadline set by the state government. The notification says that for physics honours, the marks in math and the average marks in physical science and life science in Madhyamik, or scores in the science group in equivalent exams, will be added to the plus-II aggregate and the plus-II marks in math before drawing up the merit list. For chemistry honours, the average marks of physical science and life science in Madhyamik, or the marks in the science group in equivalent exams, will be added to the plus-II scores in chemistry, math and English. Marks-based admission was necessitated at the College Street institution after education secretary Manish Jain had during a meeting with vice-chancellors on July 7 said no government-aided colleges and universities could conduct admission tests for undergraduate courses this year, apparently because of Covid-19 and the digital divide among students. Presidency vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia told The Telegraph on Monday: “For marks-based admissions, the performance of an aspirant in secondary board exams is being factored in. This will help us segregate candidates in case scores are tied and identify students with the potential to pursue a subject.” None of the boards could conduct the school-leaving exams this year because of a rise in Covid cases. A teacher of a humanities department said screening prospective students through some sort of a test would provide a solution, as that would give a level playing field to the applicants. According to him, this year has witnessed a sharp decline among top-grade scorers in the state higher secondary exams and a rise in the number of such scorers in the CBSE Class XII and ISC exams. “But after the higher education department last week struck down Jadavpur University’s proposal to give some weightage to online group discussions or viva while screening undergraduate students in science, marks-based admission remains the sole option,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
03-08-2021||Calcutta||ISC topper aspires to be pastry chef, chooses to pursue hospitality course||An 18-year-old girl who scored 99.5 per cent in ISC (Class XII) wants to be a pastry chef and has chosen to pursue a course in hospitality. Sameeksha S. Kumar of Delhi Public School New Town said “not marks but aptitude and passion should decide one’s career”. Teachers across schools said students were now making unusual choices of courses unlike some years back when engineering, medicine or commerce were the most sought after. Top performers have decided to pursue textile designing, jewellery designing, film studies, sports management, and hospitality in recent years, they said. Sameeksha, who has been baking since Class VII, said she felt “at home in the kitchen”. “When I got my result, a lot of people were sceptical about my decision to choose hospitality. My career choice has nothing to do with my marks because this is what I have wanted to do for a long time. No percentage will determine your passion,” said the humanities student. “If you want to provide for others, then hospitality is definitely for you. When I go to a restaurant and a waiter comes to our table with food, I don’t see him as serving me but providing for me.” She was speaking at a webinar ‘Hospitality. The Passion of Champions!’ hosted by IIHM on Monday on hospitality as a career alternative. Speaking on the occasion, David Foskett, hospitality professional and author, who joined from London, said a pastry chef should ideally be equally comfortable with the arts and science. “Of all the crafts and skills there are in the culinary world, pastry and bakery are the most scientific. It is also the biggest art form that we have in the culinary world. To be a pastry chef is to be a skilled practitioner. To have the scientific knowledge of things like fermentation, emulsification and the science of sugar, the science of chocolate...and then the artistic value...If you are a pastry chef you have... all this scientific knowledge, all this skill but you are an artist,” he said. He said pastry chefs can command a lot of money go straight to the top because they are artists and “many pastry chefs throughout the world are earning more than executive chefs”. Suborno Bose, chairman, IIHM, said the hospitality industry has resumed recruiting. “We are very upbeat,” he said. “Food is not just about creating food but using technology, e-commerce... how you can monetise, how you can get the commercial value to your food business. I think that is the big thing happening in the pandemic and that is what we are going to teach our students,” he said. “It is not just about creating.... Our mantra over the last 10 years has been art and commerce of the hospitality industry...where we teach our students the product and the revenue,” he said. Celebrity chefs Ranveer Brar and Shaun Kenworthy shared their insights at the webinar. Several schools have noted a change in the career paths chosen by some of their top performers. “This is not exclusive now. Earlier, students would tread the traditional path which is not true anymore. There have been toppers pursuing home science and it has nothing to do with marks,” said Devi Kar, director, Modern High School for Girls. “Students have become more assertive and parents have become more open,” said Seema Sapru, principal, The Heritage School. “Earlier, students would decide to study something but after a few years decide it’s not their calling and switch. But that has changed now and they are making unconventional choices,” she said. Teachers said that parents are now no longer very “strict and parochial” and students get both liberty and recognition. “Students are now more privileged as parents are giving them a lot of freedom... There are students who are studying, getting a stipend and supporting themselves,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, principal, La Martiniere for Girls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Transgender activist gunned down outside Nimta home||Bike-borne youths gunned down Sumana Dhar, a transgender person, when she was about to step into her house in Sabitri Pally in Nimta, about 16km north from the heart of Calcutta, on Sunday evening. Sumana was a prominent voice within the community, who would protest against alleged wrongdoings by some of the members in Birati, Nimta and adjoining areas. Some of those who knew the 32-year-old said Sumana used to attend meetings and conferences on transgender rights and tried to persuade several of the community members not to engage in infighting. In Nimta, Sumana organised small meetings to try and influence some of the community members to refrain from certain activities that create a wrong impression about transgender people in public minds, police said. “Sumana came across as a very upright individual who wanted to reform some members of the community across parts of North 24-Parganas,” said Ranjita Sinha, a transgender activist and former member of the West Bengal Transgender Welfare Board. “This murder sends out very disturbing signals for our community.” The police said four youths came riding motorcycles around 7pm and fired four bullets from close range, leaving Sumana in a pool of blood on the road leading to her house, which is located in an area under North Dum Dum Municipality. The bullets pierced Sumana’s back, the police said. Alarmed at the sound of gunfire, some residents of the locality rushed to the spot and took Sumana to Panihati State General Hospital in Sodepur. Sumana was later shifted to a nursing home in Barasat, where the activist died. “We have learnt that Sumana had gone out in the afternoon to attend an invitation and was returning home in the evening when she was shot. It appears the assassins had information about Sumana’s schedule,” said a senior officer of Nimta police station. The police are scanning CCTV footage and also Sumana’s mobile call records. Officers have also spoken to some members of the community who knew Sumana closely. Officers have also met those who had invited Sumana for lunch on Sunday afternoon. “We have got in touch with officers from police stations adjoining Nimta, which look after areas that have a sizable transgender population. It seems assassins were hired for the job,” said the officer of Nimta police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Over 3,000 nurses from state government hospitals protest seeking end to pay disparity||About 3,000 nurses from state government hospitals marched in the SSKM Hospital compound on Monday demanding an end to an alleged disparity between their pay and that of other government employees with similar qualifications. The nurses have been holding a sit-in at SSKM since July 26 on the issue. The protests have gained traction because of the timing — more than a year into the Covid-19 pandemic, during which nurses played a critical role in tending the sick, earning accolades from all quarters. The protesting nurses, however, said that while the government was lauding their efforts, it has not raised their pay. “Nurses in the government sector have been putting up with pay discrimination for years. A nurse with a diploma should be entitled to Level-12 pay but they get Level-9 pay. Nurses across all categories - diploma-holder, BSc-degree holder, experienced, fresher - get less than what they should be entitled to,” said Bhaswati Mukherjee, the secretary of Nurses Unity, an association of nurses. “An engineering diploma-holder gets Level-12 pay. There is a difference of nearly Rs 8,000 between levels 9 and 12. We want an end to this discrimination,” said Mukherjee. The “pay disparity”, she said, has been there for years and nurses have protested against it time and again. The state health department had promised to address the nurses’ grievances in 2019, the last time they protested before the current round of agitation, but nothing was done, the protesters alleged. Chandrima Bhattacharya, the junior health minister of Bengal, said the government would look into the nurses’ demand. “If they have a grievance, they can raise it and the government will look into it. As the minister of state of the department, I cannot take any policy decision,” Bhattacharya told Metro on Monday evening. The nurses said they started the protests after realising that the government had ignored all their pleas. “We had written to the chief minister (also the state’s health minister) on July 7 detailing our grievances, but none from the government wanted to know our demands. We started a sit-in on July 26, yet none from the government felt it necessary to talk to us. We are left with no other option but to hit the streets. But we are assuring patients that services will not be impacted. There will always be nurses in all wards attending to patients,” said a protesting nurse. The protests, while the country is in the midst of a pandemic, have caught the attention of many in the medical community. Many of the nurses who have joined the protest said they felt hurt by the way they had been dealt with by the government and the health administration. Nurses monitor patients’ health around the clock. They check the vitals, create channels in a patient’s hand to administer medicines and ensure that medicines are being given to patients in the right dose. “Doctors come once a day. It is the nurses who monitor patients throughout the day. Nurses have to be present inside Covid wards for much longer duration than doctors. We are not demanding any favour. We are just asking for the right compensation for our services. Won’t a doctor protest if he or she is given a diploma holder’s salary?” asked a nurse who works in a teaching hospital in Calcutta. Bengal suffers from an acute shortage of nurses as far fewer nurses graduate from the state every year than the requirement. An official of a private hospital said only 30 per cent of the nurses in Bengal were from the state. The rest are from northeastern states, Jharkhand, Kerala and Karnataka. The shortage also means that the nurses are often overworked as they spend more time at hospitals than they are supposed to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Vivekananda College for Women in Behala reduces semester fees||A women’s college in Behala has reduced the fees for the July-to-December semester this year. Vivekananda College for Women in Barisha in a meeting on Friday decided to charge a subsidised fee as many of its students come from financially-disadvantaged families. The college will charge Rs 75 a month for BA (honours), Rs 50 a month for BA (general), Rs 110 a month for BSc (honours), Rs 85 a month for BSc (general) and Rs 60 a month for BCom (general) till December. Principal Soma Bhattacharya said that during admission last year, students had to pay Rs 3,000 to Rs 3,500 for various courses for six months, even after the fees had been reduced by about 25 per cent. “There are many applicants who under the circumstances (of job loss and slump in business) would find it difficult to pay even Rs 3,000. We felt that because of that these girls might quit studies. We, therefore, decided to reduce the fees,” said the principal. Bhattacharya said that in January many students had sought reduction in fees, in addition to the concession offered. “We realised that existing students could at least approach us but new students might be hesitant to approach,” she added. The college had a strength of 1,500 odd students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government increases truck load limit||The Bengal government on Monday issued a circular allowing trucks to carry more load than what was permissible, in compliance with a notification by the Centre that is in force in most states. The increase in load will be proportional to the axle weight of transport vehicles and the number of tyres. Transport department officials said a 12-wheel truck, which could carry up to 20 tonnes, would now be allowed to carry around 25 tonnes. Similarly, a 10-wheel truck will now be allowed to carry 19 tonnes, instead of 16 tonnes. Truck operators said raising the load limit had been their long-standing demand and the decision would give them the freedom to carry additional load. Their counterparts in several states have been enjoying the freedom since July 2018, the operators said. Many truck operators said they would bring out their vehicles after months because the state government’s order would finally help make their business viable. “Just a little over 30 per cent of around 1.75 lakh 12-wheel trucks have been operating. The rest have been idling because it made no sense to carry less load with diesel prices spiralling,” said Subhas Chandra Bose, the general secretary of the West Bengal Truck Operators Association. “Now, at least 60 per cent of the remaining truck owners will start accepting orders.” Senior officials said the state, too, would gain from the order because the road tax of a transport vehicle is calculated on the basis of its carrying capacity. The road tax for each 12-wheel truck will go up by close to Rs 2,000. Monday’s directive comes close on the heels of a decision by the Bengal government to slap a fine of Rs 20,000 on any truck operator found overloading. On July 31, the state government issued an order stating that apart from the fine, an errant truck operator would also have to pay Rs 2,000 for each tonne of excess load. The fine is aimed at serving an “effective deterrent to the menace of overloading”, the order had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Calcutta||‘Almost 100 per cent’ candidates clear higher secondary, announces West Bengal HS council||“Almost 100 per cent” candidates have crossed the higher secondary barrier this year, the state HS council announced on Friday following a review of the marks of the 18,000 students who were initially declared unsuccessful. The council had announced on July 22, when the plus-II results were announced, that 97.69 per cent of the 8,19,202 candidates had cleared higher secondary. The council had to devise a methodology to assess the candidates as the school-leaving exams were scrapped this year because of Covid. Mahua Das, the president of West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, on Monday said the pass percentage rose to “almost 100 per cent” after the council decided to pass the unsuccessful candidates on compassionate grounds. “Previously, the pass percentage was 97.69 per cent. Now the pass percentage has gone up to almost 100 per cent. 18,000 students who had appealed to the council after being declared unsuccessful have now passed…. We got them passed after awarding the minimum marks on grounds of compassion. The state government had advised us to consider the appeals favourably,” Das said. Out of 500, a student has to score at least 150 (30 per cent) to pass HS. The council announced the jump in pass percentage on a day submission of online applications for undergraduate admissions started across the state. The top brass of the state government had decided on July 26 to depute officials to speak to unsuccessful examinees across the state and assure them that their grievances would be addressed by July 30. Sources said the move followed a realisation that agitations by unsuccessful students would send a wrong message about the evaluation process. All 10,79,749 candidates cleared Madhyamik this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Surgeons outline history of India’s healthcare||A book written by a cardiac surgeon-debater traces the journey of healthcare in India. A discussion between Kunal Sarkar, the author of The Sickness of Health, and neurosurgeon and fellow debater Sandip Chatterjee at Calcutta Club on Friday offered insights into the then and now of healthcare in the country. The discussion was moderated by Pradeep Gooptu. Snippets from the discussion Animals in zoo Gooptu wondered how an insider like Sarkar could come up with a book on the healthcare system. “Whatever you write may either be misunderstood or may be construed as pleasing to some people. Aren’t you too close to the fire to be writing such stuff?” Sarkar concurred. “We are not just close to the fire; we are in the fireplace. But there is another way of looking at it. You have a series of films called A Night at the Zoo, Night at the Museum. We are like animals in a zoo, a very peculiar zoo. It is absolutely imperative for society. It has got its own peculiarities,” he said. “The trouble is society at large only interacts with this facility on a need-to-use basis. But in these times, we have been swept by a crisis of enormous proportions. I think therein comes the necessity of us becoming a little more familiar — as we do with politics, economics, entertainment. This has been a little effort to make people familiar with the realities, the trials and tribulations of healthcare,” Sarkar said. Watershed line Sarkar said India was “a lower middle class” nation when it came to indices like human development and education. But the same country is a healthcare destination for people from much developed countries. “We should have never been a country which does complex neuro work, cardiac work, transplant work. Can you imagine the entire Middle East and central Asia, countries with three times our per capita GDP? People from these places come to India for healthcare. This is an anachronism,” he said before going on to explain what set India aside. “This precocious development of healthcare in India happened because there was a generation of people, just before you (Chatterjee) and me. So, the 1970s was that watershed line in medicine. A lot of people who went abroad and got training, came back, worked, and not only made a name for themselves but started a lineage and legacy of training. They gave us the expertise...,” he said. Chatterjee said his decision to pursue neurosurgery was considered incredulous. “Nobody wanted to do a very specialised subject at that time…. The neurosurgery we were exposed to as medical students… was dreadful. With all due respect to the people who were doing it, they had no facilities…,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Calcutta||Schools celebrate International Yoga Day||Delhi Public School, Howrah Yoga and music played a significant role in maintaining sanity in the lives of DPS Howrah students. They recently released a video, which shows the students combining yoga with music to mark the International Yoga Day (June 21). They performed yoga and played a variety of instruments such as sarangi, veena, synsthesiser and guitar to maintain mental and physical health that would help them fight the pandemic better. Children from all classes also took part in a mass yoga, conducted online by the physical education department. They learnt about the importance of yoga and its positive implications. “We celebrated the International Yoga Day and the World Music Day together and with a difference. Our students took it to a notch higher by performing asanas that were synchronised gracefully with strands of musical instruments,” said principal Sunita Arora. Asian International School Junior section of Asian International School celebrated the International Yoga Day by organising a special assembly on the topic Fit India. It began with a welcome speech by Class IV student Sujaan Ghosh, who highlighted the importance of yoga in our life. Yoga teacher Tripti Kana Bhowmik conducted a live yoga session, where she performed asanas and pranayama. Dance teacher Chaiti Das conducted a musical aerobic session. “The occasion delivers a message that alignment of energy body, physical body and mind is the key to a healthy being. It has been there with us as our ancient culture and yet it holds a profounding relevance in the modern world. As a school it is our prime responsibility to make children aware about the integration of yoga in our day to day lives,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. Ruby Park Public School Ruby Park Public School celebrated the International Yoga Day virtually with a yoga training session for the students of classes II to X. The programme commenced with prayer and was followed by presentation of basic yoga postures, pranayama and meditation. An inter-house quiz competition on asanas and the history of yoga were conducted for classes VIII to X. The Ganga House was declared the winner. “Yoga has become the best way for physical and mental fitness. It has been accepted as the best way to release our negative energies and embrace positivity in life. Our aim was to motivate students to get into the regular practice of doing a fitness regime. The students learnt many asanas and were happy to be a part of this celebration,” said principal Joyita Majumder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-31
03-08-2021||Business||Vodafone loses 2,700 crore after Kumar Mangalam Birla’s letter||Vodafone Idea Limited, struggling to pay more than Rs 50,000 crore AGR arrears, lost more than Rs 2,700 crore in market cap on Tuesday, a letter from chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla was released to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gowda in June. “It is with a sense of duty towards the 27 crore Indians connected by VIL, I am more than willing to hand over my stake in the company to any entity- public sector/government /domestic financial entity or any other that the government may consider worthy of keeping the company as a going concern,” Birla said in the letter. The stock plunged 10.30 per cent to close at Rs 7.40 on the BSE. During the day, it tumbled 13.09 per cent to Rs 7.17 — its 52-week low. At the NSE, it closed at Rs 7.40, lower by 10.30 per cent. According to official data, VIL had an adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 58,254 crore out of which the company has paid Rs 7,854.37 crore and Rs 50,399.63 crore is outstanding. VIL along with Bharti Airtel had approached the Supreme Court for correction in the government calculations, but their plea was rejected. In the letter, Birla, who holds around a 27 per cent stake in VIL, said investors are not willing to invest in the company in the absence of clarity on AGR liability, an adequate moratorium on spectrum payments and most importantly floor pricing regime above the cost of service. Without immediate active support from the government on the three issues by July, the financial situation of VIL will come to an "irretrievable point of collapse," Birla said in the letter dated June 7. Following are the top 10 points of the big story: 1. Bir Birla warns of a “growing crisis” and his 27.66 per cent stake in 27 troubled telecom companies may be deemed worthy by any public sector / government / domestic financial entity, or any other government – to keep (VIL) an ongoing concern. “ 2. Aditya Birla Group Chairman said that despite “all possible efforts to improve operational efficiency”, VIL’s financial condition has “rapidly deteriorated” and “Rs 25,000 crore is required to manage VIL activities and pay the regulator / government debt”. 3. “… without the immediate assistance of the government … by July 2021 … the financial condition of VIL will (reach) to an irreplaceable point” connected by 270 million Indian VILs “. 4. Birla said potential (non-Chinese) investors wanted to see “clear government intentions to market three-player telecoms … through positive action on long-term requests, such as clarity on AGR liability, adequate suspension of spectrum payments and, most importantly, A floor pricing system is above service costs “. Apart from this, investors are showing “understandable hesitation”, he said. 5. No immediate comment was received from VIL or any other concerned party including the government. It is also unclear whether there was any communication between the government and VIL after the letter was submitted. 6. VIL AGR owes Rs 50,399.63 crore; It has already disbursed Rs 7,854.37 crore. The balance due after today’s crash is more than double the current market cap of Rs 21,264 crore. In addition, till March 1, 2021, the total debt excluding lease liability and AGR arrears is Rs 1,80,310 crore. This includes Rs 96,270 crore of late spectrum payment obligations and Rs 23,080 crore of banks and financial institutions. 7. Faced with a letter warning of “immediate” danger, VIL stocks fell today, hitting a 52-week low of 12 percent before recovering somewhat. With the Sensex and Nifty hitting record highs in one day, various macroeconomic indicators point to a revival of demand in the economy as optimistic about the rapid pace of economic recovery. 8. Last month, the Supreme Court in January dismissed an application filed by telecom majors, including VIL, seeking a recalculation of the AGR, citing “mathematical errors” in the accounting of the AGR. In September last year, the court said the arrears could be paid over a 10-year period, but added that 10 percent had to be paid by March 2021. 9. Telecom companies Vodafone, Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio are embroiled in a two-decade-old revenue-sharing dispute with the government that focuses on AGR, or collects total revenue. The government wants to include revenue license fees from non-core businesses, but companies say such revenue should be excluded. 10. In December 2019, Bir Birla warned that Vodafone would be forced to shut down if the government did not provide relief on AGR and other liabilities. “If we don’t get anything, I think it’s the end of the Vodafone Idea story,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
03-08-2021||Business||Total debt of GDP expected to increase to 61.7% in 2021-22: Centre||The government on Tuesday informed Parliament that it expects the total debt as percentage of GDP to increase to 61.7 per cent (provisional) in 2021-22 from 60.5 per cent (provisional) in the previous fiscal. At the same time, public debt would rise to 54.2 per cent in the current financial year from 52 per cent in 2020-21. In a written reply in the Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said the government's amendment of the FRBM Act will target a path of fiscal consolidation aimed towards reaching a level of fiscal deficit below 4.5 per cent of GDP by 2025-26. The government expects fiscal deficit to come down to 6.8 per cent in the current fiscal from 9.3 per cent estimated for 2020-21. Amendment to the FRBM debt targets will be in consonance with the broad fiscal deficit path, he added. Replying to another question, Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad said the RBI through a circular on ''Storage of Payment System Data'' in 2018 "had mandated all system providers to ensure that the entire data (full end-to-end transaction details / information collected / carried / processed as part of the message / payment instruction) relating to payment systems operated by them is stored in a system only in India." They were also required to report compliance to RBI and also submit a board-approved System Audit Report (SAR) conducted by an Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) empanelled auditor, Karad said. In response to requests for clarifications on various issues from Payment System Operators (PSOs) on the above notification and for expeditious compliance by all PSOs, he said the RBI also issued Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on the subject on June 26, 2019. RBI has informed that American Express Banking Corp (Amex), Diners Club International Ltd (Diners) and Mastercard Asia/Pacific Pte Ltd (Mastercard) failed to comply with the requirements of the above circular, he said. "Accordingly, Amex and Diners were prohibited by RBI from on-boarding fresh domestic customers onto their card networks from 01.05.2021 till the time full compliance with the requirements of the circular was ensured and a satisfactory SAR was submitted. A similar prohibition was imposed on Mastercard from 22.07.2021," he said. Domestic banks already have substantial credit card business in the country, and there is no restriction on them on running such business, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
03-08-2021||Business||Parliament passes Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021 following a brief discussion amid ruckus created by Opposition parties over the Pegasus snooping row and other issues. The Lok Sabha had passed the bill on July 28. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021 provides for a pre-packaged insolvency resolution mechanism for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). After moving the bill for consideration, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said "this bill has been brought keeping in mind the situation in which MSMEs require a lot of help post the pandemic..we are increasing the threshold and coming up with a pre-pack." "There was this feeling that there could be a lot more surge of insolvencies among the MSMEs...but there is no surge in the insolvencies of MSMEs..the options available for the MSMEs are not very many..by this, there will be a better way in which these MSMEs can seek to have a solution... "It is less costly..it is hybrid in nature...the debtor will still be in control and the creditors will be working together and, therefore, it is actually going to cut the cost and speed up the process because the whole thing will be over in 120 days," she said. She urged all members in the House to consider and pass the bill. After a brief debate, Sitharaman in her reply said, "I will ensure we are also working to fill the vacancies in the (NCLT) benches..So, I do not want you to worry about vacancies and causing any further delay." Addressing a query of Amar Patnaik (BJD), she said, "The process can be initiated only with the consent of 66 per cent of unregulated financial creditors and consent of special majority of shareholders... Also, civil and criminal liability is attached to any act of wilful misinformation or omission of information." "Insolvency professional is tasked with clear duty to report mismanagement on fraudulent practices," the finance minister added. She opined that pre-package is flexible, cost effective, time bound and therefore very suitable for MSMEs. Supporting the bill, Patnaik initiated the debate and said,"I welcome the bill in its entirety, I foresee the problems that will come in the implementation of the bill. Number one is the valuation of the company..the base resolution plan...and no Swiss challenge or any such arrangement should go below it. Otherwise, it should automatically be referred to the CIRP (Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process)." He also expressed concern about minority stakeholders' interest in the pre-pack. "Currently, there are about 50 per cent vacancies in the NCLTs of the country," he added. Others who participated in the debate included Banda Prakash (TRS), M Thambidurai, K Ravindra Kumar (TDP) and V Vijaysai Reddy (YSRCP). After a brief debate by few members, the bill was moved for passage in the House. It was passed with voice vote amid the din by the Opposition. The bill seeks to replace the IBC Amendment Ordinance, 2021 promulgated in April which introduced pre-packs as an insolvency resolution mechanism for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with defaults up to Rs 1 crore. The proposed amendments will enable the government to notify the threshold of a default not exceeding Rs 1 crore for initiation of the pre-packaged resolution process. The government has already prescribed the threshold of Rs 10 lakh for this purpose. The bill proposes a new chapter in the IB Code to facilitate the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process for corporate persons that are MSMEs. As per the statement of objects and reasons of the bill, it seeks to specify a minimum threshold of not more than Rs 1 crore for initiating the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process as well as provisions for disposal of simultaneous applications for initiation of the insolvency resolution process and pre-packaged insolvency resolution process, pending against the same corporate debtor. There would be a penalty for fraudulent or malicious initiation of the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process, or with intent to defraud persons, and for fraudulent management of the corporate debtor during the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Zeeshan Bhatt Created ZB Digital with Scarce Liquidity & High Goal Orientation||Self-employment has been blossoming over the past few years. In this era of the internet and digital technology, people can now try and sell their ideas and hit the road to success. Zeeshan Bhatt is a young entrepreneur who had high ambitions and determination to achieve his ambitions from his childhood. As he began exploring the digital world at an early age, his interest in digital marketing also ignited the spark of entrepreneurship at a young age. Zee was experimenting with various things at such an early stage. He created a Youtube-resembling website in collaboration with one of his developer friends when studying in 10th standard. He also started a platform, ‘Adscoop,’ before the advent of demonetization in India. Although sudden demonetization came as a bolt from the blue, yet as a robust optimist, Zeeshan took it as a blessing in disguise, and he overcame it by looking at things objectively through a different ‘scope’ and laid the foundation of ZB Digital at the age of 20. Input Methodology Analysis From the point of view of a layman, capital investment is the only way to establish or start any business. But Zeeshan’s business philosophy has been somehow different than a layman. He believes that it is the right combination of ambitiousness and proper utilization of meager funds that bears fruition. In other words, input comprises of ambitiousness, dedication, hard work, and the appropriate utilization of whatever available scarce funds. He knew that to make his dream a reality, he had the required skill set and strategic mindset, which are even more influential than the required capital. Thus, he did not consider the shortage of funds as the barrier in his way to reach his destination. He wanted to develop a brand, so he continued working his fingers to the bone to build his brand. Ultimately, his credibility and reputation led him to build a brand that resonates with his customers/clients. How ZB Digital Came Into Being Although you need funds to start your company, some non-monetary resources might be more helpful in setting up a successful business. Zee knew that he must put in ample energy and discipline if he aspired to grow his business despite scarce capital investment and liquidity. He knew that if he works hard, he will improve himself, and he will persist. Zee put in his time, courage, determination, and hard work to make ZB Digital come to life to overcome the lack of liquidity. The two curves (the curve of ambitiousness, hard work, and the curve of scarce funds), when properly drafted, will automatically meet at a point of equilibrium just as it occurs in the ‘Law of Demand and Supply’ and ‘Law of Input-Output Analysis.’ He never let that shortcoming become a hindrance in his way to achieve his dreams. Eventually, Zee was able to get projects based on his knowledge, expertise, and skill set. He decided to hire a team of creative professionals. In this way, the right combination of less capital, rigorous hard work, and commitment resulted in the formation of ZB Digital. The Thriving Culture and ZB Digital The world is in a fluctuating digital era, and billions of people spend a lot of their time poking around online platforms. Businesses are now aware of this fact, thus leveraging these platform's popularity to advertise their goods and services. Regardless of your industry type, you can benefit tremendously from subscribing to digital marketing services. ZB Digital is also playing an essential role in this transformation. They have helped many solopreneurs, individuals, startups, and companies of various niches expand their online businesses and leverage the power of Artificial/Machine Intelligence for human prosperity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Markets hit fresh highs: Sensex zooms 873 points to close at 53,823||Equity benchmark Sensex skyrocketed 873 points to a fresh closing peak while the Nifty finished above the 16,000-mark for the first time on Tuesday, driven by gains in index heavyweights HDFC, Infosys and TCS. The 30-share BSE index ended 872.73 points or 1.65 per cent higher at its lifetime high of 53,823.36. The broader NSE Nifty rallied 245.60 points or 1.55 per cent to record 16,130.75. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by HDFC, Nestle India, IndusInd Bank, UltraTech Cement and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Tata Steel and NTPC were the laggards. "Bulls pulled off the 16,000 mark on the Nifty effortlessly buoyed by positive news flow on GST and export data as domestic fund houses poured Rs 280 billion during the first four months of the current fiscal," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. The journey past 16,000 quite clearly has been led by the retail investors who have allocated more into equities even as FIIs sold worth Rs 95 billion during this period, he noted. "The present rally is all the more significant since it provides enough opportunities to the new investor coming in now as several pockets of the economy still offer value going forward," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with losses, while Seoul was positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.47 per cent to USD 73.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps nearly 245 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped nearly 245 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC, TCS and Infosys and supported by positive macroeconomic indicators.  The 30-share index was trading 244.77 points or 0.46 per cent higher at 53,195.40 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 56.85 points or 0.36 per cent to 15,942.  Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Titan, PowerGrid, HDFC, M&M and Tech Mahindra.  On the other hand, HCL Tech, Bajaj Auto, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank and NTPC were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex rallied 363.79 points or 0.69 per cent to finish at 52,950.63, while Nifty surged 122.10 points or 0.77 per cent to 15,885.15.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,539.88 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, fundamental support to the bulls has been coming from good corporate results.  "Now the macros are turning very positive with the declining fiscal deficit, rising tax collections, and now the excellent performance in exports which shot up by 48 per cent in July. The PMI at 55.3 indicates a potential sharp turnaround in economic activity.  "This can embolden the bulls to take Nifty beyond 15,950 early in August unless FIIs turn massive sellers at those levels," he said.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were positive.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.07 per cent to USD 72.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Auto Expo postponed amid concerns of Covid third wave||Auto Expo, India’s premier auto show, which was scheduled to take place in February next year at Greater Noida has been postponed amid concerns of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The last edition of the biennial automobile show took place in February 2020. “The magnitude of the risk of the spread of infection is extremely high in a business-to-consumer (B2C) show like the Auto Expo which is visited by large crowds and maintaining social distancing would be difficult. It has, therefore, been decided to postpone the Auto Expo for now,” the Society of Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) director general Rajesh Menon said in a statement. The exact date for the next edition of the motor show would be finalised later this year keeping in view the Covid situation and in alignment with the calendar of other global auto shows, he added. The auto industry body may host the show in late 2022 if things improve, Reuters said. “The Auto Expo is like a celebration  for the Indian auto industry and we look forward to receiving maximum people with no fear of spread of infection,” Menon added. The car show in India is a platform for domestic car makers such as Maruti Suzuki  and Tata Motors as well as global companies such as Hyundai Motor Co and Daimler to showcase new models and technologies. Companies have to spend a lot of money on the display and with the uncertainty of a third wave it was thought best to postpone the event, one of the sources said. Auto Expo 2020 saw total footfalls of over six lakh visitors. Around 70 products were launched at the country’s flagship auto show. Around 352 product were displayed from 108 exhibitors. Keeping in pace with the trend of eco-friendly vehicles, the expo had also showcased 35 electric vehicles. Tata Motors raises prices Tata Motors on Monday said it has increased prices of its passenger vehicles by 0.8 per cent with effect from August 3. The prices will be raised on an average of 0.8 per cent depending on the variant and model. The company will offer protection from the price increase to vehicles that will be retailed on or before August 31 With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||India's exports grow 47.19 per cent to $35.17 billion in July||The country’s exports grew 47.19 per cent to $35.17 billion in July on account of a healthy growth in the shipment of petroleum, engineering goods and gems and jewellery, according to provisional data of the commerce ministry. Imports during the month also rose 59.38 per cent to $46.40 billion, leaving a trade deficit of $11.23 billion. FIEO president A. Sakthivel said the export figures were a sign that global trade was recovering fast. However, Sakthivel asked the government to soon notify the RoDTEP rates, release the necessary funds for the Merchandise Exports from India scheme and clarify the benefits of the Service Exports from India scheme. The FIEO president also asked the Centre to augment the flow of empty containers and establish a regulatory authority to oversee the freight hike and imposition of various charges by the shipping lines. Exports of petroleum increased to $3.82 billion in July, while shipment of engineering items rose to $2.82 billion and of gems and jewellery to $1.95 billion. Imports of petroleum, crude and petro products rose 97 per cent to $6.35 billion. Imports of gold were up 135.5 per cent to $2.42 billion, while shipments of pearls, precious and semi-precious stones stood at $1.68 billion in July. “With the continued unlocking of the economy and a surge in gold imports, trade deficit  widened to a three-month high in July 2021, in spite of merchandise exports clocking an enthusing record-high performance,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra. Nayar said “with a robust services trade surplus in June 2021, in addition to the state lockdown-compressed merchandise trade deficit, we expect a small current account surplus of $2-3 billion for the first quarter of FY 2021-22”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Unacademy raises $440 million in Series H funding round ||Bangalore-based  edtech startup Unacademy has raised $440 million in its Series H funding round led by Singapore-based Temasek that valued the start-up at $3.44 billion. The round also saw participation from global investors — SoftBank Vision Fund, General Atlantic, Tiger Global, Oyo founder Ritesh Agarwal’s Aroa Ventures and Zomato’s Deepinder Goyal. Some existing angel investors have exited the start-up in this round, the company said in a statement. The investment comes after the edtech startup closed a secondary transaction round in January that saw participation from Tiger Global, Steadview Capital, General Atlantic and Dragoneer. The edtech unicorn has, according to market estimates, raised an amount of more than $800 million, including the current round. Unacademy said its valuation has risen 10-fold in the last 18 months, one of the fastest growth witnessed by a mid-stage consumer internet startup in the country. The latest investment also comes on the back of Unacademy acquiring online game streaming platform Rheo TV for an undisclosed amount, the 10th acquisition of the company. WifiStudy, Kreatryx, CodeChef, PrepLadder are among the other key acquisitions of the company. Founded in 2015 by Gaurav Munjal, Hemesh Singh and Roman Saini, Unacademy at present has over 50,000 registered educators and more than 62 million learners. The startup offers learnings in 14 languages across 5,000 cities. Last week, the company announced stock options for teachers on its platform. Startups have raised an estimated USD 7.25 billion in the second quarter ended June 2021. This is a significant jump compared to USD 1.1 billion raised during the corresponding quarter a year ago. Pharmeasy, Byjus, Grofers, Whatfix were among the top funding rounds in June 2021 according to data compiled by Tracxn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||HDFC reports marginal fall in net profit for June quarter||HDFC on Monday reported a marginal fall in its net profit for the quarter ended June 2021 because of one-off items. The mortgage lender posted a standalone net profit of Rs 3,000.67 crore compared with Rs 3,051.52 crore in the same period of the previous year. The housing financier said the profit figures were not directly comparable with the previous year’s numbers because of the profit on the sale of investments of Rs 263 crore in the reporting quarter compared with Rs 1,241 crore in the year-ago period. Dividend income, too, was lower at Rs 16 crore against Rs 298 crore last fiscal. Moreover, it incurred employee stock options charge of Rs 146 crore compared with Rs 1 crore in the same quarter of last year. Further, there was a rise in the effective tax rate, which stood at 23.1 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 against 15.4 per cent last year. HDFC said during the April-June period, its core net interest income rose 22 per cent. “The demand for home loans continues to remain strong. While disbursements during April and May were somewhat impacted, business has reverted to normalised trends in June and July. July 2021 disbursements were the highest in a non-quarter end month,” it said, adding that during the quarter, individual loan disbursements grew 181 per cent over the corresponding year-ago quarter. PNB net jumps State-owned Punjab National Bank on Monday reported an over three-fold jump in its standalone net profit at Rs 1,023.46 crore for the first quarter ended June 30, mainly because of a fall in operating expenses and good recovery. The bank had posted a net profit of Rs 308.45 crore in the same quarter last year. Sequentially, net profit was up from Rs 586.33 crore in the March 2021 quarter. Interest income fell to Rs 18,921 crore from Rs 20,638 crore. Meanwhile, small-sized private sector lender RBL Bank on Monday reported a loss of Rs 459.47 crore for the June quarter against a profit of Rs 141 crore in the year-ago period as the money set aside for future loan setbacks shot up nearly three times. The bank said 97 per cent of its gross slippages of Rs 1,342 crore came from the retail segment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Emami records 97 per cent growth in profit after tax ||Emami has recorded a 97 per cent growth in profit after tax on the back of a 37 per cent rise in revenue in the first quarter of this fiscal over a lower base in the same period last year despite the disruptions in the marketplace because of the second wave of Covid-19. Even though revenue and profit decelerated sequentially from the fourth quarter of the last fiscal, the headline and bottomline performances are better than the pre-pandemic first quarter of 2019-20. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 660.95 crore in the April-June quarter of this fiscal compared with Rs 481.34 crore recorded in the same period of last fiscal. Profit after tax stood at Rs 77.79 crore during the quarter under review compared with Rs 39.58 crore in the first quarter of of 2020-21. Revenue and profit were at Rs 730.76 crore and Rs 87.73 crore, respectively, in the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal. While domestic business grew 42 per cent over the previous year, it grew 5 per cent over the first quarter of 2019-20 despite the raging impact of the second wave. Further, all major brands grew handsomely by more than 50 per cent during the quarter, except Navratna which posted a growth of 21 per cent. Modern trade grew 63 per cent and e-commerce continued its robust run growing 3.7 times. Mohan Goenka, director of Emami, said, “The overall demand since early June has once again been showing improvement with the Covid positivity rates dropping to pre-second wave levels.” Harsh Agarwal, director of Emami, said: “We recognise that e-commerce today has become the channel of choice for many which led us to launching our exclusive e-commerce business, Zanducare.” In the first quarter, contribution of e-commerce rose 300 basis points to 5 per cent of domestic revenues. Emami’s international business grew 17 per cent. Except the Middle Eastern geographies, all other regions posted strong growth during the quarter. While revenue and profit grew by 2 per cent and 98 per cent over the Q1 of 2019-20, they fell over the January-March of 2020-21. Revenue and profit were at Rs 730.76 crore and Rs 87.73 crore in Q4 of last year, representing 9.5 per cent and 11 per cent dip over the last quarter. While the initial weeks of April witnessed sustained growth momentum, subsequent increase in COVID cases led to a challenging phase over the month of May.  While personal care products were impacted, demand for health and hygiene products was also muted compared to the first wave phase, Emami admitted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||Privatisation of state-owned banks to be deferred to next fiscal ||The privatisation of state-owned banks that was announced in the budget could be deferred to the next fiscal as the Modi government is yet to initiate the legislative procedures in Parliament. The government has to amend the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980, before proceeding with the privatisation exercise North Block officials said the amendments have not been scheduled for the current monsoon session of the House, though they have started the work to bring about the changes. At the earliest, it could be tabled in the Winter session, which would leave little time for the privatisation to be completed before the end of this fiscal. While presenting Union Budget 2021-22 in February, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said three PSU banks and one state-run general insurance company would be privatised this year. “Other than IDBI Bank, we propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22,” Sitharaman had said. Though the Centre has not said which two banks would be privatised, the names of Central Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank are doing the rounds. “The bold move to privatise state-run banks faces risk from political opposition and structural challenges, including heightened balance-sheet stress due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which is likely to keep bank performance subdued for the next two to three years,” Fitch Ratings has said. The rating agency said the structurally weak governance frameworks of PSU banks have resulted in persistently weak performance, reflected in significant asset-quality problems. Meanwhile, the Lok Sabha on Monday passed a bill to amend the general insurance law to allow the government to pare its stake in state-owned insurers. In its statement of purpose, the Centre has said the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 will enable the general insurers to raise funds from the market and design innovative products. The bill seeks to remove the requirement that the central government should hold not less than 51 per cent of the equity capital in a specified insurer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-08-2021||Business||India's manufacturing sector grows at strongest rate in three months||India’s manufacturing sector grew at the strongest rate in three months in July amid improved demand conditions and easing of restrictions, which prompted companies to create new jobs for the first time since the onset of the pandemic, a monthly survey said. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose from 48.1 in June to 55.3 in July. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion while a score below 50 denotes contraction. “It’s encouraging to see the Indian manufacturing industry recover from the blip seen in June. Output rose at a robust pace, with over a third of companies noting a monthly expansion in production, amid a rebound in new business and the easing of some local Covid-19 restrictions,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima noted that “should the pandemic continue to recede, we expect a 9.7 per cent annual increase in industrial production for calendar year 2021”. China slips China’s manufacturing growth in July slowed to its lowest level in 15 months as export demand weakened and factories coped with disruptions in supplies of raw materials and components, two surveys found. Coal India offtake Coal India on Monday said it has recorded its best performance in terms of offtake, production and overburden removal in the month of July. A large part of the demand for the fuel was from power plants with electricity consumption gradually inching up to pre-pandemic levels. Offtake of the power sector in July 2021 was 39 million tonnes (mt), posting a 17 per cent growth compared with 33 million tonnes in July 2020. Overall offtake of the coal fired plants during the April-July period was 166.3mt compared with 127.2mt a year ago. CIL’s supply accounted for three-fourth of India’s total coal based power generation of 82.11 billion units during July 2021, which includes generation through imported coal. Total supply in July, including non-power users was 50.5mt compared with 43.3 MT in July 2020 at a growth rate of 16.7 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-08-2021||Business||Kumar Mangalam Birla ready to sell Vodafone Idea stake||In a desperate attempt to save cash-strapped Vodafone Idea, Aditya Birla group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla has offered to hand over his stake in the debt-laden company to the government or any other entity that the government may consider worthy to keep the company operational. “I am more than willing to hand over my stake in the company to any entity — public sector/government/ domestic financial entity that the government may consider worthy of keeping the company going,” Birla said in a letter addressed to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on June 7. Birla owns more than 27 per cent stake in Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL), while British giant Vodafone Plc holds over 44 per cent. According to official data, VIL had an adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 58,254 crore of which the company has paid Rs 7,854.37 crore with Rs 50,399.63 crore outstanding. The telecom operator has to pay nearly Rs 1,500 crore to the DoT as AGR dues every quarter over the next 10 financial years between 2021 and 2031. Vodafone Idea also owes Rs 96,270 crore in deferred spectrum payment obligations and another Rs 23,000 crore to banks and financial institutions as of March 31 this year. In the letter, Birla warned that without immediate active financial support from the government and  clarity regarding AGR liability, moratorium on spectrum payments and a price floor above the cost of service, VIL’s financial situation will drive its operations to an irretrievable point of collapse. Birla said that in order to actively participate in fundraising, foreign investors want to see a clear government intent to have a three-player telecom market. “With the absence of definitive steps on the three key issues of concern for VIL by the government, potential investors have been hesitant to invest,” the letter said. This is the first time one of VIL’s parents have spoken to the government of their plans to offload their stake, fearing a collapse of the loss-making telco. The government so far has remained silent on having a price floor, while the Supreme Court has rejected the operator’s plea to recalculate the AGR dues. “It is with a sense of duty towards the 27 crore Indians connected by VIL, I am more than willing to hand over my stake in the company to any entity — public sector/government /domestic financial entity or any other — that the government may consider worthy of keeping the company as a going concern,” Birla said. There were no immediate comments from either the Aditya Birla group or VIL. It could not be ascertained whether there were any other communications between Birla and the government after the June 7 letter. VIL had received approval from its board to raise up to Rs 25,000 crore. However, the company has not been able to raise the funds so far. According to Birla’s letter, VIL has not yet approached any Chinese investors. Foreign investors, mostly non-Chinese, are hesitating in making investment in the company for understandable reasons, he added. Possible option The government must merge Vodafone Idea Limited with PSU Bharat Sanchar Nigam (BSNL) and recapitalise the private operator, brokerage Deutsche Bank had said. The only viable solution is for the government to recapitalise VIL by converting its debt into equity, preferably while merging it with BSNL, and then providing it a clear commercial mandate based on profitability targets and incentives. In December 2019, Birla had said that VIL would have to shut shop if the government did not provide relief on the liability it faces in past statutory dues. “It does not make sense to put good money after bad. That would be the end of the story for us. We will shut shop. If we are not getting anything then I think it is end of story for Vodafone Idea,” Birla had then said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-08-2021||India||Antilia bomb scare case: Rs 45 lakh paid for Mansukh Hiran killing||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is leading the investigation into the bomb scare outside Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai residence, has collected two cellphones recovered allegedly from Mujahideen leader Tehseen Akhtar's barrack at Tihar jail in New Delhi. The agency on Tuesday told a special court here that Rs 45 lakh was paid by an accused for the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran. The central probe agency said this while seeking a 30-day extension to file a charge sheet in the Antilia bomb scare-Mansukh Hiran murder case. Indian Express, meanwhile, mentioned sources as saying that the NIA is studying evidence against a senior Mumbai Police officer, following which permission will be sought to arrest him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
03-08-2021||India||‘Edge’ of warfare in Afghanistan will be deeply felt if left unattended: Jaishankar||India on Tuesday warned that the “edge” of the warfare in Afghanistan, if left unattended, will be deeply felt not just in that country's neighbourhood but well beyond, and emphasised that legitimacy cannot be derived from mass violence, brutal intimidation or covert agendas. In an address at the inaugural session of BRICS academic forum, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also said that the warfare in Afghanistan has "sharpened the challenge" of terrorism and therefore, all stakeholders are in the quest for a clear, coordinated and undifferentiated response to terrorism. In his virtual address, he said structural inertia, competitive gridlocks, uneven resourcing and skewed navigation have disadvantaged the multilateral institutions, resulting in certain “gaps”. “Terrorism thrives in some of these gaps. Its nursery lies in conflict-ridden spaces made fertile for radicalisation by malign players, including states. The transition in Afghanistan that we are seeing today and the warfare that has yet again been forced upon its people has sharpened this challenge. “Left unattended, its edge will be deeply felt not just in Afghanistan's neighbourhood but well beyond,” the minister said. “We are therefore all stakeholders in the quest for a clear, coordinated and undifferentiated response to terrorism. In the 21st century, legitimacy cannot be derived from mass violence, brutal intimidation or covert agendas. Representation, inclusion, peace and stability are inextricably linked,” he added. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the US began withdrawing its troops on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. Jaishankar also called for reform of the multilateral institutions saying an “updating and recalibration” of the post-World War II multilateral architecture cannot be postponed any further. The pandemic and the normative breakdown in its wake have "rudely" reminded us that institutions built to tackle problems of the 1940s desperately need to be upgraded and made fit-for-purpose for our century, he said. He said an expansion of the permanent membership of the UN Security Council is a necessary ingredient but by itself, it is not sufficient. “Multilateral institutions have been disadvantaged by structural inertia, competitive gridlocks, uneven resourcing and skewed navigation. The proliferation of new and smaller platforms, including of plurilateral and regional groups, is, therefore, a response to such felt gaps,” he said. “BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) itself was actually among the earliest in this regard. Too often, we obsess with one or the other response; more effort and action is actually required to fill the gaps,” Jaishankar said. On dealing with Covid-19, he talked about the imbalance between the emphasis on intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry and the meeting of public health goals. Left untouched, the current practices will only delay the elimination of the pandemic by several years, he said, and added that “this is simply not acceptable. But beyond health is a larger economic lesson for the world from the pandemic”. Jaishankar said the creation of more reliable and resilient supply chains is vital to infuse greater confidence in the global economy and in fact to de-risk it from future pandemics. The global South is particularly vulnerable in that regard. Investments must diversify to provide a certain assurance of sustainability for livelihoods, for families and communities, and of course for the natural environment, he said. About BRICS, he said its birth was an implicit recognition that the post-war order had peaked and emerging economies needed to step up to craft a new developmental framework. He said BRICS was a response to the search for diversity; in many ways, it was accurate anticipation of multipolarity. “So, let us, therefore, remember that counter-dominance instinct and principled commitment to multipolarity in all forms political and economic, academic and institutional, social and cultural is written into the DNA of BRICS,” Jaishankar said. He said it was in this spirit of independence and complementarity that India co-founded BRICS. He said India is confident that this sentiment will continue to define not just BRICS but the larger template for coming decades of the 21st century. BRICS is a statement of global rebalancing that underlines its essential diversity and pluralism, he added. The external affairs minister also said India's presidency of BRICS is underpinned by four pillars — reform of the multilateral system; counter-terrorism cooperation; technological and digital solutions for sustainable development goals and enhancing people-to-people cooperation. “These pillars may seem abstract or even perennial, but each one of them actually has an explicit, real-world meaning,” he said. In his address, Jaishankar also talked about emerging technologies, adding, digital technology and the energies of the internet, are a force multiplier in any avenue of human endeavour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
03-08-2021||India||93,000 cyber crimes reported between 2017 and 2019: Centre||Over 93,000 cases of cyber crimes were reported in the country between 2017 and 2019, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said that 46 cases of cyber terrorism have been reported in the country during the same period and the FIRs were registered under Section 66F of the Information Technology Act, 2000 related to cyber terrorism. According to the data published by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the cybercrime cases registered in 2017, 2018 and 2019 were 21796, 27248 and 44546 respectively, he said in a written reply to a query. The minister said the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) is serving as the national agency for responding to cybersecurity incidents as per provisions of Section 70B of the Information Technology Act, 2000. The CERT-In receives inputs from its situational awareness systems and threat intelligence sources about malware infections in networks of entities across sectors. Whenever any incident comes to the notice of CERT-In, it issues alerts and advisories to the entities concerned and sectoral Computer Emergency Response Teams (CERTs) for remedial measures, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
03-08-2021||India||Delhi: Fury over Dalit girl's alleged rape and murder||The fury over the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi Cantonment is growing with locals as well top political leaders expressing anguish. Demands for quick action and justice have been raised from multiple sides. Residents of Old Nangal village in the cantonment, where the girl lived with her family, have been protesting since Sunday night when the incident came to be reported. The hurried cremation of the child's body has drawn comparison with the Uttar Pradesh's Hathras case from September 2020. Then, too, the rape victim's body was disposed of in the cover of night, allegedly without the parents' consent. The move was seen as an attempt to destroy evidence. On Sunday, too, Radhey Shyam, the priest of the cremation ground where the rape and murder allegedly took place, coerced the victim's family into cremating the body. The girl's mother later told the media and the police that by the time she and her relatives managed to douse the flames, only the girl's feet could be salvaged. The child had gone there to get some water from the facility's cooler, the police said. Following her failure to return even after a long time, the girl's family received a phone call telling them about the girl's death by electrocution. Her parents later raised an alarm and gathered the locals. While four persons, including the priest, have been arrested by the Delhi police, demands for quick action have been pouring in from a cross section of people, especially on social media. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, too, commented on similar lines. "Dalit's child is also the nation's daughter," he tweeted in Hindi along with the screen shot of a news report of the incident. His comment comes amid several Indian sportswomen earning heaps of praise for their performance in the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. Shuttler PV Sindhu and the entire Indian women's hockey team, besides others, have often been referred to as "the country's daughters" by many following their stellar display. The Delhi Chief Minister, meanwhile, pledged help to seek justice for the nine-year-old. "The murder of the 9-year-old in Delhi after being ravaged was extremely shameful. There is a need to strengthen law and order in the city. The accused must get the death sentence as soon as possible," Kejriwal tweeted today. "From Prime Minister to Home minister everyone lives here still there is no sense of safety for women. Why has the Chief Minister not met the victim's parents yet? He lives only a few kilometres from here," he had said earlier. "I'll be meeting the victim's family tomorrow. We'll help them in all ways in their battle for justice." Dalit leader and Bhim Army Chief Chandra Shekhar Azad, meanwhile, said their team was already present amid the protesters in Nangal village. He met the bereaved family today. "This is my own family. She was my sister," Azad tweeted in Hindi.' "From Prime Minister to Home minister everyone lives here still there is no sense of safety for women. Why has the Chief Minister not met the victim's parents yet? He lives only a few kilometres from here," he had said earlier. The Delhi Commission for Women, calling the incident "serious" and meriting "urgent attention", has instituted a panel to carry out a probe. Summoning the Deputy Commissioner of Police of South West District, Chairperson Swati Maliwal has demanded the "complete case file" of the matter, copies of the FIR and various statements, and other details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
03-08-2021||India||Would PM Narendra Modi be happier if I used 'dhokla' instead of 'paapri chat', asks Derek O'Brien||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi's disapproval of his 'papri chaat' comment on the passing of bills, an unfazed TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien on Tuesday said his intention was to use a cultural idiom to connect with the people over the serious issue and asked if the PM would be happier if he used the word "dhokla" instead. He stressed that the real issue was the hurried passing of bills in both the Houses without any discussions and even went on to say that the prime minister's reaction showed that the "TMC is setting the agenda". "Passing laws or making paapri chaat," O'Brien had said on Monday taking a swipe at the government and noting that 12 bills were passed at an average time of under seven minutes in Parliament. On Tuesday, Union minister Pralhad Joshi said that PM Modi was anguished over the comment and found it "insulting to the people who elect MPs". "The TMC is setting the agenda and the PM is replying. Nowhere has the PM disputed the number we have put out of seven minutes. It is a cultural idiom that people understand. Would PM be happier if I used 'dhokla' instead?" the Trinamool Congress leader later told reporters. Dhokla is a popular Gujarati snack. "I speak in the language of the people. I have taken a serious fact and used a popular cultural idiom to spread the message," O'Brien said. The MP and his Lok Sabha colleague Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar served 'chaat' to mediapersons on Tuesday and even had their share of the savoury snack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
03-08-2021||India||Policeman, civilian injured in firing by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir||A police constable and a civilian were injured on Tuesday as militants opened fire at security forces in Khanyar area of the city, an official said. The ultras attacked a security forces' party in Khanyar in the old city area of the valley, the police official said. Further details are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
03-08-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal condemns rape, murder of 9-year-old Dalit girl||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday condemned the rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl in the city and demanded capital punishment for the culprits. He said there is a need to improve the law and order situation in the national capital. The Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances, even as her parents alleged that she was raped and her body was forcibly cremated by a crematorium's priest, according to police. The police said based on the statement of the girl's mother, rape charges have been added in the FIR. Four people, including the priest, have been arrested in connection with the case. "The murder of a nine-year-old innocent in Delhi after subjecting her to brutality is very shameful. There is a need to improve the law and order situation in Delhi. The culprits should be given capital punishment at the earliest, the chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. "Going to meet the victim's family tomorrow, will do everything possible to help the family in this fight for justice," Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi Women and Child Development Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam had met the victim's family on Monday. "This is a very shocking matter. I have spoken to the DCP and the district magistrate here. I asked them that the matter should be investigated in a fast-track manner. The statement of the parents should be immediately recorded without any delay," he said. "There should be a thorough investigation in the matter. If we feel that the investigation is not carried out properly, then the Delhi government will conduct a magisterial inquiry," Gautam had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
03-08-2021||India||The Artistree Partners Up With OtakuKart to Bring Artist Feature To India||The Artistree, an Entertainment News Company From southern California, US is looking forward to a huge expansion in the following months. This comes in the form of crossing the borders, as well as content-wise. Then there are new initiatives and team-ups with the bigger names too. So, OtakuKart is the one big name from India that The Artistree is about to go on a journey with.The Artistree hopes to expand its horizons in the fields of Anime and Gaming. Something Otakukart built itself upon. Another new initiative, The Artistree is aiming to bring is the one called "Artist Feature". The company believes it could turn out successful with a little help from their friends of Otakukart The Artist Feature probably comes from the origins of The Artistree’s main motive from the time they started as a company in 2016. It began with posting news about Films, Music, and Television Shows. The secret main motives here was to give the artists behind these works the recognition they needed. Something that could be done by hearing the insights, hard work, and ideas these artists came up with. Lastly what their art speaks out loud. So, The Artistree with the same motive and name has been building that for themselves. It seems like working with Otakukart has made it easier. Now the team of these companies is working in full swing towards it. Otakukart on their part already has Artist Feature articles of their own. They prefer to call it Artist Focus. So far they have covered artists such as Edward Ameen and Attack on Cuisine. Talking with Edward Ameen, he revealed to OtakuKart his humble beginnings of wanting to be a photographer growing up. The obstacles and challenges he faced, anime, and things he loves about pop culture. Also how he feels about his working getting recognition around the world and the advice he would give to young aspiring photographers. OtakuKart also sat with Attack on Cuisine to embrace their journey of Anime-inspired cooking. Their ups and downs, Chef life, their favorite recipe. Then what it means to be a distinct Anime chef and much more. So these two interviews were just the beginnings of the bigger initiative The Artistree and OtakuKart are aiming to bring forward through Artist Feature. We may have more popular names who started from the bottom and reached the top with the unique art they brought to the world. Something which shouldn’t go unnoticed by the wider audience. These may range from actors to filmmakers, to chefs, to sports personalities, to musicians to dancers. Both the dedicated fan bases of The Artistree and OtakuKart coming together might result in the much-needed success of this brilliant and interesting initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
03-08-2021||India|| Reproductive number of Covid-19 more than 1 in eight states, warns health ministry||The government on Tuesday said India's reproductive number, or R-factor, which denotes the spread of Covid-19 is more than one in eight states, including Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Reproduction or reproduction number is a measure that highlights the number of people a coronavirus positive person infects, thereby reflecting the severity of its spread. A number of one or below one indicates a slowly spreading virus while any number above 1 indicates a rapid spread. An official said the pandemic is far from over, and the second wave, as far as India is concerned, is still not over. The daily new Covid-19 cases being reported across the world are still high as more than 4.7 lakh infections are being recorded everyday, the official added. The government said 44 districts across 12 states and Union Territories reported more than 10 per cent weekly Covid-19 positivity rate in the week ending August 2. "Delta variant is a dominant problem. The pandemic is still raging and the second wave is persisting in our own country," Dr VK Paul, who heads the government's Covid task force, was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. "Please remember that R number should be 0.6 or below. If it has gone over 1, it shows it is a significant problem and the virus wants to spread," he added. Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra are the only states showing a downward trajectory, while the R-value in states like Bengal, Nagaland, Haryana, Goa, Delhi and Jharkhand stands at 1. "Whenever R number is above one, it means that the case trajectory is increasing and it needs to be controlled," said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the Union health ministry. The Centre said that 18 districts from six states, including Kerala, Maharashtra, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh, reported an increasing trend in daily new Covid cases in last four weeks. It added that in the last week, 49.85 per cent of the total coronavirus cases were reported from Kerala. The government also said that the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in July is more than double that in May. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far as part of the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 47.85 crore. India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,17,26,507 on Tuesday with 30,549 more people testing positive for the disease while the active caseload declined after six days, according to the health ministry data. The death toll climbed to 4,25,195 with 422 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
03-08-2021||India||Lok Sabha adjourned for the day as Opposition din continues||Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day on Tuesday amidst protests by the Opposition over the Pegasus snooping controversy and farmers' issues after the House passed the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 amid the din. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the government was ready to respond to any queries raised by members on bills laid in the House. Critical of the Opposition, Sitharaman said that the "constitutional impasse" in Parliament was "not correct". She also said it was unfortunate that nothing is being done to stop the din in the House. Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and RSP MP N K Premchandran said that bills should not be passed when the House is not in order and there should be a proper debate before the passage of any bill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
03-08-2021||India||Four more pharma firms to start Covid jab production by November, says Union minister||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said in Parliament that four more Indian pharma firms are expected to start anti-coronavirus vaccine production by October-November that will accelerate the inoculation drive. During the Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha, Mandaviya said India has administered 47 crore doses of vaccine so far and the Centre is making efforts to inoculate the entire country at the earliest. "Even 7 to 9 per cent of the doses that remain unutilised by private hospitals are being used by the government vaccination centres," he added. Mandaviya was speaking amid a din in the house over the Opposition's demand for a discussion on the Pegasus issue and the farm laws. "Vaccination drive is going on smoothly... It will get more accelerated in the coming days with the ramping up of production by four more Indian companies," the minister said. "The government expects that by October-November, four more Indian pharmaceutical companies will start production of indigenous vaccines that will help meet the domestic demand. "Biologicals E and Novartis vaccines will also be available in the market in the coming days, while Zydus Cadila will soon get an emergency-use nod from an expert committee," the Union Health Minister said. "At present two companies (Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute) are supplying the vaccine to the government. Sputnik vaccine is also available and production of which has begun," he added. To a query by BJD member Amar Patnaik about the vaccine rollout plan for 12-18-year-old and the need for a third or fourth dose, Mandaviya said, "The government's target is to vaccinate the entire population at the earliest and constant efforts are being made to achieve this." Unlike BCG (bacille Calmette-Guerin) and polio vaccines that came to India much later after its launch in other parts of the world, the vaccine against coronavirus was made available in India at the same time in the world due to the efforts of the Narendra Modi government, he said. "The prime minister took steps, supported scientists and companies to ensure vaccines were available in the country at the earliest," the minister said. "Thus vaccination drives began in India which has administered 47 crore doses so far, the maximum in the world. We are going to accelerate it further in the coming days," he said. Responding to BJP member Susheel Kumar Modi's query on the government's plan to reduce the vaccine quota to private hospitals, the minister said it was not necessary as the unused vaccine quota of the private hospitals is taken by the government. "In a month, we saw seven to nine per cent unused vaccines by private hospitals. So, we decided to take those unutilised doses in the government quota. Therefore, it is not necessary to reduce the quota for the private. The vaccination is happening smoothly," he said. The Centre is buying 75 per cent of the vaccine produced to give free jabs to people, while 25 per cent is allocated for the private sector, the health minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
03-08-2021||India||Editors Guild files plea in SC, seeks SIT probe into Pegasus snooping||The Editors Guild of India has filed a plea in the Supreme Court seeking that a special investigation team (SIT) be set up to conduct probe into the reported surveillance of journalists and others allegedly by the government through the use Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. The guild's petition has stated that journalists are tasked with enforcing the public's right to be informed, accountability and to an open and transparent government. The guild's members and all journalists have the duty of holding all branches of government accountable by seeking information, explanations and constitutionally valid justifications for state action and inaction, it said. To be able to fulfil this role, freedom of the press must be safeguarded, it said. Journalist Mrinal Pande is a co-petitioner in the case. Freedom of the press relies on non-interference by the government and its agencies in reporting of journalists, including their ability to securely and confidentially speaking with sources, investigate abuse of power and corruption, expose governmental incompetence, and speak with those in opposition to the government, the plea said. The guild submitted that citizens of India have a right to know if the government is infringing upon the limits of their authority under the Constitution and what steps have been taken to safeguard their fundamental rights. The plea stated that all attempts to seek accountability and enforce Constitutional limits through Parliamentary processes have been stonewalled. Through their intransigence, the Respondents have deliberately avoided public debate on this issue and have provided obfuscated answers, forcing the Petitioner to approach this Court, the plea said. The guild has sought a court-appointed and monitored SIT to investigate every aspect of the alleged use of Pegasus by the Government of India and against Indian citizens, especially journalists. It has challenged the constitutional vires of electronic surveillance, hacking and use of spyware, and the existing legal architecture for surveillance, in light of the gigantic leaps in technology and surveillance capabilities. On Monday, a senior journalist, whose name featured in the reported list of those who were targets of snooping using Pegasus, had moved the apex court seeking directions to the Centre to disclose materials with respect to investigation and authorisation pertaining to alleged use of Israeli spyware on his mobile. Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, who said existence of Pegasus will have a tremendous chilling effect on the right to free speech in India, has urged the apex court to declare that use of malware or spyware is illegal and unconstitutional. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana is scheduled to hear on August 5 three separate pleas, including the one filed by senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar who have sought an independent probe by a sitting or a retired judge into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
03-08-2021||India||BJP MPs armed with info to take on government critics||With the government's handling of Covid-19 being a major public issue, BJP MPs on Tuesday were given a detailed note on the government's response to the pandemic and the ongoing vaccination drive in an attempt by the party to arm its lawmakers with information to take on the critics. The booklets, prepared by the Health and Family Welfare Ministry, claim all efforts to counter the disease cannot be attributed to just the Union or state governments but to "Team India" which acted with a "whole of government and whole of society" approach in a pre-emptive, proactive and graded manner. Opposition parties have been attacking the Narendra Modi dispensation and the BJP governments in poll-bound states such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Goa for their handling of the pandemic. They have also accused the central government of not doing enough to vaccinate people at a fast pace. The ministry's note argues that India has delivered the highest vaccine doses compared to other countries for which "transparent" data is available in the public domain. China has claimed to have given 160 crore doses, it added. India has by July-end administered over 45 crore doses compared to 34.3 crore in the US and 13.7 crore in Brazil and 8.4 crore in the UK, it said. India took 166 days to reach the mark of 34 crore vaccine doses against 221 days by the US, the note stated. India has so far administered over 10 per cent of the doses given globally. Referring to India's handling of the pandemic, the note claims that the country managed to "evade" the catastrophic effects of the pandemic which had wreaked havoc in the world. It also highlights the government's efforts to distribute required medicines and medical oxygen, besides the measures to ramp up the supply of the life-saving gas. PM Modi, it notes, held 21 meetings with states, addressed the nation 10 times and chaired a total of 40 meetings. India's Covid-19 cases at 22,726 per million and fatality at 305 per million at are among the "lowest" in the world, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
03-08-2021||India|| Modi to invite India's Olympic contingent at Red Fort on August 15||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will invite India's Olympic contingent to the Red Fort as special guests on August 15 when he will deliver his eighth straight independence day speech. Official sources said Modi will also invite them to his residence for interaction. India has been represented by a 228-strong contingent, including over 120 athletes, at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. This is the largest-ever contingent that has represented the country in the games. Modi has been regularly offering words of encouragement to the team and has also spoken to many of them. "Remember, they've achieved this feat while dealing with the biggest disaster in 100 years. There are many games for which we have qualified the first time, and not just qualify... they've given a tough fight," he said on Tuesday. The Indian men's hockey team's dream of entering the Olympics final after 41-years remained unfulfilled on the day as it lost 2-5 to world champions Belgium in the last-four stage but the side is still in the hunt for a bronze in the Tokyo Games. "Wins and losses are a part of life. Our Men's Hockey Team at #Tokyo2020 gave their best and that is what counts," Modi tweeted. Wishing the Team the very best for the next match and their future endeavours, he said, adding that "India is proud of our players".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
03-08-2021||India||Covishield production projected to increase to 120 million per month, says health minister||The monthly production capacity of Covishield is projected to be increased to more than 120 million doses and of Covaxin to around 58 million doses by December, the government told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, citing information from the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya was responding to a question on the current capacity to manufacture Covaxin and Covishield in the country, and the expected capacity going forward from August to December 2021. "As communicated by the manufacturers, the monthly vaccine production capacity of Covishield is projected to be increased from 110 million doses per month to more than 120 million doses per month and the production capacity of Covaxin is projected to be increased from 25 million doses per month to around 58 million doses per month," the minister said in a written reply. Further, the Department of Biotechnology under the Ministry of Science and Technology has launched 'Mission Covid Suraksha- the Indian Covid-19 Vaccine Development Mission'. The Mission is being implemented by Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), a public sector undertaking (PSU) of the Department of Biotechnology, the reply stated. Under the Mission, facility augmentation of Bharat Biotech and one state public sector enterprise and 2 central public sector enterprises (PSEs) -- Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Mumbai; Indian Immunologicals Limited (IIL), Hyderabad and Bharat Immunologicals Biologicals Limited (BIBCOL), Bulandshahr -- for production of Covaxin have been supported. In addition, technology transfer of Covaxin production to Gujarat Covid Vaccine Consortium (GCVC), including Hester Biosciences and OmniBRx Biotechnologies Pvt Ltd, led by Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) of Department of Science and Technology, Government of Gujarat, has also been facilitated, the reply said. Further, the Centre has also extended financial assistance to one of the domestic manufacturers for 'At-risk manufacturing', advance payment against the supply orders placed with Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, besides streamlining regulatory norms for approval of vaccines, the reply added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
03-08-2021||India||Lok Sabha passes Essential Defence Services Bill amid Opposition protests||Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed a bill that seeks to prohibit any agitation and strike by anyone engaged in essential defence services. Amid protests by some opposition members on the intent of the bill, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt, who piloted the measure, informed the House that the "biggest thing" is that "we have taken a decision to add a sunset clause in this (bill)". A sunset clause gives an expiry date to a law. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said he wants to assure the House that after the parliamentary nod and presidential assent, the Act will become effective only when it is invoked. It may so happen that there is no need to invoke this Act, he said, adding that the law "will be effective for only a year". The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021 seeks to replace an ordinance issued in June. As the minister was speaking, opposition members continued their protests over Pegasus snooping row and farmers' issues. N K Premachandran (RSP) was of the view that such an important Bill should not be passed amid the din. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury termed the bill as "draconian" and said that it should not be passed when the House is "not in order". TMC's Saugata Roy alleged the measure is "anti-labour". The defence minister said the Bill has been brought keeping in mind the security of the nation and the importance of the legislation should be understood. "Keeping in mind national security, I request you to pass this Bill," he told the Lower House. MoS Defence Bhatt said there was no intention to harm the interests of government employees. He said discussions have been held with the employees' organisations in a cordial atmosphere. The bill was later passed by a voice vote amid continuous uproar by opposition members. According to the Statements of Objects and Reasons of the Bill, Indian Ordnance Factories is the oldest and largest industrial set up which functions under the Department of Defence Production of the Ministry of Defence. The ordnance factories form an integrated base for indigenous production of defence hardware and equipment, with the primary objective of self-reliance in equipping the armed forces with state-of-the-art battlefield equipment. In order to improve autonomy, accountability and efficiency in ordnance supplies, the Government decided to convert the Ordnance Factory Board into one or more one hundred percent government-owned corporate entity or entities to be registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Against the decision, the recognised federations of the employees gave a notice for an indefinite strike. The conciliation proceedings initiated by the government at the level of Chief Labour Commissioner failed in the meeting held on June 15. On June 16, the government decided to convert the Ordnance Factory Board into seven Defence Public Sector Undertakings. "In spite of the government's assurance to take care of the conditions of service of the employees of the Ordnance Factory Board, the recognised federations of the employees have reiterated their intention to go on an indefinite strike from July 26. "Since, it is essential that an uninterrupted supply of ordnance items to the armed forces be maintained for the defence preparedness of the country and the ordnance factories continue to function without any disruptions, especially in view of the prevailing situation on the northern front of the country, it was felt necessary that the government should have power to meet the emergency created by such attempts," it said It said the government had to ensure the maintenance of essential defence services in all establishments connected with defence, in public interest or interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India or security of any State or decency or morality. The Statement of Objects said the ordinance issued on June 30 defines the expressions "essential defence services" and "strike". It also empowers the central government to prohibit a strike in essential defence services and provides for disciplinary action, including dismissal, against employees participating in such a strike. It also provides for penalties for "illegal strikes, instigation thereof and providing for financial aid to such illegal strikes."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
03-08-2021||India||Delhi approves policy for providing incentives to private sector to set up oxygen plants||Stepping up preparation for a possible third wave, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday approved a policy for providing incentives to the private sector to set up oxygen production plants and storage facilities to help improve the availability of the life-saving gas in the capital. "Approved Medical Oxy Prodn Promotion Policy. It provides several incentives to pvt sector to set up oxy prodn plants, invest in Oxy tankers n set up oxy storage facilities. This will help improving oxy availability in Del which became a huge bottleneck in handling last Covid wave (sic)," Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi battled an acute shortage of oxygen in April and May as hospitals in the capital sent out SOS calls to authorities to replenish their dwindling stocks. Several private healthcare facilities even requested the government to move out their patients. On April 23, around 21 critically-ill COVID-19 patients had died at Jaipur Golden Hospital in northwest Delhi due to oxygen shortage. Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad Institutional Area lost eight lives due to oxygen shortage on May 1. To prevent a repeat of the oxygen crisis, the city government is in the process of installing oxygen generation plants and increasing hospital beds to accommodate 37,000 cases a day in case of a third wave. According to officials, around 10 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants with a total capacity of 148.11 metric tonnes are being installed at various government and private hospitals in the city. While 66 plants are being installed in Delhi government hospitals, 10 are being set up in central government hospitals and 84 in private healthcare facilities. The city government is also creating LMO storage facilities and has floated a tender to procure 15 cryogenic tankers having a total carrying capacity of 225 tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
03-08-2021||India||Independent ration delivery system did not benefit poor, says Modi||The scope and budget of cheap ration schemes rose since Independence but the effect it should have had on the poor remained limited due to ineffective delivery systems and selfish elements, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. "Over the years, food storage kept increasing, but starvation and malnutrition did not decrease in that ratio," Modi said, after a virtual interaction with the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY) beneficiaries in Gujarat. "The PM-GKAY food security scheme is helping lakhs of poor people during the coronavirus pandemic," Modi said. "Free ration is being distributed to lakhs of families under the scheme and it has helped lessen the worries of poor during the pandemic," he said. Modi said the government used new technology to make the food grain delivery system to the poor more effective. "After independence, almost every government had talked about providing cheap food to the poor. The scope and budget of cheap ration schemes increased year after year, but the effect it should have had remained limited. The country's food reserves increased, but hunger and malnutrition did not decrease in that proportion," he said. "Some sickness came into the system, some selfish elements entered. To change this situation, after 2014, work started in a new way, and help of new technology was taken to remove crores of fake beneficiaries and link ration cards with Aadhaar card and encourage digital technology in government fair price shops," he said. Modi said empowerment of the poor is a top priority of his government. "Today, the country is spending lakhs of crores on infrastructure, but at the same time, it is also setting new benchmarks to improve the quality of life of the common man, he said. The government is making efforts to provide all possible help to citizens during the pandemic, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
03-08-2021||India||No one arrested in JNU violence case, Lok Sabha informed||The Delhi Police has not arrested anyone in connection with the 2020 violence at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) even though several people were examined, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said the Delhi Police has reported that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Crime Branch has been constituted to investigate three cases registered at Vasant Kunj (North) police station with regard to the violence on the JNU campus in January, 2020. "The investigation conducted includes examination of witnesses; collection and analysis of footages; and examination of identified suspects. As reported by the Delhi Police, no arrest has been made in these cases, he said, replying to a written question of DMK member Dayanidhi Maran. On January 5, 2020, a mob of masked individuals went on a rampage on the university campus. They attacked the Sabarmati Hostel and beat up several students and teachers. The mob, captured on video carrying iron rods, hammers and sticks, was allegedly composed of some JNU, Delhi University students and others. Around 35 people, including students and teachers, were injured in the attack and had to be hospitalised. The Delhi police, whose actions had been questioned and criticised heavily in the recent past, had then formed a SIT to probe the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-360
03-08-2021||India||Two BSF personnel killed in Tripura ambush||Two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel were killed on Tuesday when their patrol was ambushed by NLFT militants along the India-Bangladesh international border in Tripura. The border guarding force said the ambush took place around 6:30 AM in the Dhalai district of the state and those killed included a Sub-Inspector of the force. The ambush and retaliation by the troops took place near the R C Nath border post that is under the Chawmanu police station area of the district in the Panisagar sector. Dhalai district is about 94 km from state capital Agartala and it borders Bangladesh on the northern and souther sides. Out of the total 4,096 km long India-Bangladesh border, Tripura shares 856 km of the front. "During the fierce encounter, Sub Inspector Bhuru Singh and Constable Raj Kumar sustained fatal injuries and lost their lives "As per the blood stains available at the spot, militants have reportedly sustained some injuries," a BSF spokesperson said. Both our martyrs fought valiantly before succumbing to their injuries, he said. The spokesperson said a "massive" search operation has been launched in the area to nab the militants. The weapons of the two slain soldiers were taken away by the militants, officials said. The National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) is a banned organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
03-08-2021||India||Hyderabad rape: Supreme Court grants 6 months to inquiry panel to submit report on death of accused||The Supreme Court Tuesday gave another six months to the three-member inquiry commission, headed by former apex court judge V S Sirpurkar, to file a final report on the encounter killing of the four accused in the case of gang-rape and murder of a veterinarian in Hyderabad. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked the lawyer appearing for the inquiry panel as to how much more time it wanted to conclude the probe. The bench, also comprising justice Justice Surya Kant, referred to the instance of a similar panel, set up to inquire into the encounter killing of a gangster Vikas Dubey in Uttar Pradesh, and said that they had already filed the report. "Ok. Six months," the bench added. The Sirpurkar panel was set up on December 12, 2019, to inquire into the circumstances leading to the encounter and was to submit a report in six months. The term of the inquiry panel has now been extended thrice. The four accused were shot dead on NH-44 near Hyderabad -- the same highway where the charred body of a 27-year-old veterinarian was found. The police had claimed that on November 27, 2019, the woman veterinarian was kidnapped, sexually assaulted and later found murdered. It had said that the accused had subsequently burned the body of the woman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
03-08-2021||India||Plea in HC for door-to-door Covid jab to bed-ridden senior citizens||The Delhi High Court Tuesday sought the Centre and Delhi government's reply on a plea seeking direction to them to introduce a policy on urgent door-to-door COVID-19 vaccination for bed-ridden senior citizens here. Notice on the PIL, which also seeks a helpline for registration of such cases, was issued by a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh. The petitioner is an 84-year-old Dhiraj Aggarwal who suffers from arthritis and is yet to be vaccinated as she cannot visit the vaccination centre on account of her health. The petition also highlights that many fellow super senior and bed-ridden citizens, who are vulnerable to COVID-19, do not have private transport to reach the vaccination centre or even a family member who would help them with the registration process. Visiting a vaccination centre also exposes senior citizens to the virus, it added. The petitioner, represented by advocate Vinay Kumar, argued that it is the obligation of the authorities to introduce helpline and door-to-door vaccination and not doing so is against the right to life. It is the obligatory duty of the respondent no. 1 and 2 (Centre and Delhi government) to take care of super senior and bed ridden citizens, it said, adding that denying the vaccine by not introducing a helpline number for registration of COVID-19 vaccine and a policy on urgent basis for door to door COVID-19 vaccination for super senior and bed ridden citizens in Delhi is against the fundamental right to life of a citizen. The petition said that certain states like Jharkhand have already begun door-to-door campaign for vaccination. The matter would be heard next on September 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
03-08-2021||India||CBSE: Girls outshine boys in Class 10 boards||Girls outshone boys by a slender margin of 0.35 per cent while 99.04 per cent students passed the class 10 exams, the results which were declared by the CBSE on Tuesday. According to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) data, 57,824 students have scored above 95 per cent marks, while 2,00,962 candidates have scored between 90 and 95 per cent. Trivandrum region has achieved the highest pass percentage of 99.99 per cent followed by Bengaluru (99.96 per cent) and Chennai (99.94 per cent) "The result of 16,639 students is till under process. No merit list will be declared this year and no merit certificates will be issued to students," said BSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bharwdaj. A total of 17,636 candidates have been placed under compartment. The number of Children with Special Needs scoring above 95 per cent is 53 while 224 students in the category have scored above 90 per cent. In CBSE-affiliated schools abroad, 99.92 per cent students have passed class 10. Kendriya Vidalayas and the schools under the Central Tibetan Schools Administration have achieved a 100 per cent pass percentage as against 99.23 per cent and 93.67 per cent respectively last year. The Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas have improved their pass percentage from 98.66 to 99.99 this year. The pass percentage of government and government-aided schools is 96.03 and 95.88 pc respectively. The pass percentage of private schools has increased by over six per cent since last year. "The compartment examination will be conducted between August 16 and September 15. The exact dates will be announced in some time," Bhardwaj said. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19. The result has been announced on the basis of an alternate assessment policy. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject were for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks were calculated on basis of the students' performance in various tests or exams throughout the year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
03-08-2021||India||Meet India’s Only Visually Impaired YouTuber Boddu Naga Lakshmi And Her Brother Adi Reddy||Disabilities are considered a sign of weakness by most human beings who are able-bodied. But time and again, individuals with heart-wrenching disabilities have proved that they can outperform even the able-bodied individuals with their talent and determination. One such epitome of willpower is Boddu Naga Lakshmi, the sister of the famous Telugu YouTube creator, Adi Reddy aka Boddu Venkata Audi Narayana Reddy, who is a successful and most loved Telugu YouTube creator despite her visual impairment. Boddu Naga Lakshmi was born visually impaired and lived through her teenage years with the support of her family in which her brother Adi Reddy aka  was always there to support her. The brother-sister duo's mother passed away a few years back which was a huge setback for the family. She has an ailing father and despite her disability, she used to cook and clean for her family after her mother passed away. Boddu Naga Lakshmi and her brother Adi Reddy faced surmounting struggles both financially and mentally before achieving success in life. Her brother's YouTube career took off in 2018 when he became popular for doing Big Boss Telugu reviews, movie reviews and spreading information about the methods to succeed in fantasy cricket. With a YouTuber in the family, Boddu Naga Lakshmi also gravitated towards the platform after her brother's marriage with BondalaKavitha. Her sister-in-law and she started a YouTube channel with her brother's support and slowly gained over 143K followers on YouTube. Boddu Naga Lakshmi and her sister-in-law present daily lifestyle vlogs and cooking videos on their channel Kavita Naga Vlogs. Their channel has crossed over 3 crore views so far and has a lot of appreciation from the followers who eagerly wait for Boddu Naga Lakshmi to upload a new video. Boddu Naga Lakshmi believes in philanthropy and has been consistently doing social work. She donated five months of her pension towards corona relief disbursal. She also donated her YouTube channel income from which 25000 went to the Sonu Sood Foundation for construction of the oxygen plant and 25000 went to the CM relief fund. She was invited along with her brother to inaugurate the oxygen plant opening in Nellore. She is an example of how one can turn their life around with support and encouragement. Her brother is her anchor in life and she is determined to improve her content day by day and win more hearts on YouTube.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
03-08-2021||India||Contempt plea against Modi, Shah for appointment of Rakesh Asthana||A lawyer who has filed a contempt action plea in the Supreme Court against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah for appointing Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police chief has sought an urgent hearing of his petition. The Supreme Court on Tuesday told lawyer M L Sharma that his petition will be listed for hearing if the registry has accorded a number to it. "I have filed a contempt petition against the appointment of Rakesh Asthana," Sharma said. "If it is numbered, we will post it for hearing," a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana told the lawyer. According to the petition, the prime minister, who is the head of the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, and the home minister jointly decided and appointed Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner. This, the petition alleges, is against the judgement of the top court in the Prakash Singh case. In his petition, Sharma said that according to the apex court's judgement, a person must have a "minimum of three months of service left prior to his appointment as the DGP". A 1984-batch IPS officer, Asthana was appointed as the Delhi Police Commissioner on July 27. His appointment came just days before his superannuation on July 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
03-08-2021||India||Modi lashes out at Opposition members for their conduct in Parliament||With Parliament's proceedings being stalled by the opposition's protests over the Pegasus issue, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday slammed it for its conduct, including tearing papers and making "derogatory" remarks on the way bills have been passed, as he accused them of insulting the legislature and the Constitution. Briefing reporters on Modi's speech at the BJP parliamentary party meeting, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the prime minister expressed anger at the conduct of some opposition members and noted that those who tore papers and threw it around have remained unrepentant. This shows their arrogance, Modi said and asked his party members to maintain restraint. While a TMC member in Rajya Sabha had torn the statement of IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on the Pegasus issue, several opposition members had torn papers in Lok Sabha and threw it in the air and towards the Chair. A tweet of TMC leader Derek O'Brien criticising the manner of bills' passage in Parliament also drew Modi's ire, Joshi and another Union minister V Muraleedharan told reporters, without naming the TMC member. He had tweeted, "In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill. Passing legislation or making papri chaat!" Such comments are "derogatory" to the parliamentary procedure and the esteem of elected representatives, Muraleedharan said quoting Modi. The conduct of the opposition is an "insult" to Parliament and the Constitution, Joshi said, quoting the prime minister. Modi accused them of having "undemocratic" attitude and said they are not keen on meaningful debates. The opposition has stalled Parliament's proceedings demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row, an issue dismissed as inconsequential by the government. In the meeting, Modi asserted that his government will leave no stone unturned to fulfil its commitment to people. Bills do not belong to the government but are aimed at people's welfare, he added. The prime minister, Joshi said, reiterated the government's stand for constructive and rich debates. The BJP parliamentary party also hailed Modi at the meeting over the government's decision to provide reservation to the OBC and the EWS in the all-India quota in the medical entrance test NEET. The prime minister also highlighted the rise in the GST revenue in the month of July with a collection of 1.16 lakh crore to express confidence about the state of economy. Finance Minister Nirmala Sithraman also spoke in detail about the economic conditions and asserted that the recovery has gathered pace despite the second wave. India's foreign reserves are at an all-time high while the GST collection also rose significantly last month, she added. The government's package for the MSME sector is now at Rs 4.5 lakh crore while the banking sector has also made recovery and posted profit of over Rs 31,000 crore, sources quoting her said. Economic indicators have been doing well, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
03-08-2021||India||CBSE class 10 results to be announced at 12 noon today||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will announce class 10 results on Tuesday, according to officials. Candidates who have registered themselves for Class 10 can check their result through the official site of CBSE on cbseresults.nic.in. "The results will be announced at 12 noon today," a senior official said. The result for Class 10 can also be checked on cbse.gov.in and cbse.nic.in. Besides these, results will also be available to all the registered candidates on IVS, SMS, DigiLocker, and Umang App. Candidates will also be able to log in to the CBSE DigiLocker website, digilocker.gov.in, and access their CBSE result mark sheets and certificates. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19. The result will be announced on the basis of an alternate assessment policy. Those who are not happy with the evaluation method can take a physical exam, which will be conducted once the COVID-19 situation improves. As per the CBSE Class 10 evaluation criteria, marks will be awarded using students’ performance in internal assessments, periodic tests, half-yearly or mid-term exams and pre-board examinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
03-08-2021||India||India's active Covid cases drop after a gap of six days||India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,17,26,507 on Tuesday with 30,549 more people testing positive for the disease while the active caseload declined after six days, according to Union health ministry data. The death toll climbed to 4,25,195 with 422 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases came down to 4,04,958, which comprises 1.28 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate increased to 97.38 per cent, it showed. A decrease of 8,760 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,49,295 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 47,12,94,789. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.85 per cent. The weekly positivity rate stood at 2.39 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,08,96,354 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far as part of the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 47.85 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The caseload crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 422 new fatalities include 118 from Kerala and 90 from Maharashtra, the data stated. So far, 4,25,195 deaths have been recorded in the country, including 1,33,038 from Maharashtra, 36,612 from Karnataka, 34,130 from Tamil Nadu, 25,054 from Delhi, 22,763 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,161 from West Bengal and 16,294 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
03-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders meet over breakfast to chalk out joint strategy on Pegasus issue||Leaders of several Opposition parties attended a breakfast meeting hosted by former Congress President Rahul Gandhi at the Constitution Club here on Tuesday where stress was laid on opposition unity. Several Opposition MPs led by Gandhi later cycled to Parliament to highlight the issue of fuel price hike. Some Opposition MPs, who could not cycle, walked down to Parliament. Apart from around 100 MPs of the Congress, leaders of several Opposition parties including Trinamool Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena, DMK, CPI-M, CPI, RJD and Samajwadi Party attended the meeting. Leaders of JMM, JKNC besides IUML, RSP, KCM, LJD and RSP were also present at the meeting. Leaders of 17 Opposition parties were invited at the breakfast meeting, but the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) did not attend. Trinamool Congress, which had skipped the last meeting of Opposition leaders by Gandhi, was also present at today's breakfast meet. "The single motive to invite you is that we should unite.The more this voice unites, the more powerful it will become, the more difficult it will become for the BJP and RSS to suppress this voice," Gandhi said at the meeting. "We should remember the foundation of unity and it is important that now we start to come up with the principles of this foundation," he told the Opposition leaders. After the meeting, leaders of Opposition parties cycled to Parliament from Constitution Club to highlight the high fuel prices and express their solidarity with the people who are suffering due to the high fuel prices. "As far as fuel prices are concerned, the people of India are struggling and if we cycle from here to Parliament, it will have an impact," Gandhi said. Besides Gandhi, senior Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, KC Venugopal, Anand Sharma and P Chidambaram were present at the meeting. The meeting comes amid continued standoff between the Opposition and the government over the Pegasus snooping issue with the Opposition demanding a discussion in Parliament and a Supreme Court monitored probe in the matter. The government is, however, saying that this is a non-issue and does not want it to be discussed in Parliament. Kharge said leaders of various parties have been invited for the meeting and are expected to discuss issues like Pegasus, farmers' matter, and the need for a joint Parliament strategy. "Nobody in the government is listening. So we have decided to get together. The Opposition is united and we are all together," Kharge said at the meeting. Among the leaders who attended the meeting were Saugata Roy, Kalyan Banerjee, Mohua Moitra (TMC), Sanjay Raut and Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena), Manoj Jha (RJD), Kanimozhi (DMK) and Ram Gopal Yadav (SP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-361
03-08-2021||India||Militant killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Bandipora||An unidentified militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Chandaji area of Bandipora in north Kashmir after inputs were received about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire on the forces, who retaliated. In the exchange of fire, a militant was killed, the official said. The identity and group affiliation of the slain militant is being ascertained, he said, adding the operation is still underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
03-08-2021||India||Light rains expected in Delhi as temperature drops slightly||Light rains are likely on Tuesday in the city which recorded a minimum temperature of 25.8 degrees Celsius, officials said. The relative humidity in the morning was recorded at 85 per cent, according to the India Meteorological Department. The minimum temperature on Monday had settled at 26.1 degrees Celsius, while the maximum was recorded at 37.2 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season's average. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature stood at 25.8 degrees Celsius, a notch below the normal, an official said. The city received traces of rainfall till 8:30 AM as recorded at Safdarjung Observatory, according to the IMD. Light rains are expected later in the day, the weather office said, adding, the maximum is likely to hover around 33 degrees Celsius. Besides, generally cloudy sky and thundershowers are also expected later in the day, the weather office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
03-08-2021||India||Sushil Kumar wanted to re-establish supremacy, says Delhi Police in charge sheet||The brawl at the Chhatrasal Stadium that allegedly led to the death of a former junior national wrestling champion was the result of a conspiracy hatched by Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar, who wanted to re-establish his supremacy among younger wrestlers, the Delhi Police has said in its charge sheet filed in the murder case. There were "murmurs" that Kumar was scared of the two tenants living in a house he owned and he "nursed a deep grudge" about the loss of respect in the eyes of his students, it said. Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankar, his friend Sonu and three others at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Later, Sagar succumbed to his injuries. "The present incident is the result of a criminal conspiracy hatched by accused Sushil Kumar along with his associates to take revenge from Sonu and Sagar," the police said in its over 1,000-page charge sheet filed on Monday. The Crime Branch, which is tasked with investigating the case, said Kumar wanted to teach a lesson to Sagar and Sonu and re-establish his supremacy in the stadium through muscle power. It also listed reasons why Kumar and his associates took revenge. The police investigation established that it was due to the initial reluctance shown by Sagar and Sonu to vacate Kumar's flat and "murmurs" in the stadium that the Olympic wrestler was scared of the duo and couldn't withstand them. Another reason, according to the police, was that Kumar had a strong suspicion that wrestlers training under him were passing information about his movements to Sagar and Sonu and the latter could harm him as he had an extensive criminal background. "When he realised that some of his own trainees were passing information about him to Sonu and Sagar, he felt betrayed and thus nursed a deep grudge against Sonu and Sagar for loss of respect in the eyes of his students," the charge sheet stated. Notorious criminal Kala Jathedi, who was recently arrested, told the police that Kumar's ego was hurt after Sagar and Sonu refused to vacate his flat because of which he felt a loss of respect. The charge sheet names 13 accused, including Kumar, who is named as the main accused. The police said they relied on the oral dying declaration of Dhankar, scientific evidence including locations of the accused, CCTV footage, weapons and vehicles recovered from the spot. "From the material collected during the investigation so far precisely mentioned above, there is sufficient material against the accused persons," it stated, seeking their prosecution under 22 offences of the Indian Penal Code. The charge sheet mentions the names of 155 prosecution witnesses, including four persons who were injured during the brawl. The Delhi Police had filed the FIR against the accused for offences such as murder, attempt to murder, culpable homicide, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping, robbery and rioting, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
03-08-2021||India||PM pacifies Indian hockey team after loss to Belgium||After the Indian men's hockey team lost to Belgium in the Olympics semi-final, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said wins and losses are a part of life and India is proud of its players. The Indian men's hockey team's dream of entering the Olympics final after 41-years remained unfulfilled as it lost 2-5 to world champions Belgium in the last-four stage but the side is still in the hunt for a bronze in the Tokyo Games. "Wins and losses are a part of life. Our Men's Hockey Team at #Tokyo2020 gave their best and that is what counts," Modi tweeted. Wishing the Team the very best for the next match and their future endeavours, he said, adding that "India is proud of our players". When the match was in progress, Modi tweeted, "I'm watching the India vs Belgium Hockey Men's Semi Final at #Tokyo2020. Proud of our team and their skills. Wishing them the very best!" The Indians still have a chance to secure an elusive medal from the Olympics as they will feature in the bronze medal match on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
03-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi  invites all Opposition MPs to a breakfast meeting||Rahul Gandhi has invited all the Opposition MPs to a breakfast meeting on Tuesday with the twin objectives of boosting solidarity and deciding a future programme of action amid the deadlock in Parliament. The invite has gone out to every Opposition MP instead of only the floor leaders, the first of its kind. Rahul’s initiative seems to have pleased Opposition leaders, who are keen on a unified fight against the government, and also reignited the leadership debate in the Congress and underlined the need for the former party president to have a defined role. While the farmers’ agitation had prepared the ground for unity of purpose among the Opposition parties, the Pegasus controversy has stoked the urge for a united offensive. The government is on the defensive and its stubborn refusal to allow a debate on the snooping allegations has deepened suspicions. At Tuesday’s meeting, the parties may announce a political programme that could include the conduct of a mock Parliament outside the House to send out a message to the people. A leader of an Opposition party said: “We are happy that Rahul has taken this initiative after attending an Opposition meeting in this session. It would have been better if he had called all the MPs to his residence, not the Constitution Club. “By calling all of us to his house, he could have sent out a deeper message with a personal touch. But a beginning has been made, and we hope he extends his outreach to the friendly parties in the coming days. There’s a feeling among Opposition leaders that Rahul should step up his involvement.” Rahul, who had largely avoided the task of coalition-building in the past, has now begun interacting with Opposition leaders and left a positive impression. After attending the Opposition meeting held a few days ago, he tweeted: “Sitting with the entire Opposition is extremely humbling. Amazing experience, wisdom and insight in everyone present.” With this one gesture of humility, followed by the invitations to Tuesday’s breakfast meeting, Rahul appears to have broken down several imaginary barriers and perceptions about his personality. Asked why Rahul and not Sonia Gandhi, the chairperson of the Congress Party in Parliament (CPP), had called the meeting, a senior Congress politician said: “This ad-hocism highlights the need for a system to be put in place. Sonia Gandhi was elected CPP chairperson when Rahul was Congress president. Now Sonia is party president and Rahul has no official status to call such meetings. He should become CPP chairperson if there is no immediate plan to return as party chief.” A Congress general secretary, however, told The Telegraph: “The process of electing the new party president has been delayed by Covid, but parliamentary responsibilities cannot be put off. It is good that Rahul has come forward to do the job. “The impression we get is that he is willing to return (as party president) — and there’s no alternative, either. Ask any Opposition leader who is the most potent force against Narendra Modi, and you’ll get the answer.” Congress insiders are hoping the leadership crisis would now end without too long a wait.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
03-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Paranjoy Guha Thakurta moves SC against spyware scandal||Veteran journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, whose phone was among those infected with the Pegasus spyware, on Monday moved the Supreme Court, saying the snooping “will stop confidential informants and whistleblowers from coming forward and bringing to light wrongdoing at various levels of government”. Guha Thakurta, a former member of the Press Council of India, urged the apex court to declare the action as “unconstitutional” and direct the Centre to set up a “judicial oversight” mechanism to prevent such breach of citizens’ privacy. In his petition, Guha has said the illegal surveillance would have a chilling effect on the right to free speech in India. “Further, the petitioner apprehends that the Pegasus attack on him and other journalists in India will stop confidential informants and whistleblowers from coming forward and bringing to light wrongdoing at various levels of government and as such, have a detrimental effect on transparency in governance all across India. “The present petition raises tremendously important questions of constitutional interpretation, particularly with respect to the extent of the right to privacy the due process of law pertaining” its deprivation. The petition added: “These questions are so urgent and fundamental in nature and have such a profound effect on the lives of all the citizens of India that the petitioner is of the view that it is only proper to take the extreme step of approaching this Hon’ble Court directly under Article 32 (enforcement of fundamental right) jurisdiction.” Guha Thakurta is the first “aggrieved person”, whose personal phone was kept under surveillance, to move the top court on the Pegasus controversy. Rupesh Kumar Singh, a freelance journalist based in Jharkhand, has also approached the court with a plea to declare the spyware illegal. The phone number of Rupesh, who had reported on violence on Adivasis by security forces and who was jailed on alleged trumped-up charges,  and that of his two family members figure in the leaked list of potential targets of surveillance. An advocate, two journalists and an MP have already moved the court on the snooping operation. These three  petitions have been listed for hearing on Thursday before a bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justice Surya Kant. Guha Thakurta, in his petition filed through advocate Prateek K. Chadha, has sought the following directives: ⚫ Declare the installation and/or use of malware or spyware such as Pegasus as illegal and unconstitutional. ⚫ Issue a directive to the Centre to produce and disclose all materials and documents on the investigation, authorisation and orders on the use of Pegasus on the petitioner. ⚫ Direct the Union government to take suitable steps to protect Indian citizens from the use of cyber weapons/malware such as Pegasus. ⚫ Direct the Centre to put in place a judicial oversight mechanism to deal with any complaints on illegal breaches of privacy and hacking and punish all government officials responsible for such breaches. The petition said that between 2017 and 2019, about 50,000 phone numbers across the world were targeted by the malware. “The list of these numbers comprised 300 verified Indian numbers which had been targeted by the Pegasus malware, of which one belongs to the petitioner herein. The Pegasus Project assisted the supposed targets to discern the presence of the malware on their phones. “The petitioner being a senior journalist, was provided with aid in this regard. Amnesty International’s Security Lab examined his mobile device and found forensic traces of the malware operating on his phone, which confirmed the surveillance,” the petition said. The petitioner noted that despite the raging controversy over Pegasus,  the Centre so far has not categorically stated whether it had deployed the malware to carry out the  hacking and surveillance. “The respondent authorities also failed to unequivocally deny the fact that they had purchased/obtained the Pegasus malware from NSO and/or the state of Israel. “The petitioner, therefore, has strong reasons to believe that he has been subjected  to a deeply intrusive surveillance and hacking by the Government of India or some other third party. Consequently, he perceives that his rights to privacy, the access to information and his freedom as a journalist have been violated,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
03-08-2021||India||Vaccine: Government misses July target by 20 million doses||The Centre had till August 2 provided around 497 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to the states, nearly 20 million short of the 516 million doses it had said it expected to supply by July 31. The Union health ministry said on Monday that the Centre had sent the states more than 496.4 million doses and that 984,610 doses were in the pipeline. The inoculation campaign had till Monday administered over 477 million doses. In a June 26 affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court, the ministry had said 516 million doses “will be available” by July 31. But some health experts had in mid-July expressed doubts whether the Centre would be able to meet that target. On July 27, the ministry had asserted that more than 516 million doses would “indeed” be supplied by July 31. In a media release, it had said that 457 million doses “have been supplied” to states and an additional 60.3 million doses “are expected to be supplied by July 31”. This would amount to 517 million doses supplied from January 2021 till July 31. But the ministry’s release on Monday said that 496,498,050 doses had been provided to the states so far and a further 984,610 doses were in the pipeline. The health ministry did not respond to a query from this newspaper on the reasons for the gap between the 517 million doses it had last week expected to supply by July 31 and the 497 million doses provided till August 2. Experts say the shortfall, although less than 4 per cent of the projected 517 million doses, suggests the ministry was unable to access or provide some of the additional 60.3 million doses it had expected to supply six days ago. “The government should stop releasing aspirational projections and, instead, say how many doses would be available for actual administration,” said R. Ramakumar, professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. Ramakumar and other experts believe the aspirational projections were likely aimed at what Ramakumar described as “seeking temporary reprieves” from criticism of the vaccination campaign whose pace has been hampered by the limited flow of doses, among other reasons. Vaccine experts and industry executives had earlier this year predicted dose shortages, underlining the government’s failure to invest early enough to secure large volumes of doses the way other countries had. India had by Monday fully vaccinated over 105 million people, or about 11 per cent of the eligible adult population of 944 million. The campaign administered over 5.3 million doses on Monday, but will need to administer over 9 million doses daily through the rest of the year to fully vaccinate the eligible population by December 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
03-08-2021||India||Citizens reject Centre’s 'Muslim Women’s Rights Day'||Over 600 citizens from all walks of life on Monday rejected the Centre’s declaration of August 1 as “Muslim Women’s Rights Day” to mark the second anniversary of the enactment of the  triple talaq law. They billed it cynical optics “by a government bent on reducing all Muslims to second-class citizens”. Union minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi had announced on Saturday that August 1 would be observed as “Muslim Women’s Rights Day” and the event on Sunday saw several senior ministers of the Narendra Modi government, including Smriti Irani and Bhupinder Yadav, in attendance. In a statement directly addressed to Naqvi, the citizens questioning the move said: “We reject the government’s cynical optics, we reject ‘your’ Muslim Women’s Rights Day. And we say, respectfully, ‘How dare you!’” The statement is signed by Muslim and non-Muslim women, men and transpersons across castes and regions. The signatories include former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed, transparency activist Aruna Roy, Annie Raja of the National Federation of Indian Women, AIDWA vice-president Subhashini Ali, Kavita Srivastava of the PUCL, Nivedita Menon and Vikas Rawal of JNU, sociologist Nandini Sundar and theatre artist Maya Krishna Rao. The statement seeks to highlight the Modi government's forked-tongue policy on Muslims, listing the various efforts that have been made under its watch to marginalise the country’s largest minority group. Referring to the Modi government's decision to enact the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens, along with its silence on atrocities on the community, they said: “Such a government has no moral right to declare any national day in the name of Muslim women.” Explaining their reason for rejecting the move, the statement said: “This government that has worked to ceaselessly one by one, decimate the constitutional rights of Muslims in India, now has the temerity to declare Muslim Women's Rights Day on August 1. This, to celebrate its passage of its purportedly Anti-Triple Talaq law (Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019), that claimed to protect Muslim women's rights, but in reality, had a more sinister purpose -- to show Muslim men their place in a new India. To tell them that they can be criminalised even in civil matters. The Triple Talaq law was an abomination. It was then, and still is, nothing but a charade.” The statement echoes the position many of the signatories had taken when the government tried to navigate the triple talaq bill through Parliament during its first term when it did not have adequate numbers in the Rajya Sabha. It finally cleared Parliament in 2019 soon after the BJP returned to power with a larger mandate. The statement recalls what many of the signatories had said back then. “You cannot pretend to save Muslim women while seeking to bring the Muslim community to its knees. The sentiment is as true today as it was then.” This government, they underscored, has diluted Muslims' rights to citizenship by enacting the discriminatory CAA. “The very Muslim women, in whose name you have declared August 1 as a day of ‘their rights’, invited their government, even begged their government, to talk to them when they were out on the streets, protesting the CAA-NPR-NRC, in a desperate bid to save their future, their children's future, their family's future, in their own country. You responded to those Muslim women with the utter contempt of silence. Without even the pretence of democratic dialogue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
03-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Centre stalls Opposition pleas to discuss snooping scandal||The government on Monday continued to stall the Opposition’s relentless pleas in Parliament to discuss the Pegasus snooping allegations and passed bills amid the din by voice vote, drawing accusations of “riding roughshod over the House”. “Sabhapati mahoday, hum charcha chahte hain, hum charcha chahte hain, charcha chahte hain (Sir, we want a discussion, we want a discussion, we want a discussion),” Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury shouted during the afternoon session in the Lok Sabha. “We want to discuss Pegasus first and then other issues,” he managed to add before his mike was switched off. Adhir’s plea had come as he rose to protest finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s act of introducing a bill amid the chaos. He accused the government of “riding roughshod over the House” by pushing bills through without discussion. Sitharaman had withdrawn the tribunals reforms bill and introduced an amended one in its place. Adhir’s mike was muted because the presiding officer was not ready to allow him to speak on any subject other than his notice opposing the introduction and passage of bills. Monday marked the start of the third week and the 10th day of the monsoon session of Parliament, which concludes on August 13. From day one the Opposition had begun demanding discussions on the Pegasus controversy, farmers’ agitation, Covid, price rise and some other issues. Since last week, however, the Opposition has focused on demanding a discussion on Pegasus first and then the other issues. The government has termed Pegasus a “non-issue” and said it was ready to discuss other issues. As in other days, Opposition members trooped to the Well of the House on Monday, waved placards and chanted slogans demanding a discussion on, and a probe into, the allegations about the government snooping on judges, politicians, journalists, activists and others using Israeli spyware. Speaker Om Birla conducted Question Hour for over half an hour amid the protests and then adjourned the House till noon. In the afternoon, the House was adjourned again after Sitharaman withdrew a bill and introduced another. When the House met again, the finance minister was ready to get the General Insurance Business (Amendment) Bill passed. Adhir again opposed the bill, terming it “anti-people” and “anti-national” and accused the government of intending to sell public-sector insurance companies to private buyers. Sitharaman called the charge “misleading” and said she would have replied in detail had the Opposition allowed a discussion. The bill was passed by voice vote in less than 10 minutes and the House was adjourned for the day. The Rajya Sabha witnessed similar chaos, with the Opposition demanding a discussion on the Pegasus controversy under Rule 267 and the government passing the Inland Vessels Bill. Chairman Venkaiah Naidu warned that he would name the MPs waving placards in the official record of proceedings – seen as a reprimand. “What I’m saying is that I’m ready, I’m ready to discuss. Even the business advisory committee has decided to hear about farmers’ problems and also other problems, provided the House is in order,” Naidu said before adjourning the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
03-08-2021||India||Covid: Covaxin effective on virus variants ||Fully vaccinated recipients of the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, whether previously infected by Covid-19, uninfected, or infected post-vaccination, show sufficient immune responses against the highly contagious Delta and two other coronavirus variants, scientists said on Monday. The scientists at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, have found that while immune responses in the three groups of people show reductions in activity against Delta, Delta-plus, and a third variant, B.1.617.3, they remain sufficiently strong to neutralise all three variants. “All three sets of people have enough (immune) responses to neutralise each of the three variants,” Pragya Yadav, who led the study, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-362
03-08-2021||India||India-China: Veterans demand disclosure of disengagement plan||A joint statement released by the defence ministry on Saturday’s India-China military talks hides more than it reveals, veterans said, demanding the government disclose the disengagement plan discussed and asking whether it had given up the demand for restoration of status quo on the frontier. Monday’s brief statement, coming almost 44 hours after the 12th round of corps-commander-level talks ended, spoke of “in-depth exchange of views”, “enhanced mutual understanding” and “ensuring stability” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). But it followed the example of the past several such statements in maintaining silence on any restoration of status quo along the LAC to pre-standoff (April 2020) positions, which India had once insisted was a precondition for bilateral ties returning to normal. “Does it mean that India has accepted the new status quo and given up the (demand for) restoration of status quo ante?” a retired colonel said. A retired lieutenant general said: “According to estimates, the Chinese army has taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory since May last year. It’s such a grave issue concerning India’s territorial sovereignty, but our government is busy hiding more than revealing anything on this.” Sources in the security establishment said the talks had remained inconclusive with the Chinese continuing to resist the Indian demand for disengagement and troop de-escalation from the remaining friction points: Hot Springs, Gogra and the Depsang Plains. There have been “partial” disengagements from the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake, with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines, and India retreating by the same distance — thus ceding more territory. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday again accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding territory to China. “Mr Modi and his minions have ceded thousands of km of Indian land to China. When exactly are we getting it back?” he tweeted. On June 19 last year, four days after a clash in the Galwan Valley had killed 20 Indian soldiers, Modi had said that no one had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts, prompting Beijing to immediately claim ownership of all the areas it held. The joint statement said: “The two sides had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement.... They agreed to resolve these remaining issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations.” It said the two sides had noted that the meeting had been “constructive” and “further enhanced mutual understanding”. “The two sides also agreed that in the interim they will continue their effective efforts in ensuring stability along the LAC... and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity.” The security establishment fears the Chinese are working to establish a “revised status quo” that will allow them to hold on to their newly acquired positions within India-claimed lines. The retired lieutenant general who spoke to this newspaper said the government “should come clean on the specifics of the purported disengagement plan being discussed with the Chinese”. China’s hardened stand has triggered apprehensions that the Ladakh frontier could now become a permanently contested militarised zone, similar to Jammu and Kashmir. Sources said 25 rounds of military and diplomatic talks had taken place since May last year but nothing much had changed on the ground. Both sides have amassed men and machinery at altitudes of 14,000ft and above, and have deployed 50,000 troops each along the LAC in Ladakh backed by artillery, tanks and missile systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
03-08-2021||India|| Lakshadweep govt to go ahead with controversial tourism plans ||The Lakshadweep administration is going ahead with its controversial tourism plans for the ecologically fragile archipelago, ignoring warnings from scientists that a Maldives-style development would spell environmental disaster. Social activists from the Union Territory are planning to petition Kerala High Court against the projects, Lakshadweep district panchayat member Asif Ali of the Nationalist Congress Party told The Telegraph on Monday. On July 31, the administration invited international bids by September 2 for the construction of 370 villas — 125 of them on water — as part of eco-tourism projects on the Minicoy, Kadmat and Suheli islands. The total budget for the projects is Rs 806 crore. “We are going to court since these projects will destroy our islands. Moneybags eyeing our land will not have any commitment to, or concern for, the well-being of the local people or these ecologically fragile islands,” Ali said. Sixty scientists, most of them marine biologists, had in June written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his help in protecting the islands, which are already facing severe sea erosion and a depletion of shoreline, against the plans for large-scale construction. “If they are going to build tourist resorts, we can expect some serious damage to the entire ecological system in and around Lakshadweep,” said a marine biologist and a signatory to the letter who declined to be named since he works for a government institute. He said a few years ago the administration had built embarkation jetties on the Kavaratti, Agatti, Minicoy and Amini islands. “They drilled the floor to construct pillars for the jetties, thereby destroying coral reefs and all life forms in those areas,” the scientist said. The Supreme Court-appointed Justice R.V. Raveendran Commission had in its 2014 report, which has since been made binding, said all island projects must adhere to the norms of the Integrated Island Management Plan. “It is highly essential to protect corals, sea grass and other ecosystems from anthropogenic activities like waste disposal, port development and associated activities like dredging of navigational channels and construction of breakwaters, tourism and related activities, sand mining, intensive fishing etc,” the report says. Currently, only the tiny, tear-drop-shaped Bangaram Island is dedicated to tourism in Lakshadweep, an archipelago of 36 islands of which just 10 are inhabited. Bangaram is uninhabited apart from the resorts. The Rs 319-crore Minicoy project is to cover an area of 8.53 hectares and have 110 beach villas and 40 water villas, to be built on the lagoon. The Rs 240-crore Kadmat project will cover 5.55 hectares and have 75 beach villas and 35 water villas. The Rs 247-crore project on the uninhabited Suheli Island will come up on 3.82 hectares and have 60 beach villas and 50 water villas. Lakshadweep district collector A. Asker Ali issued the tender notice that seeks bids to “undertake development, operation and maintenance” through “design, build, finance, operate and transfer (DBFOT) on public-private partnership basis”. The projects are among several controversial decisions that Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel has taken without consulting the local bodies or the Union Territory’s lone Lok Sabha member. Patel, an RSS man who was Gujarat home minister for a while when Narendra Modi was chief minister, has been accused of pushing a saffron agenda in Muslim-majority Lakshadweep whose residents are classified as Scheduled Tribes. Over the past few months, the non-BJP parties from the archipelago have sent a mass petition to President Kovind seeking Patel’s recall, while several MPs from Kerala have sent similar letters to the President and the Prime Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
03-08-2021||India||SC issues notices on continued use of Section 66A of IT Act||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to states, Union Territories and registrars-general of high courts, seeking an explanation for the continued use of Section 66A of the Information Technology Act although it had been declared unconstitutional in 2015. While seeking a response from the authorities concerned within four weeks, a bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai told senior advocate Sanjay Parekh, appearing for the petitioner Peoples Union for Civil Liberties, that it was necessary to implead the states and Union Territories as law and order fell under their respective domains. At the last hearing on July 1, the top court had expressed “shock” and “amazement” at the manner in which people were still being booked under Section 66A of the IT Act for voicing their opinions on the Internet. “It’s amazing and shocking. That’s what I can say. Shreya Singhal is a 2015 judgment. What is going on in the country is terrible,” Justice Nariman had observed. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, on behalf of the Union government, had at that time accepted the court’s notice and sought two weeks to file the Centre’s counter-affidavit. However, the Centre is yet to file its response. On Monday, when the matter came up for hearing, the bench underscored the need to make the states/UTs and high court registrars respondents in the matter because apart from the executive, several courts in the country continued to entertain complaints under Section 66A of the IT Act. In its petition filed through advocate Aparna Bhat, PUCL has urged the apex court to direct the Centre to collect all data regarding FIRs or investigations where Section 66A had been invoked as well as pendency of cases in courts across the country. At the last hearing, Venugopal had admitted that Section 66A was still there in most of the law books despite being struck down by the apex court. “When police has to register a case, the section is still there and only has a footnote that the SC has struck it down. There has to be a bracket in 66A with words struck down,” the country’s highest law officer said. According to PUCL, the Supreme Court had in a subsequent order on February 15, 2019, directed the states and Union Territories to desist from invoking Section 66A, but the police continue to file cases under the provision. “…the applicant discovered that Section 66A of the IT Act has continued to be in use not only within police stations but also in cases before trial courts across India,” the PUCL stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
03-08-2021||India||Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikash Yojana has placed less than 50 per cent youth in the past 6 years||Placements for youths certified under the Centre’s flagship skill development programme over the past six years has been less than 50 per cent against the target of 70 per cent, the government has told Parliament. Academics said this was not surprising because training under the Short-Term Training programme of the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikash Yojana was superficial, short and often at odds with the industry’s demands. Skill development minister Dharmendra Pradhan has informed the Lok Sabha that 65.95 lakh candidates had enrolled under the programme, of whom 52.46 lakh got certified and 23.25 lakh received placements. This means only 44.3 per cent of those certified got jobs. Under the programme, private centres called “vocational training providers” (VTPs) train the youths with funds from the skill development ministry. The last 20 per cent of the tranche of funds is released only if 70 per cent of those certified by a VTP get placements. The government has been running the Yojana since 2015. It provided Rs 8,000 per trainee to the VTPs in 2015 and 2016, the sum rising to Rs 15,195 in the second phase (2016 to 2020) and to Rs 22,770 under the third phase that began a year ago. The government spent an estimated Rs 5,903 crore on the scheme till 2020, with Rs 5,278 crore of it spent in the three financial years: 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. Under the programme, a youth has to undergo 150 to 300 hours of training, depending on the vocation. Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra said the placement rate was poor because the training did not meet industry’s expectations. He said most of the trainees lack education beyond Class X or Class XII and therefore have no “solid foundational knowledge on any subject”. “The three to four months’ skill training given to them fails to equip them with the confidence to handle any job. That’s why formal industry is reluctant to recruit them,” Mehrotra said. He said the unorganised sector mainly provided placements against low salaries that often failed to meet the recruits’ living expenses and forced them to drop out. According to the government, the average monthly salary for the scheme’s certificate holders has been Rs 8,500. Economist Sunil Ray, former director of the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, said the scheme was “not economically sustainable”. “Compared with the expenditure, the benefit in terms of training and placement is low.... This scheme has become a white elephant,” Ray said. He said the main problem was that the government had not done a thorough mapping of the skills required in the different regions of the country. “The government decided the skill sets from its end.... First, it should do a skill mapping (to identify) those skills that are required,” Ray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
03-08-2021||India||Ladakh: Buddhist & Muslim leaders unitedly demand full statehood||The Centre’s efforts to mollify Ladakh appear to have boomeranged with the region’s Buddhist and Muslim leaderships joining hands to demand full statehood for the Union Territory and special status like that enjoyed by the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. “It is a historic decision. For the first time and despite so many differences, the entire Ladakh leadership has come together and there was a consensus on four issues,” Asgar Karbalai, a leader of the Kargil Democratic Alliance, told reporters in Ladakh during a joint news conference with Leh’s apex body People’s Movement. Topping the list is the demand for full statehood to Ladakh and exclusive rights over land and jobs for the Ladakhis similar to those guaranteed under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution or Article 371. Ladakh’s Buddhist population, a majority of whom live in Leh, had supported the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, and the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir. Ladakh’s Muslims, who live mostly in Kargil, had bitterly opposed the August 5 decision and were fighting for the restoration of the erstwhile state and Article 370. With the BJP-led government giving no indication of giving in to their demands, it was a win-win situation for the Centre as the two communities were busy fighting each other. However, the two communities have now not only forged a rare unity, but also sought more powers than those enjoyed by the erstwhile state. “After lot of deliberations, there was a consensus on four points. Ladakhis faced lot of difficulties after the August 5, 2019, re-organisation when the state was divided into two Union Territories. People of Ladakh felt that issues confronting them can only be resolved by granting full-fledged statehood to Ladakh,” Karbalai said. The two communities have now forged a rare unity. Their joint leadership rejected the domicile laws extended to Jammu and Kashmir, seeking exclusive rights over land and jobs. Outsiders are free to buy land in Jammu and Kashmir while a section of them can also avail government jobs. Additionally, the Ladakh leadership has sought two Lok Sabha and two Rajya Sabha seats for the region. Ladakh, which was home to just two per cent population of the erstwhile state, currently has one Lok Sabha and no Rajya Sabha seat. Jammu and Kashmir has five Lok Sabha and four Rajya Sabha seats. The leaders demanded that 10,000-12,000 job vacancies should be filled within a month by only Ladakhi youths. Former Ladakh MP Thupstan Chhewang, who heads the Leh alliance, said statehood for Ladakh was a long-term goal, adding that that they would agitate if the process to recruit Ladakhis was not started within a month. Karbalai said all future negotiations with the Centre would revolve around these four issues. The joint demand for statehood has come two months after the Kargil leadership held maiden talks with the Centre and sought full statehood for Ladakh. They seem to have succeeded in getting Leh on board. Sources in the Kargil alliance said they had not given up on their demand for the reversal of the August 5 decisions. “We have filed a petition in the Supreme Court against the August 5 decisions. The erstwhile state will become a reality only when those decisions are reversed,” a leader said. In May, the Centre had reached out to the Jammu and Kashmir leadership where major parties, including the National Conference and People’s Democratic Party, told Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore Articles 370 and 35A. There was no follow-up after that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
03-08-2021||India||Tokyo Olympics: Indian hockey benefits from support of Odisha ||Indian hockey is reaping the benefits of the support that the Odisha government has provided after both the men’s and women’s national teams entered the semi-finals of the Tokyo Olympics. The Odisha government is the official sponsor of both the men’s and women’s hockey teams since 2018 and is contracted to sponsor it till 2023. The government is committed to spend Rs 100 crore for sponsoring Indian hockey, sources said. Considered to be one of the cradles of hockey in India, Odisha has been putting in all efforts to ensure that the country regains its rightful position in the game in the world, they said. The state had shot into international focus when it successfully organised the Men’s Hockey World Cup in Bhubaneswar in 2018 and is going to host the event again in 2023. Two players from Odisha — Birendra Lakra and Amit Rohidas — are part of the men’s hockey team in Tokyo. Amit’s mother Golapi Rohidas told The Telegraph: “My husband passed away last year due to kidney failure. He had a dream that our son should play in the Olympics and win a medal. I hope Amit fulfils his dream. I watched the match along with my elder son Niranjan.” Residents of Amit’s village Saunamara in Sundargarh district were also elated. “The transformer supplying power to our village got burnt. With the help of a battery, we watched the game on TV. With only four minutes left, the battery conked out but we managed to watch the rest of the game on our mobile phones. It’s a great moment for our village as our boy is a part of the Indian hockey team,” said former sarpanch Chulu Barla. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik watched the match on Sunday as the Indian men’s team beat Great Britain 3-1 to enter the semi-finals. On Monday, the women’s team beat much-fancied Australia 1-0 to reach the semi-finals. Congratulating the men’s team, Naveen said: “The national team has come out with flying colours in the quarter-final.” He expressed hope that the team will keep up the momentum to win the semi-final and the Olympic final. Congratulating the women’s hockey team, Naveen said: “What a terrific game our women’s hockey team played against Australia. Keep it up.” Odisha finance secretary Vishal Kumar Dev, who was earlier the sports secretary, told this newspaper: “On the direction of the chief minister, we have been focusing on promoting hockey in our state as well as in the country. Odisha was successful in organising the Men’s Hockey World Cup in 2018. The next Men’s Hockey World Cup will be held in Odisha in 2023. We are putting all our efforts to ensure its success as well. We have got recognition from the FIH (International Hockey Federation) for our efforts to popularise the game and supporting the cause of Indian hockey.” The world cup will be held in two places — Bhubaneswar and Rourkela. Former Indian men’s hockey captain Dilip Tirkey told this newspaper: “With the Odisha government sponsoring hockey for the last three years, the fruits are now visible. We have built a world-class hockey facility at Kalinga Stadium and another stadium is coming up in Rourkela. Without official patronage, hockey could not have reached this stage.” The hockey stadium in Rourkela is being built with an investment of Rs 100 crore. Indian Olympic Association president N.D. Batra tweeted: “Hon’ble chief minister of Odisha Naveen Patnaik Ji sending his congratulatory message by video to Team India men’s hockey team for winning the quarter-finals and entering into semi-finals after a gap of 41 years and chief minister also wished good luck to the men’s hockey team for semi-finals on 3rd August. Thank You chief minister Sir on behalf of Indian men’s hockey team in Tokyo.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
03-08-2021||India||Flood situation grim in south Bihar||Several districts in south Bihar have been affected by floods as small and big rivers flowing in the state swelled following heavy rainfall in Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh. The deluge has affected parts of Patna, Jehanabad, Nalanda, Gaya, Aurangabad and Rohtas districts. Floodwaters are causing damage of crops and household belongings. Embankments and roads have also been damaged at several places. “What we are seeing is the outcome of very heavy rains in Jharkhand on July 30 and 31. It led to much water flowing into the rivers in the southern parts of Bihar. Around 74,000 cusecs were released from the Uderasthan barrage into the Falgu river on Saturday night, topping its highest flood level by around 70cm. The water has spilled over and spread to parts of Nalanda and Patna districts,” chief engineer (flood control and drainage), water resources, Shailendra, told The Telegraph. Similarly, the water of the Punpun and Morhar rivers spilled over their embankments around Masaurhi in Patna on Sunday night. “Water is still spreading in parts of Patna district. We are trying to contain the deluge. The destruction due to floods is widespread,” Shailendra added. Panic prevailed as floodwaters spread across four blocks of Patna district — Dhanarua, Fatuha, Daniyawan and Masaurhi — affecting agricultural fields and homes. Several smaller rivers are also in spate and have spilled their banks. The floodwaters damaged embankments at several places, and also cut off road links between dozens of panchayats. “Water entered our village suddenly and its level started increasing. We realised that floods have come. Everybody rushed to save their household goods and food grains. We are just hoping that the situation does not worsen,” said Sundari Devi, a resident of Berwa village in Patna district. High volume of water was being released into the Sone river from the Indrapuri barrage, though the flow has reduced from 3.35 lakh cusecs on Sunday to 2.26 lakh cusecs on Monday. The Ganga, which acts as the master basin for almost all the rivers in Bihar, was in spate, though flowing below the danger level. This has slowed down the flow of the Sone, Punpun and other rivers into the Ganga, worsening the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
03-08-2021||India||Odisha govt approves 7 industrial projects worth Rs 2,083.88 crore||The Odisha government has approved seven industrial projects worth Rs 2,083.88 crore. The State Level Single Window Clearance Authority , headed by chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mahapatra, on Friday approved the proposals, which include three grain-based ethanol plants, officials said. The projects aim to generate employment opportunities for over 2,144 people. These projects include a 500KLPD (kilo litres per day) grain-based ethanol plant and a 8MW co-gen power plant by the IOCL at Rs 870 crore. The project will be set up in the Balgopalpur Industrial Estate in Balasore district. Another 500KLPD grain-based ethanol plant (in two phases) by the HPCL at Rs 500 crore will come up at Umerkote in Nabarangpur district. Besides, a 100KLPD grain-based ethanol plant along with compressed biogas plant of 12TPD (tonnes per day) capacity and a 2.20MW co-gen power plant by Newalt Energy Private Limited at a total investment of Rs 125 crore will be set up in Angul district. “Government of India has fixed a target of 10 per cent blending of fuel-grade ethanol with petrol by 2022 and 20 per cent blending by 2025. The three approved units will surge to the existing capacity and help reduce the carbon footprint,” an official said. A multi-modal logistics park to be built at Kujanga in Jagatsinghpur district by International Cargo Terminals and Infrastructure Private Limited at an investment of Rs 150 crore has also got the approval from the state. Aditya Birla Renewables Limited’s 18.75MW solar power plant at Saintala in Balangir district to be built at a cost of Rs 89.44 crore has also got the nod. A five-star hotel in Bhubaneswar by Atmosphere Core India Private Limited at Rs 184.64 crore has also been approved. Another five-star hotel built by D.N. Homes Private Limited at a cost of Rs 164.80 crore will come up at Chandaka Industrial Estate in Khurda district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
03-08-2021||India||Pegasus:  Nitish Kumar supports probe into snooping scandal||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday supported the Opposition’s demand for a probe into the Pegasus snooping scandal. “It (probe) should definitely be done. We have been hearing about this for so many days. We must discuss this. These days anybody can indulge in such activities. Its every aspect should be seen and steps should be taken,” Nitish told reporters on the sidelines of his Janata Darbar. Referring to reports on the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus to snoop on people, Nitish said: “Whatever has happened should be investigated thoroughly to find out whether some people were listening to phones or controlling them. The truth should be brought out before the people. Such a thing should not be done to disturb others.” Over 150 Indians, including journalists, Opposition leaders, constitutional figures and activists, figure on the list of potential targets of snooping using the spyware. On a probe by a joint parliamentary committee, Nitish said Parliament would have to take a decision on it. Nitish’s JDU is an ally of the NDA government in Bihar and at the Centre. Nitish’s support for an in-depth probe into the Pegasus scandal comes at a time when there is a deadlock in Parliament with the Opposition demanding an investigation. The two Houses have been able to transact very little business during the ongoing monsoon session.Rahul Gandhi has also invited other Opposition leaders to chalk out a joint strategy on the scandal. The matter has reached the Supreme Court, which is slated to hear a bunch of petitions on Thursday. The Opposition parties have alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre had used the spyware to target individuals who did not toe its line. However, the Centre has denied its involvement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal flood: 15 dead, 3 lakh affected; TMC, BJP engage in political slugfest||At least 15 people have died, and lakhs of people were rendered homeless or marooned, as the flood situation in six districts of West Bengal aggravated on Tuesday, triggering a slugfest between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the opposition BJP over the release of "excess water" by the DVC. Around three lakh people got displaced after heavy rain in the last few days, followed by discharge of water from Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) dams, inundated major parts of the districts of Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur, Hooghly, Howrah and South 24 Parganas, officials said. The DVC, since July 31, has released 5.43 lakh cusec of water till Tuesday evening. Seven people died and 2.5 lakh have been affected by the flood Till Monday. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who keeps a tab on the relief and rescue operations and has sent ministers to the affected areas, is likely to conduct an aerial survey of Howrah and Hooghly districts on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. She will later conduct an administrative meeting, officials said. "We are collecting the details of all 15 people who have lost their lives due to the flood. Some deaths are due to electrocution, snake bite, wall collapse. We are waiting for a final report from district administrations," an official said. Several areas in the six affected districts are reeling under flood, with people struggling to wade through waist-deep water. The districts of Hooghly, Howrah and West Midnapore are among the worst affected due to the floods. Around 79,000 people were affected in Hooghly district alone, whereas crops and livestock worth lakhs of rupees were destroyed. "Around 345 villages are affected by the floods, and more than 34 thousand hectares of crop area have been damaged. Around 1159 houses have been damaged in the district. We are presently running 89 relief camps," a Hooghly district official said. The situation was worse in Kolkata's neighbouring Howrah district, where around 1.8 lakh people were affected as 10 gram panchayats were severely affected by the floods. "Seven Gram Panchayats are completely under water, and three are partially submerged. The Udaynarayanpur block is the worst affected," a Howrah district official said. Water from the Rupnarayan and the Dwarakeswar rivers have overtopped banks and entered residential areas, flooding homes, the official said. State Irrigation Minister Soumen Mahapatra conducted a tour of the Udaynarayanpur block in Howrah district and took stock of the relief and rescue operation. The Paschim Medinipur district administration has opened 212 relief camps as areas under 172 gram panchayats and seven municipalities were flooded. The link road between towns of Keshpur and Medinipur is under water. Over one lakh tarpaulin, 1,000 MT of rice, thousands of drinking water pouches and clean clothes have been sent to the shelters homes, an official stated. On Monday, the Army and the Air Force had undertaken rescue operations in Hooghly district, where rivers have overtopped banks and flooded villages. The ongoing flood situation triggered a political slugfest between the ruling TMC and the opposition BJP. Mahapatra accused the Central government-owned DVC of releasing water and causing a "man-made flood" situation. "The DVC deliberately released so much of water that it led to a flood-like situation. The Central government deliberately created this man-made flood situation in Bengal. We condemn such politics," Mahapatra told reporters after his visit to Howrah. BJP state spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya termed the allegations "baseless". "Before making such allegations, the TMC government should know why the water was released. There must be a logic behind DVC releasing the water. The fact is the state government has failed to conduct relief and rescue operations properly and are now blaming others," he said. The DVC on Saturday said the storage facilities at Panchet and Maithon dams have reached their capacities due to heavy inflow of water from upstream Jharkhand, and discharge under such circumstances was "unavoidable". A DVC official stated that the corporation released 5.43 lakh cusec of water till Tuesday evening since July 31. Water discharge is regulated by Damodar Valley Reservoir Regulation Committee, which has a representative from the state government, the official said. Teams of NDRF and SDRF, along with the state administration, are involved in the relief and rescue operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Presidency University to hold no entrance exam for undergraduate courses||Presidency University will admit students to its undergraduate courses based on board marks as entrance tests could not be held, an official of the institute said on Tuesday. An admission notice issued on Monday said the merit lists for subjects in arts and science, barring statistics and economics, will be prepared on the basis of marks obtained in Class 10 and Class 12 board exams. For economics and statistics, students will be admitted based on their higher secondary or equivalent 12th standard board marks. Aspirants can submit online applications till 3 pm on August 20, it said. "We have posted details about the admission procedure for UG courses (arts and science) on August 2. It will be based on the marks obtained by students," Presidency University Vice Chancellor Anuradha Lohia told. The decision to admit students based on board examination marks was taken after the higher education department asked authorities of the state government-run universities not to hold any entrance test or counselling for undergraduate courses as part of screening process this year and only go by the marks awarded through evaluation method. The state board exams for Class 10 and 12 were not held this year due to the Covid-19 situation. In case of tie for preparing the merit lists, the candidates will be judged considering their percentage of aggregate marks obtained in the Class 12 examination at the first instance. A student obtaining more aggregate marks will have a better rank, the admission notice said. If tie exists thereafter, the process will be repeated considering the percentage of marks obtained by them in Madhyamik or equivalent 10th standard examination, it added. The SFI-controlled Presidency University Students' Council has opposed the new admission criteria by the higher education department, arguing that the government interfered with the functional autonomy of institutions and compromised with their high academic standard set up over the years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta Hight Court stays order on pleas seeking impartial probe into post-poll violence||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday reserved order on a set of PILs seeking impartial probe into alleged post-poll violence in Bengal, following conclusion of arguments by all parties in the matter. A seven-member enquiry committee set up by the NHRC chairman on a direction by a five-judge bench hearing the PILs has in its report recommended handing over the investigation in grievous crimes like rape and murder to the CBI, and that these cases should be tried outside the state. The panel said other cases should be investigated by a court-monitored SIT (special investigation team) and that for adjudication, there should be fast-track courts, special public prosecutors and witness protection scheme. Hearing in the matter concluded on Tuesday and the order was reserved by the bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar. Appearing for the Union of India, Additional Solicitor General Y J Dastoor submitted that it was ready to conduct a probe by any central investigating agency like the CBI as per the high court's order. The PILs alleged that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes, and destruction of property as a result of post-poll violence in Bengal, and an sought impartial probe along with protection of life and liberty. Opposing the findings and recommendations of the NHRC committee report, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the state DGP, claimed it was erroneous and biased. Stating that a few members of the panel had links with the BJP, he prayed it should be rejected by the court. Denying alleged inaction by the police, Bengal Advocate General Kishore Dutta submitted that suo motu cases were registered by the police in several cases apart from those in complaints sent by the NHRC. The committee had in its scathing remarks in the final report said, "This was retributive violence by supporters of the ruling party against supporters of the main opposition party." Maintaining that the acts of violence resulted in disruption of life and livelihood of thousands of people and their economic strangulation, the report said, "The local police has been grossly derelict, if not complicit, in this violence."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata likely to conduct aerial survey of flood-hit areas ||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to conduct an aerial survey of two of the six flood-affected districts of the state on Wednesday to take stock of the situation, a source in the state secretariat said. At least 14 people died due to wall collapse or electrocution and nearly 2.5 lakh got displaced in six districts of Bengal, where water released from the Damodar Valley Corporation dams (DVC) and heavy rain late last week have inundated streets and hamlets. "The CM is likely to take an aerial survey of the flood-affected Udaynarayanpur in Howrah district and Khanakul in Hooghly district tomorrow. She may be accompanied by the chief secretary (H K Dwivedi)," the source said on Tuesday. The other four flood-hit districts are Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur and South 24 Parganas. Banerjee has directed her ministers to remain at their respective districts and supervise the relief and rescue works. Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee visited the flood-hit areas of Ghatal in Paschim Medinipur district on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Class VII boy arrested with fake notes in Kaliachak||A Class VII boy was arrested after fake Indian currency amounting to Rs 4.40 lakh was seized from his possession in Malda’s Kaliachak on Sunday. Shyam Sundar Saha, the officer-in-charge of Golapganj police outpost, said they had information that smugglers were circulating fake notes by engaging minor boys. “The 12-year-old boy was engaged as a carrier by a relative. Searches are on to nab him. Counterfeit notes in denomination of Rs 500 and another 120 in denomination of Rs 2,000 were seized from him,” Saha added. On Monday, the boy was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and sent to a juvenile home in Murshidabad district. The detective department of Siliguri Metropolitan Police, Pradhannagar police and a team of cops from Sikkim raided a medicine shop in the Champasari area of Siliguri on Sunday night and held two alleged drug peddlers. The arrested duo have been identified as Kamrul Huda and Mortaja Alam. Both were produced at a local court in Siliguri on Monday and have been taken away to Sikkim on transit remand, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 575 new infections and 12 deaths||Bengal on Monday logged 575 new infections, 734 recoveries and 12 deaths. With this, the state recorded 43 uninterrupted days of a fall in the total number of active cases, which fell by 171 to 10,803 on Monday. The state’s recovery rate is at its best at 98.11 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.36. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Monday. With Calcutta logging 61 new infections and North 24-Parganas 89, Monday was the third straight day after a three-day gap when none of Bengal's 23 districts reported 100 or more new cases in a day. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures while North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths and Calcutta, Kalimpong, East Burdwan, Hooghly and North 24-Parganas  reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.29 lakh Covid-19 cases since March 2020, including 15 lakh recoveries and 18,161 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Hooch deaths: Khonra Badsha gets life term  ||Noor Islam Fakir a.k.a. Khonra Badsha, the main accused in the 2011 Sangrampur hooch tragedy that claimed 172 lives and blinded many others, received a life sentence from the additional district and sessions judges’ court in Alipore on Monday. He will serve his sentence till death, the court ordered. The Sangrampur hooch tragedy occurred on December 14, 2011, after which the state government had handed over the probe to the CID. On Saturday, additional district judge Pushpal Satpathi had held Fakir guilty of “poisoning people”. The court acquitted seven other accused, including Fakir’s wife Shakila Biwi, because of inadequate evidence. Fakir’s lawyers, however, said they would challenge the verdict in high court. Fakir, who is physically challenged, ran the hooch racket at Mograhat and nearby areas in South 24-Parganas allegedly using political clout during the Left Front era. The CID in its charge sheet stated the hooch that killed 172 people was adulterated with methyl alcohol and other chemicals to make the drink more potent. Most victims were daily workers, rickshaw-pullers, and hawkers. Post-mortem indicated respiratory and cardiac failure from methyl poisoning. Fakir had surrendered before the police and remained under judicial custody since January 2012. The district court in 2018 had convicted him with a life sentence in connection with another case in Usti police station area. The court on Monday said both sentences will run concurrently. Fakir’s lawyer Rampada Jana said: “The court ignored my client’s submission as he was not directly associated with the trade. We will move Calcutta High Court challenging the sentence.”Abu Bakkar Dhali, another defence lawyer, said the police “failed to produce any convincing evidence against Fakir”. Family members of the victims welcomed the verdict. Manjila Bewa, who lost her husband Jahangir in the tragedy, said: “Hope Fakir feels the pain that we have been feeling for long. We would have been happier had the court awarded him a death sentence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Nine migrant labourers died, 18 others injured in South 24-Parganas||Nine migrant labourers died and 18 others were critically injured when the pick-up van in which they were travelling rammed into a concrete lamppost near Kultali Simana Bazaar area of Baruipur in South 24-Parganas late on Sunday night. They were part of a group of 27 from Radhaballabhpur and Mullickpara under Joynagar in South 24-Parganas, who were headed towards Howrah station to catch a Kerala-bound train on Monday morning for work at a construction firm. Their kin said they had stayed at home for 16 months amid Covid-19-induced lockdowns and uncertainties. Police have started a case against the driver, also injured, for rash driving. Officials of Bakultala police station and eyewitness in Kultali Simana Bazar area said the accident occurred at 11.55pm on Sunday when the speeding pick-up van rammed into a concrete lamppost, then a tree and then overturned. Local residents, who took the victims to Nimpith Hospital, said six persons died on the spot while others succumbed to injuries at the hospital. Preliminary probe suggested that the driver lost control of the speeding vehicle. A senior officer of Baruipur police district said: “It could not be immediately ascertained how the accident occurred. We have spoken to some of the survivors who said the driver was drunk and driving with one hand on the steering wheel while speaking on a mobile phone held in his other hand. He was asked by the occupants to reduce speeding that he apparently ignored.” Police began a case of reckless driving against the driver, who is critically injured. “We will interrogate the driver to know the exact reason behind the accident once he recovers,” the officer said. Alamgir Mollah, one of the survivors, who lost his father, elder brother and two other relatives in the accident, said: "We had to catch an early morning train and hence left home close to midnight to reach Howrah station without hassle. But our driver was arrogant and drove with one hand at great speed. I cautioned him many times to reduce speeding but he did not listen.” Many people from several areas of Joynagar work as masons in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Many of them returned last year during lockdown. During the past few months many of them have been trying to go back in the absence of work in Bengal owing to Covid induced restrictions imposed by the state government. Jairul Majhi, a woman who lost her son in the mishap, said: “There was a serious financial crisis at home. My son was trying hard to go back to work and persuading a local agent for a long time. The agent gave him the nod on Saturday and now he is dead." Trinamul's Kultali MLA Ganesh Mondal said: "We are in touch with the state government to ensure that the kin of the deceased labourers and those who are injured get compensation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Revamp of BJP office building exposes cracks||Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari hasn’t been allotted a room at the state headquarters of the BJP in central Calcutta as the party started refurbishing the building and allocating space for office-bearers. The ongoing revamp of the office at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane has once again exposed the widening cracks in the BJP, in which state president Dilip Ghosh and Adhikari are at loggerheads with each other. Almost all key leaders, including Ghosh, state BJP vice-president Pratap Banerjee and state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty, were allotted rooms at the headquarters. A single room was kept for five general secretaries of the state unit. Former Bengal BJP chief Rahul Sinha, who currently holds no position in the party, got a separate room. The only exception is Adhikari, whose meteoric rise in the BJP soon after his switch from the Trinamul Congress has drawn criticism from a section of leaders in the saffron camp, especially those owing allegiance to Ghosh. “Since Suvenduda joined (on December 19, 2020), most of our work was being done from the party’s Hastings office. But all leaders have shifted back to the headquarters which is being refurbished. Room allotment has been done on the basis of priority,” a state BJP functionary said. Another BJP source said: ‘There is no concrete plan to allot a room for Suvendu at the state headquarters.” Many in the BJP believe the delay in allotting a room for Adhikari is a ploy by a section of leaders to keep him outside the organisational activities. Similar allegations were reported against Ghosh and his associates by leaders close to Mukul Roy who later went back to Trinamul. “It appears that a section of BJP leaders is applying the same tactics against Suvenduda that they had used against Mukulda,” another state leader said. The state BJP headquarters is being refurbished in the wake of the party’s decision to release three floors in the Hastings office, which it had taken on rent ahead of the Assembly elections. Although thousands of people would flock together at Hastings office before the polls, it wears a deserted look post the debacle, which many believe is the reason why three floors were released. On the other hand, leaders close to Ghosh said Adhikari had hardly been to the headquarters in the past eight months. Adhikari, who visited the headquarters not more than three times, continues to hold a room at the Hastings office. Asked if the BJP planned to allot a room for Adhikari at all, general secretary Sayantan Basu said: “Yes, we have thought of giving him a room.” However, leaders aware of the issue said nothing of that sort had yet been decided. Basu said 74 MLAs of the BJP would be asked to sit and meet at the Hastings office, where the party still has two floors. “All organisational work will be done from the headquarters. Hastings office will be for the legislative party,” he added. A BJP source said it could be a ploy to keep Adhikari at bay from the party headquarters. Sunil’s protest Trinamul Congress MP Sunil Mondal, who had announced his switch to the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls, on Monday said he was with the Trinamul Congress and would remain with the party. He was also seen on Monday demonstrating against the BJP in the Lok Sabha, alongside Trinamul MPs. Kalyan Banerjee, a Trinamul MP, who had once attacked Mondal for switching sides, reiterated that Mondal was a Trinamul MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Won’t quit as MP, says Babul Supriyo||The BJP on Monday managed to persuade Babul Supriyo against resigning as a Lok Sabha member even as the singer-turned-politician insisted that he would no longer be part of active politics. Speaking to reporters after meeting BJP president J.P. Nadda, the Asansol MP said he would continue to discharge his constitutional responsibilities as a parliamentarian but withdraw from politics and leave his official residence in the national capital. After being dropped from the Union cabinet, the two-term MP had announced that he would resign as MP and quit politics. He told reporters on Monday that Union home minister Amit Shah and Nadda had spoken to him and he had taken a final decision after thinking over their suggestions. He asserted that whatever he had said recently, some of which was seen to be critical of the BJP’s affairs in the state, was in the interest of the BJP and that he stood by that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress launches campaign against John Barla||The Trinamul Congress has launched a campaign in the Dooars against Alipurduar BJP MP and Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla over his alleged encroachment on land and corruption and the support for the separate “North Bengal” state. The campaign was launched under the banner of the Bharatiya Mulniwasi Adivasi Vikas Parishad, an apolitical organisation floated for tribal people by Rajesh Lakra, who is in Trinamul now. Following his switch to Trinamul, the Parishad has been functioning as a frontal organisation of the ruling party. In the past few weeks, Barla was accused of encroaching on tea garden land and a state government plot and constructing buildings. A woman accused him of fleecing her financially also. After Trinamul had swept the Assembly polls, Barla lent support to the demand that north Bengal be turned into a separate state or a Union Territory for its development. “We have launched a campaign against Barla. On one hand, he is speaking on divisive lines, indulged in corruption and encroached on land at many locations. On the other hand, Barla has not done anything for the Dooars or north Bengal as a whole even though two-and-a-half years have passed since he became an MP. We will start a movement against the MP if need be,” said Lakra. Political observers said tribal people in the Dooars could easily relate themselves to Lakra’s Parishad. “So, the campaign against Barla under the Parishad’s banner is a well-planned strategy of Trinamul. The basic idea is to dent the saffron camp’s base in the region,” said a political observer. Trinamul leaders said they would visit every tea garden and forest villages to apprise residents of Barla’s alleged land grab, corruption and divisive politics. Lakra and some other Trinamul leaders on Monday held a public meeting in Madarihat, the Assembly segment in Alipurduar where Lakra had lost to the BJP this year. “A similar meeting will be held at Malbazar on Tuesday (tomorrow),” said the Trinamul leader. Asked about the Trinamul campaign, an Alipurduar district BJP leader said: “Trinamul is making all efforts to try and revive its support base. But such activities will not work as people are with us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Hunger strike heat on BJP in Darjeeling||S.P. Sharma’s Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang faction) polled fewer votes than Nota in the hill seats during the Assembly elections, but his indefinite fast from Sunday to ask the BJP and its Darjeeling MP Raju Bista on the headway in tribal status for 11 hill communities and a “permanent political solution” for the region has swivelled the spotlight on the faction. Sharma, the general secretary of the ABGL (Bharati faction), has managed to galvanise support against the BJP for its alleged failure to deliver these two key poll promises in the hills. Since Sunday, the faction’s office has been teeming with well-wishers from even rival entities, as Sharma on Monday continued with his hunger strike that seems to have increased the pressure on the BJP. On Sunday, Ajoy Edwards, the president of the GNLF Darjeeling Branch Committee, surprised all by meeting Sharma at the ABGL party office at Laden-la Road in Darjeeling. The GNLF is an ally of the BJP. Edwards tried to convince Sharma to work together to put pressure on the BJP to fulfil these demands instead of starting an indefinite fast. “We too are not eternally bound to the BJP. If they don’t fulfil the demands before their tenure is over in 2024, they will have no standing in the hills. Until then, let us work together to apply pressure on BJP,” said Edwards. Sharma, however, went ahead with his fast. Edwards left, wishing him all the best. Soon leaders of Bimal Gurung faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, a party instrumental in providing a foothold to BJP in the hills in 2009, trooped in to support Sharma. Bimal’s rivals, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction now headed by Anit Thapa, were the next to come to the office. On Monday morning, Dawa Narbula, former Congress MP from Darjeeling came forward to support Sharma. During the 2021 Assembly election, Sharma’s candidates managed to garner 4,939 votes in all while the number of people who voted for Nota from the three hill seats were 7,090. The ABGL is the oldest party in the hills and SP Sharma is now with Bharati Tamang camp for the past one year. The ABGL is divided into three factions. Bharati Tamang is the wife of Madan Tamang, who was hacked to death allegedly by supporters of the then undivided Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in 2010. Against this background, the presence of leaders of both factions of the Morcha at the ABGL’s office was significant. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, secretary-general, Morcha (Anit Thapa camp) even garlanded the photograph of Madan Tamang at the party office. Pokhrel is named as an accused in the Madan murder case. “Not just the BJP, all the parties that had supported the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha election will be responsible if anything untoward happens to Sharma,” said Pokhrel. All this support for Sharma seems to have made the BJP uncomfortable. Neeraj Zimba, the GNLF leader who won the Darjeeling Assembly seat on a BJP ticket, had tried to make light of Sharma’s hunger strike announcement a few days back. “We will deploy our supporters to ensure that the hunger strike is strictly enforced by Sharma,” Zimba had joked. But now, Zimba is silent. The BJP is also silent. Edwards has left for Delhi to string together various outfits and parties to mount pressure on the BJP to fulfil the two demands. “The BJP is under tremendous pressure now. Sharma may not be a mass leader, but the issues that he has raised are what the hill masses strongly connect to,” said an observer. Edwards decision was independent of Sharma’s hunger strike decision and he plans to rope in Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista, too, in this campaign. “However, none can deny  that pressure on BJP to deliver on their poll promise had never suddenly been so strong,” said the observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||101-year-old woman among 31 airlifted by army from flood-hit Hooghly district||A 101-year-old woman and 30 others had been stranded for two days on the roof of a one-storey building at Khanakul in the flood-affected Hooghly district and it took a helicopter of the Indian Army to rescue them on Monday. All the 31 persons, including centenarian Janhabi Samanta, got stuck on the roof after heavy rain and water released by various barrages, including Damodar Valley Corporation, triggered floods in Khanakul’s Dhanyagheri area. The NDRF and the local administration could not rescue the persons despite several efforts and finally, the state government sought the army’ help on Monday morning. Local people said they couldn’t recall such a flood in recent memory in which people needed to be airlifted. “It was a challenge for us to save those 31 persons as we had no option to reach there. The challenge was to airlift the 101-year-old woman as she was reluctant to leave out of fear. However, after several hours of counselling, we finally managed to save the woman,” said Abhishek Mandal, the sub-divisional police officer in Arambagh. The elderly woman said she, along with others, survived without food for 48 hours as the ground floor of their home was flooded. “I had never witnessed such a flood earlier. I had never flown before and I was afraid after I saw it (the chopper). I told them that I would not fly but they assured me that there was nothing be afraid of. I have not had food for the past 48 hours,” said Janhabi, who was given a meal immediately after the chopper landed at Arambagh. Many of the stranded people lived nearby and took refuge on the roof of the building. Shibshankar Samanta, a grandson of the elderly woman, who was also rescued by the chopper, said: “My grandmother did not agree to come with us and said she would be happy on the roof. She came alone on the last trip. We did not want to lose her.” The army helicopter conducted five sorties, the last one was for Janhabi alone. Sources said over 200 villages in three Bengal districts, including in Hooghly’s Khanakul, West Midnapore’s Ghatal and parts in rural Howrah like Udayanarayanpur, had been facing devastating flood for the past three days and around five lakh people had been affected across the state. Officials said the situation worsened in Khanakul and Ghatal after the DVC discharged around 1.46 lakh cusec water till Monday morning. “As all rivers and canals were filled because of rainwater, the areas flooded as soon as different barrages, including the DVC in Durgapur, released water,” said an official in West Midnapore. In Ghatal alone, around 2.5 lakh people have been affected and five persons died in the past three days. “The five persons have died either by drowning or snakebite. We have rescued around 50,000 people from villages and sheltered them at hundreds of camps,” said Rashmi Kamal, the West Midnapore district magistrate. Panchayat and rural development minister Subrata Mukherjee, along with state irrigation minister Soumen Mahapatra, on Monday visited Ghatal to provide relief. “Because of lack of funds from the Centre, the Ghatal master plan could not be implemented. The flood situation is the worst here and our government is trying hard to rescue the people,” said Mukherjee, the minister. Sources said several hospitals and correctional homes were underwater in Ghatal and it had become a challenge for the local administration to reach the affected people with healthcare services. At least two dozen villages have gone under water since Sunday morning in Howrah’s Udaynarayanpur. Inundation has been reported from different pockets of Birbhum, East Burdwan and Bankura as well. Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
03-08-2021||North East||Abhishek Banerjee’s convoy  under attack in Tripura||The Trinamul Congress on Monday asserted that it would form the next government in Tripura, daring the ruling BJP to stop the challenger if it can. The announcement was made by Trinamul’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee  at a news conference in Agartala, hours after his convoy was attacked by suspected BJP workers at Parimal Chowmani in the Gomati district, about 54km away. Abhishek was on his way to offer prayers at the Tripurasundari Temple in Gomati, soon after his arrival at the Agartala airport, when the incident took place around 1pm. The Diamond Harbour MP tweeted a video of purported BJP workers protesting with party flags, raining blows on the car he was travelling in. His tweet added: “Democracy in Tripura under @BJP4India rule!… Well done @BjpBiplab for taking the state to new heights.” The reference was to Tripura chief minister and BJP leader Biplab Deb. Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien raised the issue on the floor of the House. Tripura Trinamul leader Ashish Lal Singh said BJP workers attacked supporters who were putting up banners and posters near the airport around 11am. He said banners and posters were found damaged in several parts of the state. The ruling BJP said there were protests but no attacks.  The BJP workers’ protest was against the “atrocities” against the party in Bengal since the third consecutive victory of Trinamul, Tripura BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said. At the news conference, Abhishek said his party’s intent was to go all out and win the next Assembly polls in the northeastern state in 2023. He repeatedly said his party was in Tripura to stay and to meet the “aspirations” of the people as well as revive democracy. Abhishek took several digs at chief minister Deb, accusing him of being “remote-controlled” by the national leadership of the BJP and daring him and his party to stop him and Trinamul, “if they can”. Abhishek said anyone who wanted to fight the BJP, even if they are from other parties, was welcome to join Trinamul, adding he would visit the state at least twice a month henceforth. A few senior leaders from other parties are expected to join the party in his presence, said sources in the party. Trinamul has been inducting various leaders from other parties in recent weeks. Most of the posters, banners and other publicity material put up for the Abhishek visit had the slogan “Ebar Tripura (This time, Tripura)” prominently displayed, conveying the party’s intent to win Tripura, which had voted overwhelmingly for the BJP-IPFT combine to unseat the Left Front government in 2018. Political observers said that Trinamul has been able to up the ante over the past week or so, first by drawing pan-India attention to the “house arrest” of Prashant Kishor’s I-Pac members and following it up with the visit by Mamata’s political heir-apparent. “But it will take more than noise on social and mainstream media, because there is hardly any Trinamul organisation on the ground. Moreover, the BJP may be faltering a bit, but people have not forgiven the follies of the Left Front during its 25-year rule in the state. Trinamul has to sustain this momentum and build on it,” said one of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
03-08-2021||North East||Assam-Mizoram dispute: Economic blockade hurdle in peace bid||The “unofficial” economic blockade imposed in Assam has become a major hurdle in normalisation of ties with Mizoram following the inter-state border flare-up on July 26 despite goodwill gestures by both states, including two Assam ministers travelling to Aizawl on August 5 to hold talks to end the standoff. Senior Assam officials told The Telegraph that there is no official bar on the movement of vehicles but truckers and public are avoiding travel apprehending trouble. They also said that small groups of people and organisations were imposing blockades “here and there” to stop the supply of essential items. On Monday, the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti staged a protest in Hailakandi against the killing of the six Assam policemen in alleged firing by Mizoram police. However, a statement on “Looming medical crisis in Mizoram”, issued by the Aizawl-based Mizoram Chemists and Druggists Association on Monday, tried to convey the impact of the “unofficial” blockade since July 26 but also raised a lot of questions like whether they were citizens of this country and why the Centre was yet to intervene.The statement, issued by association president R. Thanglura and general secretary L.H. Sailo, claims that Mizoram is in crisis due to the blockade “created” by the Assam government, severely affecting the availability of medicines, especially for Covid-19 patients. The Union health minister had said last week that Mizoram was one of the 10 states which was either witnessing a surge in Covid cases or a rise in the positivity rate. Requesting the Prime Minister and the Union home minister to intervene at the earliest to prevent any health crisis, the association accused the Assam government of “summoning” all transporters operating on the Mizoram route in Guwahati on July 29 following the flare-up and asking them to “stop transporting” any goods to the neighbouring state “due to security concerns”. Since then, no goods, including basic, life-saving and Covid-19 medicines, have reached Mizoram, it said. Even oxygen cylinders, oxygen plant materials and Covid-19 test kits have “been blocked”, it added. Assam had later issued a travel advisory urging people not to travel to Mizoram because of the prevailing situation. “Never in the history of this country has anyone resorted to such a draconian and inhumane act to his fellow being. The basic fundamental right to life as guaranteed by the Indian Constitution which includes the right to basic health care and medicines have been denied... Despite having endured this problem for almost a week, there has been no response from the central government on this front,” the statement said. The border dispute dates back to 1972. Assam’s Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts share a border with Mizoram’s Kolasib and Mamit districts. The flare-up took place along the disputed inter-state border at Vairengte ( Kolasib) and Lailapur (Cachar). According to sources in Mizoram House, a truck carrying oxygen plant machinery, a Mahindra pick-up with oxygen cylinders and one truck with 1,500 food packets for the Covid-affected are stranded in their compound at Silchar in Assam’s Cachar district. “We also have two lakh RAT (rapid antigen test) kits lying in the Silchar warehouse,” one of them said. Assam officials said that there was no blockade. Trucks are stranded in Silchar because of a lack of drivers, they said. “Or they (drivers) don’t want to go fearing trouble during the journey. Moreover, small groups and some organisations have been blocking roads in protest. There is no official bar on movement but truckers don’t want to take any risk,” one of them said. Sources said there is tension in Barak Valley over the deaths. They also said that efforts needed to be made to ensure smooth supply of essential items to Mizoram to substantiate the goodwill gestures. Mizoram has started tapping Tripura to get its supplies but it is going to be time-consuming and costly, they added. On Monday, local people in Karimganj bordering Tripura stopped Mizoram-bound trucks. FIRs withdrawn The statement by the chemists and druggists association came amid more goodwill gestures by chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram a day after both of them talked of resolving things amicably. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma first tweeted that he has directed the police to withdraw the FIR against Mizoram Rajya Sabha MP K. Vanlalvena for his provocative statement on the flare-up. A police team had last week visited Delhi and summoned Vanlalvena for questioning. Sarma, however, maintained that the cases against accused police officers will be pursued. He also appreciated his Mizoram counterpart’s desire to settle the border dispute amicably. “Assam always wants to keep the spirit of Northeast alive. We are also committed to ensuring peace along our borders,” Sarma said. On Monday evening, Zoramthanga took another confidence-building measure. “In order to build a conducive atmosphere for amicable solution to the #MizoramAssamBorder dispute & to reduce the plight of suffering citizens, I have directed @mizorampolice to withdraw FIR dated 26.07.2021 filed at Vairengte, Kolasib district, Mizoram, against all the accused persons.” he tweeted. Sarma then reciprocated by asking Assam police to withdraw cases against the Kolasib deputy commissioner and superintendent of police. He also tweeted that two of his cabinet colleagues — Atul Bora and Ashok Singhal — will travel to Aizawl on August 5 for a “meaningful” dialogue to end the standoff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
03-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hush hour||Indians are an argumentative lot. An argument need not be a squabble. In a democracy, it may well be synonymous with animated, public deliberation. It is thus strange that the argumentative Indian has chosen to elect a dispensation that is markedly disinterested in engagements — heated or not. The Narendra Modi government’s love for the furtive has, in the course of the last few years, had numerous manifestations. The prime minister refuses to pay heed to the persistent demands by the Opposition to come clean on the allegations of snooping by the regime with the help of sophisticated technology. Neither has he responded to the allegations of China encroaching upon Indian territory in spite of grim developments on the border. The ‘gains’ of radical interventions — demonetization is an example — have remained mysterious, as mysterious as the Centre’s assurance of the Indian economy being in robust health in a world ravaged by the pandemic. The evidence of Mr Modi’s evasive self is thus substantial. Yet, he has managed to get away with it because key institutions — they include the media — have not done enough to demand accountability from this government. So the Central Information Commission’s directive to the Centre to reveal within a stipulated time frame the details of its preparations for and management of the Covid-19 disaster, especially the oxygen crisis, must be welcomed. Responding to a plea to make such information public, the CIC also dismissed the government’s argument that such revelations could impair national interest. And herein lies the crux of a dilemma common to democracies. Elected — seemingly authoritarian — governments are increasingly willing to exploit the rhetoric of national interest or security to deny access to information pertaining to public, indeed national, welfare. The constriction cannot go uncontested. This is because the foundations of democracy are rooted in the pledge of welcoming and strengthening the culture of transparency. The latter’s absence can tempt democratically-elected governments to prey on democracy itself. The responsibility of keeping governments accountable to the people is not the Opposition’s alone. It must be shared with institutions that like to imagine themselves as the sentinels of democracy. The CIC’s rap on the knuckles of the Centre should be seen as a reminder to these slumbering agencies that they, too, have a responsibility to keep the government on its toes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
03-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Comprehensive database of migrant workers, Covid-induced hair loss||Act now Sir — It is a relief that the Centre has promised to create a comprehensive database of migrant workers in the coming months (“Watch them”, July 29). Hopefully, the database will help build a safety net for millions of migrant workers whose precarious living conditions were brought to light only after the Covid-19-induced lockdown last year led to untold misery. Although there are laws to ensure fair working conditions for migrant workers — the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 and the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 — these have not been implemented properly by successive Central and state governments. These acts have provisions for registration of migrants and fair wages. The government must refer to them to ensure the welfare of migrant workers. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — India has a large number of unorganized workers who move away from their homes to work in far-flung places. The two waves of the pandemic which led to nationwide lockdowns have hurt this section of the population the most. In June, the Supreme Court rightly rebuked the labour ministry for its failure to complete the National Database for Unorganised Workers. It must be remembered that while migrant labourers contribute immensely to developmental activities in India, they are mostly deprived of the benefits of various welfare schemes. The government must complete the database and properly implement the One Nation One Ration Card scheme so that migrant workers can access subsidized food grains. With the third wave of the pandemic looming on the horizon, it is crucial that safety nets are put in place. S.S. Paul,Nadia  Hair raising tale Sir — Governments around the world are tearing their hair out to tame the coronavirus. The aam aadmi — those who are lucky enough to survive Covid-19 — are losing their hair too: the hair loss, apparently, is a fallout of the viral infection. This only goes to show that the discovery of the vaccines notwithstanding, the nature and some of the after-effects of Covid remain mysterious as ever. Shilpi Agrawal,Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
03-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Law in place||There is no ‘unequal pedestal’ before the law. The Supreme Court reasserted this principle while sitting on the Kerala government’s plea for the withdrawal of criminal cases filed against six members of the legislative assembly from the Left Democratic Front for turbulent conduct during a session in 2015. The LDF MLAs, then in Opposition, had damaged in a protest equipment and furniture to the tune of Rs 2.20 lakh in the Kerala assembly. But the privileges and immunities that legislators enjoy do not give them a separate status under the law of the land. The Supreme Court, while dismissing the Kerala government’s plea, reportedly said that the privileges accorded to the members of the House of Commons in the United Kingdom did not exempt them from the law, but allowed them to discharge their duties freely. Similarly, the privileges and immunities enjoyed by elected representatives in India were intended to create conditions for them to do their job effectively, without fear or favour, not to remove them from the purview of the law. The Supreme Court’s ruling is a message to all elected representatives who engage in violent protest in Parliament and the assemblies. Legislators are constitutionally permitted to protest, as the court pointed out with reference to the pertinent provisions. But this freedom of expression does not include smashing up public property. The law violated in such cases is the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984, by which the Supreme Court has traditionally laid great store. The court’s ruling underlined two ironies. The Kerala government itself had enacted a law against the destruction of public property, it reportedly said. Besides, claiming exemption for a breach of criminal law would betray the trust imposed in elected representatives as enactors of laws. This suggested that legislators’ conduct should be in tune with the laws they make for the people — again a message that should be noted. When will it be followed? The plea itself indicated how law is sought to be politicized by today’s leaders: the LDF is now in power in Kerala. Trying to extricate colleagues from criminal cases when in power is a tendency most political parties share; Yogi Adityanath’s efforts in this direction are spectacular. The Supreme Court ruling — and elucidation — must be welcomed in this context as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
03-08-2021||Opinion||The dangers of silence||Could the 12 lives lost in the flooded subway in Zhengzhou on July 20 have been saved had the decision been taken to shut down the metro line early enough? The train was stuck between two stations. Why wasn’t it stopped from leaving the station when it was clear that there were chances of the track flooding ahead? Everyone could have safely been evacuated then. An anonymous subway worker has posted these questions in a blog post, pointing to the fatal flaw in China’s decision-making systems: no one down the line is willing to take responsibility; the order must come from the top. An Indian plant director working in China finds his senior managers asking for guidance on problems that in India would routinely be handled by executives at their level. This diffidence, he feels, is a hangover from Mao’s time, when all decisions were left to Party-led committees. When the Covid pandemic broke out in 2019, nobody dared to inform Wuhan’s residents that the new virus raging through the city was infectious till Beijing thought fit to do so. Hostile territory That Zhengzhou could be so badly affected is ironic, because this former capital of China and now a major centre for scientific research was one of the 16 cities prone to flooding that were chosen to become “sponge cities” in 2015. Since then, about 50 billion yuan has been spent on measures meant to equip Zhengzhou to absorb heavy rains. One netizen wrote: “Those corrupt officials absorb Moutai like a sponge every day. If they hadn’t drunk tens of billions, wouldn’t the ‘sponge city’ be built by now?” To be fair, these were the heaviest rains in recorded history which devastated the province’s smaller cities and villages. One villager blamed a leading cement company for this, pointing to its relentless destruction of hillsides. The internet is the only place where citizens can say all this, because instructions have already been sent out to the official media to focus on post-disaster recovery, not to carry pictures of dead bodies or “take an exaggeratedly sorrowful” tone. People have been warned not to give interviews to foreign media. More alarming, however, is the hostility displayed by some ordinary Chinese towards foreign reporters, especially the BBC’s China correspondent. A foreign ministry spokesman typically dismissed complaints from the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China, called the BBC a “rumor broadcasting company” that put “ideology above the truth”, and said “fabricated news reports” had triggered the “public’s dissatisfaction and fury”. In memoriam As in India, the first to respond to the victims were locals, some of whom risked their lives to save strangers. Among those moved to help were three Uighurs who drove from Xinjiang for two days to deliver naans to Zhengzhou’s survivors, belying the myth that Uighurs hate the majority Hans. As Zhengzhou’s residents started placing flowers and lighting candles outside the subway where the 12 people had died, barricades were put up at the entrance to stop the steady stream of mourners. That didn’t work though: the mourners removed the barricades. The authorities also could not stop the man who’s been coming everyday to sit outside the subway wearing a blue raincoat and dark glasses, with a placard saying: “Niuniu, Dad still wants to take you home.” He was trolled on social media for “hyping” and “giving a handle to foreign forces”, till a reporter found out that ‘Raincoat Dad’s’ only daughter, herself a mother, was one of the 12 who’d died in the flooded subway. For him, time has since stood still.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
03-08-2021||Opinion||Trading dreams for debt||When the ministry of education released the All India Survey on Higher Education 2019-20 report, the only detail that caught the fancy of media commentators was the marginal surpassing of men’s enrolment ratio by women. The fact that professional streams of education still remained hugely over-populated by men at all levels went unnoticed. And, therefore, despite the fractional increase in overall access, a professional career — one of the declared aims of tertiary/post-tertiary training — was to remain as unlikely an opportunity for women as before. Another damning aspect borne out by the report is that the average enrolments in every private unaided college dropped by nearly 4 per cent in 2019-20. Every government college continued to enrol more than double the number of students than its private counterpart — a figure that even registered a moderate increase in the latest survey period. Against such a backdrop, the decision by Bengal’s Trinamul Congress government to make good its electoral promise of starting a higher education loan scheme for students belonging to the state might seem to come as a policy-antidote. Claiming to address inequities of reach within advanced stages of formal training, the ‘student credit card’ — officially notified on June 30 — would allow a higher education aspirant to draw a security-free loan of up to Rs 10 lakh on an annual simple interest rate of 4 per cent, to be repaid within 15 years from the conclusion of study. With the state government standing as guarantor to the debt, the amount may be used for funding any course of study — from private coaching centre fees to admission into private colleges or institutes of national importance to study-abroad programmes. Although self-appraisal bulletins have hailed this scheme as a first of its kind in India, it portends a regime of structural policy reform that is neither new nor innocent. The shift towards a loan-assistance model of educational provisioning implies that affordable quality education is not the right of all, but an entitlement of a ‘deserving’ few who must keep proving their credit-worthiness on the basis of means or merit. Ranged against a subsidy-model of social spending (in non-profit goods like education or health), State support is no longer made to apply to public institutions but to private individuals. This, in effect, is an insidious form of privatization of public resources. A corollary of the West Bengal government’s policy-imagination has already been seen in the Centre’s push towards institutional loans (as opposed to ‘grants’) from the Higher Education Financing Agency set up in 2017. Just as institutional debt is to be serviced through internal fee-revenue, the Mamata Banerjee government’s student credit-policy will also bring in its wake a hike in student fees across public and private institutions — with the caveat that whoever cannot afford these higher costs may avail the benefit of the loan scheme. The American higher education system has brought itself to the edge of a ‘financial catastrophe’ — with an overall student debt default of nearly 1.6 trillion dollars and more than half of college-goers still labouring under unpayable debt burdens — through identical measures. So what are the assumptions that underlie the ushering of a loan-economy in the educational sector, and how exactly do they fare with regard to contemporary trends in the field? First, to insist that a student completing a course of higher study will necessarily land a job proportionate to his/her skills and guaranteeing a dignified wage is not only an outrageous fantasy but also an obstinate denial of historical fact. The latest AISHE data, when pitted against the government’s periodic labour force survey for the quarter of April-June 2020, reveal that if 27 adults of college-going age indeed enrol in higher education, nearly 35 of a similar age group have remained unemployed — even informally. The number is even higher for women. Given the lack of data on how many of the enrolled 27 per cent actually complete their courses of study before seeking a job, this is already an index of alarming levels of near-zero-to-negative employment within the college-educated sector of student-populations. It comes as no surprise that even the National Education Policy 2020 makes a veiled reference to this ‘gig economy’ of informal labour-contracts insofar as it aims to prepare students not just “for one’s first job, but also for one’s second job, third job, and beyond.” Second, the AISHE report pegs the yearly expansion of private universities at 46 per cent and of private unaided colleges at a staggering 76 per cent of the total institutional growth in higher education. Contrast this with the revelation that the former accounts for only 25 per cent of student enrolments, and the latter claims around 45 per cent student admissions despite its fourfold spread. Furthermore, enrolment and completion rates for undergraduate courses in engineering and technology, which are largely the preserve of private institutions, have seen a steep annual decline. A student-loan scheme of the kind envisioned by the Bengal government will only serve as a bail-out provision for steadily dwindling enrolments within the private sector. Third, the scourge of online teaching in the shadow of the pandemic and the University Grants Commission’s mandate for compulsorily digitizing curriculum (in the name of ‘blended learning’) have made way for unprecedented incursions of private ed-tech capital into public-funded colleges/universities. The student credit-card will become an excuse for these public institutions to now levy user-charges for technological solutions/ infrastructures at market rates as integral to course fees. Finally, the loan application does not require any security-mortgage but implicates a “co-borrower” — typically, the debtor’s parent or legal guardian — as bound by the obligatory terms of the debt. Not only does this re-erect an inter-generational economy of debt-peonage but it also activates a whole new continuum of structural violence. The presence of the State (as the final guarantor) in every loan contract automatically makes an appeal to the manifold violences of its punitive machinery in any event of defaulting. At a time when the brick-and-mortar university is being carefully scripted into a theatre of disappearance, to pawn off the futures of students-to-be into debt-slavery is to prescribe the disease for its cure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
03-08-2021||Opinion||Complex games||In the year 2009, the present prime minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, who was a vociferous critic of the Afghanistan policy of the then government of Pakistan, went to the United States of America to counter the growing perception that he was a sympathizer of the Taliban. Among his many appearances, he addressed a gathering of Pakistani Americans in Brooklyn’s Midwood area, which is called New York’s Little Pakistan neighbourhood. That dialogue with the Taliban was the only way to bring peace to Afghanistan was the substantive part of his speech. Khan, who is from Pakistan’s Punjab but has Pashtun ancestral roots, appealed to Pakistani Americans to explain to fellow Americans the rationale behind his statements. Around 12 years later, as US troops near complete extrication from Afghanistan, the old and new contextual realities of the neighbourhood are determining the regional engagement with Afghanistan. First, Pakistan’s foundational insecurities about Pashtun nationalism seem to be influencing its Afghanistan policy. Abdul Wali Khan, the son of Abdul Ghaffar Khan, had once said that he had been a Pakistani for 30 years, a Muslim for 1,400 years and a Pathan (Pashtun) for 5,000 years. In Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Pashtuns make up 78 per cent and 99 per cent of the population respectively. More importantly, Pashtun nationalism has an appeal on both sides of the 2,670-kilometre-long Durand Line, a boundary between Afghanistan and Pakistan. Moreover, many Pashtuns on both sides refuse to consider the Durand Line as a legitimate boundary. In this context, it is quite remarkable that even in the midst of the US-funded jihad against the Soviet Union in the 1980s, which is considered one of the factors behind the rise of the Taliban, organizations espousing Pashtun nationalism such as the Awami National Party continued their work undeterred. Now led de facto by the young Aimal Wali Khan, the great grandson of Abdul Ghaffar Khan, the ANP has consistently faced persecution by the Pakistani State and presumed attacks by the Taliban for voicing religious moderation. In its opposition to the Taliban and their ideology, the ANP supported the Soviet Union action in Afghanistan in the 1980s and the 2001 US invasion. In the last few years, another Pashtun-centric organization, the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement, has come into existence in Pakistan. In 2019, the Afghanistan president, Ashraf Ghani, condemned “the violence perpetrated against peaceful protesters and civil activists [of the PTM] in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan”, which the Pakistani State called interference in its internal affairs. In the current context, Ghani has alleged that there is Pakistani State support to the Taliban offensive against his forces. Second, with the exit of the US military, the myriad regional, geographical, linguistic and ethnic realities are asserting themselves. Dari, colloquially known as the Afghan dialect of Persian, is the de facto lingua franca of Afghanistan for the majority, as it is spoken and understood by more than 70 per cent of its population. The Hazaras, the third largest ethnic group after the Pashtuns and the Tajiks, have an affiliation with neighbouring Iran in terms of their Shiite Muslim identity and cultural roots. In the same vein, neighbouring Central Asian countries such as Uzbekistan and Tajikistan are directly influenced by Afghanistan as Uzbeks and Tajiks populate both sides of the border. These countries are highly controlled secular societies. In fact, even the use of social media was restricted till recently. The governing elite in the region is worried about the possible import of radical Sunni extremist ideology. In the last decade, Central Asian countries witnessed a large outflow of their nationals to fight in Iraq and Syria; they are commonly called foreign fighters of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria. In the multilateral arena, the US and Russia have proactively cooperated in building regional counter-terrorism capacities, a rare geopolitical convergence between the two countries. In June, the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, had reportedly offered the US the use of Russian military bases in Central Asia for information gathering from Afghanistan. Third, the Taliban’s political vision is the extreme and rigid interpretation of Deobandi Islam. Historically, Deobandi Islam has had an appeal among Pashtuns on both sides. The Deoband school of Islam started during 1866 in Deoband, which is close to Delhi. However, Pakistani scholars such as Akbar Zaidi have argued that Deobandi Islam in Pakistan has become different from its roots. This is on account of many factors, including the influence of the strict Wahhabism of Saudi Arabia. In the last 20 years, devastating attacks within Pakistan, such as the 2011 naval attack in Karachi or the Pakistan army general headquarters attack in 2009, were carried out by the Pakistani affiliate of the Taliban, the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, which draws the core of its cadre from the Pashtun belt of Pakistan. However, in the post-2000 phase, several extremist organizations that claim to adhere to Deobandi Islam also sprung up. A notable example is the Jaish-e-Mohammad, which was founded by Masood Azhar, born in south Punjab’s Bahawalpur. Azhar, a Deobandi cleric and a declared international terrorist by the United Nations security council, was one of the three terrorists apart from the national of the United Kingdom, Omar Sheikh, and the Srinagar resident, Mushtaq Latram, who were released on December 31, 1999 and taken to Afghanistan as part of the Indian Airlines Flight 814 hostage deal. The JeM took responsibility for the Pulwama attacks of February 14, 2019 and was allegedly responsible for the attacks on the Jammu and Kashmir legislative assembly on October 1, 2001 and the Indian Parliament on December 13, 2001. Within Pakistan there had been several attacks by the JeM. On December 26, 2003, nearly a year after the JeM was banned, it made an unsuccessful bid to assassinate the then president, Pervez Musharraf. In 2002, Daniel Pearl, an American journalist, was kidnapped and later allegedly beheaded by Omar Sheikh. The Taliban’s growing strength in Afghanistan may enhance fund-raising and cadre recruitment of Deobandi extremist organizations across Pakistan. These groups are in competition with outfits such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba, which draws its inspiration from another regional conservative movement, that of Ahl-i Hadith. In view of all this, the withdrawal of the US from Afghanistan and the ongoing ascendancy of the Taliban in the country are set to bring about greater regional volatility. The reality is proving to be a lot more complex than what was articulated by Imran Khan in 2009 as an Opposition leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-57
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro students shine in CBSE Class X exams||Covid-19 pandemic created difficulties for the students, but still many overcame the challenges to their perseverance and academic excellence this year. As many as seven students in the district have scored 99 percent and above marks in the CBSE class X examinations. Meanwhile over 252 students have secured above 95 percent marks in their board examinations. The results were announced on Tuesday. Atleast, 760 students scored above 90 percent marks in about a dozen of CBSE schools across the district. It is to be mentioned that the class board exams had been cancelled due to Covid-19 second wave. The board chose to prepare the results through an alternative means of assessment. The schools credited the collective hard work, consistency and sincerity of both the teachers and the students for the remarkable result. Of the toppers, Aditya Kumar of DAV Public School, Dhori and Risita Ahana of Chinmaya Vidyalaya have scored the highest 99.6 percent in the district. Meanwhile, Saurabh Kumar Pandey of DAV Public School, Dhori achieved 99.4 percent marks followed by Anwesha of Pits Modern School, Gomia with 99.2 percent. The Delhi Public School (DPS), Bokaro got their three students – Anamika, Prince Kumar and Tanushree – scored 99 percent marks in the results of Class X Board announced by CBSE today afternoon.  There were 98 students in DPS, Bokaro who scored above 95 percent marks while 169 students achieved above 90 percent. Similarly, 103 students have got above percent in Chinmaya Vidyalaya while 15 of them obtained 95 percent and above marks. “It is not difficult to bag the perfect score if students cancel out all the distractions from life wholeheartedly and concentrate on their goal,” said Mahesh Tripathi, secretary of Chinmaya Vidyalya. Aayush Kumar Singh of Pentecostal Assembly School scored 98.8 per cent marks followed by Sujal Kumar, Anurima and Kirti Kumar who obtained 98.4 per cent. There are 31 students of this school who scored above 95 per cent while 64 of them obtained above 90 per cent. In Guru Gobind Singh Public School (GGPS) Nafisha Khatun and Unnati, both, scored 97.8 per cent marks. There were 99 students who scored above 90 percent while 34 of them achieved 95 per cent and above. Another MGH Higher Secondary School has also claimed 89 students bagged above 90 per cent marks. Of them, 33 students scored above 95 per cent. In Sree Ayaappa Public School, seven students achieved above 95 per cent marks while 43 students have scored above 90 per cent. The students of other schools including Holy Cross School, BSL-run Schools, Saraswati Vidya Mandir, Dav Public School, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Cresent Public School, Aadarsh Vidya Mandir, Bokaro Public School have also performed well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||DPS-Ranchi students shine in CBSE Class 10 exams||Students of Delhi Public School (DPS)-Ranchi pulled off an exceptional performance in the CBSE Class 10 exams, the results of which were declared on Tuesday, with over 60 per cent students scoring over 90 per cent marks that were evaluated using an alternative system based in part on internal assessments of schools. While 99.66 per cent students of the Patna region, under which Jharkhand falls, passed, several hundred students from Ranchi secured more than 90 per cent marks. Girls trumped boys in the toppers' list announced by various schools. Two students of DPS-Ranchi – Arshia Hussain and Shreya Bhaskar – scored 99.6 per cent marks, while 218 of the 353 class students from this school secured more than 90 per cent, as per data released by the school administration. As per details shared by Jawahar Vidya Mandir, another Ranchi school with a reputation of producing toppers, Sandeepa Sarkar and Abhinav Raj secured 99.4 per cent. Of the 328 students of JVM-Shyamli, at least 105 scored more than 90 per cent marks. “Our students have performed really well even under the stress and panic of a global pandemic. This year was not a normal year for them and they should get credit for not letting the negativity affect their academic performance,” said Ram Singh, the principal of DPS-Ranchi and also coordinator of CBSE schools in Ranchi. CBSE results were based on internal assessments and performance of students through the course of their academic year in the school. CBSE Class 10 board exams were scheduled to start on May 4, but the board had to do away with the idea of in-person exams due to a spike in the cases of Covid-19. According to the alternative assessment plan, 20 marks are based on internal assessments which have been conducted by schools, 10 marks are allotted to periodic/unit tests, 30 marks are allotted to half-yearly exams, and 40 marks are allotted to pre-board exam scores. In case any school has not conducted a particular component of assessment, a Result Committee has been formed in every school to decide on the criteria for awarding marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant hands over job letters to sportspersons, cash reward for Nikki Pradhan too ||Team India defender Nikki Pradhan is going through a mix of emotions ahead of the women's hockey semi-finals against Argentina in Tokyo on Wednesday. Around 5.30pm (IST) on Tuesday when it was 9pm in Tokyo, Nikki rang up her elder sister Shashi Pradhan to share her feelings and seek the blessings of her parents. “Tomorrow is a high-pressure match. She sounded confident for sure. But, I also sensed a bit of nervousness in her tone ahead of the big day. It was 9pm and she was off to bed after dinner and just wanted to speak to us and seek blessings," Shashi told The TelegraphOnline. On Monday, Indian women’s team scripted history by entering into semi-final for the first time since 1980 when female hockey began in Olympics. The Indian side thrashed Australia 1-0 in a nail-biting match that went down the wire. On the Indian men’s team lost to Belgium by 5-0 in their semi-final match on Tuesday and all eyes are now glued on the women’s squad. Shashi, who has played hockey herself, and is currently working for Indian Railway in Ranchi, added that Nikki told her the team morale was high after the quarter-final win against Australia. "But she was upset the team couldn’t do well in the earlier matches. Extreme heat conditions could be a reason, she said.  She said Monday's match brought back confidence and coordination among team members also improved. In the end, it all depends how they play as a unit on a particular day.” Earlier on Tuesday, Shashi and her parents Soma Pradhan and Jitan Devi were at Project Building where the state sports department organsied a function to hand over  job letters to 12 sports persons and also provide special cash awards to those taking part in the Olympics. This year, three players—Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete (both hockey) and archer Deepika Kumari _ are representing the country from Jharkhand in the Tokyo Olympic Games. Chief minister Hemant Soren provided their parents with Rs 5 lakh as a token of appreciation. He also promised to sanction more funds after the players returned from Tokyo. “Our beti (girls) who have made it to Olympics are our pride. I have planned many more things for them upon their return,” he said, adding that his government was committed to promotion of sports and games in Jharkhand. State sports secretary Pooja Singhal said that out of 40 players who were selected for direct jobs under the new sports policy, 12 couldn’t get appointment letters in the past due to technical reasons. “Today, all 12 received their letters. Players were from disciplines like archery, cycling, wushu, athletics and karate. They were inducted as sub- inspectors and inspectors of police,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||International cyclist Lakhan Hansda gets a job with police, finally||Lakhan Hansda, the lone international cyclist of Jharkhand, heaved a sigh of relief after bagging a job on Tuesday. Chief minister Hemant Soren handed over appointment letters to a dozen sportspersons, including Hansda, at a function hosted at Ranchi’s Project Bhavan. Hansda has been appointed as a police constable and has been posted in Ranchi. The 33-year-old cyclist, who lives with his family at Damodih village in Potka block of East Singhbhum, about 25 km from Jamshedpur, turned emotional when contacted for a comment. “It is difficult for me to describe my happiness. I had lost all hopes of ever getting a job. I had run from pillar to post seeking employment under sports quota. Was even ready to work as a security guard since I was finding it hard to keep my family afloat,” Hansda said over phone from Ranchi. The international cyclist represented India in Asian Cycling Championship held in Punjab in 2007. He also clinched the bronze medal (in time trial event) at the 2011 National Games hosted in Ranchi. However, despite being a top cyclist, job always eluded him. The unassuming tribal was among the 39 sportspersons who were called to Ranchi where the Chief Minister handed over job letters earlier this year, in the month of March. However, he had missed the chance. Since then he had kept his fingers crossed, despite frustration creeping in. However, a phone call from the sports department on Monday morning informing him about the job, made the pedal star jump with excitement. “I was so happy after the phone call that I straightaway boarded a bus and reached Ranchi Monday evening. I thank the Chief Minister for the appointment letter. I have already informed my family (wife Bijola and son Sidam) and parents about the appointment letter. They were very happy and have asked me to come home with sweets,” Hansda said, adding he would return home on Wednesday to take his belongings as he would be joining from Thursday. “With job in hand, I am looking forward to bringing my cycling career back on track. I intend to win more medals for Jharkhand,” he said. The cyclist's father Sidam is a retired employee of Uranium Corporation of India Ltd and mother Fulmani a homemaker. His elder brother Sanatan runs a cycle repairing shop in Rajdoha (East Singhbhum) and younger siblings Samu and Babulal are cyclist and footballer, respectively. A disillusioned Hansda had left training and started farming. His father had mortgaged his land to buy Hansda an imported racing cycle seven years back. With cycling taking a backseat, Hansda joined Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) as a cycling coach. He accompanied the Indian cycling team to Abu Dhabi as one of the coaches for the Special Olympics World Summer Games in 2019. SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota, who is also a former secretary of Jharkhand Cycling Association, said he feels extremely happy for Hansda getting a job. “Hansda is a decent example of hard work and perseverance. He also worked very well as a cycling coach of the national squad.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Two Dhanbad students emerge state toppers in CBSE Class X exams ||Two Class X students of Delhi Public School-Dhanbad, who emerged state toppers by securing 99.82 % marks each, say regular studies is what made it possible. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Aditee Jha, daughter of pharmaceutical company owner CN Jha and Rinki Jha, said, “Regularity is the key to studies as one can’t achieve success through occasional efforts” “I would also suggest to my juniors to shortlist topics on priority and complete them as per priority and also make regular revisions of the completed topics,” she said. “As I have remained completely off social media during my entire studies and even stayed away from YouTube and video games, I would also suggest not to use social media platforms as it distracts attention from studies,” said Aditee, who gave full credit of her success to her school teachers who helped her to clear all doubts even during the online classes. Manish Kundu, son of station manager of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Gomoh Station Tapas Kumar Kundu and homemaker Aparna Das Kundu, also laid the emphasis on concentration on class studies. He said, “I felt that online classes are more efficient than than offline classes as there is no wastage of time in terms of waiting for teachers and attendance requirement etc. There is less commotion compared to off line classes” “I used to carry out self-study of topics taught during the online classes every day before the beginning of classes and later used to carry out revision after the completion of classes everyday," said Manish, who also has plans to pursue engineering after plus two. “Concentrating on NCERT books as base book is an old and trusted rule of preparation for board exams. I also followed the rule while carrying out self study," said Manish, who said he owed his success to his school teachers and parents. When asked whether he felt that offline examinations would have been better, he said, “As the results have been published primarily on pre- board examination basis, which were held offline, we have never felt that we didn’t get opportunity to appear for offline exams.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand state digest: RJD workers stage massive demonstration against fuel price hike and unemployment in Dhanbad||Over 100 workers affiliated with the district unit of Rashtriya Janata Dal besides its youth and women’s wing today staged a day-long dharna and demonstration near Dhanbad district headquarters. They were protesting against anti-people policies of the central government that have led to steep price rise, unemployment and poverty. The protesters congregated at Randhir Verma Chowk at around 10 am under the chairmanship of district president of RJD later also had a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding sacking of the central government. Talking to media, Hatim Ansari, state Vice President of RJD said, “When LPG cylinders were available at Rs 400 during the UPA II period these BJP leaders including, Hema Malini and Smriti Irani used to protest holding LPG cylinders and we would like to know where they are now when the same LPG cylinder price now costs Rs 862.” “The same BJP leaders used to send bangles to the then Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh when diesel was available at Rs 40 per litre. We want to know why they are not protesting when fuel price has crossed Rs 100 per litre mark,” he said. Ansari further added, “The Narendra Modi government has lost all moral right to remain in power under the present circumstances and we would request the President to sack the government and hold fresh elections.” District president of RJD, Tarkeshwar Yadav, added, “We will intensify our protest if the government fails to take any step to provide relief to common people by decreasing the fuel, LPG and even food prices.” (Praduman Choubey) Bokaro police has sped up its drive against sale of medicines without prescription to youths. The move comes to deter youngsters who have been using medicines made to relieve pain and allergies for intoxication. On Tuesday Bokaro police raided Sunita Medical Store in Jhopdi Colony and recovered around 4000 Nitrosun-10 tablets and 190 Onerex syrup bottles. Many used syrup bottles were also recovered. The owner of the medical store, Hareram Sharma has been detained by the police for questioning. Drug inspector is also probing the matter. OC said, “Acting on a tip-off, the police team raided and recovered a huge stock of medicines which was being sold to youths for intoxication. Investigation is on.” In addition to cigarettes, marijuana and alcohol, demand for easily available over the counter drugs (syrups and tablets) has shot up among the youths as they are cheaper. Medical stores are selling these drugs illegally without seeing a doctor's prescription for their little benefit, despite the government having banned the open sale of such drugs. According to health experts, Nitrosun-10 is mainly used to treat anxiety disorders, insomnia and prevention of seizures (fits) due to epilepsy. And, Onerex cough syrup has high alcohol content and hence is being used by youth for drug addiction. (Our Correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||4000 Covaxin doses reach Jamshedpur from Ranchi||Covid-19 vaccination drive swung into operation at various urban and rural centres of East Singhbhum district on Tuesday, as a lot of 4000 Covaxin shots reached here last night from Ranchi. People especially those in the age group of 18 to 44 years flocked jab centres to get vaccinated. Five centres including Rabindra Bhawan in Sakchi and Rajendra Vidyalaya School inoculated seekers through online slot booking while two other centres were meant for those above 45 years. A total of 15 centres in various rural blocks of East Singhbhum provided the vaccine doses to 18 plus individuals while two centres were earmarked to vaccinated those 45 years and above. Two rural centres also offered walk-in vaccination to jab seekers. Vaccination in the district resumed after five days. Sources in health department said that several centres in both urban and rural areas had to be closed due to short supply of vaccine doses. District surveillance officer Sahir Pal said, “We are expecting more doses of both the vaccines from Ranchi today.” Meanwhile, East Singhbhum district sprung a surprise with not a single case of Covid-19 being reported on Monday. In all 6,359 people underwent Covid tests on Monday. “It is a welcome relief that no Covid positive cases or deaths were reported on Monday. We are continuing with RT-PCR, trunet and Rapid Antigen Tests at the same pace in various district,” said the district surveillance officer. Earlier, on July 26 East Singhbhum had not reported a single positive case or death. No positive cases were reported at The Tatanagar railway station also. In all 2,102 passengers had to undergo Covid tests for incoming trains but none were found positive. Data available from the health department revealed that the recovery rate in the district in 97.92 per cent while the death rate is 2.04 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Health Minister inaugurates ICU for children at Ranchi district hospital ||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta inaugurated a 27-bed paediatrics intensive care unit (PICU) and a 24-bed high dependency unit (HDU) at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi on Tuesday for “effective” and “affordable” treatment of children who suffer from severe symptoms of Covid-19 during a possible third wave of the pandemic. The state government, Gupta said, was concerned about the health of children and committed to providing the best possible health facilities to avert possible tragedies during a third wave of Covid-19. “Ensuring safety of children is our priority. We are working day and night to strengthen the health infrastructure in our state to ensure that nobody dies due to lack of facilities,” said Gupta, adding that the state was also working on creating an atmosphere wherein doctors from different disciplines and specializations can work as a team for the larger good of the public. With the inauguration of the intensive care unit at Sadar Hospital, children suffering from severe illnesses will not have to be referred to private hospitals or the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for better treatment, said Gupta. “We have all the modern facilities in this ICU. Children will now be able to get effective and affordable treatment at Sadar Hospital itself,” he added. Additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, who accompanied Gupta in Sadar Hospital, said that besides improving the infrastructure in all the hospitals across Jharkhand, the government is also setting up at least 69 oxygen plants to ensure supply of liquid medical oxygen to hospitals. It is feared that around 7 lakh of the 1.43 crore population in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years may get affected by Covid-19 in the third wave in Jharkhand. While 2.86 lakh of the patients are likely to be symptomatic, about 8,610 of them may show severe symptoms and need intensive care, an expert committee for tackling the third wave of Covid-19 in Jharkhand has predicted on the basis of trends across the world and in India. The Jharkhand government had earlier directed each of the 24 districts in the state to set up at least a 20-bed special ICU for children to combat the third wave of the pandemic. An expert committee of doctors and health officials suggested setting up at least 1,000 ICU beds for children in the state. While 500 beds would be set up in government hospitals, the remaining 500 should come up in private facilities, the committee recommended. These ICUs have colourful interiors and play areas designed to keep children in a better mood during their treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand ‘no AC, no fare hike’ diktat upsets bus operators||Latest government diktat that prohibits use of ACs in interstate buses and restricts fare-hike is incurring double damage for the bus operators. Rubbing salt to the injury of fleet owners is lesser occupancy as around 40 per cent of the inter-state buses are still lying grounded. Questioning the logic behind the restriction, Sanjay Singh, vice president of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association said, “Different sets of rules for different buses are incomprehensible. Many interstate buses plying between Dhanbad and Asansol (63.5 kms) or Dhanbad and Purulia (59.8 km) cover less than the distance covered by intrastate buses plying between Dhanbad and Ranchi (149.6 km). But there is no ban on AC usage in such intrastate buses. In buses covering lesser distances, chances of Covid infection spreading due to AC usage is slimmer.” Explaining how the ban is affecting their already ‘in doldrums’ business he said, “Lack of permission for use of ACs in interstate buses is acting as a deterrent in getting passengers. Most prefer travelling comfortably.” Another blow to their business is the steep rise in fuel price and ban on fare-hike. “We are facing severe financial blow due to the hike in diesel prices. Now costing Rs 95 per litre, we are incurring heavy losses as there is a ban on fare-hike. We will be compelled to stop operations,” Singh added. The state level body of fleet operators - Jharkhand Bus Owners Association led by president has already pleaded before the state government to reconsider its decision on banning fare-hike and AC usage in interstate buses. Elaborating about the situation of lesser occupancy, Singh said, “Out of five buses of Asansol only two are running even when we are willing to operate buses. We come to the Bartand bus depot with full crew members but have to return back as we don’t even get 10% of what we used to get as passengers.” He further elaborated that the average occupancy in interstate buses is around 30%. “We are somehow operating the buses despite incurring heavy losses hoping that occupancy will gradually improve and that the government will allow us to increase the fare,” said Singh. Echoing similar sentiments, Sunil Singh, owner of Sunil Deluxe, General Secretary of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association, said, “Only around 20 out of 40 buses of Bengal route have been relaunched since August 1. This is primarily due to lack of passengers and other constraints.” He added, “Covid test for interstate passengers is being conducted at Bartand. This is also preventing many interstate passengers from venturing out on a journey. Many are waiting for the condition to improve and Covid restrictions being relaxed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Almost 65,000 residents get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to at least 43,888 residents, while the second dose was administered to 21,652 beneficiaries, provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. At least 45,000 residents who got the jabs were below 45 years. The state, as per data released by the health department on Monday evening, has received over 1 crore doses of vaccines from the Centre and utilized 97,22,066 of them. The state had about 4.4 lakh doses of vaccines in stock to continue the immunisation drive until fresh supplies arrive from the Centre. Jharkhand also distributed at least 60,000 Covaxin doses among the 24 districts on Monday. As per vaccine allotment figures of the health department, Ranchi received the highest share of 5,000 vaccines, while 4,000 doses were sent to East Singhbhum as well as Dumka. Palamua received 3,900 doses of Covaxin, while 3,200 doses were sent to Dhanbad. Covid cases continued to drop in Jharkhand on Monday. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the state on Monday reported 23 fresh cases of infection against 38 Covid recoveries, which brought the active caseload down to 239. While none of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike, Bokaro, Lohardaga and Deoghar reported four cases each – the highest among the districts. At least five Covid recoveries against three cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 46, while the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped further down to 12 as the district reported zero cases against four recoveries, NHM data highlighted. At least 16 Jharkhand districts did not report fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection on Sunday. No casualties caused by the viral infection were reported in the state on Monday. So far, the deadly virus has claimed at least 5,129 lives in the state. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of 41,744 residents and 0.05 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. Of the 3.47 lakh people infected by the virus in the state, at least 98.45 per cent patients have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The state did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on the day, while the black fungus toll remained 31. So far, at least 104 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of the fungal infection have surfaced in Jharkhand. At least 108 patients have been discharged from hospitals after being treated for either suspected or confirmed mucormycosis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Pegasus: Snoop list journalist in Supreme Court plea||Rupesh Kumar Singh, a freelance journalist based in Jharkhand whose phone number and the numbers of his two family members figure in the leaked list of potential targets of surveillance by the Israeli firm NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware, has filed a petition in the Supreme Court praying that the installation and use of such software should be declared illegal and unconstitutional. Rupesh, 36, based in Ramgarh district, whose phone number along with that of his wife and sister-in-law feature in the leaked database, filed the writ petition in the Supreme Court on Saturday under Article 32 claiming that the installation and use of malware or spyware such as Pegasus is ultra vires of Part III of the Constitution. “I have also prayed to the Supreme Court to issue a direction/order or writ directing the respondents (Union ministries of electronics and information technology and home ministry) to produce and disclose to the honourable court all materials and documents with respect to all investigation, authorisation and orders pertaining to the use of Pegasus on my phone,” said Rupesh. The petitioner has asked the court to issue a direction/order or writ directing the Union government to take suitable steps to protect citizens from the use of cyber weapons/malware such as Pegasus and also put in place a judicial oversight mechanism to deal with any complaint on illegal breaches of privacy and hacking and punish all government officials allegedly responsible for such breaches. “I and my wife have filed a petition as my right to privacy and that of my wife and my sister-in-law, which the Supreme Court has termed as a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution, has been breached,” said Rupesh, who was released after spending six months in a Bihar jail on “fabricated” charges of being a Maoist. Rupesh has alleged that he was targeted by the Union government for his reports on violence by security forces against Adivasis. He claims this happened more after a report about a tribal man, Motilal Baskey, of Giridih district, whom the security forces claimed to be a Maoist carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh. Baskey was killed by the CRPF in an encounter in June 2017. “But when I started investigating, I found that Baskey was a porter ferrying pilgrims to the Parasnath Hills. There was a massive protest on the issue by Opposition party leaders (Raghubar Das-led BJP government was in power in 2017), including current chief minister Hemant Soren and now BJP leader Babulal Marandi (who was then the JVM chief),” said Rupesh, a native of Bhagalpur in Bihar. “I think all these reports made me the target not merely of surveillance by Pegasus software but also led to my arrest in June 2019 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) after security forces planted gelatin sticks and detonators in front of my eyes in my car,” Rupesh alleged. He was released on bail in December 2019 from the Gaya jail after Bihar police failed to file a chargesheet in the case even after the stipulated 180 days lapsed since the filing of the complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
03-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Twin robberies jolt coal town||Dhanbad: Two incidents of snatching took place at two different locations of Dhanbad on Monday within the interval of less than three hours, including one near Godhar old office of BCCL under Kenduadih police station during which Rs 2 lakh was stolen from an elderly couple and another incident near Madhav Apartment of Hirapur where Rs 50,000 was robbed from a contractor. The first incident took place at around 12 noon when Arjun Beldar a resident of Beldar Basti of Godhar was returning to his house along with his wife Radha Devi by an auto rickshaw after withdrawing Rs 2 lakh from Bank More Branch of Canara Bank. Two bike-borne criminals who arrived from behind snatched the cash bag from Radha Devi as soon as the elderly couple disembarked from the auto rickshaw near their house. A team of Kenduadih Police station led by Officer in Charge Binod Oraon  reached the house of victim family after getting information took details from Beldar and his wife and later began investigation into the case. “My son’s marriage was scheduled next week and I withdrew money along with my wife from the bank for marriage expenses but two youths who arrived from behind snatched the cash bag as soon we started heading towards our street after getting down from auto rickshaw,” said Beldar and added that the bag snatched by the criminals also contained the bank pass book and some other documents. Binod Oraon officer in Charge of Kenduadih Police station said, “We have already started conducting raids in connection with incident and trying to find more information from video footages of the incident.” The second incident took place near Madhav Apartment. Two bike borne criminals snatched a cash bag containing Rs 50,000 form a Bhui Phore area based contractor, Talkeshshwar Mahto at around 2.30pm when he was walking toward his car parked near Madhav Apartment after withdrawing money from a bank. Mahto told police that two youths who arrived at high speed from behind snatched the cash bag and then fled towards Binod Nagar. “The incident took place when I reached near my car after withdrawing Rs 50,000 from SBI Hirapur Branch and since the incident took place at electrifying speed within minutes, the criminals fled before I could understand anything and raise alarm,” said Mahto. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Seasoned English defender Peter Hartley is set to captain Jamshedpur FC in the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) season 2021-22. The 32-year-old Hartley showed good leadership qualities when he led the Tata Steel-owned club in the cash-rich tournament in Goa last season. Besides his leadership qualities, he is known for adding a sense of cohesiveness in the team, one of the key elements in the high-octane engagement. Sources in the JFC team management revealed Hartley was the first choice for captaincy for the second successive time. "The name of the captain would be announced after the team lands in Goa for the pre-seasons in October. Head coach Owen Coyle will have a major say when it comes to appointing the captain," one of the sources said on condition of anonymity. Hartley has a good understanding with Scotland-born Coyle who is aware of the qualities of the Englishman. "The entire squad, including Coyle and the support staff, would assemble in Goa (the venue of the tournament) for the pre-seasons over a month before the ISL begins in November," the source added. JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari said Hartley should be the one who would lead the side in the tournament. "He (Hartley) is experienced and has good leadership qualities. Moreover, he is a good human being," he added. The robust defender signed a two-year contract with the Men of Steel last season. He joined JFC at the back of a highly successful season with Motherwell FC in the Scottish Premiership. Hartley, He captained the team to 3rd place in the league, only behind Scottish legacy teams – Celtic and Rangers, thus qualifying Motherwell for the UEFA Europa League 2020-21. Hartley is a Sunderland AFC Academy product. The left-footed centre-back was scouted into the Sunderland AFC youth system and rose up to the ranks with his impressive performances. He played and trained with the former English Premier League side’s senior team too and made his debut in 2007 versus Leicester City under Roy Keane’s tutelage. The defender has played in prestigious tournaments in England like the FA Cup and the League Cup where he represented his clubs against the likes of Chelsea and Everton, Sheffield United, Wartford and Wigan Athletic. He played versus Burnley in 2009, which was then under the management of Owen Coyle. Hartley and Nigerian Stephen Eze combined well to foil some dangerous forays into the JFC backline last season. He is expected to come up with the same form this season too. However,  the team would miss the services of Eze who is more keen to play in the European circuit. Jamshedpur finished sixth, four points behind fourth-placed FC Goa last season, with 27 points (20 matches, seven wins, as many loses and six draws) in last season’s ISL. (Jayesh Thaker)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
