04-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta HC orders release of Suvendu Adhikari aide||A division bench of the Calcutta high court on Wednesday ordered immediate release of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari’s aide Rakhal Bera. He was granted bail on Monday by a single bench but was shown as arrested on Tuesday in another case although the single bench had said that Bera cannot be arrested in connection with any case in any part of Bengal without the court’s order. Bera’s advocate Lokenath Chatterjee said the division bench of justice Tapabrata Chakraborty and justice Subhasis Dasgupta on Wednesday asked the state to release Bera from the Contai jail in East Midnapore district immediately. Bera walked free on Wednesday evening. The next hearing will take place on August 26. Bera was charged in several criminal cases in East Midnapore in June. On July 1, a case was registered against him at the Manicktala police station in Kolkata as well. He was subsequently arrested. “The division bench did not interfere with the order of the single bench of justice Rajasekhar Mantha. Also, the division bench did not grant any stay in favour of the state government,” said Chatterjee. Justice Mantha passed his order after hearing Bera’s petition seeking bail and a stay on the investigations. In the order passed on Monday, justice Mantha said, “Considering the repeated attempts by persons to lodge one complaint after the other against the petitioner and in a planned and systematic manner and the repeated arrest after bail in one case or the other, this court is persuaded to grant interim relief to the petitioner.” “…it is reiterated that the petitioner is being punished by the ruling dispensation for changing political affiliation and for being close to the present leader of the opposition by causing to foist false cases against him,” said the order. “There appears to be a pattern being followed by police in coordination with one another in attempting to keep the petitioner in custody by hook or crook on one pretext or the other and by registering an FIR after the other,” justice Mantha said in his order. Challenging the order, the West Bengal government on Tuesday moved the division bench of justice Tapabrata Chakraborty and justice Subhasis Dasgupta. While the hearing was in progress, the court was informed that instead of being released from the jail, Bera had been arrested in connection with another case registered at Nandakumar police station in East Midnapore district on June 16. Chatterjee told the division bench that the arrest was illegal, especially after the single bench said on Monday that the cases were politically motivated. The division bench asked the state to file a report within 24 hours. “On Wednesday, the state government withdrew the application for Bera’s arrest in the case registered at Nandakumar police station,” said Chatterjee. Adhikari, who defeated Mamata Banerjee at Nandigram in East Midnapore in the recent assembly polls, joined the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) in December last year. In May, he became the Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly. After Bera’s arrest, his lawyers told the court that he was a victim of “political vendetta” because of his proximity to Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||ATM fraud: Police officers on kiosk hunt||Police officers probing the ATM fraud that left a 74-year-old woman’s son poorer by Rs 90,000 have written to the bank where the victim has an account to know about the locations of the ATMs from where the money was fraudulently withdrawn. Sanghamitra Ghosh, a resident of Golf Green, had gone to the ATM of a nationalised bank on Uday Shankar Sarani on Saturday with son Bodhisatwa’s debit card. The officer heading the probe said they had collected CCTV footage of the accused from the ATM kiosk where the woman was duped and the card replaced, and circulated his photographs among all police stations in the city. “The man was wearing a mask. His face is not fully visible,” the officer said. An investigator said the accused must have withdrawn the money from various ATMs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||45-year-old man arrested for posing as central government official||A 45-year-old man was arrested on Monday night for allegedly posing as a central government official and as the chairman of “International Human Rights Commission”, a fictitious organisation. Tarak Mondal used to introduce himself as a human rights official of the central government to businessmen and promoters in New Town and offer to “settle cases” in lieu of money, police said. Mondal’s driver and his two “bodyguards” were also arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Fake cop arrested for duping people with false job promises ||A man who was allegedly impersonating an officer of the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department at Lalbazar has allegedly duped several people with false promises of getting them jobs with the police. The man who lived at a Behala address shifted to a rented apartment in Parnasree a week ago after people he allegedly cheated started going to his home demanding he return their money, police said. He was arrested early on Tuesday. “We have arrested a man named Partha Dutta for cheating at least three youths of Rs 11.6 lakh against false promises of getting them a police job,” said a senior police officer. Complainant Bapan Sardar, 23, has reported to the police that he and two of his friends had paid Rs 11,60,000 to Dutta who had introduced himself as an officer of the ARS at Lalbazar and promised them jobs in the police department. Cops suspect Sardar and his friends may not be the only victims Dutta cheated. An officer said during investigation they found several people were visiting his Behala home demanding he return their money, after which he changed his residence. Dutta has been charged under sections of cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. Several cases of impersonation — where people have been posing as police officers to either extort money or cheat them with false promises — have been reported in the city in the past few weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||NGT's eastern zonal bench passes several directives on bio-toilets||The eastern zone bench of national green tribunal (NGT) has passed several directives on Howrah and Sealdah stations regarding maintenance of environmental norms and bio toilets on long-distance trains. It has asked the West Bengal Pollution Control Board to monitor their compliance. The bench, upon hearing Howrah station’s submission that they were in process of finalising the effluent treatment plant (ETP) in Tikiapara for last three years; observed that “this means that the said ETP is not fully operational” and asked railways “to submit its time schedule and plan of action” regarding its completion. During an earlier hearing, the state water investigation agency (SWID) informed the NGT that it had fined Howrah station for illegally withdrawing under-ground water without permission. On Monday, the bench also directed Sealdah station authorities to inform by next hearing — September 9 — when they would be completing the ETP in Sealdah station. Effluent treatment plants are extremely important to treat the water coming out of the stations or else the water will severely pollute the rivers or water channels nearby. The directives were passed by the bench comprising Justice B. Amit Sthalekar and expert member Saibal Dasgupta on Monday in response to a report filed by environmentalist Subhas Datta that stations have failed to comply with several environmental norms; and the counter responses of the railway authorities. The bench asked the state PCB to monitor the compliance of stations with regards to setting up of the ETPs and also asked it to check randomly whether all long-distance trains have been fitted with bio-toilets or not as decided by the railway ministry. “I pointed out to the bench that the actual number of coaches being used in Howrah station is much more than 1,634, the number that railways quoted as coaches with bio-toilet set up, and hence clearly railway is not complying with the mandate of fitting bio-toilets with all long distant train coaches,” said Datta. The bench also asked the PCB to monitor whether the cleaning of train tracks as well as yards linked to both stations as well as the waste, particularly plastic waste management system are being complied or not. Datta alleged that the tracks and yards remain scattered with waste, which has been denied by railway authorities. “We will be submitting our report as directed,” said a senior PCB official to The Telegraph. “This is not the first time that Howrah station has been indicted for violating environmental norms. In 1994, the Supreme Court rapped Howrah station for discharging polluted effluent into the Ganges; and forced it to build effluent treatment plant; first of its kind decision in the country, ” said Biswajit Mukherjee, the former chief law officer of the state pollution control board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Cyclonic circulation over Bay of Bengal triggers sharp spell of rain in Calcutta ||A fresh cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal triggered a sharp spell of rain in Calcutta on Monday night and early on Tuesday. The system is likely to bring more rain to Calcutta over the next three days, the Met office has said. Between 8.30pm on Monday and 8.30am on Tuesday, the Met office recorded around 40mm of rain in Alipore. The Met observatory in Salt Lake recorded over 70mm of rain during the same period. In Met parlance, 60mm or more rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy. Monday was exceptionally humid and sweaty and the rain brought some relief the next morning. The relief was short-lived and as the sun came out, the weather became sweaty again. “The cyclonic circulation is over the north Bay of Bengal. It is unlikely to intensify into a low-pressure area. But the system will lead to a wet spell over south Bengal over the next three days,” said a Met official. “Coastal districts of South and North 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly can get a spell or two of heavy rain because of the system. Calcutta is likely to get moderate rain,” the official said. The next few days are also likely to be sweaty. The sun will be out when it is not raining. The intervals between the showers are likely to be uncomfortable, said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Give no space to hatred, economist Kaushik Basu tells students||Economist Kaushik Basu spoke about India's tradition of “openness, tolerance and compassion” that Swami Vivekananda and Sri Ramakrishna embodied and stressed the need to say no to hatred, while addressing students and teachers of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous), Narendrapur. Basu, Carl Marks Professor of International Studies in the department of economics and SC Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University, New York, was speaking virtually on the occasion of the concluding programme of the diamond jubilee celebration of the college on Tuesday. Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Mission, said the inaugural function a year ago was held online and everyone then hoped the concluding ceremony would be conducted in a conventional manner. “We have gone online once again due to the persistence of the Covid pandemic. Nonetheless, I am delighted to note that this pandemic has not dampened the spirit of the college in organising various programmes…” he said. Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, said: “During this period (60 years since inception) the college has produced not only thousands of good professionals but good human beings….” Principal Swami Shastrajnananda and Bimal Kumar Roy, the chairperson of National Statistical Commission, also spoke on the occasion. Excerpts from Basu’s speech: Unemployment I just want to remind you that India is going through a very very difficult phase. All nations in the world have slowed down because of the pandemic but India has slowed down more than other nations…. Inequality is astronomically high.... At one level India is rich, there are very very rich people but youth unemployment is one of the highest in the world with 24 per cent of people — youngsters — unemployed in India, which is really intolerable. Poor people, the middle classes are suffering. We pay too little attention to that. Hatred There is a lot of hatred and division in society and I urge you as students going out into the world, teachers who are providing service, we must not give any space to hatred. Remember India's great heritage of openness, tolerance and compassion that comes to us from Swami Vivekananda, from Ramakrishna. Great ideas of progress and science. The tradition that comes to us from Vidyasagar, Jagadis Chandra Bose, Ramanujan, Har Gobind Khorana. This is our tradition in India. We have to have a questioning mind, an open mind and once again I have to give a tribute to Narendrapur because I know from the students who have come out, some of whom were my students, some of whom have become my friends, that the tradition that they carry forward is extremely important. I will urge you at a time like this to keep that tradition in mind, take this further forward. Hard and soft power Power plays a role. The military plays a role. Unfortunately we are in a world where those things matter. But more important than hard power is what is called soft power. The power of the mind. The power of education. I am sitting in the United States today. Lots of people point out the United States’ hard power. But I feel one reason why the United States of America has been successful is not something that people always talk about but people realise, America's soft power. The importance given to the education sector in the United States is huge. Higher education is respected, valued. People put effort into that and that has given the United States the soft power…. And India was on that path. We were nurturing our space for soft power, for democracy, for ideas, for opinions and we must continue with that great tradition. And as students, I would urge you to try to keep it up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Nurses in govt hospitals set to organise rally to demand an end to pay disparity ||Nurses in government hospitals are set to organise a rally on Friday to demand an end to an alleged pay disparity and have threatened to cease work if police use force to stop them from joining the march. Thousands of nurses have been taking turns in joining a sit-in at SSKM Hospital since July 26 to press for a pay parity with other state government employees with similar qualifications. The protesters are alleging that a diploma-holder nurse gets much less than a diploma-holder engineer working in some other government department. The difference in the basic pay between the two is as much as Rs 8,000, according to the protesting nurses. The disparity, they said., exists across all categories of nurses — fresher, experienced, diploma-holder and BSc degree-holder. On Monday, around 3,000 nurses from various government hospitals joined a march in the SSKM Hospital compound demanding pay parity. “No one from the government has approached us for talks yet. We will hold the rally on Friday. We hope the government will show its keenness to talk to us before that. If the government does not reach out to us by then, we will go ahead with the rally,” said Bhaswati Mukherjee, the secretary of Nurses Unity, the association that is spearheading the protests. “We will not be responsible if the police arrest anyone or use force on us on Friday and the movement escalates into a ceasework. It will be difficult to control the emotions of so many young boys and girls who have joined the movement,” she said. According to her, there are about 64,000 nurses working in state government hospitals in Bengal. Mukherjee and other protesting nurses said they were participating in the protests in a way that patient services are not disrupted in any hospital. Nurses are joining the sit-in only when they are off duty, they said. “Till now, no one has joined the protest skipping duty,” said a protesting nurse. Friday’s rally will start at SSKM Hospital, move past Rabindra Sadan and Birla Planetarium, and pass through Elgin Road before coming back to SSKM. Bengal’s health-care suffers from severe shortage of nurses as the number of nurses graduating from the state each year is far fewer than the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Police oppose cycling lanes, cite too little road space and chaotic traffic||Calcutta is not among the 11 cities chosen for funding under a programme to promote cycling in urban India, though neighbouring New Town has made it to the list. Officials of the state government who were involved in the process of applying for a competition to promote cycling said the Bengal capital lost it when its authorities refused to create lanes for cycles. The city’s police have steadfastly opposed cycling lanes, citing too little road space and chaotic traffic. A statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) in September said Calcutta was one of the 107 cities that had registered for the “India Cycles4 Change” challenge. But Calcutta could not progress further. “We had registered according to the guidelines. We had also conducted a survey on the zones with more cyclists and who are the people cycling in the city. Then came a point where we needed to have lanes for cycles. We were to send proof of the lanes with cycles running through them. This is where Calcutta lost because no cycle lane has ever been created in the city,” said a state government official who was part of the process. At a recent meeting, the city police’s top brass ruled out the possibility of creating cycling lanes for now at least. A senior officer of Calcutta police told The Telegraph on Tuesday that the issue had to be “thought of from a practical point of view”. “Mumbai and Delhi have between 9 and 11 per cent road space, while Calcutta has about 5 per cent road space. Most of our major thoroughfares have roadside parking bays that have taken up a portion of the carriageway. It is almost impossible to create lanes for cycles from the available space. Moreover, different roads in Calcutta have different widths, which is another impediment towards creating dedicated cycle lanes,” said the officer. Advocates of cycling, however, said the stubborn refusal by the city authorities — primarily the police and the civic body — to allow cycle lanes was promoting more fossil fuel-driven transport. “Cycle has multiple benefits from the point of view of health, climate and air pollution. There is also a question of equity involved here. If the authorities are concerned about preserving road space for motorised transport, it in a way encourages more people to buy cars. The poor and the lower-income group will feel that the government is not thinking about them. A car costs lakhs while most cycles are available in the range of Rs 4,000-Rs 5,000,” said Sharif Qamar, a fellow at the Centre for Sustainable Mobility in The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). Another cycling advocate said the policies of successive governments had always benefited the owners of private cars. When roads get congested, the government invests crores to build flyovers that are again reserved only for private cars, they said. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has kept its parking rates unchanged since 2015, which, too, incentivises purchase of cars. A recent development had kindled some hope for cycling advocates — Calcutta’s police commissioner Soumen Mitra was spotted cycling across the Maidan area to review security. But officers said the maximum the police would allow was a bar on motorised transport in the Maidan area on one day or one morning in a week. Cycling advocates said it would only promote recreational cycling and not serve the needs of those who use cycles as their mode of transport. Calcutta’s loss stands in contrast to New Town’s win. An official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said they had submitted their short, medium and long-term plans for cycling, along with what was being practised now. Entry among the top 11 means New Town will get funds to create cycling infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Excise department extends liquor ban at The Park and HHI ||The excise department on Tuesday extended the liquor ban at The Park till September 9. The ban was imposed last month after a number of people were arrested at the Park Street hospitality address for allegedly partying on a corridor till early hours in violation of Covid curbs. In a separate order, the department slapped a 60-day liquor ban on Hotel Hindustan International (HHI). The ban came into effect on Tuesday. “The ban on serving liquor at HHI, at the bars and in the rooms, would remain effective till October 2,” said an excise department official. Like The Park, HHI, too, has come under the scanner for allegedly serving liquor post-8pm on July 10. “Today both hotels were slapped with a 60-day ban on serving liquor at the bars and in the rooms. Since The Park ban came into effect 23 days ago, following an earlier order of the excise department, its 60-day period will end before that of HHI,” the official said. “We have reasons to believe that both hotels had violated the state government order against serving liquor after 8pm, as a precaution against Covid. The decision to impose the ban was taken after taking into account the department's findings and other evidence. The ban will be reviewed after the 60-day period.” At The Park, police had arrested 37 persons for allegedly partying on a second-floor corridor beyond midnight, to the accompaniment of loud music. The revellers were allegedly drinking, too. An FIR was drawn up at Park Street police station. The excise department initiated a probe into the incident after slapping a liquor ban on the hotel on July 11. On July 30, officials of The Park had apparently told excise department officials that they were not sure whether the bottles and glasses seized by the police were from the hotel's stocks or brought by the revellers from outside. “We also went through the FIR registered at Park Street police station and checked the hotel's liquor stock as well as the seized bottles,” an official of the department said. The department had also summoned HHI officials for a hearing on July 22 following a report submitted by a team of senior excise officials who had raided the hotel’s sixth floor on the night of July 10. The officials mentioned in the report that they had reasons to believe that liquor had been served in a suite on the floor after 8pm. “Officials of HHI couldn’t explain why our officers were prevented from visiting other floors of the hotel that night and why lights and elevators were switched off after they turned up,” the official said. Officials of The Park and HHI said they had no comment to make on the excise department’s order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
04-08-2021||Calcutta||Block printing kindles hope during pandemic||On the ground floor of a house on the southern fringes of Calcutta, a group of people has been making tote bags, doormats and cushion covers for sale for the past four months. Women from economically impoverished families, trained in stitching fabric, are part of the production unit. As are some people with intellectual disabilities like autism and Down syndrome, for whom the unit is a renewed shot at mainstream life. Many people with cognitive impairments had been part of some skill training or other as part of their rehabilitation efforts. But the pandemic abruptly halted everything and confined them inside their homes once again. Teaching them social integration took years, said trainers and parents. Just when they made some progress, the pandemic forced social distancing on them. Since a March launch, the unit, called The Charkha, has been making over 500 bags every month. The buyers include a handful of boutiques. E-commerce sites also account for a significant section of the unit’s sales volume. For the past two months, the crew has been trying out one of the most artistic forms of textile printing. A pattern carved out of a wooden block, lends the name of the form — block printing. The block is then covered with dye and pressed firmly onto a fabric before being struck firmly so that it leaves an imprint on the cloth. The distressed look created by block printing is hard to replicate with a machine. “We have been producing over 300m of block-printed fabric every month, in addition to a wide range of bags, doormats, cushion covers and other home décor stuff. We have barely started but so far, the response of buyers has been encouraging,” said Amrita Roy Chowdhury, the founder of Transcendent Knowledge Society. Her NGO, which is behind The Charkha project, works for economic and social rehabilitation of differently abled people. The production unit operates out of the ground-floor of a two-storey house, a five-minute walk from the 3A Bus Stand in Thakurpukur on Diamond Harbour Road. One of the participants at the unit is Aishika Banik, 15, who suffers from autism as well as visual impairment. She is a student of a school run by the Transcendent Knowledge Society in the Karunamoyee area of Tollygunge. Before the pandemic, she had a fixed routine and seemed to enjoy it. She went to the school and interacted with other students. She was being trained in vegetable printing at the school. But the Covid-19 curbs changed everything. “Her sleep pattern has changed. She refuses to leave bed before noon. Earlier, she had an incentive to leave the bed — to go to school or some other learning session. But if I try to wake her up in the morning now, she says there is nothing to do after getting up,” said Srabani, her mother. Shivangini Santra, 25, who also suffers from cognitive impairments, has learnt stitching for two years before being a part of The Charkha. “She was missing out big time on being part of a team because of the pandemic. She loves being engaged,” said her elder sister Shivoli, who is also associated with the project along with her mother, Aditi. The unit runs from the ground floor of the Santra home. On July 28, when this newspaper visited the unit, Shivangini and Aishika were pressing a wooden block against a fabric. They were helped by other women in the group. “People with intellectual disabilities are good at repetitive work. The use of colours has a therapeutic effect on them,” said Roy Chowdhury. A cafe on Lake Road run by young people with intellectual disabilities was forced to shut down last year because of the pandemic. Roy Chowdhury plans to include some people who worked there in The Charkha. “We will also bring in some acid attack survivors and transgenders in the near future,” she said. The NGO has hired professionals for training the group. “Block printing is a dying art. If the art helps in improving the lives of these people and they help in keeping the form alive, it is a win-win situation,” said Muhammad Rafiq, the chief trainer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-30
04-08-2021||Business||Kumar Mangalam Birla steps down as Vodafone Idea chairman||Kumar Mangalam Birla has stepped down as non-executive director and non-executive chairman of Vodafone Idea, the company said on Wednesday. Himanshu Kapania, a nominee of the Aditya Birla Group, has been appointed as the non-executive chairman, Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) said. The changes come at a time when VIL is struggling to stay afloat. "The Board of Directors of Vodafone Idea, at its meeting held today, have accepted the request of Kumar Mangalam Birla to step down as Non-Executive Director and Non Executive Chairman of the Board with effect from close of business hours on 4 August, 2021," it said in a regulatory filing. Consequently, the board has "unanimously elected" Himanshu Kapania, currently a non-executive director, as the non-executive chairman, the company said. Kapania is a telecom industry veteran with 25 years of experience, including significant board experience in telecom companies globally. He has also served on the Global GSMA Board for two years and was also chairman of the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) for two years. "Further, based on recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board has appointed Sushil Agarwal, a nominee of Aditya Birla Group, as an Additional Director (Non Executive and Non Independent) with effect from 4 August, 2021," VIL added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||Markets at new highs, Sensex rallies 546 pts to scale 54K||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 546 points to finish above the 54,000-mark for the first time on Wednesday, tracking strong gains in financial stocks amid positive cues from global markets. After scaling its lifetime peak of 54,465.91 during the session, the 30-share index ended 546.41 points or 1.02 per cent higher at a record 54,369.77. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 128.05 points or 0.79 per cent to its all-time peak of 16,246.85. It touched a lifetime intra-day high of 16,290.20. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 5 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Titan, Nestle India, Ultratech Cement and Sun Pharma were among the laggards. Domestic equities extended gains with benchmarks Sensex and Nifty scaling fresh high mainly on the back of sharp rebound in heavyweight financials, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. He noted that financials were the sole driving force for the market rally, which was triggered after better-than-expected June quarter performance reported by SBI. The country's biggest bank posted a 55 per cent rise in standalone net profit at Rs 6,504 crore for the first quarter of the current financial year, helped by decline in bad loans. Further, positive cues from global equities also lifted sentiments, Modi stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Tokyo was in the red. Equities in Europe were also in the green in afternoon trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.18 per cent to USD 72.28 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||Talking Tomorrow: Enclave discusses hybrid future||Talking Tomorrow – the L&D 2.1 Enclave, presented by Sodexo in association with IndianOil concluded with around 100 delegates, 12 sessions , five C Suite speakers and three celebrity international trainer motivators. The event was powered by AMRI Hospitals, Purity Partner AQUAKRAFT and Academic Partner GNIHM of the JIS Group of Educational Institutions. Day 1 on July 27 began with the Keynote Session featuring Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra, Director, HR- Indian Oil, who made the introductory remarks and declared the Enclave open. He highlighted the three gateways of transition into tomorrow’s business multiverse as “adaptability, agility and alignment”. The keynote address was delivered by Anish Sarkar, CEO-Sodexo BRS India and a prominent voice in corporate India. He underlined the concept of “digital fluency” integral to learning & development and the road ahead for Sodexo BRS India with its immersive suite of new-age employee benefits for superior employee experience. On Track Two, the C Suite Panel discussion on Day 1 included Harish Sarma, VP - Marketing, Sodexo BRS India and a Marketing Excellence Awardee from IIM Calcutta, chairing the session which featured K.K. Mohanty, MD, Gammon Infra and an alumnus of Harvard Business School, Amitava Saha, CHRO BIOCON & an alumnus of IIM Calcutta, and Harsh P Bhosale, Chief People Officer of Nayara Energy and, interestingly, an ex-athlete. They highlighted the next up trends in Working in the New Normal. The high point of Day 1 was the highly energetic 30-minute session by international trainer motivator Melanie Martinelli live from Switzerland called “Mix it Up!” demonstrating next-age learning tools like Mentimeter, Flippity, Padlet, & Conceptboard much to the delight of the L&D community members in the audience who quizzed her about technical issues like software whitelisting and international copyrights. Day 2 of Talking Tomorrow on July 28 started with Straight Talk on Sustainability with Dr Subramanya Kusnur, Founder Chairman, Aquakraft, introducing futuristic concepts like Water Balance Sheet & Water Bank and the enclave continued on Track Two with a thought provoking session on Creativity in Chaos by best-selling author & corporate storyteller Vinay Kanchan putting forward the IDEAS model of creative thinking &  moved into high gear with “Get Well Sooner” by CEO, AMRI Hospitals, Rupak Barua who highlighted the global experience nature of the black swan pandemic and outlined the road ahead in the medical landscape and the resulting sweeping changes in corporate life. On both days Track One Training was conducted by Krish Banik, CEO, EMG HRD, on the Winning Habits in Disrupted Times with participant interactivity both in audio and video modes and concluded with a real time multiplayer gaming experience on Kahoot! In the valedictory session called Sodexo Masterclass, Abhishek Kurdukar, VP - Sales, Sodexo BRS India, closed the two-day enclave with a prediction of a hi-tech hybrid future where corporates with hi-touch will have a sustainable competitive advantage. The delegates of Talking Tomorrow included participants from Public and Private Sector corporates. Organisations represented included Biocon, IndianOil, PC Chandra Jewellers, IFFCO, SREI, Dalmia Bharat Cement, Gammon Infra and JIS Group among others. The event was curated by EMG HRD – the L&D Division of the Worldofemg and concluded with a jam session by new age trending talent Anisha Lakhmani performing international hits like Imagine, Times Like These and Lost Stars. When contacted Chaitanya Chatterjee, Learning & Organisational Development Head, Biocon Ltd., who attended all the sessions on both the days commented: “According to me Krish Banik’s sessions were wonderful & crisply summarized. The session by Melanie Martinelli was timely. The session by Vinay Kanchan was another reminder to practitioners like us to be more creative and ideas driven. The chat with the HR leaders on the C Suite panel helped us understand their vision and priorities for today. To sum up: a well timed and much needed event in challenging times like these!” Krish Banik, Lead Trainer & CEO of EMG HRD, pointed out that Talking Tomorrow began as an Annual Open Training Program in 2005 & will be held as a yearly Enclave going forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||Rajya Sabha passes Limited Liability Partnership Amendment Bill||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, which seeks to encourage the start-up ecosystem and further boost ease of doing business, amid uproar by the opposition on Pegasus snooping row and other issues. The bill, which was passed after a short debate, seeks to decriminalise 12 offences under the law and help to improve the ease of doing business by amending the Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) Act, 2008. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman moved the bill for consideration and passage. The bill was introduced in the House last week. While some MPs, including Ram Nath Thakur, Kanakmadela Ravindra Kumar, M Thambidurai, and Sujeet Kumar, spoke on the bill, several Opposition members were raising slogans against the government in the Well of the House. The Opposition has been protesting on Pegasus issue and three new farm laws, besides other matters, since the start of the monsoon session. Amid the uproar, Sitharaman made a brief reply following which the amendment bill was passed with voice vote. The minister said it is a very timely bill and will bring positivity in the LLP eco-system. She stressed that the legislation will lead to ease of doing business. Some opposition members tried to raise their issues when called for speaking on the bill. However, Deputy Chairman Harivansh did not allow them. The bill proposes to introduce the concept of small limited liability partnership in line with the concept of small company under the Companies Act, 2013. It will also amend certain sections of the Act so as to convert offences into civil defaults and to convert the nature of punishment provided in the said sections from fines to monetary penalties. Currently, there are 24 penal provisions and 21 are compoundable offences, while three are non-compoundable ones. The proposed bill seeks to reduce the total number of penal provisions under the LLP Act to 22, compoundable offences to seven, non-compoundable offences to three and the number of defaults to be dealt with under the 'In-House Adjudication Mechanism' will be only 12. Compoundable offences are those which can be settled by paying a certain amount of money. Offences that relate to minor/ less serious compliance issues, involving predominantly objective determinations, are proposed to be shifted to the In-House Adjudication Mechanism (IAM) framework instead of being treated as criminal offences. The bill also seeks to insert a new section 34A so as to empower the central government to prescribe Accounting Standards or Auditing Standards for a class or classes of limited liability partnerships. Earlier, this week, the Union Cabinet had approved amendments to the Act including decriminalising 12 offences under the law. This is the first time that changes are being made to the Act since it came into effect in 2009. At present, there are relaxations for thresholds up to turnover size and partner's contribution of Rs 40 lakh and Rs 25 lakh, respectively. Once the amendment is in place, the thresholds will be revised upwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||Sensex crosses 54,000 for the first time||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Wednesday and soared past the 54,000 mark, led by gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. After scaling its lifetime peak of 54,256.13 in opening trade, the 30-share index was trading 415.33 points or 0.77 per cent higher at 54,238.69 in initial deals.  In tandem, the broader NSE Nifty surged 116.10 points or 0.72 per cent to an all-time peak of 16,246.85 in early trade.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by HDFC, ICICI Bank, Dr Reddy's, Infosys, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank.  On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Nestle India, SBI, HUL and UltraTech Cement were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 872.73 points or 1.65 per cent higher at its fresh closing record of 53,823.36, and Nifty rallied 245.60 points or 1.55 per cent to an all-time peak of 16,130.75.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) turned net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,116.60 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities continue to look good as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  "Key economic indicators like GST collection, auto sales volume and other high-frequency indicators like e-way bills indicate a strong rebound in July, which bodes well and indicates sustained healthy corporate earnings in subsequent quarters," he noted.  Further, Modi added that India stands to be benefitted from China's regulatory crackdown on technology and education companies in recent weeks in the form of FIIs investments.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red.  Equities on Wall Street too ended on a positive note in overnight trade.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.11 per cent to USD 72.49 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||PepsiCo sells Tropicana to French private equity firm||PepsiCo Inc unveiled a $3.3 billion sale of its Tropicana and other juice brands in North America to French private equity firm PAI Partners on Tuesday, as it looks to simplify its product range and move away from high-sugar drinks. The company, which bought the orange juice maker in 1998 for roughly $3.3 billion and US-based Naked Juice nearly a decade later for $150 million, will keep a 39 per cent stake in the new joint venture and have exclusive US distribution rights for the brands. The sale will give PepsiCo the funds to develop and grow its portfolio of health-focused snacks and zero-calorie beverages, chief executive officer Ramon Laguarta said, as the company focuses on more profitable brands such as SodaStream. The company had bought SodaStream, the carbonated drink machine company, in 2018 for more than $3 billion. PepsiCo Inc, based in New York, has the option to sell certain juice businesses in Europe. The deal is expected to close late this year or early next year. Juice sales began to decline significantly in the early 2000s when low-carb diets grew in popularity, and that trend has continued with more families choosing instead to buy waters or other no- or low-calorie drinks. Juice consumption in the US peaked in 2003 at 4.2 billion gallons, but by 2017, that had fallen to 3 billion gallons, wrote Brian Sudano, the managing partner of Beverage Marketing Corp. The group does not see that trend changing. Rival Coca-Cola Co has also been streamlining its product range over the past year, discontinuing its TaB diet soda and Coca-Cola Energy brands in the United States and selling its ZICO coconut water brand. “Companies are finding it difficult to provide effective marketing support behind an infinite number of brands that often compete for very similar occasions,” Rabobank Food and Beverage analyst Stephen Rannekleiv said in May. He added that companies are looking to launch products that have been developed in-house. The juice businesses made about $3 billion in net revenue in 2020 for PepsiCo, with operating profit margins that were below the group’s. The deal is one of the many food and beverage investments PAI has made over the last few years. In 2019, Nestle SA sold its US ice cream business, including brands such as Haagen-Dazs, to a joint venture backed by PAI in deal valued at $4 billion. Centerview Partners is the financial advisor to PepsiCo on the deal, while J.P. Morgan Securities LLC is advising PAI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
04-08-2021||Business||House panel on finance calls for insolvency rule recast||The country’s insolvency and bankruptcy code needs a complete overhaul to ensure lenders do not take haircuts beyond a benchmark and offers that come after lenders have selected the highest bidder get rejected, the parliamentary standing committee on finance said on Tuesday. In its report which was tabled in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, the committee noted “the actual operationalisation of amendments made so far may have altered and even digressed from the basic design of the statute and given a different orientation to the code not originally envisioned”. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), which came into effect in 2016, provides for a market-linked and time-bound resolution of stressed assets. “A greater clarity in purpose is needed with regards to strengthening creditor rights, particularly considering the disproportionately large and unsustainable ‘haircuts’ taken by creditors over the years.” Haircut refers to losses incurred by creditors on resolution of a stressed asset. The committee noted that when the invited bidders are asked to submit their resolution plans and when these plans are evaluated by the lenders, suddenly other bidders may emerge and submit their own resolution plans. “These bidders typically wait for the H1 (highest) bidder to become public, and they then seek to exceed this bid through an unsolicited offer that is submitted after the specified deadline. “The lenders at present have significant powers to accept late bids and these unsolicited bids create a huge delay,” the report said. The committee, therefore, recommended that the IBC be amended so that no post hoc bids are allowed. The move is aimed at stopping DHFL-like situations where promoter Kapil Wadhawan had tried to stall the sale to Piramals with counter bids after the deadline. The committee said the NCLT takes considerable time to admit cases and during this time the company remains under the control of the defaulting owner enabling value shifting, funds diversion, and asset transfers. “The NCLT should accept defaulters within 30 days and transfer control to a resolution process within this time period,” the committee recommended.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Nykaa files preliminary document for an initial public offering||Former investment banker Falguni Nayar-led Nykaa, the e-commerce company selling beauty and wellness products, has filed a preliminary document for an initial public offering (IPO). FSN E-Commerce Ventures Ltd, which runs the Nykaa brand, plans to raise Rs 525 crore through the issue of new shares and an offer for sale of 4.31 crore shares according to the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) of the company. The overall IPO is estimated at Rs 3,500-4,000 crore and values Nykaa at $5-5.5 billion. Private equity player TPG-backed Nykaa, based in Mumbai, sells cosmetics, grooming products and clothes. Launched in 2012, Nykaa has built a diverse portfolio of beauty, personal care and fashion products, including self-branded products. Apart from TPG, financial services company Fidelity and Indian film actress Alia Bhatt and Hero Enterprises chairman Sunil Kant Munjal are  some of its investors. The sellers include TPG Growth and Lighthouse Funds, and some individual shareholders. The investors are not selling out of the company and will continue to retain some stake after IPO. The promoter and promoter group will continue to hold more than 51 per cent of the company's shares. The proceeds from the offer would be used to set up retail stores and warehouses, repay borrowings and to enhance the visibility of its brands.  The prospectus said the Nykaa mobile app has been downloaded 43.7 million times till the end of the last fiscal. There are also 73 Nykaa stores across 38 cities in the country. In the financial year 2021, the company reported Gross Merchandise Value (GMV) of Rs 4,045.98 crore, an increase of  50.7 per cent over 2019-20. Revenue from operations grew 38 per cent to Rs 2,440.89 crore. Restated profit for the year  was Rs 61.94 crore compared with a loss of Rs 16.34 crore a year ago. Falguni Nayar & family, ranked tenth on Kotak Wealth Hurun -Leading Wealthy Women List 2020, with a wealth of Rs 5,410 crore. Nayar-led Nykaa had turned unicorn last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank backs housing arm||Breaking his silence on the fund-raising plans for PNB Housing Finance, S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao, managing director, Punjab National Bank, the parent firm, said there was no error of judgement and the subsequent rise in the share prices of the mortgage lender after the announcement could not have been anticipated. He, however, said the future course of action would depend on the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) order and on the basis of that order the housing finance lender as well as PNB will look at various options. Under the deal announced on May 31, the US-based Carlyle, alongside other investors, is slated to infuse Rs 4,000 crore capital into PNB Housing Finance through the issuance of preference shares and warrants. However, the deal has come under the scanner of capital markets regulator Sebi. The company was directed to carry out the valuation process of shares under the relevant legal provisions. PNB Housing contended that it has followed Sebi norms in deciding the issue price at Rs 390 apiece. Defending the stance taken at the PNB Housing Finance Board meeting on May 31, Rao told reporters that “there was no error of judgement. If you have seen the share price of PNB Housing Finance in the last 2-2.5 years, it was hovering at below rate. ICDR guidelines clearly indicate the kind of formula to be used for pricing for listed entities”. His remarks are seen as a cautious support of the PNB subsidiary’s plan to sell a stake to a clutch of foreign investors led by Carlyle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||RBI expected to opt for a status quo in policy repo rate||An uneven recovery in the Indian economy is likely to see the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) opt for a status quo in the policy repo rate and maintain its accommodative stance despite elevated inflation which has remained above its 2-6 per cent tolerance band for two months in a row. This is the unanimous view among analysts ahead of the three-day meeting of the monetary policy committee (MPC) from Wednesday. Though analysts are expecting status quo on rates, they are looking forward to comments from the central bank on draining out the excess liquidity or policy normalisation. The policy meet comes at a time inflation concerns have seen yields on the benchmark 10-year paper rising to around 6.20 per cent-levels. Over the past one month, it has inched up over 13 basis points. In the central bank’s own admission — from its July bulletin — retail inflation will persist at elevated levels for some months, before easing in the third quarter of 2021-22 when the kharif harvest arrives in the markets. The analysts feel that the patchy recovery and fears of the third wave could see the RBI refraining from taking any step that could restrain the growth momentum. “If one were to go by the first quarter results, it shows that some of the sectors are doing well while recovery is yet to be seen in other industries. Moreover, there could be another wave of the virus which could again lead to lockdowns. Therefore, the RBI will not deviate from its growth agenda despite elevated inflation,’’ an analyst said. According to Radhika Rao, economist at DBS Group Research, the MPC will opt to keep the repo rate at four per cent. She added that its forward guidance will favour a continuation of the accommodative policy stance to guard against growth risks. Further, the accompanying commentary will heed inflation risks through close monitoring and refrain from tweaking the policy levers for now. The RBI may gradually draw out excess liquidity in the system by increasing the sizes of the variable reverse repo rate  auctions. “Market will be keenly watching any RBI action on fine-tuning banking system liquidity as well as any further steps towards ongoing orderly evolution of the yield curve ,’’ Churchil Bhatt of  Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Nifty surpasses 16000 level for first time||Indian shares ended higher on Tuesday, with the blue-chip Nifty index surpassing the 16000 level for the first time, as investors bet on a faster recovery in Asia’s third-largest economy following a devastating second Covid-19 wave. The NSE Nifty 50 index ended up 1.55 per cent at 16130.75 and the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex rose 1.65 per cent to 53823.36. “The (16,000) level is important. It will add to the confidence of investors, especially because in the last 2-3 weeks the trend was weak,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. “Earnings is providing a lot of support to the market. The economy is able to sustain itself in the new norm. The market is betting the Covid impact next year is going to be much lower,” Nair said, adding that a slew of successful initial public offerings had also boosted retail investor confidence. Indian e-commerce beauty company Nykaa plans to raise $500 million through its initial public offering, becoming the latest homegrown startup to pursue a listing on the domestic bourses “After a strong FY21, earnings for FY22 have begun on a healthy note. The 1QFY22 earnings season has been in-line, benefitting from the lower base of 1QFY21... Nifty profits for the 31 companies that have posted their results so far have grown 70 per cent YoY... “We estimate corporate earnings to continue to recover...The primary market too continues with flurry of activity with as many as four IPOs lined up this week and three more next week, said Siddhartha Khemka, head — retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. Indian shares have more than doubled since hitting near four year-lows in March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic struck, as a market flush with liquidity saw strong foreign fund inflows and increased retail participation. Indian equities have attracted a net $6.93 billion in foreign inflows this year as of July, despite outflows from other Asian stock markets, data from Refinitiv Eikon showed. Domestic investors purchased a net $2.2 billion worth of equity mutual funds in the first half, compared with net selling of $5.34 billion in the second half of 2020, data from Refinitiv Lipper showed.HDFC Ltd and Titan Company were top gainers on the Nifty 50 index, adding 3.8 per and 3.9 per cent, respectively. The fast-moving consumer goods sub-index rose 1.73 per cent and Nifty finance index gained 1.68 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Reliance Industries sets up solar power company||Reliance Industries has moved forward on its plan to expand into the solar energy sector. The company on Tuesday informed stock exchanges that it has invested Rs 1 lakh in cash in 10,000 equity shares of Rs 10 each of a newly corporated and wholly owned subsidiary —  Reliance New Solar Energy (RNSEL). The subsidiary, incorporated to undertake activities relating to solar energy, is yet to start its operations. “The investment  in  RNSEL does not fall within  related party transaction and  the promoter/promoter  group/ group companies do  not have any interest in  RNSEL. No governmental or regulatory approvals were required for the said investment,” the company said. Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani had laid a roadmap of the plans for the new energy sector at the company’s annual general meeting in June. This includes setting up an integrated solar photovoltaic factory. “We will start with raw silica and convert this to poly silicon which we will then convert to ingot and wafers. These wafers would be used to make high efficiency solar cells and finally assembled into solar modules of highest quality and durability,” Ambani had said. The plan is to enable at least 100 GW of solar energy by 2030. Tariffs tumble A combination of set generation target for solar energy coupled with low interest rates, measures towards promoting domestic manufacturing of solar cells has had a favourable impact on solar power tariffs. Solar bid tariffs touched a low of Rs 2 per kWh (kilowatt hour) in 2020 and according to estimates is in the range of Rs 2.3-2.33 per kWH in 2021 bids. This is much lower than the current thermal power tariffs. NTPC has reported an average tariff of Rs 3.73 per kWh during the first quarter. Earlier in May, Adani Green Energy announced a buyout of SoftBank Group’s renewable energy power business. Global investment firm Actis LLP’s purchase of 500 MW of solar projects in India from Finland’s Fortum is another example of recent deal activity. Coal India has announced its plan for 3,000 MW of solar power generation by 2024. NTPC is developing a 4.75 GW solar park in Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Cybersecurity researchers fear Chinese telecom hack||Chinese hacking groups have compromised global telecommunications companies by stealing phone records and location data, cybersecurity researchers said. The hacking groups waged a campaign from 2017 to 2021, in some cases exploiting security vulnerabilities in Microsoft Corp’s Exchange servers to gain access to telecommunication companies’ internal systems, according to a new report published on Tuesday by US-based security firm Cybereason Inc. The report did not name any telecom firms, while a response from Cybereason on any impact in India is awaited. However, the firm said the attacks were primarily across Southeast Asian countries. “Based on our analysis, we assess that the goal of the attackers behind these intrusions was to gain and maintain continuous access to telecommunication providers and to facilitate cyber espionage by collecting sensitive information, compromising high-profile business assets such as the billing servers that contain Call Detail Record (CDR) data, as well as key network components such as the Domain Controllers, Web Servers and Microsoft Exchange servers,” Cybereason Inc said in a statement. “The highly adaptive attackers worked diligently to obscure their activity and maintain persistence on the infected systems, dynamically responding to mitigation attempts after having evaded security efforts since at least 2017, an indication that the targets are of great value to the attackers,” the statement said. According to the cybersecurity firm three distinct clusters of attacks have varying degrees of connection to APT (advanced persistent threat) groups — Soft Cell, Naikon and Group-3390 — all known to operate in the interest of the Chinese government. The security firm’s findings follow allegations by the US and UK governments which blamed actors affiliated with the Chinese government for a series of global hacks on Microsoft Exchange servers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||Business||Centre silent on Kumar Mangalam Birla offer||The Narendra Modi-government has maintained a studied silence on Kumar Mangalam Birla’s letter that became public on Monday in which the Vodafone Idea chairman offered to hand over his stake in the company to a government-appointed entity — a sign of the desperation that has gripped the floundering telecom giant which is battling a highly contentious tax demand and arguably inflated telecom dues dating back to 2007. Officials of the department of Telecommunications were doubtful of a possible merger between Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL) and state-owned BSNL that would effectively mean the government taking over the gargantuan Rs 1.8 lakh debt of the private operator. The officials said it was too early to decide on the merger. But it would be a hard decision as the government is committed to reviving the ailing BSNL, and taking over VIL at this stage would not be a prudent measure. Analysts said the move had political implications. The Centre would be wary of being tagged as a government that socialises losses with taxpayer’s money when other operators were making profit — that will give fodder to an already inflamed Opposition that has been attacking the government relentlessly on the Pegasus spyware scandal . On Tuesday, Bharti Airtel said it had made profits in the first three months of the current fiscal. While Birla has offered his stake, it is not clear whether he wants to sell or give the stake free of cost to a government-appointed entity. “I am more than willing to hand over my stake in the company to any entity — public sector/government/ domestic financial entity that the government may consider worthy of keeping the company going,” said Birla in a letter addressed to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba that was dated June 7 but came to to light only on Monday. If VIL goes bust, analysts say, there will be a massive turmoil in the market not least from the pressure on the networks of the existing players that would have to absorb 25 crore subscribers. Meanwhile, industry body COAI contended that a floor price for tariffs is absolutely critical and the need of the hour, given the “major financial stress” in the industry. Airtel profit up Bharti Airtel on Tuesday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 284 crore for the June quarter against a loss of Rs 15,933 crore a year ago when the company had made provisioning for AGR dues. On a sequential basis, Airtel’s net profit slumped over 62 per cent from Rs 759.2 crore in the March quarter —  a result of higher finance and depreciation costs, and an exceptional gain in the previous quarter. The total revenue surged 15.3 per cent year-on-year to Rs 26,854 crore. On a sequential basis, it was up 4.2 per cent. Airtel clocked an average revenue per user (ARPU) of Rs 146 in the June quarter against Rs 145 in the preceding quarter and Rs 138 in Q1 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-08-2021||India||India builds highest motorable road of the world in eastern Ladakh||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has constructed the highest motorable road in the world at the height of 19,300 feet at Umlingla Pass in eastern Ladakh, the defence ministry said on Wednesday.  The BRO has constructed a 52-km long black-topped road through Umlingla Pass, bettering the previous record of a road in Bolivia connecting to its volcano Uturuncu at 18,953 ft, the ministry's statement noted.  The road at Umlingla Pass now connects the important towns in the Chumar sector of Eastern Ladakh, it said.  "It will prove to be a boon to the local population as it offers an alternate direct route connecting Chisumle and Demchok from Leh. It will enhance the socio-economic condition and promote tourism in Ladakh," it mentioned.  During the winter, the temperature dips to -40 degrees Celsius and the oxygen level at this altitude (19,300 feet) is almost 50 per cent less than at normal places, it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
04-08-2021||India||941 workers died while cleaning sewers or septic tanks since 1993||As many as 941 workers died while cleaning sewers or septic tanks since 1993 while there are no reports of death due to manual scavenging, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar informed Rajya Sabha on Wednesday.  A total of 58,098 manual scavengers have been identified across the country, Kumar said.  "There is no report of death due to manual scavenging. However, we have reports regarding deaths of workers while being engaged in cleaning of sewers or septic tanks," he said.  According to the data shared by the minister, 941 workers died while cleaning sewers or septic tanks.  Tamil Nadu reported the highest number of such deaths at 213, followed by 153 in Gujarat, 104 in Uttar Pradesh, 98 in Delhi, 84 in Karnataka and 73 in Haryana, the data showed.  In response to another question, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale said 941 deaths have been recorded since 1993.  Manual scavenging is banned under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013.  Under the Scheme for Rehabilitation of Manual Scavengers (SRMS), Kumar said one-time cash assistance of Rs 40,000 was deposited directly into the bank accounts of all the identified and eligible 58,098 manual scavengers.  Listing the achievements under the SRMS, he said 16,057 manual scavengers and their dependents have been provided skill development training in various trades and 1,387 manual scavengers, sanitation workers and their dependents have been provided capital subsidy for self-employment projects, including sanitation-related projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
04-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Kerala logs 22,414 fresh cases, 108 more deaths ||Kerala on Wednesday reported 22,414 fresh Covid-19 cases pushing the total infection caseload to 34,71,563, with the number of people succumbing to the virus rising to 17,211 after 108 more deaths.  As many as 19,478 people have been cured of the infection since Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 32,77,788 and the number of active cases to 1,76,048, a state government release said.  In the last 24 hours, 1,97,092 samples were tested and the TPR was found to be 11.37 per cent.  So far, 2,79,12,0151 samples have been tested, it said.  Some of the worst affected districts in the state are Malappuram (3691), Thrissur (2912), Ernakulam (2663), Kozhikode (2502), Palakkad (1928), Kollam (1527), Kannur (1299), Kottayam (1208) and Thiruvananthapuram (1155).  Of the new cases, 87 are health workers, 114 had come from outside the state and 21,378 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 835 cases, the release said.  There are currently 4,74,056 people under surveillance in various districts of the state.  Of these, 4,44,009 are in home or institutional quarantine and 30,047 in hospitals.  There are 678 areas in the state with a TPR of above 10 per cent, the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
04-08-2021||India||India registered 1.71 lakh rape cases in five years||As many as 1.71 lakh rape cases were registered in the country between 2015 and 2019 and the highest number of incidents of this heinous crime was reported from Madhya Pradesh, followed by Rajasthan, the government informed Parliament on Wednesday.  In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra said a total of 22,753 rape cases were registered in Madhya Pradesh between 2015 and 2019, 20,937 in Rajasthan, 19,098 in Uttar Pradesh and 14,707 in Maharashtra.  A total of 8,051 rape cases were registered in Delhi between 2015 and 2019, he added.  The minister said altogether, 34,651 rape cases were registered across the country in 2015, 38,947 in 2016, 32,559 in 2017, 33,356 in 2018 and 32,033 in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
04-08-2021||India||Covid: Centre asks states to impose local restrictions during festivals||States should consider restrictions in view of the coming festive season, the Centre said today pointing to the upsurge in cases in parts of the country. Pointing to the festivities starting with Muharram on August 19 to Durga Puja on October 15, the Union health ministry said the states should "actively consider local restrictions" and "curb mass gatherings". "Indian Council of Medical Research and National Centre for Disease control have expressed concern regarding the mass gathering events during festivals turning into super spreader events," added the letter from the health ministry to Chief Ministers and administrators of all states. "I would like to reiterate that any laxity in ensuring strict adherance to the five-fold strategy of 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and Ensuring Covid-Appropriate Behaviour', may result in losing the impetus that our country has gained so far in managing the pandemic," read the letter signed by Rajesh Bhushan. The Centre has repeatedly warned that the second wave is still not over and the Delta variant of the virus is still a dominant problem. Till yesterday, 8 states reported an "R-factor"--- reproductive rate of a virus which indicates how infectious it is ---- of more than 1. An R factor above 1 indicates that the infection rate is increasing and needs to be controlled. The R-factor -- used worldwide to gauge the trajectory of the coronavirus -- is above 1 at Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Karnataka, Puducherry and Kerala. In Bengal, Nagaland, Haryana, Goa, Delhi and Jharkhand the R-factor stands at 1. The growing trend is causing much concern in view of a possible third wave of the virus. Last year, a surge in the pandemic took place during the festive season, when the daily number of fresh cases had just stopped short of 3 lakh. During the second wave -- driven by the Delta variant -- in summer, the daily figure of fresh cases had gone above 4 lakh, bringing the country's healthcare system to its knees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
04-08-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal criticises Baijal's Covid meet directly with officials||The Delhi government has criticised the Lieutenant Governor for holding a meeting on Covid-19 directly with officials "behind the back of an elected government". A tweet by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to this effect is likely to aggravate rocky ties between the Aam Aadmi Party government and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal over blurry lines on how best to run the national capital. "It is against the Constitution and Supreme Court judgement to hold such parallel meetings behind the back of an elected government. We are democracy. People have elected a Council of Ministers. If you have any questions, please ask your ministers. Avoid holding direct meetings with officers. Let's respect democracy, sir," Kejriwal replied to a tweet by the Lt Governor's office showing photos of him meeting Delhi officials over the Covid situation. The Kejriwal government has been particularly offended by an amended law on governing the national capital, which cleared parliament in March this year, as in its view the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) or GNCTD Act gave more powers to the Lt Governor - the centre's representative in Delhi - compared to the city's elected government. The centre maintained the amended law would further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lt Governor in line with the constitutional scheme of governance, as interpreted by the Supreme Court. A blurry line of responsibilities has been the biggest point of conflict between the Lt Governor's office and the Aam Aadmi Party government ever since it came to power in the national capital in 2013. Kejriwal had called the amendment to the GNCTD Act an "insult" to the people of Delhi. In today's tweet, the Lt Governor said, "Reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Delhi and future preparedness with Chief Secretary, ACS (Home and Health), Divisional Commissioner, Secretary (Health), MD-DMRC and other officials concerned." Among other measure, Baijal asked officers to ensure all liquid oxygen plants are made functional and media oxygen storage tanks are kept in top shape at least by the end of this month. Steps to ensure enough buffer stock of medicines for Covid and Black Fungus were discussed. "Concern was expressed regarding reported violation of Covid appropriate behaviour in Metro and other means of public transport," the Lt Governor tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
04-08-2021||India||Delhi caps RT-PCR rates at Rs 500 in private hospitals and labs||The Delhi government on Wednesday put a cap on the rate of conventional RT-PCR tests for COVID-19 detection in private hospitals and laboratories at Rs 500, according to an order. Rapid antigen tests at private facilities will cost Rs 300. In a tweet, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, "Delhi government drastically reduces corona test rates. This will help the common man." According to the order, home collection of samples and testing would cost Rs 700. Earlier, it was Rs 1,200. At government centres and hospitals, RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests are conducted for free. In November last year, the government had capped the rate of RT-PCR tests in private hospitals and labs at Rs 800. The health department has directed all private hospitals and laboratories to display the revised rates at a prominent place within 24 hours. It has also asked the private facilities to process samples, share reports with clients and update results on the ICMR portal within 24 hours. On Tuesday, Delhi reported 50 COVID-19 cases and four more fatalities due to the viral disease, while the positivity rate stood at 0.08 per cent. The national capital has reported 14,36,451 COVID-19 cases so far. A total of 14,10,874 patients have recuperated, while the death toll due to the disease stands at 25,058.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
04-08-2021||India||Guwahati: Man arrested for impersonating as Assam CM's political secretary||One person was arrested here for allegedly impersonating as the political secretary of Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and duping people on the pretext of providing government jobs, police said. The man was also accused of posing as MLA Jayanta Malla Baruah and extorting money from people, a senior officer said. A complaint was lodged by Sandeep Jalan at the Bhangagarh Police Station, alleging that a person impersonating as the legislator had demanded Rs 30 lakh from him. The police initiated a probe into the allegation and registered a case against the accused, identified as Navadeep Sharma. A preliminary investigation suggested that Sharma had saved his phone number as that of the MLA in a caller identification application to dupe people and extort money on the pretext of providing them jobs in various departments, the officer said. During the interrogation, the arrested person admitted that he has so far cheated five persons by alluring them with government jobs. The investigation is on, the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
04-08-2021||India||NCPCR asks Twitter to act on Rahul Gandhi for revealing faces of raped minor's parents||Child rights body NCPCR on Wednesday asked Twitter to take action against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's handle for sharing on the platform a photo of the family of a Dalit girl allegedly raped and killed in Delhi, saying it violates the Juvenile Justice and POCSO Acts. Gandhi on Wednesday met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Twitter and wrote in Hindi, "Parents' tears are saying only one thing -- their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice." The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights sent a letter to the resident grievance officer of Twitter, saying it received a complaint that a photo of the victim's family has been posted on the Twitter handle @Rahul Gandhi with the caption stating that they are the father and the mother of the child. "In the said photo, the faces of the victim's father and mother can be seen which thereby reveals the identity of the girl," the apex child rights body said. "Therefore, posting of the photo of the minor victim's family on the said Twitter handle has been observed by the commission to be a violation of Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, Section 228A of the IPC and the guidelines of the Hon'ble court as well," it said. Accordingly, the complaint is being forwarded for appropriate action against the Twitter handle... and removal of the tweet from the platform, it said. The NCPCR requested that an action-taken report in the matter may be sent to the Commission within three days. The move comes shortly after BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra accused Gandhi of violating the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and another law dealing with juveniles by tweeting a picture of the girl's parents as disclosing any aspect of a rape victim's identity is an offence. Patra urged the NCPCR to take cognisance of the matter and issue notice to the Congress leader. Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, prohibits disclosure of the identity of children while Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, lays out the procedure for media coverage of such cases and Section 228 of the IPC prohibits publishing the identity of sexual assault and rape victim. The girl died under mysterious circumstances when she went to get water from a cooler at a crematorium Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi. The girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body was forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident, demanding capital punishment for the convicts. Police had on Monday said that based on the statement of the victim's mother, rape charges have been added in the FIR. Four people, including the priest, have been arrested. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has launched an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
04-08-2021||India||Kerala logs 22,414 fresh Covid-19 cases, 108 more deaths||Kerala on Wednesday reported 22,414 fresh COVID cases pushing the total infection caseload to 34,71,563, with the number of people succumbing to the virus rising to 17,211 after 108 more deaths. As many as 19,478 people have been cured of the infection since Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 32,77,788 and the number of active cases to 1,76,048, a state government release said. In the last 24 hours, 1,97,092 samples were tested and the TPR was found to be 11.37 per cent. So far, 2,79,12,0151 samples have been tested, it said. Some of the worst affected districts in the state are Malappuram (3691), Thrissur (2912), Ernakulam (2663), Kozhikode (2502), Palakkad (1928), Kollam (1527), Kannur (1299), Kottayam (1208) and Thiruvananthapuram (1155). Of the new cases, 87 are health workers, 114 had come from outside the state and 21,378 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 835 cases, the release said. There are currently 4,74,056 people under surveillance in various districts of the state. Of these, 4,44,009 are in home or institutional quarantine and 30,047 in hospitals. There are 678 areas in the state with a TPR of above 10 per cent, the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
04-08-2021||India||India deploys warships in South China Sea as part of 'Act East' policy||India is sending a naval task force to the South China Sea this month to expand security ties with friendly countries, officials said on Wednesday, signalling its intent to play a bigger role in regional efforts to counter China. The Indian military has been traditionally wary of antagonising China but the mood has hardened following clashes between troops on the disputed land border last year. The government has since drawn closer to the United States in efforts to push back against China. Four ships including a guided missile destroyer and a missile frigate will be deployed for a two-month period to southeast Asia, the South China Sea and the western Pacific, the navy said in a statement. "The deployment of the Indian Navy ships seeks to underscore the operational reach, peaceful presence and solidarity with friendly countries towards ensuring good order in the maritime domain..." the navy said. The South China Sea has become one of many flashpoints in the testy relationship between China and the United States, with Washington rejecting what it calls unlawful territorial claims by Beijing in the resource-rich waters. In June, a U.S. aircraft carrier group led by the USS Ronald Reagan entered the South China Sea as part of a routine mission and a British carrier group is due to undertake exercises in the Philippine Sea this month. As part of their deployment, the Indian ships will take part in annual joint war drills involving the United States, Japan and Australia off the coast of Guam, the navy said. The four countries make up the Quad, an informal group, that U.S. President Joe Biden's administration is promoting as a way to counter an assertive China. "These maritime initiatives enhance synergy and coordination between the Indian Navy and friendly countries, based on common maritime interests and commitment towards Freedom of Navigation at sea," the Indian navy said in its statement. China has in the past criticised multilateral military manoeuvres as destabilising to the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-354
04-08-2021||India||Loyalty, winnability key to getting Cong ticket: Harish Rawat||Senior Congress leader Harish Rawat on Wednesday said loyalty and winnability will be the two main criteria for distributing party tickets in Uttarakhand. Rawat was talking to reporters here on the sidelines of the party's three-day 'chintan shivir' to evolve a strategy for the state assembly polls due early next year. "Winnability of candidates and their unflinching loyalty to the party will be the two deciding factors for distributing tickets," Rawat said in reply to a question. The former chief minister was recently made the president of the party's campaign committee in a major organisational rejig ahead of the next year's elections. It also saw Ganesh Godiyal taking over from Pritam Singh as the new PCC president. Making a reference to the Hindu mythology in which churning of the ocean had led to the discovery of 'amrit', Rawat said the deliberations at the party's 'chintan shivir' will definitely lead to something significant. "The party will become more vocal in the coming days on issues like unprecedented rise in prices of essential commodities, growing unemployment, plight of farmers and the wrong policies of the Centre which have made the life of the common man miserable," he said. In-charge of the party's manifesto committee Nav Prabhat and spokesman Surya Kant Dhasmana presented and debated points to be included in the party's manifesto for the coming polls during Wednesday's session. The 'chintan shivir' is being attended by all party leaders, including Rawat, newly appointed state Congress president Godiyal and state party in-charge Devendra Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
04-08-2021||India||Rona Wilson seeks probe by expert into alleged installation of malware on his computer||Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case accused Rona Wilson's lawyer told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that an expert should be asked to probe if any malware had been installed on Wilson's computer before it was seized by the NIA in 2018. Wilson has moved the high court seeking quashing of the charges against him. His petition has cited, among other grounds, a report of the US-based digital forensic firm Arsenal Consulting that incriminating evidence was planted on his computer through a malware before he was arrested. On Wednesday, his lawyer, senior counsel Indira Jaising told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that to tamper with a person's electronic device was an offense under the Information Technology (IT) Act. "It is my case that crimes under the IT Act have been committed against me....I have come with a positive case that my device was tampered with and an expert should be appointed to ascertain if my computer had malware when it was seized (by the National Investigation Agency)," she said. "The expert can tell how the malware was planted," she added. As per Arsenal Consulting, a hacker had had the control of Wilson's computer, and a malware (software used for malicious purposes such as spying) was used to plant documents in it, including a letter that was cited by the NIA as evidence against Wilson and other accused in the case. Arsenal came out with more reports later, claiming that electronic devices of other accused, including Jesuit priest Stan Swamy who died in hospital last month, too had been tampered with. Shoma Sen, another accused in the case, too has filed a petition seeking quashing of charges on the same ground. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA, argued on Wednesday that the reports on which the petitioners were relying came from an organization called `American Bar Association'. This association had no standing in India and it was not a statutory body, he said. "We are at the stage of framing of charges. All their contentions can be looked into at the stage of trial," Singh said. Jaising had earlier told the HC that besides deciding on the issue of quashing the charges against Wilson and Sen, the court will also have to examine what could be considered a "legal method of search and seizure of electronic evidence". The hearing will continue later this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
04-08-2021||India||Cabinet extends Samagra Shiksha Scheme for another 5 years||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved continuation of the 'Samagra Shiksha Scheme' for school education for another five years. Provision of training of master trainers for Anganwadi workers, incinerator and sanitary pad vending machines in all girls' hostels, addition of new subjects instead of stream in existing senior secondary schools, holistic progress card for each learner, and upgrade of all Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalyas up to class 12 are among the initiatives in the revised scheme. Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the scheme would continue from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2026. Under 'Samagra Shiksha Scheme 2', financial outlay of Rs 2,94,283.04 crore, which includes central share of Rs 1,85,398.32 crore, has been made to implement the scheme. It will cover 1.16 million schools, over 156 million students and 5.7 million teachers of government and and aided schools. "In order to enhance the direct outreach of the scheme, all child centric interventions will be provided directly to the students through DBT mode on an IT based platform over a period of time. The scheme will have an effective convergence architecture with various ministries and developmental agencies of the Centre and state governments," an official statement said. "The expansion of vocational education will be done in convergence with the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship and other ministries providing funding for skills. The existing infrastructure of schools and ITIs and polytechnics will be used to ensure optimum utilisation of the facilities, not only for school going children but also for out of school children," it added. Provision of training of master trainers for training of Anganwadi workers and in-service teacher training for ECCE teachers; provision of up to Rs 500 per child for Teaching Learning Materials (TLM), indigenous toys and games, play based activities per annum for pre-primary sections in government schools and strengthening of infrastructure of schools from pre-primary to senior secondary (earlier pre-primary was excluded) are among the various initiatives in the revised scheme. "Specific training modules will be included under NISHTHA by NCERT to train Secondary teachers and Primary teachers. Transport facility has been extended to secondary level at up to Rs 6000 per annum. For out of school children at 16 to 19 years of age, support will be provided to SC, ST, disabled children, up to Rs 2000 per child per grade to complete their secondary or senior secondary levels through NIOS/SOS," the statement said. "Financial support for State Commission for Protection of Child Rights at Rs 50 per elementary school in the state, for protection of child rights and safety; holistic, 360-degree, multi-dimensional report showing progress and uniqueness of each learner in the cognitive, affective, and psychomotor domains will be introduced in the form of Holistic Progress Card (HPC)," it added. Under the scheme, additional sports grant of up to Rs 25000 will be to schools in case at least two students of that school win a medal in Khelo India school games at the national level. "Provision for bagless days, school complexes, internships with local||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
04-08-2021||India||Necessary measures being taken to ensure safety of Indian nationals in Afghanistan, says MEA||As the Taliban steps up its offensive in Afghanistan, India on Wednesday said it remains vigilant and is taking all necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of Indians in the conflict-ridden country. Replying to a question in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also said the India-based personnel from the Indian consulate in Kandahar were temporarily withdrawn last month as part of the security measures. "The security situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated in the recent past. In view of this, the government remains vigilant and is taking all necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of Indian nationals and ongoing projects," he said. Muraleedharan said the Indian embassy in Kabul continues to function normally and is providing regular consular and visa services. "As a security measure in July, India-based personnel from the consulate of India in Kandahar were temporarily withdrawn. However, the consulate continues to operate visa and consular services through its local staff," he said. "Our mission in Kabul also continues to extend necessary assistance to Indian nationals in Afghanistan," the minister said. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the US began withdrawing its troops on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. To a separate question, he said the government had decided to offer Covid-19 vaccine to foreign personnel working at embassies, consulates and the United Nations offices and other international organisations located in India. "A total of 3,751 such foreign personnel registered with the Ministry of External Affairs for Covid-19 vaccination... They were offered vaccination facilities at any of the vaccination centres in their respective cities," Muraleedharan said. To another question, he said a number of countries, including some neighbouring ones, had signed contracts with Indian manufacturers for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines. "At present, priority is being accorded to the implementation of our national vaccination programme," the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
04-08-2021||India||Carbon dioxide emissions by Indian airlines increased 63.5 per cent in 7 years ||The Indian airlines' carbon dioxide emissions increased by 63.5 per cent from 11,560 thousand tons in 2012 to 18,900 thousand tons in 2019, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh said on Wednesday. "The data shows an increasing trend in carbon dioxide (CO2 ) emissions (by the Indian carriers) over the years," Singh stated in his written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha. He gave the details of CO2 emissions by the Indian carriers between 2012 and 2019. Singh stated the Indian carriers had 18,900 thousand tons of CO2 emissions in 2019, which was 11,560 thousand tons in 2012. "The DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) compiles CO2 emissions data based on the information received from the Indian scheduled carriers," he said. In 2019, domestic flights by the Indian airlines led to 11,843 thousand tons of CO2 emissions, while their international flights led to 7,057 thousand tons of CO2 emissions, he mentioned. In 2012, the Indian carriers' domestic flights had 6,135 thousand tons of CO2 emissions and their international flights had 5,425 thousand tons of CO2 emissions, the minister noted. Singh said the measures taken by the Centre to reduce the Indian carriers' carbon footprint are optimised airspace utilisation, reduction of unwanted weight, avoiding moisture or dirt accumulation in aircraft, proper speed and flap management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
04-08-2021||India||Delhi HC: No clarity in buffer stock of oxygen in Centre's report||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said there is no clarity on the steps taken by the Centre for setting up buffer stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in the national capital to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic even as the third wave is anticipated. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the status report filed by the Centre does not indicate that buffer stock of LMO is actually created for the use of Delhi and it only talks of enhancement of oxygen storage capacity here. "Today the situation may look fine but then everyone saw what happened in April-May. There is no escape from this (buffer stock of LMO). This is like insurance," the bench said, adding that it has been flagging this issue ever since the Supreme Court passed an order in April. The Supreme Court had passed an order on April 30 directing the Centre and Delhi government to create appropriate buffer stock of LMO in the national capital and the direction is an obligation cast on both the governments, the bench said. "Creation of buffer stock cannot happen in a week or two. You will need to first install the necessary infrastructure for that," it added. The high court was hearing various issues related to the Covid-19 crisis and the next hearing is scheduled for August 23. The bench said if the central government is of the view that it is not required to take any steps on LMO or that sufficient buffer stocks are available in Delhi or if the responsibility shall fall on the Delhi government, it shall approach the Supreme Court whose order is enforceable and the government is bound to comply with it. During the hearing, central government standing counsel Kirtiman Singh said the Delhi government has done enough for creating a buffer stock and the state counsel could elaborate it. Amicus Curaie and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao submitted that it was not clear whether buffer stock of LMO exist in Delhi and to what extent. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said they have a buffer stock of around 420 metric tonnes of LMO kept at different places with the suppliers outside Delhi and by August 31, they will transfer this stock to Delhi. The court was also informed by the Centre that manufacturing capacity of Liposomal Amphotericin B, used for treating patients of black fungus which primarily affects those who have recovered from Covid-19 and was in shortage earlier, has been augmented. The Centre's counsel said the centralised allocation of the medicine to the states has been discontinued and now they will have to procure the drug directly from the manufacturers. The Centre, in a status report, told the court that there has been a fall in the cases of mucormycosis (Black Fungus) which were 28,475 on June 27 to 18,833 on July 30. The issue of shortage of the medicine for treating black fungus was raised by advocate Rakesh Malhotra. According to the Union Health Ministry, mucormycosis or black fungus is a complication caused by a fungal infection. People catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. It can also develop on the skin after the fungus enters the skin through a cut, scrape, burn, or other type of skin trauma. The disease is being detected among patients who are recovering or have recovered from Covid-19. Moreover, anyone who is diabetic and whose immune system is not functioning well needs to be on the guard against this, the ministry has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
04-08-2021||India||Senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh moves HC to challenge panel’s summons||Senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh filed a petition in the Bombay High Court on Wednesday challenging an order issued by an inquiry commission, set up by the Maharashtra government to probe into allegations of corruption against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh, directing the former Mumbai police commissioner to appear before it for deposition. Singh in his petition also challenged the legality of the commission's inquiry on the ground that the scope entrusted to the commission has already been adjudicated by the high court and the Supreme Court. In the petition, Singh demanded the HC to declare that the scope entrusted upon the inquiry commission stands adjudicated and therefore, nothing survives to be inquired into by the commission. He also sought for interim reliefs by way of staying the proceedings before the commission and the summons issued to him to appear before it on August 6. The Maharashtra government on March 30 this year constituted a one-member high level inquiry commission headed by former Justice K U Chandiwal to probe into allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against the then state former home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. Singh in his petition stated that the commission had to inquire and submit its findings on whether any offence was made out against Deshmukh, as alleged by Singh in his letter to the Maharashtra chief minister on March 20, 2021. He claimed that the high court, in its judgement dismissing a petition filed by Deshmukh seeking to quash the CBI FIR lodged against him, noted that a prima facie cognisable offence was made out against the NCP leader. The petition further said even the order passed on April 5, 2021 by the HC, directing the CBI to carry out a preliminary enquiry against Deshmukh, noted that serious allegations were levelled against him. The April 5 order of the HC was challenged in the Supreme Court by the state government and Anil Deshmukh. The Supreme Court while refusing to intervene was pleased to observe that the nature of allegations, the personas involved and the seriousness of the allegations do require an independent agency to enquire into the matter and that it was a matter of public confidence, Singh said in the petition. It is thus clear the scope entrusted upon the Inquiry Commission has already been adjudicated upon by the Bombay High Court and the Supreme Court. It has been clearly found that the allegations made in the letter of March 20, 2021 reveal the commission of a cognisable offence and are required to be inquired into by an independent investigating agency, it said. The petitioner seeks to raise important legal issues on whether the Inquiry Commission can continue with the inquiry once the scope entrusted to it has already been adjudicated upon by the Bombay High Court and the Supreme Court, the petition said. The petitioner cannot be compelled to depose before the commission and face cross-examination, it added. The petition stated that in May this year, the commission issued summons to Singh and when he failed to appear, a cost was imposed on him on June 22. On July 5, the petitioner paid the costs and also submitted a letter to the registrar of the Inquiry Commission informing that the commission's scope has been adjudicated upon and thus, nothing survives to be inquired into, the plea said. The commission directed Singh to file an affidavit raising these contentions. Singh complied and the commission later sought replies from all other parties on this issue. The Inquiry Commission by its order dated July 30, 2021 rejected the contention of the petitioner and directed for the inquiry to continue. The commission has fixed the next date of hearing on August 6 and directed the petitioner to appear before it for deposition and cross-examination, the plea said. The petition has challenged the July 30 order passed by the commission terming it as illegal and bad in law . Deshmukh had resigned from the post of state home minister in April this year after the HC directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption levelled against him by Singh. The NCP leader has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
04-08-2021||India||Mask up and get vaccinated, say experts||The rise in fresh Covid cases and the effective reproduction number indication of how fast an infection spreads -- in many states is worrying but don't panic. Instead, mask up and get vaccinated, say experts, stressing that it is too early to declare the beginning of a new wave. In fact, it could be that the second wave is not over, said several scientists who have been closely monitoring India's Covid graph and have noted the surge in a few pockets. In the northeast, for instance, cases have certainly not gone down to the low levels that are being seen in Delhi and other northern states, observed Gautam Menon, professor, Departments of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University in Haryana. "In that sense, we are likely seeing a continuation of the second wave rather than the initiation of a new Covid wave distinct from the previous one," he explained. On Wednesday, India recorded 42,625 fresh Covid cases with a daily positivity rate of 2.31 per cent and a weekly one of 2.36 per cent. India's Covid situation is seemingly under control. However, 13 states/union territories recorded a surge in coronavirus infections last week with Kerala reporting half of India's daily new cases. Last week, Kerala reported 1.4 lakh new Covid-19 cases, around 20,000 more than the previous week. In the week ended August 1, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Mizoram, J&K, Sikkim, and Karnataka also witnessed a rise in cases. With the government warning that the pandemic is still raging, there is also an increase in India's effective reproduction number (R) which represents the number of susceptible people one Covid positive person may infect. A recent analysis by researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, found that the effective R number in India has crossed 1 for the first time since May 7. The government on Tuesday also said the R-value is more than one in eight states and UTs, which is a cause of concern. Researcher Sitabhra Sinha, who has been tracking the value of R since the beginning of the pandemic, is alarmed that this rise is not driven by the increase in cases in any particular region but seems to be resulting from several states having R values greater than 1 roughly around the same time. Apart from Kerala which has had R above 1 for more than a month and the northeastern states where the second wave has not yet subsided after beginning in July, we saw in the past week R increase above 1 in Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh, and Haryana, and possibly in Uttarakhand, Sinha, from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, told PTI. The cities of Chennai, Calcutta, Bengaluru, and Delhi also are showing R above 1. This suggests a rise in the active cases that is coordinated across widely scattered regions which would be hard to contain, he added. The need of the hour is to press the accelerator on Covid protocols. We need to be prepared but not overtly panic. It is time people mask up and get vaccinated, Delhi-based physician-epidemiologist and health systems expert Chandrakant Lahariya told PTI, adding that the numbers clearly indicated the need to be cautious. He noted that Covid-19 cases are mostly being reported from states that had succeeded or avoided transmission earlier. Some of this, he said, is attributable to the high transmissibility of the Delta variant. We should not be looking at the proportion contributed by a state of the total new cases reported in India. That is not very helpful as we end up comparing the states with better reporting systems with states with weak disease surveillance systems, the public health expert said. The wave or cycle is of academic significance only. If cases are rising, it does not matter whether that is a continuation of the second wave or the start of the next wave, he said. The interventions have to be very similar. Scientist Gautam Menon agreed that while it is too early to declare the third wave, the surge in cases is certainly worrying. The next few weeks will be critical to see whether the rise in case numbers, currently confined to the south and northeast of India, will spread across other parts of the country where cases have been declining for the past month, Menon told Explaining the rise in cases, Menon said the spike in Kerala can be traced to the relatively low levels of seropositivity there, indicating that much of the state has not undergone a prior infection and should therefore be susceptible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
04-08-2021||India||U'khand CM launches India's first earthquake early warning mobile app ||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday launched the country's first earthquake early warning mobile application 'Uttarakhand Bhookamp Alert' developed by IIT Roorkee. Launching the lifeguarding mobile app at the secretariat here, Dhami said considering Uttarakhand's vulnerability to earthquakes, people should be informed about the availability of a mobile application like this. The application is available in two versions, compatible with both Android and iOS platforms. The project was sponsored by the Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority (USDMA). It is a path-breaking achievement for the institute as it is the country's first application for notifying people about earthquake alerts. It can also help tell the location of people trapped inside a structure following an earthquake. Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) is a real-time earthquake information system that can detect the onset of the earthquake and issue warnings before the significant tremors take hold of an area, according to a press release by IIT Roorkee. The physical basis for an earthquake early warning system is the speed of the seismic waves, which propagate after the release of stress from faults movement. The strong ground shaking is caused by shear waves which travel at about half the speed of the primary waves and much slower than electromagnetic signals. The EEW system exploits this advantage, it said. The programme was initially launched as a pilot project by the Ministry of Earth Sciences for the Garhwal region of Uttarakhand. Given its success and the need of the region, the IIT Roorkee's EEW project proposal was extended further by the Uttarakhand government. "I take immense pride in sharing that IIT-R has designed an Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) mobile app, for timely dissemination of information regarding an earthquake occurrence in the neighbourhood and the expected time of arrival and intensity at the location to prevent any loss of life," IIT Roorkee director Ajit K Chaturvedi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
04-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha passes  Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Amendment Bill||The Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till Thursday amid continuous protests by opposition parties over the Pegasus snooping controversy, and issues of farm laws and price rise. However, the Upper House passed the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to encourage smaller airports to expand air connectivity to relatively remote and far-flung areas. The House passed the bill after a brief discussion amid protest and sloganeering by the opposition over various issues, including the Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws. The Lok Sabha had passed the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 on July 29. When the Upper House assembled after a 15-minute adjournment at 2:56 pm, the opposition continued to protest. Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was in the chair, called members for debate on the bill. After a short debate and a brief reply from the Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed with a voice vote. Immediately after that the deputy chairman adjourned the House till Thursday 11 am. Earlier, the House passed two bills -- the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 -- after short debates amid the din. As opposition members continued raising slogans, the deputy chairman adjourned the proceedings of the House for 15 minutes till 2.56 pm. He also warned members not to record proceedings on mobile phones as it was against the rules of the Rajya Sabha. Earlier, the proceedings of the House were adjourned till 2 pm as slogan-shouting MLAs of the TMC and other opposition parties trooped into the Well, some holding placards, to demand a discussion on the issue of Pegasus spyware being used to snoop on opposition leaders, government critics and journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-355
04-08-2021||India||29 Ministers inducted into Basavaraj Bommai-led cabinet||A week after taking over as the Chief Minister of Karnataka, Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday expanded his new cabinet, by inducting 29 Ministers. The new Ministers were administered oath of office and secrecy by Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot at the Raj Bhavan here. Bommai has by and large gone with old faces, as 23 of them were Ministers in the previous B S Yediyurappa cabinet, while six are new. Among those in the Yediyurappa cabinet who made it to Bommai's Ministry are Govind Karjol (Mudhol), K S Eshwarappa (Shivamogga), R Ashoka (Padmanabhanagar), C N Ashwath Narayan (Malleshwaram), B Sriramulu (Molkalmuru), Umesh Katti (Hukkeri), S T Somashekar (Yeshwanthpur), K Sudhakar (Chikkaballapura), and B C Patil (Hirekeruru). Also, J C Madhuswamy (Chikkanayakanahalli), Prabhu Chauhan (Aurad), V Somanna (Govindraj Nagar), S Angara (Sullia), Anand Singh (Vijayanagara), C C Patil (Nargund), M T B Nagaraj (MLC), and Kota Srinivas Poojary (MLC). The fresh faces are V Sunil Kumar (Karkala), Araga Jnanendra (Thirthahalli), Munirathna (R R Nagar), Halappa Achar (Yelburga), Shankar Patil Munenkopp (Navalgunda) and B C Nagesh (Tiptur). Bommai, who was elected as the new leader of the BJP legislature party last week, following Yediyurappa's resignation, had taken oath as the Chief Minister on July 28. Among the Ministers in the new cabinet are 8 Lingayats, 7 Vokkaligas, 7 OBCs, 3 SCs, 2 Brahmins, 1 ST and 1 Reddy, and a woman. Keeping up the "promise", Bommai has inducted 10 legislators who had joined BJP after quitting Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019, and helped the saffron party to come to power. Eleven of them were Ministers in the Yediyurappa government, out of them two Shrimant Patil and R Shankar have not made it the Bommai cabinet, while Munirathna has been newly inducted. Earlier today, Bommai said there will be no Deputy Chief Ministers in his cabinet as per the high command's directions, also Yediyurappa's younger son and state BJP Vice President B Y Vijayendra is not among the Ministers who will be sworn-in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
04-08-2021||India||Over 1200 Madhya Pradesh villages affected by deluge||The flood situation was "grim" in north Madhya Pradesh where over 1,200 villages were affected by the deluge following heavy rains and 5,950 people were shifted to safer places with the help of the Army, NDRF, BSF and state agencies, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Wednesday. He said 1,950 people were still stranded in the flood-hit areas and efforts were on to rescue them. Rail services between Shivpuri and Gwalior and telecom services in Morena district were badly affected due to the monsoon fury, the CM told reporters. The rescue operations using helicopters resumed again on Wednesday, after being affected due to the bad weather on Tuesday. The CM undertook an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas on Wednesday afternoon. The flood situation in north Madhya Pradesh is grim...1,225 villages in Shivpuri, Sheopur, Datia, Gwalior, Guna, Bhind and Morena districts are affected," Chouhan said. The State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the Indian Army and the BSF together have succeeded in evacuating 5,950 people from 240 villages, he said. "Four columns of the Army, BSF, NDRF teams and 70 teams of the SDRF have been deployed for the rescue work. More teams of the NDRF are coming...five helicopters of the Air Force, including four in Gwalior and one in Shivpuri, have also been pressed into the rescue operations, the CM said. But, it is a matter of relief that the water level is coming down in some places, he said. Some villages in Sheopur district were completely submerged, but the people stranded there were safe. The Army was reaching those villages for the rescue operations, he said. The Army also reached Datia, where 1,100 people were rescued from 36 villages, he informed. Some people were airlifted from a place in Datia districts where all the main roads are shut due to inundation, he said. Two bridges in Datia district collapsed due to flooding. A crack emerged on a bridge over the National Highway no. 3, hence it has been closed as a precaution, he said. Nearly 3,000 people were shifted to relief camps in Gwalior, where 46 villages were affected. In Shivpuri, 800 people were rescued from 22 villages, the CM said. Chouhan further said there was a danger of flooding in Bhind and Morena districts as the water level of the Chambal river was rising due to heavy showers. The level will further go up in these districts as water was released from a barrage over the Chambal river, he said. People from low-lying villages in these districts were being evacuated, he added. Chouhan also said that the infrastructure was completely damaged at several places in these districts. The telecommunication infrastructure in Morena and other places was completely destroyed due to the floods. I have spoken to officials of the Union telecom ministry in this regard, he said. Train services between Shivpuri and Gwalior were halted as the rail infrastructure was badly damaged on the section, he said. Chouhan said he spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday and informed them about the flood situation in the state. Earlier in the day, after holding a meeting with officials in the state capital Bhopal, Chouhan left for Gwalior to undertake an aerial survey of the flood-hit districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
04-08-2021||India||Citizenship under CAA only after issuance of rules, says Centre||The Centre said on Wednesday that Indian citizenship to the eligible beneficiaries under the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) will be given only after rules under the legislation are notified. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said there is no proposal under consideration of the government for any further amendment of the Citizenship Act. Eligible persons covered by the Citizenship Amendment Act may submit applications for grant of citizenship after appropriate rules are notified by the central government, he said in a written reply to a query in Rajya Sabha. He was asked whether the government has received new applications for citizenship after the CAA 2019 was enacted. The CAA was notified on December 12, 2019 and came into force with effect from January 10, 2020, the minister said. "The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been requested to grant further extension of time up to January 9, 2022 to frame the rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019," Rai said. The objective of the CAA is to grant Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities like Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists, Parsis and Christians from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The government got an extension for the fifth time for framing these rules. According to the Manual on Parliamentary Work, the rules for any legislation should be framed within six months of presidential assent or an extension of the time must be sought. Those from the mentioned communities who had come to India till December 31, 2014, facing religious persecution there, will not be treated as illegal immigrants but given Indian citizenship. After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests were witnessed in different parts of the country leading to the death of nearly 100 people in police firing and related violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
04-08-2021||India||Some Covid deaths may go undetected, but missing out unlikely, says government||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday clarified that while some Covid-19 cases could go undetected as per the principles of infectious disease and its management, missing out on deaths was completely unlikely given the robust and statute-based death registration system in India. During the peak of the second wave, the health system across the country was focused on effective clinical management of cases requiring medical help due to which correct reporting and recording of Covid deaths could have been delayed but it was later reconciled by states and UTs, the ministry said in a statement. The reconciling of deaths is still being carried out allaying all speculations of under-reporting and under-counting of deaths due to Covid-19, it said. Noting that there have been some speculative media reports inferring under-counting of deaths from eight states, the ministry said the deaths can only be estimated and the exact data may never be known. The reports highlight data from the Civil Registration System (CRS) and Health Management Information System (HMIS), including all-cause death numbers, leading to erroneous inferences terming it as 'counting the uncounted', it said. "It is clarified that given the robust and statute-based death registration system in India, while some cases could go undetected as per the principles of infectious disease and its management, missing out on deaths is completely unlikely. "This could also be seen in the case fatality rate, which as on 31st December 2020 stood at 1.45 per cent, and even after an unexpected surge observed in the second wave in April-May 2021, the case fatality rate today stands at 1.34 per cent," the ministry said. Moreover, the reporting of daily new cases and deaths in India follows a bottom-up approach, where districts report the number of cases and deaths to state governments and to the Union ministry on a continuous basis. As early as May 2020, to avoid inconsistency or confusion in the number of deaths being reported, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had issued 'Guidance for appropriate recording of COVID-19 related deaths in India' for correct recording of all deaths by states and UTs as per ICD-10 codes recommended by the WHO for mortality coding, the ministry said in the statement. The Union Health Ministry has repeatedly been advising states and UTs through formal communications, multiple video conferences and through deployment of central teams for recording of deaths in accordance with laid down guidelines. States have been advised to conduct thorough audits in their hospitals and report any cases or deaths that could have been missed with district and date-wise details so as to guide a data-driven decision-making, it said. The ministry has regularly emphasized the need for a robust reporting mechanism for monitoring district-wise cases and deaths on a daily basis. States consistently reporting lower number of daily deaths have been advised to re-check their data, the statement said. A case in point is the Union Health Ministry writing to the state of Bihar to provide detailed date and district wise break-up of the reconciled number of deaths. "In addition to reporting by states and UTs, the robustness of statute based Civil Registration System (CRS) ensures all births and deaths in the country get registered. The CRS follows process of data collection, cleaning, collating and publishing the numbers, which although is a long-drawn process, but ensures no deaths are missed out. Because of the expanse and the amplitude of the activity, the numbers are usually published the next year, which has also been acknowledged in the referred to media report," the statement said. "It is a well-known fact that there shall always be some differences in mortality recorded during a profound and prolonged public health crisis such as Covid pandemic. Well conducted research studies on mortalities are usually done after the event when data on mortalities are available from reliable sources. The methodologies for such studies are well established, the data sources are defined as also the valid assumptions for computing mortality," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
04-08-2021||India||Leaders of 14 Opposition parties blame govt for Parliament deadlock||Leaders of 14 Opposition parties on Wednesday said the responsibility for the deadlock in Parliament lies squarely with the government and urged it to respect parliamentary democracy by accepting their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus row and farmers' issue. In a joint statement here, 18 leaders from 14 parties said it is unfortunate that the government has "unleashed a misleading campaign to malign the combined opposition" and blaming it for the continued disruption of Parliament proceedings. "The responsibility for the deadlock lies squarely at the doorsteps of the government, which remains arrogant and obdurate and refuses to accept the opposition's demand for an informed debate in both the houses," according to the statement. "The opposition once again urges the government to respect parliamentary democracy and accept the discussions. "The opposition parties stand firm and united on their demand for a discussion on Pegasus issue in both the Houses, replied to by the Home Minister, as this has national security dimensions," it said. The Opposition has also unequivocally conveyed that discussion on farmers' issues and on agitations due to the contentious agriculture laws should follow the debate on the Pegasus row. The statement was issued jointly by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, DMK's T R Balu and Tiruchi Siva, Congress' Anand Sharma, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav, Derek O' Brien and Kalyan Banerjee of the Trinamul Congress, and Sanjay Raut and Vinayak Raut of the Shiv Sena. The other signatories included Manoj Jha of the RJD, CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem, CPI's Binoy Viswam, AAP's Sushil Gupta, IUML's Mohd. Basheer, NC's Hasnain Masoodi, RSP's NK Premachandran and MV Shreyams Kumar of the LJD. The statement comes after a stalemate in Monsson Session of Parliament with both the Houses paralysed by the Opposition's uproar over their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping issue and farmers' protests. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday suspended six TMC MPs for the day for carrying placards while protesting along with other Opposition MPs over the Pegasus spying issue. Slogan-shouting TMC and other opposition MPs trooped into the well of the House, some holding placards, to demand a discussion on the issue. Naidu ordered that those "disobeying the chair and raising placards shall leave the House under rule 255." He, however, did not name anyone and said Rajya Sabha Secretariat will give the list. Later a Parliamentary Bulletin identified the six MPs suspended for the day as Dola Sen, Md. Nadimul Haque, Abir Ranjan Biswas, Shanta Chhetri, Arpita Ghosh and Mausam Noor. These "members of the Rajya Sabha who entered the well of the Hosue displayed placards, disobeyed the Chair and whose conduct was grossly disorderly in the House this morning (August 4, 2021) have been directed to withdraw immediately from the Council under rule 255 by the Chairman," it said. The six MPs, it said, "shall absent themselves during the remainder of the day's meeting."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
04-08-2021||India||Bombay High Court reserves verdict on default bail of Elgaar accused||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday reserved its verdict on a default bail plea filed by lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Opposing her plea, the Maharashtra government told the HC on Wednesday that a sessions court had the power to take cognisance of the charge sheet filed in the case in 2019, since the National Investigation Agency (NIA) was then yet to take over the investigation into the case. The NIA took over the case in January 2020. Appearing for the Maharashtra government, Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that as long as the investigation in a case was not assigned to the NIA, the proceedings pertaining to the same could continue before a regular court. Bharadwaj had approached the HC earlier this year, seeking default bail on the ground that Pune additional sessions judge KD Vadane, who had taken cognisance of the police chargesheet in the case filed in 2019, was not authorised to do so. Bharadwaj had annexed RTI (Right to Information) replies from the HC to demonstrate that judge Vadane was not a designated special judge, as was necessary to adjudicate offences under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Senior counsel Yug Chaudhry, who appeared for Bharadwaj, had earlier told the HC that Vadane pretended to be a special judge and had signed orders as the special judge. On Wednesday, Chaudhry referred to portions of a recent Supreme Court judgement to show that a special court alone has exclusive jurisdiction to try UAPA offences. Kumbhakoni, however, opposed the submission and said Chaudhry was only citing such portions of the judgement that suited his case and not the judgement in its entirety. He said in the case cited above, the circumstances were different from those in Bharadwaj's case. "There are elementary principles of reading a judgement. You cannot read a few paras and say I have succeeded in freeing (someone accused of being involved in) Naxalite activities," Kumbhakoni said. "The facts of every case are different, you can't use one to colour the other," he said. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA, reiterated that the sessions court had been within its powers in taking cognisance of the case. The HC closed all arguments and reserved its verdict on Bharadwaj's plea. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
04-08-2021||India||BJP attacks Rahul Gandhi for not speaking on rape cases in Congress-ruled states||The BJP on Wednesday accused Rahul Gandhi of using the case of alleged rape and murder of a Dalit girl in southwest Delhi for "furthering" his political agenda, and asserted that the law and order machinery has moved swiftly to deliver justice to the victim's family. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra told a press conference that his party had no issue with Gandhi, who visited the girl's family earlier, calling for justice but what was condemnable was the Gandhi family's "selectivism" as they never tweeted or spoke a word in the cases of atrocities against Dalit girls in the Congress-ruled states like Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. He also accused Gandhi of violating the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and another law dealing with juveniles by tweeting a picture of the girl's parents as disclosing any aspect of a rape victim's identity is an offence. Patra urged the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights to take cognisance of the matter and issue notice to the Congress leader. "This is using Dalits and the poor for furthering your own political agenda," he said, attacking him. Gandhi had earlier met the family of the nine-year-old Dalit girl who died here following an alleged sexual assault and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". After meeting the victim's family, the former Congress chief said the family is demanding nothing but justice and is saying that they are not getting it and need all the assistance in this. Patra cited a number of heinous cases of rapes and other atrocities on Dalit girls and women in Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh to hit out at the Congress leader over his "silence". "You close your eyes and open only when you think you will have some political benefit out of it. This is appalling," he said, adding that the Delhi Police has arrested four accused in the case. A Dalit's daughter is certainly India's daughter, the BJP spokesperson said quoting a tweet of Gandhi and shot back to ask if Dalit daughters in these Congress-ruled states are not India's daughters. Rajasthan has topped the country in the cases of rapes, Patra said, citing official figures. The Rajasthan government had blamed registration of false FIRs allegedly by Dalits for the high numbers, he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
04-08-2021||India||Kejriwal orders magisterial probe into alleged rape and murder of Dalit minor||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Delhi government will order a magisterial inquiry into the death of a nine-year-old Dalit girl following an alleged sexual assault. The chief minister also announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for the family of the girl. "Our girl cannot come back. The injustice done to the family is unfortunate and cannot be compensated, but the government will give Rs 10 lakh to them and order a magisterial inquiry into the matter," he told reporters after meeting the family. "There is a need to strengthen law and order in Delhi. I appeal to the central government to take firm steps in this direction," he said. In a tweet, the chief minister said that the government will appoint top lawyers to ensure the guilty is punished. The parents of the girl accompanied by hundreds of locals were staging a protest near the site of the incident in Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi, demanding capital punishment for the accused. The girl lived with her parents in a rented house in front of a crematorium. On Sunday at around 5.30 PM, she went to get cold water from a cooler at the crematorium after informing her mother, her parents said. Around 6 PM, the crematorium's priest, Radhey Shyam, and two-three other people, known to the girl's mother, called her there and showed her daughter's body claiming that she got electrocuted while getting water from the cooler. There were burn marks between her left wrist and elbow, and her lips were also blue, according to police. It was alleged the priest and the others dissuaded her mother from making a PCR call, saying police will make a case out of it and during the post-mortem, doctors will steal the girl's organs, so it was better to cremate her. Police had on Monday said that based on the statement of the victim's mother, rape charges have been added in the FIR. Four people, including the priest, have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
04-08-2021||India||Home ministry recommends action against former CBI chief||The Union home ministry has recommended disciplinary action against former CBI director Alok Verma for allegedly misusing his official position and violating the relevant service rules, officials said on Wednesday. They said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has written to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), the nodal ministry for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), to take necessary disciplinary action against Verma. The action, if approved, may include temporary or permanent forfeiture of Verma's pension and retirement benefits, the officials said. During his stint in the CBI, Verma, a 1979-batch (retired) Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, was engaged in a bitter fight with Gujarat-cadre IPS officer and his deputy Rakesh Asthana over corruption charges. Both Verma and Asthana had accused each other of corruption. Asthana is the Delhi Police Commissioner now. "Verma has been accused of misusing his official position and violating service rules. Necessary action has been recommended against him by the home ministry," a senior official said, requesting anonymity. The home ministry is the cadre controlling authority for IPS officers. The DoPT has forwarded the MHA's recommendation to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), the recruitment body for IPS officers, the officials said. The UPSC needs to be consulted before imposing penalty on IPS officers, they said. Verma took over as the CBI chief on February 1, 2017 for a fixed two-year tenure. However, he was removed from the post on January 10, 2019 and posted as the director general of Fire Services, Civil Defence and Home Guards -- a less significant portfolio. Verma did not accept the offer and wrote to the government, saying he should be considered as deemed superannuated as he has completed 60 years age of superannuation on July 31, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
04-08-2021||India||ED arrests Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested businessman and Avantha Group of companies promoter Gautam Thapar in connection with a money laundering case, officials said on Wednesday. Thapar, 60, was arrested under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Tuesday night here after the agency carried out raids against him and his linked businesses in Delhi and Mumbai, they said. He is expected to be produced before a court on Wednesday where the ED will seek his custody, they added. The ED has been probing an alleged transaction between his company Avantha Realty, Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and his wife, who are already being investigated under the PMLA by the agency. The case of money laundering was filed by the ED after taking cognisance of an FIR lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). "The (CBI) FIR alleges that Rana Kapoor, then MD and CEO of Yes Bank Limited, obtained illegal gratification in the form of a property in a prime location in Delhi at much less than the realisable market value belonging to Avantha Reality Ltd for sanction of a loan to ARL and for extending concessions, relaxations and waivers in the already existing credit facilities provided to Avantha Group companies and for advancing new and additional loans to them by Yes Bank Ltd," the ED had said earlier. The CBI had last year booked Kapoor and his wife Bindu for allegedly obtaining a bribe of Rs 307 crore through the purchase of a bungalow in a tony Delhi area from a realty firm at half the market price and facilitating around Rs 1,900 crore bank loans to it in return. The CBI suspected that the discounted transaction for the 1.2 acre-bungalow on Amrita Shergill Marg in Delhi was a gratification to Kapoor through the company Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd in return for non-realisation of over Rs 1,900 crore in loans from Yes Bank to Avantha Realty and group companies. In June, the CBI had booked Thapar and others in a fresh case of fraud of Rs 2,435 crore in the State Bank of India (SBI) and other banks to probe an alleged fraud case at the CG Power and Industrial Solutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-356
04-08-2021||India||Karnataka Cabinet reshuffle to happen today, 29 ministers to be inducted||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said 29 Ministers will be inducted into his new cabinet this afternoon, and there will be no Deputy Chief Ministers this time. He also said former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's younger son and state BJP Vice President B Y Vijayendra is not among the Ministers who will be sworn-in. "I have held detailed discussions with high command in Delhi regarding the cabinet expansion, after the final round of discussion last night, this morning the list was finalised. I have already sent the list to the Governor and spoke to him," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said a total of 29 Ministers will take oath, and in the previous cabinet led by B S Yediyurappa there were three Deputy Chief Ministers, but this time there will be none as per the high command's directions. "The cabinet will be a mixture of both experience and new strength," he said, adding that in the cabinet there will be 7 OBCs, 3 SCs, 1 ST, 7 Vokkaligas, 8 Lingayats, 1 Reddy, also a woman. The new Ministers will be administered oath of office and secrecy by Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot at the Raj Bhavan at 2:15 pm. The list containing the names of new Ministers will be officially released by the Raj Bhavan as per the formality, the Chief Minister said. Noting that the list was prepared after rounds of discussion between him and the national president, and among the national leadership, the Chief Minister said, "there is no question of any one's pressure. It is after comprehensive thinking." On Vijayendra's induction, he said, the national President has spoken to Yediyurappa and the national General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh spoke to Vijayendra personally. "I can only say, Vijayendra's name is not there in the list today." Aimed at giving pro people administration and to face the upcoming elections, this cabinet is being formed under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP National President J P Nadda. The new cabinet will respond to the needs of the people, earn their trust and give a good governance, he said. Noting that there were no confusions regarding the cabinet formation, the Chief Minister said, BJP is a national party with a strong leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
04-08-2021||India||Parliament: Chairman Naidu suspends six TMC MPs for the day||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday suspended six TMC MPs for the day for carrying placards while protesting along with other Opposition MPs over the Pegasus spying issue. Just as witnessed since the start of monsoon session, slogan-shouting TMC and other opposition MPs trooped into the well of the House, some holding placards, to demand a discussion on the issue of Israeli-made, military-grade Pegasus spyware allegedly being used to snoop on Opposition leaders, government critics and journalists. Naidu took exception to the placards, which had anti-government slogans, before adjourning the proceedings of the House till 2 pm. He first asked members to go back to their seats and then threatened to invoke rule 255 against those holding placards. As the members refused to budge, he ordered that those "disobeying the chair and raising placards shall leave the House under rule 255." He, however, did not name anyone and said Rajya Sabha Secretariat will give the list. Later a Parliamentary Bulletin identified the six MPs suspended for the day as Dola Sen, Md. Nadimul Haque, Abir Ranjan Biswas, Shanta Chhetri, Arpita Ghosh and Mausam Noor. These "members of the Rajya Sabha who entered the well of the Hosue displayed placards, disobeyed the Chair and whose conduct was grossly disorderly in the House this morning (August 4, 2021) have been directed to withdraw immediately from the Council under rule 255 by the Chairman," it said. The six MPs, it said, "shall absent themselves during the remainder of the day's meeting." Earlier soon after taking of oath by new member Jawhar Sircar and laying of official documents on the table of the House, Naidu said though he has not admitted notices given under rule 267 by Ramgopal Yadav and Vishambhar Prasad Nishad of the Samajwadi Party and V Sivadasan of the CPI(M) over farmers agitation over three farm laws, a discussion on the issue under a different rule has been admitted. "I have gone through it. It is an ongoing issue but important. So it is admitted for discussion under other provision," he said. A notice under rule 267 calls for setting aside of the business of the day to take up discussion on the issue being raised. Naidu, however, rejected 267 notices by Sukhendu Sekhar Roy (TMC), Mallikarjun Kharge and K C Venugopal (both Congress), CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem and V Sivadasan and Binoy Viswam of the CPI over the Peagus issue. "Now there is agreement about farmers' agitation. And also about price rise, economic situation. The government has also expressed willingness to discuss. Let us discuss the farmers' issues. Let us discuss the economic situation, price rise and other issues," he said. Just then TMC and other MPs holding placards rushed into the well. Naidu said this is not the way. "Please go back to your seats." "All these members who are in the well of the House with placards... all of them are named under rule 255. I direct these members who are in the well of the House to go back to their seats, otherwise, you are named and you are suspended for the day," he said. But the MPs refused to budge. "Please obey the chair (and) go back to your seats," he said as opposition MPs shouted, "We want discussion on Pegasus." Naidu then asked for the names of the MPs holding placards. As Rajya Sabha Secretariat started collecting names, Naidu said, "Whoever is in the well, disobeying the chair and then raising these placards, they are all asked to leave the House under rule 255." MPs named under rule 255 have to withdraw from the House proceedings for the rest of the day. "You know what will happen... Secretariat will give the list," he said before adjourning the proceedings till 2 pm. Even after the House proceedings were adjourned, the TMC and other opposition MPs did not leave the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
04-08-2021||India||India records over 42,000 fresh Covid cases, 562 fatalities in a day||With 42,625 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,17,69,132 and the active caseload increased to 4,10,353, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,25,757 with 562 fatalities, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.34 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,09,33,022 with the national COVID-19 recovery rate rising to 97.37 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases increased to 4,10,353 and accounted for 1.29 per cent of the total infections. An increase of 5,395 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,47,518 samples were tested on Tuesday taking the number of tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 47,31,42,307. The daily positivity rate stood at 2.31 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.36 per cent, according to the ministry. Cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country so far has reached 48.52 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore coronavirus cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 562 new fatalities include 177 from Maharashtra and 148 from Kerala. A total of 4,25,757 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,33,215 from Maharashtra, 36,650 from Karnataka, 34,159 from Tamil Nadu, 25,058 from Delhi, 22,765 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,170 from West Bengal, and 16,299 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
04-08-2021||India||Rahul visits family of girl allegedly raped, killed||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi today met the family of the nine-year-old Dalit girl allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi's Cantonment area on Sunday, and whose body was forcibly cremated by her attackers. "I spoke with the family... they want justice and nothing else. They're saying justice is not being given to them and that they should be helped. We will do that. I said 'I am standing with you. Rahul Gandhi is standing with them until they get justice'," Rahul was quoted by news agency ANI. Shortly afterwards he tweeted: "Her parents' tears are saying only one thing - their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path of justice." Rahul tweeted yesterday too, calling her "the nation's daughter" - a pointed reference to accolades for India's women Olympians, who have been widely referred to as "the country's daughters" after their medal-winning exploits. Public fury has exploded over the horrific incident - the latest to spotlight frighteningly high levels of sexual violence in the country - triggering protests by civil society groups and activists, as well as Opposition leaders who have targeted Home Minister Amit Shah (to whom Delhi Police reports). Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee are among those to have slammed Mr Shah and demand he be held to account for this and other gruesome crimes. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who has called for improvements to the city's law and order situation, is also expected to meet the young girl's family, and has pledged to help seek justice. "The murder of a nine-year-old innocent in Delhi, after subjecting her to brutality, is very shameful. There is a need to improve the law and order situation... the culprits should be given capital punishment at the earliest," Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
04-08-2021||India||Modi to interact with beneficiaries of free grains scheme in UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the beneficiaries of the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana' in Uttar Pradesh on August 5 via video conferencing. The PMO noted that the state will celebrate August 5 as Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana Day. A massive awareness programme will be launched throughout the state to ensure that no beneficiary is left out from availing the benefits of the scheme, it added. Modi to interact with beneficiaries of free grains scheme in UPAlmost 15 crore beneficiaries of the state have been getting ration free of cost under the scheme. Nearly 80,000 fair price shops in the state have been distributing food grains to the beneficiaries of the scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
04-08-2021||India||Covid jab shortage: No vaccination at civic, govt centres in Mumbai on Aug 4, says BMC||The COVID-19 vaccination drive was suspended at civic and government-run centres in Mumbai on Wednesday due to paucity of vaccine doses, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the BMC said the inoculation drive will resume once it receives a fresh stock of vaccines. "Citizens of Mumbai are constantly informed about the vaccination, depending upon the stock of vaccines received, and an appropriate decision is taken," it said. This is the first time that the city civic authority has suspended the inoculation drive this month due to shortage of vaccines. Last month, it had suspended the vaccination drive in the city at least thrice because of the same reason. According to the BMC, so far 73,36,171 citizens have been inoculated in the metropolis. Out of them, 18,09,075 beneficiaries have received both the doses. Currently, there are 428 active COVID-19 vaccination centres in Mumbai - 294 operated by the BMC, 20 government-run and 114 private centres. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 288 new cases of COVID-19, taking the tally to 7,35,659, while three more patients succumbed to the infection, pushing the fatality count to 15,911, as per the civic body. There are two containment zones in the city, where 48 buildings are currently sealed as a preventive measure to curb the spread of coronavirus, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
04-08-2021||India||Prediction of light rain in Delhi||The capital is likely to witness partly cloudy sky and light rain on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department said. The Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, recorded a minimum of 25.4 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. The maximum temperature is predicted to settle around 34 degrees Celsius. Light to moderate rain is expected for the next three to four days, according to the IMD forecast. The weather department had earlier said that Delhi is likely to receive normal rainfall -- 95 to 106 percent of the long-period average -- in August. The capital had witnessed uncharacteristically heavy rainfall and an irregular weather pattern in July. After a delayed monsoon, which arrived over two weeks after the usual date of June 27, the capital gauged an unusual 507.1 mm rainfall this July, which was nearly 141 per cent above normal. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second highest ever. Delhi gets maximum rainfall in July and August. Normally, the city receives 210.6 mm and 247.7 mm rainfall in July and August, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
04-08-2021||India||Covid: Central team to guide Kerala pandemic response||A central health team will arrive in Kerala on Friday to guide public health responses to Covid-19 in the state that is reporting a steady rise in daily new infections and accounts for a third of India’s current active cases. The Union health ministry said on Thursday that the six-member team led by Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, will recommend interventions to contain the large number of new infections in the state. Kerala on Thursday had over 154,000 Covid-19 patients, about 37 per cent of India’s 397,000 active cases. Its average daily new cases have increased to about 17,000 on July 28 from 11,000 four weeks ago. The health ministry has underlined that Kerala also has a high positivity rate — the fraction found positive among those tested — of about 12 per cent, more than double the ideal of less than 5 per cent. A high positivity rate is viewed as an indicator of widespread infections. Several districts in Kerala — Palakkad, Thrissur, Wayanad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kasargod, Kannur, Kollam, Ernakulam, and Kottayam — are among the 47 in 10 states across the country where test positivity rates are higher than 10 per cent. But sections of health experts have argued that Kerala’s high test positivity rate could also be an outcome of smart testing which is specifically directed at all close contacts and other individuals likely to test positive. Kerala’s relatively low Covid-19 seropositivity — the proportion of people with antibodies against Covid-19 — of 44 per cent, compared with over 70 per cent in states such as Bihar, Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh, also implies a large proportion of susceptible people. Many public health experts believe the relatively low seropositivity and Kerala’s lower Covid-19 case fatality rate of 1.1 per cent, compared with the national average of 1.3 per cent, reflects an epidemic better managed than in other states. “However, the current exponential growth is a source of concern,” said a senior researcher. “Whenever and wherever the virus spreads and replicates, there is a chance of fresh mutations emerging.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
04-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders pledge to unite and fight Modi regime||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday led a group of MPs in cycling to Parliament to draw the nation’s attention to the scourge of price rise after a meeting at which Opposition leaders pledged to unite and fight the Narendra Modi regime. While Rahul’s tractor ride to Parliament last week symbolised the farmers’ struggle against the government’s obduracy on the three controversial farm laws, the bicycle was used to amplify the agony of the common man burdened by abnormally high prices of essential commodities, including petroleum products. Placards asking if one LPG cylinder costing Rs 834 meant “achchhe din” were fixed to the bicycles. Rahul himself proposed at the breakfast meeting that members could cycle to Parliament to highlight the people’s sufferings. Around 40 bicycles were arranged by the Youth Congress and all of them were used as the younger MPs followed the Congress leader through the jam caused by jostling mediapersons, party workers and policemen. Parliament is less than a kilometre from the Constitution Club, where Rahul hosted the meeting of Opposition MPs. The meeting saw every leader stress the need for unity, with Rahul pointing out that the government was able to bulldoze the Opposition that represents 60 per cent of the population only because “we are not united”. Conceding there were differences among parties, he said there was complete agreement on three issues — farmers, Pegasus snooping and price rise — and this should be enough of a cementing factor to ensure a united approach. The parties present at the meeting represented the true federal spirit of India and smaller issues should not disturb the unity of purpose, which is to save the country, Rahul added. All other parties endorsed this view, committing themselves to fight the Modi regime together. The most emphatic message came from the Trinamul Congress whose absence from the last Opposition meeting had triggered speculation about disunity. Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee said Bengal had shown that Modi-Amit Shah could be fought and defeated despite the coercive pressure of the Enforcement Directorate, the CBI and other central agencies. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut also insisted there was no need to fear and that a unified fight would easily unsettle the Modi regime. A senior leader present at the meeting told The Telegraph: “For the first time after the devastating defeat in the 2019 parliamentary election, the determination to fight this regime was on display.” The senior leader said: “It was indeed a significant occasion marked by disappearance of pessimism. We cannot say at this stage that an alternative is ready to dislodge the government but we could feel the emergence of a new hope today. Some of us had reservations about Rahul Gandhi but he showed leadership mettle.” A Congress leader echoed this sentiment, saying: “There indeed were doubts about his capabilities, deepened by his decision to resign as party chief and leave the boat rudderless at this critical juncture. But he has now more than convinced everybody that he can do it. Nobody else can generate so much energy and hope within minutes. He barely spoke for four minutes but his humility, elegance and precision impressed everybody. I talked to several leaders of other parties and they were very impressed and hopeful.” Asked what the takeaway from the meeting was, a Rajya Sabha MP said: “What was unstated was of the greatest significance. There was no discussion on leadership, no resolutions passed but the implicit message was the complete absence of disagreement on Rahul’s leadership. If this has happened when he is not holding any post and there are murmurs of dissent within his party, one can imagine he won’t have any hurdles in his way once the Congress makes up its mind and he starts his national campaign. We assume the leadership issue is more or less settled.” Rahul himself showed maturity by stressing on collective effort and unity of purpose. He posted a photograph of the meeting with Opposition leaders with this crisp message: “One priority — our country, our people.” After the meeting, his tweet said: “Neither our faces are essential, nor our names. What is important is that we are representatives of people: in every face, there are faces of crores of Indians who are tormented by price rise. Is this achchhe din?” This narrative is antithetical to the politics of domination and supremacy. The subtext is clear: that issues are supreme and the country has to be saved. The contentious question — who will be the Prime Minister — will become relevant only after the mission of evicting the current government is accomplished. Till then, every leader will work with the larger cause in mind. This was the message of the meeting. The Bahujan Samaj Party, whose hidden axis with the BJP has been a subject of speculation over the past few years, was absent. So was the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Most leaders, however, said AAP was with the Opposition and their absence was more because of a communication gap. Those present included the Congress, Shiv Sena, Trinamul, NCP, DMK, RJD, Samajwadi Party, CPM, CPI, IUML, National Conference, JMM, RSP, KCM and the LJD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
04-08-2021||India||Modi's pep talk to BJP contradicts his sermon as an Opposition||If forgetfulness was Rishi Durvasa’s curse for King Dushyant, it has turned out to be a blessing for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Little else explains a purported sermon by Modi on Tuesday in which he described the Opposition’s protests in Parliament as an “insult to the Constitution, democracy and the people”. The content of Modi’s pep talk to BJP parliamentarians stood in sharp contrast with what his own party had done when it was in Opposition. The BJP, as the principal Opposition party during the UPA’s 2004-2014 decade, had stymied Parliament like never before and justified the actions as a “form of democracy, like any other form”. If the Prime Minister needs the equivalent of a royal ring, which was retrieved from the belly of a fish so that Dushyant could remember Shakuntala, he needs to look up research by PRS Legislative Research.  The non-profit found that the productivity of the 15th Lok Sabha from 2009-14 was the worst in the past 50 years. Session after session had been completely or partially washed out as the BJP, especially during the UPA II innings, held uproarious protests over corruption allegations against the government. Appearing oblivious to or unmindful of such behaviour, Modi on Tuesday lashed out at the Opposition for protesting and trying to stall Parliament. The Opposition has been demanding discussions on the Pegasus snooping allegations, the farm protests and other pressing issues but the government has so far not displayed any appetite for such debates. “The conduct of the Opposition in both Houses is an insult to the Constitution, democracy and the people,” the Prime Minister was quoted as telling BJP parliamentarians at a closed-door meeting. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said Modi expressed anger at the instances of snatching and tearing papers in Parliament. In 2012, the BJP had forced the washout of the monsoon session of Parliament over charges of corruption in allocation of coal blocks. Then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had termed BJP’s actions as a “negation of democracy”. Responding to this, the then leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha, Sushma Swaraj, had justified the protests by saying: “Not allowing Parliament to function is also a form of democracy, like any other form.” The then leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Arun Jaitley, had described the stalling of Parliament as a legitimate act to “hold the government accountable”. Many now feel the BJP is getting a taste of its own medicine. The BJP’s focus then had been demanding investigations into allegations of corruption and calling for the resignation of ministers, including the Prime Minister. In contrast, the present Opposition has been protesting only to demand a discussion in both Houses of Parliament on the Pegasus snooping, exposed by a global investigation, and the government has been firmly denying it. At a time several countries have ordered inquiries into the alleged surveillance using the Israeli spyware Pegasus, the Indian government has dismissed it as a “non-issue”. The Opposition has been demanding an immediate discussion since the spyware is sold only to governments. The Modi government so far has neither accepted nor denied having bought the spyware. On Tuesday, the Opposition protested for the 11th straight day in both Houses of Parliament, demanding an immediate discussion to seek answers from the government over the snooping charges. The Prime Minister has so far not spoken a word on Pegasus but has been repeatedly slamming the Opposition for obstructing Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-357
04-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Editors Guild of India moves SC against sypware scandal||The Editors Guild of India and a senior journalist on Tuesday jointly moved the Supreme Court seeking a directive to the Centre to disclose information on the electronic surveillance of Indian citizens using spyware. They have also demanded a court-monitored probe into allegations swirling around the Pegasus controversy, adding to the list of people approaching the Supreme Court on the issue. “The indiscriminate use of these capabilities against journalists and other democratic actors destroys freedom of speech and poisons the heart of democratic accountability,” the petition said. The Guild and veteran journalist Mrinal Pande have challenged the constitutional validity of Section 5 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, Rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Interception, Monitoring and Decryption of Information) Rules, 2009. These provisions permit the government to intercept the electronic devices of citizens subject to various safeguards. The Narendra Modi government has so far resisted the Opposition’s demand to discuss the issue in Parliament and refused to acknowledge or deny whether it had bought the Pegasus software which can only be accessed by governments or government-run agencies. The petition, filed through advocate Lzafeer Ahmad, has asked if the Centre or any of its agencies had procured, licensed or obtained Pegasus from the Israeli NSO Group or its group companies or affiliates and used it to spy on Indian citizens, including journalists. The petitioners sought the following directives from the Supreme Court: ⚫ Direct the Centre to produce any contracts, agreements or memoranda of understanding with foreign companies for supplying spyware, hacking or electronic surveillance tools for use on Indian citizens. ⚫ Order the government to disclose the details of how such spyware, hacking or electronic surveillance tools were paid for. ⚫ Direct the Union of India to disclose the details of the list of people who have been under electronic surveillance or have been subjected to hacking or spying. The government should also be asked to furnish the details of who prepared the list. ⚫ Direct the Centre to reveal how many of the Indian citizens who have been under electronic surveillance or have been subjected to hacking have been charged with involvement in serious crimes. ⚫ An independent special investigation team (SIT) should be set up to probe the alleged procurement and use of Pegasus. The petitioners argued that the alleged snooping was a serious assault on the freedom of the media, free speech and citizens’ right to life and liberty, besides being a criminal offence. Earlier, advocate M.L. Sharma, CPM Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas and journalists N. Ram, Sashi Kumar, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and Rupesh Kumar Singh had moved the top court. The petitions are expected to come up for hearing on Thursday before a bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justice Surya Kant. “Pegasus is capable of astronomical surveillance which includes accessing every bit of stored data on one’s phone; real time access to emails, texts, phone calls; controlling all cameras on the device; activating the sound recording function; transmitting all sounds in the vicinity of the device; detecting whether two phones have come in physical proximity; activating features even when the phone is switched off, and more,” the Guild’s petition said. “In the face of the NSO Group’s stated position that it only sells to ‘vetted governments’, these allegations of spying raise grave concerns of abuse of office; dismantling of separation of power; infringement of fundamental rights to privacy, freedom of speech and expression, and freedom of the press; subversion of the democratic process; and commission of serious criminal offences,” the petition added. “The Pegasus cyber attacks, prima facie, disclose the commission of several serious offences under the Information Technology Act, 2000; the Indian Penal Code, 1860; the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885; and the Official Secrets Act, 1923. Journalists are tasked with enforcing the public’s right to be informed, to accountability, and to open and transparent government. “The petitioner’s members and all journalists have the duty in our democracy of holding all branches of government accountable by seeking information, explanations and constitutionally valid justifications for state action and inaction,” the petition said. According to the petitioners, freedom of the press relies on non-interference by the government and its agencies in reporting by journalists, including their ability to securely and confidentially speak with sources, investigate abuse of power and corruption, expose government incompetence, and communicate with those opposed to the dispensation. “The citizens of India have a right to know if the executive government is infringing the limits of their authority under the Constitution and what steps have been taken to safeguard their fundamental rights,” the petition said. “The petitioners are before this Hon’ble Court to seek the enforcement of this right, in performance of their obligations as trustees of the public, and on behalf of all citizens of India. “It is regretfully submitted that all attempts to seek accountability and enforce constitutional limits through parliamentary processes have been stonewalled. Through their intransigence, the respondents (the Union government and its instrumentalities) have deliberately avoided public debate on this issue and have provided obfuscated answers, forcing the petitioner to approach this Hon’ble Court,” it added. The petition continued: “The petitioners also seek a court-appointed special investigation team monitored by this Hon’ble Court to investigate every aspect of the use of Pegasus by the Government of India and against Indian citizens, especially journalists. Finally, the petitioners have challenged the constitutional vires of electronic surveillance, hacking and use of spyware, and the existing legal architecture for surveillance, in light of the gigantic leaps in technology and surveillance capabilities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
04-08-2021||India||Indian Army's aviation corps chopper crashes in J&K||A helicopter of the Indian Army’s aviation corps with at least five people on board crashed near the Ranjit Sagar Dam in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua on Tuesday morning, sources in the army said. There were no immediate reports of any casualty. The dam is located about 30km from Pathankot. The accident took place around 10.40am during a routine sortie. The pilot and the co-pilot are missing and divers have been sent in to look for them. The army did not release a statement till Tuesday evening and the exact number of people on board the chopper was also not clear. Sources said the chopper belonged to the 254 Army Aviation Squadron and had taken off from the Mamun cantonment 10 minutes before it came down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
04-08-2021||India||SC to examine urgent plea  seeking contempt proceedings against Modi||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to examine a plea for early listing of a PIL seeking contempt proceedings against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and the Union home ministry over the appointment of IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the police commissioner of Delhi. The petition, filed by advocate Manohar Lal Sharma, has contended that the appointment of Asthana four days before his retirement was in gross violation of Supreme Court directives. A bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justice V. Surya Kant asked Sharma to furnish the number of the petition so that it can be considered for “urgent listing”. “We will see… let it be numbered first,” CJI Ramana said. The petition, besides seeking contempt action against the Prime Minister and the home minister, has claimed that they had lost the moral and constitutional right to continue in office, having violated the Supreme Court’s directions. Sharma pleaded that the appointment should be examined by a constitution bench of the Supreme Court having a minimum of five judges to settle the law on the matter, arguing that otherwise there would be a constitutional breakdown and people would lose faith in the country. Sharma, who had earlier filed a plea seeking a probe by a special investigation team into the Pegasus snooping controversy, alleged that Asthana’s appointment had been a breach of Supreme Court rulings that all vacancies must first be notified to the Union Public Service Commission six months in advance and that no officer who has less than six months’ service left will be appointed as a director-general of police (DGP). Asthana was appointed as the commissioner of Delhi police, which reports to the Union home ministry, four days before his scheduled retirement on July 31, and was granted a year’s extension of service. The Delhi police commissioner’s rank is equivalent to that of a DGP. Sharma has named the Prime Minister as respondent No. 1, the home minister as respondent No. 2, and the Union home ministry as respondent No. 3 for what he called “wilful denial” to comply with the Supreme Court’s rulings. “Respondent No. 1, the head of the ACC (appointments committee of the cabinet), and respondent No. 2… jointly decided and did the impugned appointment against the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court. Hence they are party to this for contempt of court,” the petition stated. The PIL recalled that on July 3, 2018, the Supreme Court had in the Prakash Singh vs Union of India case prohibited the appointment of an officer with less than six months of service left as DGP. Sharma said that on July 27 this year, the appointments committee of the cabinet headed by the Prime Minister appointed Asthana as the Delhi police commissioner for one year. The petitioner contended that the action of the Union government amounted to contempt of court and cited the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, and a number of earlier Supreme Court judgments wherein it had been stated that “civil contempt refers to wilful disobedience to any judgment of the court, while criminal contempt can be invoked if an act tends to scandalise or lower the authority of the court or tends to interfere with or obstruct the administration of justice”. Sharma claimed that the appointment was a case of both civil and criminal contempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
04-08-2021||India||Covid: Epidemic shows exponential growth in eight states across India||The Covid-19 epidemic is showing exponential growth rates in eight states across India, health officials said on Tuesday, flagging worrisome signals amid a nationwide decline in daily new cases and high uncertainty over the pandemic’s future course. The eight states — Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry — currently have high and increasing R values, or reproduction numbers, ranging from 1.1 to 1.4, reflecting sharply growing epidemics. The R value, a measure of how fast an infection spreads, represents new infections generated by one infected person. An R value of 1.4 implies 10 cases will generate 14 new infections. Any R value greater than 1 implies exponential growth and it needs to be below 1 for an epidemic to shrink. Nine states — Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Delhi, Goa, Haryana, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, and Nagaland — have R values of 1 with either stable or declining epidemics, the health officials said. “Some states have R (value) going in the wrong direction — above one and rising. The virus wishes to expand. We must curb it,” said Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and member of Niti Aayog, the Centre’s top think tank, who is among experts guiding the government on its Covid-19 responses. India’s daily new infections declined from a peak of over 400,000 in early May to around 46,000 cases in early July but have remained near-stable at around 40,000 since then. The counts of active patients have declined from over 3.7 million in mid-May to around 400,000. Kerala and Maharashtra account for over 60 per cent of the country’s active cases. Kerala on Tuesday had over 165,000 patients, followed by Maharashtra with 78,700 and Karnataka with 24,000. Ten districts in Kerala, nine in Manipur, six in Mizoram, four each in Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Nagaland, two in Sikkim, and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry and Rajasthan show large epidemics. The health officials underlined the need for highly affected districts and all states with exponential growth rates to intensify public health measures such as containment, contact tracing and house-to-house surveillance within perimeter-controlled zones to prevent the infection’s spread. A central public health team that visited Kerala has identified the need for enhanced containment measures. In Kerala’s Mallapuram district, the team observed a contact tracing ratio of about 1:1.5, meaning for every two positive cases, health authorities were testing three contacts. “Our guidelines recommend a contact tracing ratio of about 1:20,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry. With over 90 per cent of positive cases in Kerala under home isolation, Agarwal said it is critical to test all close contacts and not just those with symptoms. Public health experts have predicted that India is unlikely to experience a fresh nationwide Covid-19 surge as high as the second wave because over 67 per cent of the country’s population show protective antibodies but have cautioned that localised surges will occur. The other 33 per cent, or 400 million people, remain susceptible to the infection and will provide opportunities for the virus to infect and spread, experts have said. “Cases are likely to rise wherever there is laxity on personal precautions or public health measures,” a health official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
04-08-2021||India|| Record 99.04% students pass CBSE Class X exams||A record 99.04 per cent students have passed the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class X exams, whose results were announced on Tuesday, and over 2.58 lakh pupils have scored over 90 per cent marks. The pass rates in 2020 and 2019 had been 91.46 per cent and 91.1 per cent, respectively. Last year, 1.84 lakh students had secured over 90 per cent marks, while in 2019 around 2.25 lakh had done so. Nearly 21.13 lakh candidates had registered for the Class X exams this time, of whom the results of 20.97 lakh students have been declared. The results of the remaining students are under process. Around 2.01 lakh students have scored between 90 and 95 per cent, while 57,824 students have got over 95 per cent marks. Among the 16 regions, Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala recorded the highest pass rate, at 99.99 per cent, while Guwahati in Assam clocked the lowest, at 90.54 per cent. The Class X board exams, like the Class XII tests whose results were announced last month, had not been held owing to the pandemic. The CBSE marked the Class X students on the basis of performance in school-based exams (80 per cent weightage) and internal assessment (20 per cent). Internal assessment included performance in projects, notebook writing, homework and classroom (mostly online) activities. Each school formed a panel of teachers to award the remaining 80 marks in each subject based on the following break-up — 40 marks for the pre-board exam, 30 marks for the half-yearly exam and 10 marks for periodic tests. Several academics were of the opinion that learning levels had declined this time. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, the chairperson of the DLF Schools, said: “The major concern is that learning has taken a big hit. Online learning is not effective. There is boredom and exertion. Now we need to reopen schools. Schools have reopened the world over except in India.” Sangeeta Bhatia, the principal of KIIT World School in New Delhi, said this year’s results were aimed more at ensuring that students did not come under more stress during all-encompassing adversities due to the pandemic. “I see certain provisions have been made for de-stressing the students in this difficult period when schools have remained closed for almost the entire academic session. But the results do not matter much. What matters are the skills acquired and the depth of learning that will help them move forward in life,” she said. Students usually continue in the same school where they have studied till Class X, so there won’t be too many problems over admission to Class XI, Bhatia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
04-08-2021||India||Meenakshi Lekhi's Kashmiri pandit comment stirs up a storm||Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi has kicked up a storm by suggesting that Kashmiri Pandits were to blame for their failure to return to the Valley, comparing their situation to migrant labourers who have returned to their places of work after having gone home during the first wave of pandemic. The return and rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits has always been high on the ruling BJP’s agenda and the party has often forcefully censured its rival Congress for failing to ensure their return. Most Kashmiri Pandits are said to be supporters of the BJP. Lekhi, who recently took charge as minister of state for external affairs and culture, however, has ruffled feathers by comparing the issue of Pandits to that of migrant labourers and saying the community has to share the blame for their failure to return. The minister, during an online interaction with Kashmiri Pandits, was asked by a speaker when they would be rehabilitated in Kashmir to “save their culture”. “I am really surprised at the question because as a person who is part of this country, you are free to move wherever you want to move. Nobody is stopping people from going back to their homes, and whatever else is needed will be provided,” the minister replied. Lekhi then compared their plight with migrant labourers who had to return to their home states after the coronavirus pandemic broke out in 2020 but were back at their workplaces when the situation improved. “When corona happened in Delhi, a lot of migrant workers had come from Bihar, Jharkhand and wherever. They were here and whatever was the treatment meted out to them by Delhi government, they all went back and they have all come back. Where is the problem? I think people also take a call where they wish to be,” she said, suggesting Pandits were not taking the initiative. Interrupting her, a Pandit participant asked whether it was possible for them to return to the Valley. “That is why I am surprised at the question because so far as the government is concerned, it continues to be with the people of India whether in Kashmir, Bihar or Delhi or wherever. Some initiative needs to come from people themselves also,” the minister said. Lekhi then said many Pandits were not interested at all in returning to the Valley. “I know there are lots of people who are settled across (the country) and they are settled well. So on one side, their heart may be pining for their original place of habitation but they are very happy with wherever they are living also. They do not want to be disturbed… People need to take some private initiative as well,” she said. The remarks left the Pandit participants fuming, with one asking her to clarify whether the migrant labourers’ issue was comparable to their migration. “Sorry Madam, you have no concept what Kashmiri Pandits have suffered. It is a (forced) migration. People have been kicked out of Kashmir. You have no concept and are comparing Covid (migration) with Pandit migration,” he said. BJP sources said Lekhi’s remarks betrays frustration within a section of its leadership that Pandits were not showing a “spine” to return while the situation was “conducive” for their return. It would appear as a blow to the BJP if it fails to facilitate the return of Pandits after two consecutive terms in power. The remarks triggered outrage among a section of Pandits. “This is a tight slap from the core member of @BJP4India @M_Lekhi on the face of Modi Bhakts from Kashmiri Pandit community. Hope now the KP’s who called this politician their God hang their heads in shame & apologise to everyone. Thanks a lot for being blunt about your policy,” tweeted Mohit Bhan, a Kashmiri Pandit and a spokesman of the People’s Democratic Party. Senior BJP leader Ashwani Chrungoo, also a Pandit, hit out at Lekhi’s remarks and said he would call her and ask her to withdraw the comments. “It is an unbecoming statement in the sense that Government of India is already conscious of its responsibilities and a lot of things are being done and are under process,” Chrungoo told The Telegraph. “It is a statement that cannot be taken so seriously. It has come from a person of a junior rank. It cannot be called a statement from the government.” The BJP leader said the situation in the Valley is not conducive for the return of Pandits as “there is neither peace nor normalcy in Kashmir”. The BJP central leadership had claimed that Article 370 was a hurdle in restoring peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
04-08-2021||India||Five Africans arrested after custody death protest||Police have arrested five African nationals and slapped them with charges ranging from rioting to outraging the modesty of a woman officer a day after a protest over the alleged custodial death of a Congolese national in the city. While the police said Joel Malu, 27, died after a cardiac arrest at a private hospital early on Monday, hours after he was taken into custody for possessing drugs, the African community was outraged. Bangalore North deputy commission of police Dharmender Kumar Meena told The Telegraph on Tuesday that the five men were booked several sections including IPC Sections 146 (rioting), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant) and 354 (outraging the modesty of a woman). The arrested men were among the 20-odd African nationals who protested against the alleged custodial death of Malu outside JC Nagar police station where he was taken. The Bangalore unit of the Pan-African Federation and Students’ Union India, a body of African nationals, on Tuesday decided to extend all cooperation to the police in the investigation but resolved to fight for their rights to live peacefully in the city. On the allegation of custodial death, Kumar said: “The inquest conducted by a judicial magistrate  has established there was not a single mark on his body.” A resident of east Bangalore, Malu was taken to the police station around 2.15am on Monday. He was shifted to a hospital around 5.30am. “We found 5 grams of MDMA (popularly called ecstasy) on him and that was why he was arrested,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
04-08-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Bulandshahar cultivators gift 'Vijay Rath'||Farmers of Bulandshahar in Uttar Pradesh gifted a “Vijay Rath” (victory chariot) on Tuesday to fellow peasants sitting at Delhi’s Ghazipur border for the last eight months demanding repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws. The farmers said the chariot is a symbol of their commitment to continue the agitation till they “dislodge the BJP from power”. “The Narendra Modi government believes that one day we would become tired and return home without winning. This rath tells the Prime Minister that we are not returning before our victory or before throwing him out of power,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Guddu Pradhan, who led the procession that reached the Ghazipur border after a journey of six hours. “About 50 farmers can take rest in this air-conditioned rath. It was originally a bus which was redesigned and turned into a rath — which is itself a symbol of victory. The farmers contributed for the rath,” he said. Pradhan claimed that 30,000 farmers followed in cars and motorcycles behind the chariot. “From today, at least 2,000 more farmers from western Uttar Pradesh will come to the Ghazipur border every day. We will encourage those who have been at the border for a long time to return home for a few days and then rejoin the dharna. The world is watching everything and wants to know from India’s Prime Minister why he is so insensitive towards the demand of the farmers,” he said. Om Pal Malik, divisional in-charge of the BKU, told reporters in Meerut that the mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on August 5 would be attended by farmers from across the country. “We are going to launch a campaign against the BJP government to defeat it in the 2022 UP Assembly elections,” said Malik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
04-08-2021||India||Derek O'Brien feasts on papri chaat after Modi's remark||“Derogatory” comments are being made about parliamentary procedure, a Union minister quoted Prime Minister Narendra Modi as telling BJP parliamentarians on Tuesday. Minister V. Muraleedharan did not name anyone. On Monday, Trinamul Congress MP Derek O’Brien had tweeted: “In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill. Passing legislation or making papri chaat!” On Tuesday, in response to Modi’s purported comments, O’Brien ordered papri chat and tucked into a plateful at the Trinamul Congress office in New Delhi’s South Avenue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
04-08-2021||India||Assault victim cremated  outside home of accused in Bihar||The family members of an elderly person allegedly killed in a land dispute cremated him in front of the house of the accused in Bihar’s West Champaran district in what is being seen as an act of revenge. The incident occurred at Mahchhi village under Gopalpur police station in the district on Monday night after the victim identified as one Chanchal Mahto, 62, died. Five persons had allegedly assaulted Mahto on July 19 while working in his agriculture farm on a disputed land. He was admitted to government medical college and hospital in Bettiah for treatment, where he succumbed to his injuries on August 2. The police got a post-mortem conducted and handed over the body to his family members on the same evening. However, the enraged family members of Mahto carried his body to the place where the accused lived. They built a funeral pyre and cremated him on it, while demanding the arrest of the people involved in killing him. The police were present on the occasion. They tried to stop Mahto’s family members and acquaintances from cremating his body there, but their entreaties fell on deaf ears. Meanwhile, Gopalpur station house officer Rajrup Rai said that prima facie it seemed that Mahto had died of heart attack while undergoing treatment at the government medical college and hospital. “We are yet to receive the post-mortem report of Mahto. Only then will we be able to say anything with certainty,” Rai said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-358
04-08-2021||India||Flood threat looms large over Patna  ||Flood situation worsened in southern parts of Bihar with the Ganga and Punpun rivers crossing the danger level and threatening the state capital with a deluge on Tuesday. It is expected to cross the red mark at other places too. The Ganga was flowing 23cm above the danger level of 48.60 metres, and was showing a rising trend. It was slightly below the danger level at places outside Patna, but was expected to cross it due to the increasing flow in the river. On the other hand, Punpun river was flowing 1.75m above the danger level of 50.60 metres, with water spilling over embankments and spreading in the vast agricultural fields lying to the south and east of Patna. Other smaller rivers were also in spate. Floodwaters from smaller rivers swirled around Patna, inundating villages and forcing thousands of people to leave their homes in search of dry and safer places. Road communication was disrupted in the affected areas. The current situation is a result of heavy rains in Jharkhand leading to a sharp increase in the volume of water in the rivers flowing towards the Ganga and its tributaries coming from the southern parts of the state and neighbouring Jharkhand. The deluge has affected parts of Patna, Nalanda, Gaya, Jehanabad, Aurangabad, Rohtas and Kaimur districts. Floodwater was flowing over the National Highway 30A between Daniyawan and Biharsharif in Nalanda, the home district of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Bihar water resources department chief engineer (flood control and drainage) for Patna region, Shailendra said that embankments have either been breached at several places or water was flowing above them into the countryside flooding vast stretches of land. “The floodwaters are flowing above the embankments in such a big area that it is very difficult for us to control the situation. Our teams are working round-the-clock for the purpose,” Shailendra told The Telegraph. Chief minister Nitish Kumar reviewed the flood situation and directed senior officials to keep taking updates about the water level in rivers, continue the vigil at the embankments and complete the repair works at the places they are being eroded by the rivers. “Immediate steps should be taken for rescue and relief at wherever floods have caused destruction. The engineers should understand why erosion occurred at the embankments and work to ensure that it does not happen in future,” Nitish told the senior officials. Water resources department officials said that the situation would improve slowly because the Ganga was also flooded and was not accepting water from its tributaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-359
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal floods: Mamata accuses DVC of causing 'man-made' deluge||The flood situation in West Bengal worsened on Wednesday claiming eight more lives taking the toll to 23 as fresh areas went under water, with Chief Minister Mamata Bannerjee complaining to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) caused the "man-made" deluge by releasing water from its dams in an unprecedented manner. The DVC, however, said that it discharges water after taking consent of the state government and blaming it for the flood is not justified The prime minister telephoned Banerjee in the afternoon to take stock of the flood situation which affected seven districts of the state. During the talks, the CM blamed the DVC for the flood in the state and raised the issue in a letter she wrote to Modi in the evening. Heavy rain and subsequent discharge of water in the last few days have inundated large parts of Purba and Paschim Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur, Hooghly, Howrah, South 24 Parganas and Birbhum districts. The death toll was 15 till Tuesday evening and the number of affected districts was six. A tweet issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that Modi assured Banerjee of all support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. "PM @narendramodi spoke to WB CM @MamataOfficial on the flood situation caused by water discharge from dams in parts of the state. PM assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. PM Modi prays for the safety and wellbeing of those in affected areas," the PMO tweeted. Large swathes of Nanoor and Labhpur block in Birbhum districts were flooded since early Wednesday morning, leading to the displacement of more than 3000 people. Banerjee surveyed parts of Howrah on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. The chief minister wrote to Modi claiming that desilting and dredging activities were not taken up and water-holding capacity of the DVC's dams was not increased, though the issues were raised way back in 2015. The state is facing a "grave man-made flood situation" in some districts due to "unprecedented" release of water from the DVC dams at Panchet, Maithon and Tenughat, she alleged. "In respect of the current flood, we will shortly be sending our damage assessment for your kind intervention. I would reiterate the need to develop holistic and long-term solutions in respect to the augmentation of the storage capacity of the DVC system to ensure that West Bengal is spared the regular devastation and suffering from man-made floods perpetrated by huge releases from the DVC dams," she said in the letter. The DVC, since July 31, has released 6.38 lakh cusec of water till Wednesday afternoon. On Wednesday alone 95,000 cusecs in two tranches. The DVC, however, rejected the charge saying it does not decide about water regulation and decisions on this are taken by the Damodar Valley Reservoir Regulation Committee (DVRRC) where the state's irrigation secretary is a member. "The DVC only implements the decision of the committee on water regulations. The state government's consent is taken before water discharge, and the DVC issues a warning to district administrations. So blaming DVC for the flood is unjustified," DVC executive director (Maithon) S Banerjee told PTI. The DVC official said that the DVRRC tries to restrict water release to the maximum possible but further regulating will put the dams in danger. Meanwhile, state Irrigation Minister Soumen Mahapatra wrote to the DVC authorities requesting them not to release water for the next three days. The districts of Hooghly, Howrah and Paschim Medinipur are the worst affected. Since Wednesday morning, rising water levels in Birbhum's Labhpur and Nanoor blocks forced thousands of people to flee their homes as houses and agricultural land got submerged in water. More than 4 lakh hectares of agricultural land in these seven districts is under water now. "Six people each have died due to wall collapse and lightning and seven due to drowning. Two each have died because of landslide and electrocution so far," a senior state government official said. The chief minister, who was scheduled to conduct an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas in Howrah and Hooghly districts, was forced to suspend the programme due to bad weather conditions. Instead, she took the road to Amta in Howrah. Standing in knee-deep water, Banerjee spoke to the affected people in Amta and assured them of all help by the state government. On Banerjee's allegations against the DVC, the state BJP leadership claimed that the state government is looking for a face-saver to hide its failure. "The entire irrigation system in West Bengal has gone for a toss during the TMC rule. The day is not far when the TMC government might demand that the DVC's dams be dismantled," state BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said. The already grim flood situation in south Bengal is likely to worsen, with the Met department forecasting heavy rain in the region owing to a cyclonic circulation over the North Bay of Bengal and the presence of an active monsoon trough. The Met department warned of heavy to very heavy rain at one or two places in the flood-hit districts till Thursday morning. The weatherman also cautioned against a rise in the water level of rivers and the inundation of low-lying areas in Gangetic West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta multiplexes to reopen with new Hollywood flick ‘Suicide Squad’||A national multiplex chain on Wednesday announced that it will release a new Hollywood film in six of its facilities in and around Calcutta on August 6, when the theatres will open after three months abiding by all Covid-19 protocols. Suicide Squad, the new Hollywood flick, will be screened in six auditoriums of the multiplex from this Friday, said Amitava Guha Thakurta, the regional head of the Inox multiplex chain. He said that the film will be released in the facilities at Beleghata, Esplanade, Salt Lake, New Town facilities of the city and its neighbourhood, as well as in Liluah and Madhyamgram on August 6. "Gradually we will open the rest of the 16 plexes after putting in place the Covid-19 protocols in totality," Guha Thakurta said. The protocols included ensuring operation with 50 per cent of total seating arrangement, disinfecting the auditorium, ensuring a touchless ticketing system and wearing masks even inside the theatre. A spokesperson of SVF Productions, which also operates several multiplexes, said their facilities will open on August 13. Satadeep Saha, owner of Ajanta cinema in the city and a local multiplex chain, said, "We will open after ensuring everything is in order. We are hopeful about opening by August 13." The owner of Basusree single screen, Sourabh Basu said the 1,000 capacity hall will open on August six with two shows. "There will not be any evening or night shows. And the 1000 seating capacity will be halved with no two spectators sitting side by side," he added. The Bengal government allowed the theatres to start screening movies following Covid protocols from July 31, three months after ordering them to shut down in view of the surging Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic. However, none of the functional single screens, numbering around 40-50, and multiplexes in Calcutta opened on that day, an official of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to PM to draft plan on upgrade of dams in Bengal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, after taking stock of the flood situation in six districts of the state, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday seeking his intervention for drafting a plan to upgrade dams in the region. Describing the flood as a "man-made one", Mamata held "unprecedented release of water from the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) dams Panchet, Maithon and Tenughat" responsible for the flood situation. Mamata, in her letter, said 16 people died in the flood and lakhs of farmers lost their livelihood. She noted that houses, bridges, power lines and other infrastructure have also suffered extensive damage. "In respect of the current flood, we will shortly be sending our damage assessment for your kind intervention. I would reiterate the need to develop holistic and long-term solutions in respect to augmentation of storage capacity of the DVC system to ensure that West Bengal is spared the regular devastation and suffering from man-made floods perpetrated by huge releases from the DVC dams," she wrote in her 4-page letter. Earlier in the day, the PM had telephoned Mamata to seek updates on the flood situation in the state, and assured her of central assistance. During the phone call too, she complained to Modi that the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) allegedly released water from its dams in an unplanned manner, thus causing a "man-made" flood situation in the state, a senior state government official said. Later, a tweet issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that Modi assured Banerjee of all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. "PM @narendramodi spoke to WB CM @MamataOfficial on the flood situation caused by water discharge from dams in parts of the state. PM assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. PM Modi prays for the safety and wellbeing of those in affected areas," the PMO tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||PM dials Mamata, assures her of all help to tackle flood situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi telephoned Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday and took stock of the flood situation in the state. "PM @narendramodi spoke to WB CM @MamataOfficial on the flood situation caused by water discharge from dams in parts of the state," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a tweet. The prime minister assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation, it said. The chief minister, who was visiting flood-hit Udaynarayanpur in Howrah district, was learned to have told the prime minister that her administration will send a report to the PMO on the flood situation and the damage caused by it, a state government official said. PM Modi prayed for the safety and wellbeing of those in affected areas, the PMO said. At least 15 people have been killed and nearly 3 lakh displaced after heavy rain in the last few days, followed by discharge of water from Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) dams, inundated major parts of the districts of Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur, Hooghly, Howrah and South 24 Parganas. The ongoing flood situation triggered a political slugfest between the ruling TMC and the Opposition BJP. Mahapatra accused the Central government-owned DVC of releasing water and causing a "man-made flood" situation. "The DVC deliberately released so much of water that it led to a flood-like situation. The Central government deliberately created this man-made flood situation in Bengal. We condemn such politics," Mahapatra had told reporters after his visit to Howrah yesterday. BJP state spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya soon termed the allegations "baseless". "Before making such allegations, the TMC government should know why the water was released. There must be a logic behind DVC releasing the water. The fact is the state government has failed to conduct relief and rescue operations properly and are now blaming others," he said. The DVC on Saturday had said the storage facilities at Panchet and Maithon dams have reached their capacities due to heavy inflow of water from upstream Jharkhand, and discharge under such circumstances was "unavoidable".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to conduct genome sequencing for those testing positive even after being fully vaccinated||With reports of people getting infected even after being administered two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the West Bengal Health Department has decided to strengthen the surveillance throughout the state and to prepare a chart of such individuals, an official said on Wednesday. The department is also planning to conduct genome sequencing on such patients to find out whether if they have had any genetic change in the strain of the coronavirus. According to the official, the decision to carry out such sequencing was taken keeping in mind warnings of experts about a possible third wave of the pandemic. "The genome sequencing tests must be done on the people who are affected with the virus even after being fully vaccinated. The primary objective is to find out whether if the vaccine has worked against the virus or if it has mutated," the official said, adding that sequencing would be done everywhere in the state. Incidentally, the district administrations in the northern districts of the state, where a few of such cases have been reported, have decided to carry out such sequencing, he added. Keeping in mind that a large number of people from neighbouring states often enter Bengal through northern corridors, the department has alerted the districts in the northern part of the state. "There has been strict surveillance in the districts of north Bengal since it has several entries... from neighbouring states so that Covid protocols are properly followed. We need to be on high alert about the warnings of a possible third wave, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Building crumbles at flooded-Bandar village near Khanakul||A two-storey house, which went under water at the flooded-Bandar village near Khanakul in Hooghly district three days ago, completely collapsed on early Tuesday morning. Sources said Bandar and several other nearby villages were inundated as the Rupnarayan river spilled over its embankment since Sunday. Sadananda Samanta, a farmer and the owner of the house, shifted his family to a neighbour’s home after water started entering the village. Sources said the house started tilting (in picture) early Sunday morning and finally it collapsed on Tuesday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit some flood affected areas of Hooghly and Howrah on Wednesday. She is likely to reach Khanakul 2 block in Hooghly around 1.30pm and from there, she might go to Udaynarayanpur in Howrah. Mamata is also scheduled to make an aerial survey of some inundated areas, including Ghatal in West Midnapore. According to sources, several places in Howrah, Hooghly and West Midnapore districts were submerged because of heavy rainfall and overflowing rivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||17-year-old girl found dead in Murshidabad, father blames boyfriend||A 17-year-old girl in a locality of Murshidabad’s Dhulian, found seemingly drugged near her home, died late on Monday night on way to the hospital. The girl’s father complained to the police that she was poisoned by her boyfriend, whose marriage proposal the family had recently rejected in favour of someone else. “The father has not said so this in the report, but he claimed that in the ambulance his daughter was still conscious and claimed to have been raped,” said a police officer. The girl reportedly left home at 10.30am on Monday saying she was going to school for an exam. She did not return. Around 8pm, worried family and neighbours who had been looking for her, found her in a nearby mango orchard. Sources said she seemed semi-conscious and her speech was slurred. The girl’s father in his complaint alleged the boyfriend took her away on his motorcycle and proceeded to kill her. “We have started a case and will take action depending on post-mortem results on Tuesday. No arrest has been made yet,” said Jangipur police superintendent, Y. Raghuvamshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Hundreds of Aadhaar cards seized in Siliguri||Hundreds of Aadhaar cards were found dumped on a vacant land adjacent to Eastern Bypass in Siliguri on Tuesday. Police said the Aadhaar cards, wrapped in white envelopes, were strewn on the plot near Kankata More and they were trying to find out whether the documents were real or fake. “There were hundreds of those cards and also some other printed papers which appeared to be bank documents. It seems that someone had dumped these items in a hurry in the deserted area,” said a resident of Kankata More. In the past few weeks, a number of people have been arrested in north Bengal for cheating people with fake Aadhaar cards. “We are trying to find out whether the Aadhaar cards are real or fake. If it is found that the seized cards are genuine, we will speak with authorities of the postal department that delivers them to people on their doorsteps. It is a serious offence to dump original Aadhaar cards instead of delivering them to concerned persons,” said an officer of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||17-year-old boy found hanging in North Dinajpur||A 17-year-old boy was found hanging from a tree in North Dinajpur district on Tuesday. Family members of the Class XII student said he had been missing since Monday evening. They have alleged that two persons in their neighbourhood killed the boy and hanged him. Sources said the laptop of a schoolteacher, who stays in the locality on rent, had been stolen recently. “Both the teacher and his landlord, a retired police officer, accused the boy of stealing the laptop and filed a police complaint against him,” said a source. The boy’s father said the teacher and the landlord had  visited their house, along with the student’s friends, on Monday evening and asked his son to follow them. “My son went with them and did not return. Today, we learnt about his death. We suspect these people murdered and hanged him.” Police said the teacher and the landlord had gone into hiding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Two prisoners flee from cop van on way to court in Tamluk||Two undertrials escaped from police custody in East Midnapore’s Tamluk on Tuesday morning while they were being shifted from a West Midnapore prison to the court here. The incident occurred around 11am at a busy intersection in the town during rush-hour traffic when police were “distracted” by traffic on the road. The rusty grills of the police van also helped the duo, Animesh Bera and Vishal Das, both in their early 40s, make their escape. Animesh and Vishal, who had been behind bars in West Midnapore since early 2020 for violations of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, fled after Animesh managed to break the rusty grilles of the window of the police van. The attending officers did not notice him as they were apparently trying to navigate a traffic jam at the Jailkhana More, less than 100m from Tamluk court. Police said Animesh bolted from the window after making enough space, which attracted police attention. Vishal then took his chance, opening the door of the van and fleeing when the cops were busy chasing Animesh and had left the van unguarded for that brief time. After this, the alarmed police team prevented the other prisoners in the van from following the duo. “There were nine undertrials in the van. Two have escaped,” said a police officer. Despite frantic searches, both Animesh and Vishal remained untraced as of Tuesday late evening. “Both the accused hail from Haldia’s Bhabanipur area,” said a police officer. The escape prompted the setting up of several police checkpoints on district highways throughout Tuesday. “Two prisoners have escaped and we are trying to trace them by setting up checkpoints across the district,” Tamluk subdivisional police officer Atish Biswas said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||72% of health workers, 54% of general population develop antibodies against Covid||At least 72 per cent of healthcare workers and 54 per cent of the general population in five Bengal districts have developed antibodies against Covid-19, a recent serosurvey report, prepared by the Centre’s Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has said. The serosurvey is a test of blood serum from a group of individuals to determine seroprevalence or the presence of antibodies against a virus. Sources in the Bengal state health department said that in June this year, the ICMR, with the help of the state health department, conducted the survey in five Bengal districts — Alipurduar, Bankura, Jhargram, South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore — in order to know how people in those areas had developed antibodies ahead of the third wave. The survey was conducted among around 400 people from the general population and 100 healthcare workers, including doctors, in each district at random. The report was issued by the ICMR late last month. According to the report, Alipurduar reported 88 per cent positivity of Covid-19 antibodies among the healthcare workers, highest among the five districts. This positivity among healthcare workers is the lowest in Jhargram, at 72.7 per cent. The other three districts, Bankura, South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, reported 79, 82.7 and 78 per cent, respectively, of antibodies among healthcare workers. In the general population, 66.7 per cent of people from Bankura were found positive with Covid-19 antibodies, while East Midnapore reported the lowest positivity, at 53.9 per cent. Alipurduar, Jhargram and South 24-Parganas reported antibodies in 59.1, 54.1 and 62.2 per cent of the people tested. Senior health officials said that after the pandemic hit the country, the ICMR had started conducting such surveys to know about the presence of antibodies against Covid-19 in a bid to plan further health measures. “The serosurvey is a method to guide us about public health response to the pandemic,” said a senior health department official. “This is the fourth time that the government is conducting such a survey since the Covid-19 pandemic spread in our country. The ICMR did not claim openly that those who had reported antibodies against the virus have grown herd immunity, but in effect it reflects the same. However, we need to examine whether the antibodies are adequately protective or not,” the official added. A section of health officials claimed that they found such a survey report “a major positive”. It has been found that those having antibodies of the virus rarely reported serious suffering because of the pandemic, they said. “If you look at the data, you can assess that doctors and healthcare workers have antibodies in high numbers. This happened because the healthcare workers have had to handle Covid-19 patients directly. We consider this a report of hope,” said Shyamal Soren, the chief medical officer in Bankura. However, other health officials were more wary. Many said that the time to declare herd immunity was yet to arrive. “Those with antibodies may be competent to combat a specific strain of the virus. But the coronavirus has been mutating regularly and so we can’t say for sure that the antibodies present in people right now would act as a protective shield against all strains, and that those with antibodies already have herd immunity,” said a senior health official in Birbhum. The Indian Council of Medical Research, the apex body in the country to formulate, coordinate and promote biomedical research, was founded in 1911 and is headquartered in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court hearing on Bengal post-poll violence concludes||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday concluded hearing in public interest litigations seeking its intervention in incidents of violence which had occurred after the counting of Assembly election votes on August 2. A five-judge bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal adjourned the verdict to a later date. The court had ordered the National Human Rights Commission to set up an eight-member committee to visit the clash-hit areas and meet people allegedly attacked by supporters of the Trinamul Congress. The committee submitted a report to the court admitting the petitioners’ contention of post-poll violence by the ruling party. The report recommended that each incident be probed by an independent investigating agency like the CBI. The state government opposed the NHRC recommendations. Appearing for the state and police, advocates Kapil Sibbal and Abhisekh Manu Singhvi argued that members of the committee were BJP activists and the report was politically biased. Appearing for the NHRC, advocate Mahesh Jethmalani claimed the bench should hand over each case to an independent agency for probe. The court, in its verdict, will decide whether the state police would continue its proceedings or the cases would be handed over to an agency like the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Centre rejects 9.5 lakh Bengal farmers’ applications for PM-Kisan scheme||The Centre has apparently rejected 9.5 lakh Bengal farmers’ applications for the PM-Kisan scheme, prompting the state government to write to Delhi asking for the reasons for their exclusion. Sources said the Mamata Banerjee dispensation had verified the farmers’ claims and uploaded their  names on the Union government’s portal for the particular scheme under which Rs Rs 6,000 is provided to each applicant. “Officially, the Centre’s portal is showing that data are pending for the correction for 9.5 lakh farmers. But the fact is  that these farmers have been excluded from the scheme,” said a state government official. In a communication to Delhi, the Bengal government stressed that the central doles should be extended to all 45 lakh farmers whose names were uploaded by the state. “The state government has sent a letter a few days ago asking for the reasons behind the decision of omitting the names of about 9.5 lakh farmers from the central scheme. We have also demanded that the benefit be given to all the farmers whose names we had uploaded. We are yet to get any response,” said Pradip Majumdar, the agriculture advisor to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Sources said the state government had already uploaded the names of 44,89,831 farmers on the central portal for their inclusion in the PM-Kisan scheme. So far, 24,31,885 farmers have been included in the scheme, while 9,47,861 names have been rejected. “Remaining 10 lakh farmers’ names were in the process of being verified... We have demanded that the benefit be extended to all the applicants when fresh installments are released in August. As things stand now, only 24.31 lakh farmers will get the money  in August. In the letter, the state government conveyed its displeasure to the Centre over the omission of about 9.5 lakh farmers’ names,” said a source. Under the PM-Kisan scheme, the Centre disburses Rs 6,000 each in three installments to the farmers annually. As Delhi made it apparent that all the farmers would not be considered for the benefit, the state government would put pressure on the Centre as the issue has political implications as well. The Bengal government has a similar scheme, Krishak Bandhu, wherein 62 lakh farmers get a maximum of Rs 10,000 for an acre annually. “We have no exclusion criteria for the scheme. This is why we could extend the financial support to 62 lakh farmers, but because of the conditional approach of the Centre, names of only 44.89 lakh farmers could be uploaded,” said a source. As the Centre does not provide the support to share-croppers and those who get pensions from the government, nearly 20 lakh farmers could not apply for the PM-Kisan scheme. Now, the number of beneficiaries from the state under the central scheme has declined further after 9.5 lakh applications were rejected . “If they were excluded for issues like mismatch in Aadhaar or bank-related data, the state would take initiatives to rectify those. But it is annoying that the Centre is not letting us know the reasons behind the rejections,” said another source. It appears the state would soon raise the issue in public to derive political dividends as the Narendra Modi government had earlier accused the Mamata administration of not cooperating with the Centre. “It is now clear the BJP talks about the farmers’ benefits only to gain political benefits. But our government is trying to extend benefits to the farmers and that’s why there are no exclusion criteria in our scheme,” said Majumdar. The sources said the initial letter had been written at the secretary level and if the Centre didn’t reply within a few days, the issue could be taken up by the chief minister or the chief secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal records 729 new infections and nine deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 729 new infections, 756 recoveries and nine deaths. The state reported 44 consecutive days of a drop in the total number of active cases. On Tuesday, active cases fell by 36 to 10,767. Calcutta reported 59 new cases and zero deaths. A state minister spoke about vaccinations. “We are in a good place despite all the non-cooperation from the Centre as we went past 3 crore in vaccine doses administered. That’s 30 per cent of the state’s population, ” he said, adding that of these, over 87 lakh are fully vaccinated, which amounts to 8.7 per cent of Bengal’s population. The corresponding national averages are 28 and 7.9 per cent. “In terms of fully vaccinated people, Bengal is second to Maharashtra — 1.1 crore — in the nation, and ahead of Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, despite having received fewer vaccines,” he added. Bengal’s recovery rate is currently at the state’s all-time high of 98.11 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.34. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which had risen to nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.67 per cent on Tuesday. With North 24-Parganas logging 86 new cases, Tuesday was the fourth consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Nineteen districts reported double-digit figures and South Dinajpur, Malda, Purulia and West Burdwan single-digit figures. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. Bengal now has over 15.3 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes 15.01 lakh recoveries and 18,170 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Public libraries aided by Bengal govt to resume services from Wednesday||Public libraries sponsored and aided by the state government have been allowed to resume transactions of books and other services to readers from Wednesday. The directive to open the libraries comes with the rider that the service would be restricted to two days a week — Monday and Wednesday — to readers aged above 18 years. The library cannot allow readers beyond 50 per cent of its accommodation. The readers will be allowed in after a thermal gun temperature check and sanitisation. An order to this effect was issued by the director of library services on Tuesday. The government directed the library authorities to ensure the service by maintaining Covid-19 protocols. All district magistrates, who are chairperson of the local library authorities by virtue of their designated status, have been directed to comply with the order to ensure services to the readers. In March last year, the library service was suspended because of Covid-induced lockdown. The service resumed on January 26 this year. However, with a surge in Covid cases, library services were again suspended from April 28. In the backdrop of the second wave of the pandemic, the Bengal government announced a number of restrictions to contain the spread of the disease. Most of the restrictions were subsequently withdrawn. The state has at present 2,480 libraries, 13 of which are government-run. Another 2,460 libraries are government-sponsored and seven state-aided. In September last year, the state had instructed the libraries to clean books once a fortnight and sanitise the premises. Manoj Chakraborty, the  chief mentor of readers’ forum Janasadharoner Granthagar O Karmi Kalyan Samity, said: “The state government should take immediate steps to protect invaluable books and scripts which we fear have been seriously damaged because of lack of proper care.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Happy about new block, Jalpaiguri citizens offer state free land for offices||Any government knows how difficult it is to acquire land for public projects these days, even in exchange for cash and jobs. However, a completely different scene unfolded at the district magistrate’s office in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday. Twelve residents of Kranti under Malbazar subdivision met district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu to say that they were ready to part with their land free of cost for the construction of the office of the block development officer (BDO) and other state government offices needed at the block level. Earlier this year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced two new blocks in Jalpaiguri. It was decided that Kranti would be a new block, the other being Banarhat. Kunja Kishore Roy, a resident of Kranti Bazaar area, and 11 others, who called themselves members of a citizens’ forum, Kranti Nagarik Committee, handed over a declaration in writing to the district magistrate that they were offering land to the state government for free. The 12 residents said they were happy that the Mamata Banerjee government had heard their longstanding demand to declare Kranti as a separate block. The first BDO of the block is already working out of the local Karma Tirtha, a state-owned building that offers space for shops to eligible jobless youths at lower rent. “We want the state government to expedite the process of building the BDO office and other offices of state departments needed to be set up at the block level. To ensure that the government does not face any problem in getting land, we are offering our land free of cost. We do not need any compensation or job,” said Roy. Sources said that after the state had issued the notification that the new block would have six panchayats — Lataguri, Kranti, Champadanga, Chengmari, Rajadanga and Maulani — under it, the district administration had started scouting for land in the area for its offices. “Some patches of land were found near the bank of the Dharala river, which flows through the block but is away from Kranti market. However, residents of Kranti want the BDO’s office to come up at a more accessible location in Kranti, which is why they took the initiative to offer free land,” said a source. Jogen Sarkar, the secretary of the committee, said the 12 members in all offered six bighas or 120 cottahs of land to the administration. “They are offering it for free as they are happy about the new block. We feel the administration should accept the proposal.” The district magistrate said the administration was indeed in search of land for the new offices. “We appreciate this gesture and will forward this proposal to the BDO and the panchayat samiti. If they approve it and send it back to me, we don’t have any problem in using their land to set up the office of the BDO and other ancillary offices.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Fire at Haldia Petrochemicals during upkeep||A major fire broke out on the premises of a naphtha cracker unit at the Haldia Petrochemicals (HPL) refinery in East Midnapore on Tuesday afternoon while contractual labourers were carrying out maintenance work. Preliminary suspicion was that the fire started from oil accumulated in drain pipes at the plant. There were no casualties in the blaze which was controlled only after fire tenders from adjoining refineries arrived. Local sources and employees said the fire occurred around 3pm while contractual labourers were carrying out maintenance work. “In any case, production is halted at the moment. Roughly 1,000 temporary workers are assisting our staff in the upkeep and the maintenance of the refinery,” said an HPL official. The on-duty workers said they had heard a “flash and a bang” and then witnessed a “tower of fire” near the naphtha cracker unit. “Safety engineers moved us to secure areas immediately and we thank them that there were no casualties,” said worker Tarun Dhali. HPL plant head Ashoke Kumar Ghosh told The Telegraph that they suspected oil accumulated in the drain pipes outside the naphtha cracker plant had caught fire. “However, we need to find out what sparked the fire,” he said. Fire tenders from the nearby MCPI plant joined the HPL team to arrest the flames. Fire tenders from Mitsubishi and Indian Oil were also reportedly present. Both the HPL and the MCPI are owned by Purnendu Chatterjee of the TCG group. “We will begin an investigation soon to find out the cause of the accident,” the HPL official said. “No casualties have been reported. Investigations are underway. Prima facie it appears an area near the naphtha cracker unit caught fire. We will conduct a probe,” East Midnapore district superintendent of police Amarnath K. said. In 2019, two employees had been killed and 15 injured when a fire had broken out at the same naphtha cracker unit. The HPL is one of the largest manufacturers of polymers in India and the biggest in the east. It is owned mostly by The Chatterjee Group, while the Bengal government has a significant minority stake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||North East||Ripun Bora’s attempt to raise Assam-Mizoram border flare-up in Parliament 'disallowed'||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora’s attempt to raise the Assam-Mizoram border flare-up in Parliament was “disallowed” for the fifth time on Tuesday, a ruling the parliamentarian said reflected the Centre’s “apathy” towards “such a serious problem”. Bora told The Telegraph from New Delhi that he had submitted a notice on Tuesday seeking suspension of business of the House under Rule 267 to discuss the inter-state border issue based on a statement by Union law minister Kiren Rijiju claiming “foreign forces” were “behind” the border clashes. “Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naiduji disallowed the motion for discussion on the border issue in his ruling. No reason was cited,” he said. “Today was the fifth time I had tried to raise the border issue. Today I had added the foreign hand point made by the minister (Rijiju). If this is so then it is a matter of national security and needs to be taken up with utmost priority. But my plea for discussion was disallowed.” Bora said the issue has not been discussed in either House of Parliament even though the July 26 border flare-up led to the death of six Assam policemen and “war-like situation” between two states, fanning tension and disrupting life on both sides. This requires the “intervention” of Union home minister Amit Shah to prevent the situation from deteriorating further with “adverse” impact for the rest of the Northeast, he added. The first-time MP said the development reflected the BJP-led central government’s “apathy” towards the sensitive border issue just like its “stand” on the Pegasus snooping controversy and the farmers’ protest. Seeking a judicial probe into the circumstances leading to the exchange of fire between the police of two states and another probe into Rijiju’s foreign hand claim, Bora urged a discussion at the Prime Minister-level on the border issue involving all political parties in the region besides stakeholders. After 16 BJP MPs from the Northeast met Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the “unfortunate” border developments, Rijiju had said: “Mizoram and Assam are trying to sort things out... But Congress and some political parties are trying to add fuel to fire... inciting people. It has also come to light that desh se bahar... videsh se bhi kai cheez social media main unka interference, unka influence saamne aaya hai (It has come to light that some foreign elements are influencing and interfering in the issue). We are keeping an eye on them... why outside forces are trying to vitiate the sisterly relationship between the northeastern states by using the Assam-Mizoram border issue. We condemn such activities…” Reacting to Rijiju’s statement, a Twitter user from Mizoram said: “This is a serious issue, if a group of BJP’s elected representatives made such an allegation, ‘foreign hand’ to smear Mizoram. I request the Centre @AmitShah @PIBHomeAffairs to initiate an inquiry to clear the issue or to nab the handler immediately...” Though the situation remains calm along the inter-state border, the “unofficial” economic blockade on the Assam side since July 26 has not gone down well with people of Mizoram. Assam has denied imposing any blockade. A day after Aizawl-based Mizoram Chemists and Druggists Association raised questions such as why the Centre wasn’t intervening to get the blockade lifted, the Mizoram Bar Association filed a PIL in the Aizawl bench of Gauhati High Court on Tuesday over the blockade on National Highway 306 that connects Mizoram with Assam through Lailapur in Cachar district. It said they filed the plea since they didn’t receive any response from the Centre and state governments over the blockade and also the hardship faced by the people of Mizoram. Though Mizoram was trying to get supply of essential items from Tripura, a protest in Assam’s Karimganj disrupted movement of Mizoram-bound trucks on National Highway 8 on Monday. Though the protest was withdrawn, many trucks are still stranded in all three Barak Valley districts of Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
04-08-2021||North East||NSCN-IM enforces twelve-hour shutdown over Centre’s ‘silence’ ||The NSCN (I-M) on Tuesday enforced a 12-hour shutdown of shops and commercial establishments in “Nagalim” (Naga-inhabited areas) in protest against the Centre’s “silence” on the Framework Agreement signed six years ago. Sources said the development is not “good” news for the Narendra Modi-led government which had claimed the agreement signed on August 3, 2015, a “major” breakthrough in resolving “the longest running insurgency movement in Southeast Asia”. The Framework Agreement would be the basis of the final peace deal. Sources claimed business and traffic were affected in Nagaland and other Naga-inhabited areas in the region, especially Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. “According to reports, the shutdown was  near total in most Naga-inhabited areas but had little impact in two of the 12 districts in Nagaland — Mon and Zunheboto — because of the call given by the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs) to keep shops open. We are awaiting details,” a source said. The NNPGs comprise seven underground groups and are engaged in the ongoing peace process. The sources also said the NSCN (I-M) has been able to convey the “message” to the Centre that it has “retained” its influence over “Nagalim” and that it remains the “most important key stakeholder” in the peace process. The peace process, which started with the NSCN (I-M) declaring ceasefire in 1997, has of late, seemed to be floundering because of the outfit’s “firm stand” on a separate flag and constitution besides its “strained” ties with the Centre’s interlocutor and Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi. The NSCN (I-M) while calling the shutdown on August 1 had said that the “historic” Framework Agreement was yet to see the “light of fulfilment” as committed by the Centre and six years down the line, there is no “positive response” yet from the government. “The Nagas cannot be taken for a ride in this manner,” it said. The appeal also said while Naga people appreciate the Centre for “recognising” the historical and political rights of the Nagas by signing the agreement, the matter should “not” end there. “What had been committed should be taken to a logical conclusion. The NSCN/GPRN attached high political value to FA (Framework Agreement) as a fulfilment of Naga people’s historical and political rights. As a mark of our protest against the GoI (Government of India) for keeping silent on FA even after 6 years, there will be a total closure of shops and business establishments in Nagalim till noon on 3rd August, 2021,” the outfit had said while seeking the support of Naga people and business groups to make the shutdown successful. In a statement on Monday, the NSCN (I-M) said: “The very fact that the Nagas are not rigid had taken the Indo-Naga political talk this far. The pressing irony is that without the Naga national flag and Yehzabo (Constitution), everything discussed and agreed upon shall be nullified. “More than that, the Framework Agreement should not be twisted to project that it is under the purview of Indian Constitution.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
04-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Dual challenge||India’s health crises are multipronged, even though the focus of policy interventions and public attention remains trained on the Covid-19 pandemic. Household surveys conducted by the Union government have shown that more than 50 per cent of children below the age of five, adolescent girls between 15 and 19 years, and women of reproductive age have anaemia or haemoglobin levels below 12 grams per decilitre. The National Family Health Survey 2019-20 found little change in India’s anaemia figures since the NFHS 2015-16. There is worrying news on another front. Data published by Ashoka University show that stunting is much more likely among Dalit children in areas where caste-based untouchability is prevalent. This finding is consistent with NFHS data that have shown that India has 40.6 million stunted children; this figure makes up a third of the total number of stunted children under the age of five globally. India’s struggle to meet the health challenges of anaemia and stunting points to a common problem: the persistent crisis in nutrition. A vast section of Indian citizens remains out of the ambit of food and nutrition in a nation with one of the world’s most extensive food security programmes. A part of the problem lies in institutional leakages and lethargy. But other kinds of challenges are emerging. For instance, there have been shortcomings in the implementation of the Common Application Software, conceptualized in 2017 under the Poshan Abhiyaan with the objective of monitoring the nutrition of pregnant or lactating women and children in real time. The reliance on digitization initiatives that are yet to acquire a mass profile has also undermined public welfare. In Jharkhand, hunger deaths have been attributed to problems in linkages between ration cards and Aadhaar profiles, restricting access to food especially for those on the margins. At other times, there is policy shorn of imagination. The Centre’s solution for anaemia — it has proposed the mandatory fortification of rice with iron — has been criticized by health experts. Not only are there flaws in the government’s data-gathering modules but mandatory fortification, the experts say, could lead to health complications. Tackling such multifaceted problems surrounding health would require enhanced public awareness, targeted and informed policy interventions and the roping in of experts with a better understanding of realities on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
04-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Babul Supriyo quits politics, Bezwada Wilson calls out govt on manual scavenging||Fickle minds Sir — It seems that there is no end to drama in politics. Only a few days back, the Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Babul Supriyo, had proclaimed on social media that he would quit politics. In spite of editing his post — he removed the point where he had said that he would not be joining any other party for which he later gave a dubious explanation — he stuck to his decision of quitting. Now, within two days, Supriyo has changed his mind again. After a meeting with the party president, J.P. Nadda, Supriyo has decided to stay on in the BJP, and serve as a member of parliament. One would think that welfare of the masses requires people who are determined by nature to be at the helm. Clearly, that is not the case. But can one blame leaders lower in the party’s ladder? If the prime minister sets the norm of taking sudden measures at will — demonetization and the national lockdown included — other members of the party can do little but follow suit. Pratiksha Biswas,Calcutta Sir — Babul Supriyo recently declared that he was quitting politics and rescinded his claim soon after. People often leave and join political parties but this announcement was different. Supriyo made no bones about stating that he was upset at having been dropped from the Union cabinet. Supriyo has had it rough with the BJP’s state unit as well. He has not been on good terms with state chief, Dilip Ghosh, or, indeed, much of the unit itself. Known for his short temper, he has courted controversy several times. He was once caught on camera allegedly slapping his own party worker and, on another occasion,threatening a man to break his leg at a function for the differently abled. His resignation was dramatic too. If Supriyo wanted to resign as an MP, he should have followed protocol. Instead, he took to social media to stir up a storm in a teacup. In any case, as expected, Supriyo has found a way to retain his position. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai in the open Sir — The activist, Bezwada Wilson, called out the Union government on its claim that no one died on account of manual scavenging in the last five years by asserting that at least 472 manual scavengers lost their lives while cleaning human excreta during this period and adding that it was a conservative figure. The government was too clever by half when it used the term, ‘manual scavenging’, in the narrow sense of cleaning dry latrines to deny the deaths. Cleaning septic tanks and sewers, too, is manual scavenging. This denial on the part of the Centre has inevitably drawn comparison with its recent denial of deaths of critically ill Covid-19 patients owing to oxygen shortage. The government has clearly developed the habit of denying unpalatable truths to save its image. The practice of manual scavenging should end not just because it involves the risk of death but also because it is a remnant of the caste system built on outdated notions. The regressive view that manual scavenging is an ‘internal spiritual activity’ no less than the prime minister made this claim — must change. Its prevalence as an inherited occupation in spite of its ban invalidates India’s claim to modernity. Provided it gets its priorities right and has the political will, the government can put in place systems for human waste disposal and take steps to empower manual scavengers. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
04-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: More to come||Speculation that the Narendra Modi-led government may decide on a delimitation exercise before the 2024 general elections is cause for concern among Opposition-ruled states. Recently, Shashi Tharoor, the Congress member of parliament, referred to this possibility, describing the reapportioning of seats in Parliament as a serious threat, because the southern states would then no longer form an ‘effective bloc’ there. Manish Tewari, the Congress leader, too, mentioned a ‘proposal’ for delimitation he had heard of. He said that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government planned to increase Lok Sabha seats from 543 to 1,000; the Lok Sabha chamber in the new Parliament building in the Central Vista would have space for 1,000 seats. Delimitation, the redrawing of the boundaries of assembly and Lok Sabha constituencies, becomes necessary with changes in population, since some equivalence is sought in the number of electors that each legislator represents. It is meant to take place, therefore, after each census, although the practice was frozen by constitutional mandate till 2026 some years ago. One reason for this was to view the results of population control measures before readjusting constituencies for proportional representation. The Opposition has apprehensions that the BJP might push through a constitutional amendment to conduct delimitation before 2024 by force of its majority in Parliament. That, according to the Opposition’s perceptions, would be advantageous to the BJP. Since delimitation depends on population figures, those states which have successfully controlled population growth would lose out on parliamentary seats. In the federal union envisaged by the Constitution-makers, this would not have mattered, but things are different now. The southern states, with better results in population control, fear losing some seats, or gaining less than states in the north — Uttar Pradesh would gain considerably, for example — because they have been less successful in controlling their populations. In an India afflicted with the BJP’s divisive attitude, the political, cultural and linguistic opposition of the South may then lose some of its impact in Parliament. The possibility of a pre-2024 delimitation may have been strengthened by the fact that Mr Modi’s government has been rattled by BJP defeats in a couple of states and by criticism of its handling of the pandemic, farmers’ protests and the suspected use of spyware on Indian citizens. A Lok Sabha further loaded in its favour would be useful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
04-08-2021||Opinion||Towards a deeper partnership||After a gap of eight years, India and the European Union agreed to resume negotiations on the Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement at the India-EU leaders’ meeting in May. Despite being described as ‘natural partners’ owing to their vibrant democracies, India and the EU have found it difficult to reach an agreement on issues such as market access, climate change and multilateralism in the past, and India-EU trade talks lost steam around 2009. Both India and the EU have articulated the need for a rules-based global order, and the Covid-19 crisis provides a common ground to forge a meaningful partnership. At a time when most economies are keen to diversify supply chain linkages, the India-EU trade dialogue assumes new significance. While China continues to be a major trading partner for the EU, the latter wants other partners. Trade and investment flows between India and the EU have been growing even without a free trade agreement. In the past decade, goods trade between India and the EU increased by 72 per cent and foreign investment inflows to India from the EU more than doubled. As of 2020, the EU is India’s third-largest trading partner and the second-largest destination for Indian exports. But India accounted for only 1.8 per cent of the EU’s total trade, suggesting room for growth. India’s sizeable middle class, in turn, offers a large market for the EU. Will the India-EU FTA negotiations be successful this time? Countries enter into trade agreements not only for economic gains but also to pursue foreign policy goals. The success of trade negotiations between nations often depends on the convergence of strategic considerations of the parties involved. In the past, misplaced perceptions and differing strategic contexts have caused bottlenecks in India-EU relations. India is sensitive about its sovereign decision-making space and calls for strategic autonomy in foreign policy-making. It is mindful of advancing and defending its core interests through multilateral engagement, especially while negotiating on issues such as trade, investments and climate change. Disagreements on trade-related issues, such as tariff reductions, the extent of market access in various sectors and services liberalization, intellectual property rights and public procurement policies, have been conspicuous. From the EU’s point of view, India has been unwilling to provide market access in the dairy and automotive sector. India, on the other hand, perceives the EU to be reluctant in providing access to the services market. Moreover, the EU’s insistence on the inclusion of labour and environment standards in its trade agreements appeared to be a non-tariff barrier for India. The disconnect between India and the EU on the issues of climate change was evident on many occasions. In the 2009 Copenhagen climate-change negotiations, India’s stance — to focus on per capita emissions rather than on emissions in absolute terms — was against the EU’s standpoint of fixing binding emission reduction targets. This followed from India’s perception that consenting to the EU’s standards of climate change action would thwart India’s industrialization. The discordance between India and the EU became more stark in the subsequent negotiations of the Copenhagen Accord as India chose to join hands with Brazil, South Africa, China and the United States of America instead of the EU. The EU has, however, shown interest in adaptation strategies of late, and India has expressed its commitment to climate change mitigation. Both sides have now begun focusing on deliverables, with India-EU spearheading cooperation on clean energy, climate change, clean technology and sustainable infrastructure since the EU-India summit in 2016. The larger geopolitical developments against the backdrop of the pandemic are likely to pave the way for strengthening the partnership. Covid-19 exposed vulnerabilities arising out of the interconnectedness of global supply chains, risks of protectionism, contested global leadership and dwindling faith in multilateral institutions. India and the EU can leverage their strategic autonomy and coordinate in addressing the crisis of multilateralism and revamping multilateral systems, managing pandemic-induced shocks, and addressing export restrictions and other TRIPS-related issues. China’s expanding global footprint in the Indo-pacific region provides yet another context for New Delhi and Brussels to collaborate. Although the EU-China economic ties remain strong, the EU needs like-minded partners to balance China’s strategic ambitions. Ever since it pulled out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, India has been keen to sign FTAs with the West. In doing so, India wants to signal that it is open to FTAs and the free movement of trade and investment flows. Nevertheless, challenges remain. First, India’s tariff rates have increased since the last negotiation of BITA, 2007. Second, India’s exports in the European market face stiff competition from the Asean economies, specifically from Vietnam as the EU-Vietnam FTA has already been concluded. Third, despite an increase in services trade between India and the EU, India is likely to face difficulty in negotiating cross-border trade of services and the easy movement of professionals. This is aggravated by non-synchronization of rules pertaining to work permits, visa, professional qualifications and so on across the EU nations. As a way forward, India should learn from the mistakes made during RCEP negotiations. A thorough analysis of sectoral competitiveness in the EU market and ways to channelize imports in export-production is imperative before going to the negotiating table. Most importantly, unlike in the RCEP negotiation, industry representatives should be made active participants in the India-EU trade negotiations, thus ensuring better utilization of FTA. Finally, the EU-India FTA, being comprehensive in nature, may be a long-drawn process. Therefore, a sustained dialogue and cooperation between India-EU is paramount in the pursuit of a meaningful FTA. Devasmita Jena is Assistant Professor at Madras School of Economics; Manasi Singh is Assistant Professor at Centre for Security Studies, Central University of Gujarat||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
04-08-2021||Opinion||Different pace||On June 25, 2021, China operationalized the 435-kilometre-long Lhasa-Nyingchi railway line in the southwest of the Tibet Autonomous Region. At 10.30 am, a green bullet train carrying a large number of passengers left Lhasa railway station for Nyingchi, leading to much celebration in Tibet and in China. In India, this event was noted for the fact that it brought the Chinese railway closer to the Indian border in Arunachal Pradesh. But for us, it was a one-day wonder; soon we plunged into our own worries, our own affairs, and our own petty concerns. We completely ignored the engineering and technological marvel this project represented. Here are some facts: i. The railway is situated in the valley between the Gangdise mountains and the Himalayas on the Qinghai-Tibet plateau, and over 90 per cent of the track is at an altitude of 3,000 metres above the sea level. ii. As noted already, it is a 435-km-long railway line. iii. It has a designed speed of 160 kms-360 kms per hour. It is a bullet train of the Fuxing type that operates in Tibet. iv. It is a single-track line but is fully electrified. v. It can handle both passenger and goods traffic. vi. It covers the distance between the two stations in three and a half hours, reducing travel time from 5 hours to 3.5 hours. vii. It provides southeast Tibet with a railway service for the first time. viii. The railway line passes through 47 tunnels and 121 bridges and crosses the Yarlung river 16 times. These tunnels and bridges account for 75 per cent of the total length of the line. ix. More than 130,000 workers were employed to construct this line and they worked at an altitude of 3,000 metres above the sea level most of the time because 90 per cent of the railway line is at that altitude and higher. x. The line’s annual freight capacity is 10 million tonnes. xi. It brings the Chinese railway close to the Indian border and gives it unmatched capacity to move military personnel and equipment speedily in case of an emergency, thereby providing it with strategic advantage against India. xii. The construction of the line began in March 2015 and was completed in June 2021, in a little over six years. My attention was drawn to this engineering feat by China because I was making enquiries about the completion of my favourite railway line between Koderma and Ranchi via Hazaribagh in Jharkhand. It is my favourite railway line because ever since I started my political career in Hazaribagh, I was told that anyone who fulfilled this long- cherished dream of getting Hazaribagh connected by rail would be remembered by the people of Hazaribagh for a long time. So I took up the challenge. I soon realized that this dream could be turned into reality in three ways: first, there could be such a mass uprising for this line that the Government of India would be left with no option but to give in to the popular demand. Second, the line was necessitated by urgent and unavoidable economic reasons and, third, by an interested person who had enough influence in the GoI to get it done. I tried the first option first. I announced that we would sit on a dharna on the national highway connecting Patna to Ranchi via Hazaribagh. I expected massive crowds to turn up for the dharna as the rasta roko was being organized for their benefit. But only a few of us turned up at the appointed time. Undaunted, we still sat on dharna on the road. We were soon rounded up by the police and sent to jail. The people of Hazaribagh were not stirred. They wanted the railway line but wanted someone else to carry the can. The second option was a non-starter as there was no overwhelming economic reason yet for the construction of this railway line. Ultimately, it was the third reason that worked. I became the finance minister of India in March 1998 by chance and Nitish Kumar the railway minister. In those days, the finance minister used to examine and approve the railway budget before the prime minister accorded his final approval. So when Nitish Kumar met me with the draft railway budget, I pleaded with him to get the construction of Koderma-Hazaribagh-Ranchi railway line included in the budget. He obliged and that is how this project saw the light of day. Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee travelled to Koderma to lay the foundation stone of the railway line in March 1999. I kept monitoring the progress of the line as long as I was MP of Hazaribagh. It was with a lot of effort and continuous monitoring that the line up to Hazaribagh was completed by the end of 2014, a distance of 80 kms. I invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the line; he kindly agreed and the Koderma-Hazaribagh section of the line was inaugurated by him on February 20, 2015 much to the delight of the people of Hazaribagh and those en route. The work of construction up to Ranchi is still going on. The total distance between Koderma to Ranchi via Hazaribagh is 196 kms. The proposed date for completion of the line up to Ranchi is December 2021. Even if the Indian railways kept that date, it would have taken us 22 years to complete a railway line covering a distance of 211 kms. I am mentioning the example of the two railway lines, one in India and the other in China, to underscore the vast difference in approach of the two countries as far as project formulation and execution are concerned. I am not going into the reasons for the rampant time and cost overruns involved in the execution of projects in India and, surprisingly, even material over-runs in many projects. India cannot be a great country with such lethargy in project execution. Yashwant Sinha is a former Union finance minister of India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Railways sends fifth Oxygen Express to Bangladesh||Jamshedpur: The South Eastern Railway on Wednesday sent the fifth Oxygen Express train to Benapole in Bangladesh from Rourkela railway station under Chakradharpur division. The train left Rourkela carrying 183 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) in 10 containers. The train will cover a journey of around 700km to reach its destination in Bangladesh from Rourkela. Notably, the first Oxygen Express train was sent to Benapole in Bangladesh, originating from Tatanagar on July 24 for the treatment of Covid affected patients in the neighbouring country. Till now, four Oxygen Express trains have been sent to Bangladesh from Tatanagar, each carrying 200 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO). With the despatch of Wednesday’s train from Rourkela, altogether five Oxygen Express Trains have been sent to Bangladesh from SER jurisdiction with total 983 tonnes of LMO. In order to meet the growing demand of oxygen for treatment of Covid affected patients, the South Eastern Railway has been running Oxygen Express trains since April 23 to different parts of the country to ensure quick transportation and smooth supply of oxygen. As the Covid cases reduced and demand for Liquid Medical Oxygen witnessed a fall, the running of Oxygen Express trains within the country was stopped at the end of June. Bangladesh is the first overseas country where the consignment of Liquid Medical Oxygen was sent for treatment of Covid patients. (Pinaki  Majumdar) Dhanbad: Water- water everywhere not a drop to drink. The age old adage seems to be true for more than five lakh residents of Jharia who face water crisis during every monsoon season due to rise in water level of river Damodar. Weeds being carried along with the strong water current during monsoon block the inlet pipeline of the intake well of Jamadoba based water treatment plant of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority affecting the water treatment work and resultant supply of treated water. The latest water crisis which arose six days ago however is coupled with a leakage problem in the main water supply pipeline around 200 meters away from the treatment plant further delaying the resumption of water supply. “No initiative has been taken by the district administration or JMADA to take direct connection for Jamadoba Water Plant from DVC to ensure continuous water supply despite the fact that more than five lakh residents are dependent on it,” said Anup Sao, former councilor of ward number 37 of Jharia who has staged agitation against the perennial water crisis of Jharia several times. “Not only the leakages in water supply pipeline or obstruction in the inlet pipeline of intake well of JMADA water treatment at Jamadoba but water supply is also frequently disrupted in Jharia due to lack of continuous power supply to the Water Treatment plant as eight hours of continuous water supply in a day is required for treatment process to complete,” pointed out Sao Pankaj Kumar Jha, Sub Divisional Officer of Water Supply Division of JMADA, said, “We have completed the pipeline repair work and water supply for Digwadih, Jorapokhar etc is likely to resume by tomorrow while the inlet pipeline blockage has already been cleared much earlier.” (Praduman Choubey) Bokaro: The additional district judge (ADJ)-1 cum special judge of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), Janardan Singh, on Wednesday awarded 30 years rigorous imprisonment to a man who raped his minor step-niece over a period of two months during lockdown. The court has also fined Rs 1 lakh on the accused. The trial related to the case was completed within six months after examining all the nine witnesses, said special public prosecutor S.K. Jha. The incident occurred with the 17-year-old girl after her parents were unable to return from Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown imposed in March to June in 2020. The court held the accused Kamal Ansari, 29, guilty of the crime under section 6 of POCSO (Punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and awarded him 30 years RI. The victim in her complaint had mentioned that her parents had gone to Moradabad (Uttar Pradesh) to finalise her marriage but were unable to return due to the lockdown. In their absence, the victim and her siblings were facing problems with food in the house, so her parents, called her step-maternal uncle to take care of them. Following her parent’s request, Ansari came and took them to their house where he lived with his mother, wife and children. Jha said, “Victim had stated Ansari intoxicated her and raped her. He repeated the offence for two months. He also threatened her with dire consequences.” (Our correspondent) Jamshedpur: The much-hyped cable-stayed bridge project at Govindpur locality of the steel city was shelved on Wednesday. The bridge project which was modelled on Calcutta's Vidyasagar Setu and was being considered to be a signature bridge for this region was shelved despite the spade-work starting for the ambitious project. The proposed cable-stayed bridge was supposed to be set up over the picturesque Hudco lake in Govindpur which is located at the eastern fringe of the steel city and about 12 kms away from the heart of the city. The main purpose behind setting up the cable-stayed bridge was to ease the vehicular traffic congestion, especially the industrial vehicle congestion from the city. Executive engineer, Road Construction Department, Ramvilas Sahu confirmed the shelving of the project, but did not give any specific reason behind it. "The cable-stayed bridge project in Govindpur was shelved today by the state government. It is not known whether this project will be executed in future or not," said Sahu to The Telegraph Online. The executive engineer pointed out the spade-work for the Rs 138 crore project had stopped since last year due to the pandemic, but now it has been shelved. He, however, informed that the work for the 13-km-long road project linking Anna Chowk in Govindpur to NH-33 at Pipla is on. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Expect widespread rain across Jharkhand till Friday||A fresh cyclonic circulation prevailing over the Bay of Bengal is likely to result in widespread and isolated heavy rain in Jharkhand during the next 72- hours, said weathermen on Wednesday. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand  said the system, extending upto 5.8 km above mean sea level, would  bring more rainfall over the next three days till August 6. The monsoon traffic at mean sea level was on Wednesday passing through Ganganagar , Narnaul Varanasi,  Patna, Shanti Niketan ( West Bengal ) and culminating at North East Bay of Bengal. Tuesday was exceptionally humid and sweaty  in most parts of the state but intermittent rain  on Wednesday due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation brought some relief. Jharkhand started feeling the impact  of the cyclonic circulation since last evening. According to Met data, between 8.30 pn of Tuesday and 8.30 am of Wednesday several places including Sikatia in Godda and Jamtara recorded over 100 mm of rain. Deoghar too recorded heavy rain of 67.7 mm. Several other places including Tenughat in Bokaro, Rajmahal in Sahibganj and Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum experienced moderate rainfall. Jamshedpur and several other places in Kolhan, Khunti, Simdega and Ranchi experienced intermittent showers on Wednesday. The forecast indicated heavy rain in isolated areas of north eastern and south western parts of the state till Friday In Met parlance, 60mm or more rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy. The Met office also issued an alert of moderate lightning and thunderstorm activity till Friday. Weathermen said the cyclonic circulation was over north Bay of Bengal. It is unlikely to intensify into a low-pressure area. But the system will lead to a wet spell for next three days. So far this monsoon,  Jharkhand as a whole actually recorded 612.9 mm against a normal of 566 mm, a surplus rain of eight per cent. The rain surplus figure is expected to rise in the next few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||In the face of women's hockey defeat, Salima Tete and Nikki Pradhan's kin hail players for valiant fight||The Indian women’s hockey team may have missed the chance of winning the gold or silver in Tokyo Olympics but it can still grab the bronze medal. That was the common sentiment at Barki Chhapar, a nondescript village in Simdega district of Jharkhand that had a local girl, Salima Tete, in the Indian team that lost the semi-final match against Argentina by 1-2 on Wednesday. “Our girls played well and lost by a slender margin but the results would be different if they could perform a little better,” said Salima’s father, Sulakshan Tete, who was also a hockey player once. “Our girls played well but the Argentines performed much better in all aspects, so losing the match against such a powerful team was perhaps natural,” said Manoj Konbegi, the president of Hockey Simdega who watched the match with Salima’s neighbours at her village. “Not only the villagers, we all are keeping our fingers crossed, with the hope that Indian girls would grab the bronze,” he further said when asked how Salima’s neighbours reacted to the defeat. Earlier, chief minister Hemant Soren had directed the district administration of Simdega to install a television set at Salima’s home so that her parents and relatives could witness the match live and the same was done before the match, informed the chief minister’s office in Ranchi. “The parents and relatives of the girl who is toiling so hard to make the country proud must get to see her in action,” the CMO quoted Soren as saying. “It was like a festival at Barki Chhapar today,” Konbegi informed when asked about the mood at Salima’s village, adding the villagers had gathered in front of the TV set that was placed at a pandal specially erected for the purpose and where chairs were also arranged for the villagers. “Salima would inspire others and thus help promote sporting activities,” said Simdega deputy commissioner Sushant Gaurav who got the television set installed at Salima’s place. “The form of any team can change, so the possibility can't be ruled out,” Konbegi argued when pointed out if the Indian women could grab the bronze by defeating the same Great Britain team that won against the Indians by 4-1 in the pool match a days ago. “We all are keeping our fingers for Friday when the match for the bronze will take place,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Rs 300cr GST fraud detected in Jharkhand, says Centre ||A financial fraud to the tune of about Rs 300 crore has been detected in Jharkhand by the Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) department, it announced on Wednesday, releasing  names of 19 dubious entities that have forged bills and invoices to illegally claim input tax credit (ITC). In an official press statement issued in Wednesday, CGST explained that the input tax credit was then transferred to other companies to further claim tax benefits from the government. “The GST scam worth Rs 300 crore on fake bills and invoices in Jharkhand was detected following thorough data analysis of 17 firms in the state based on  tip-offs. During the investigation, it was found that out of these 17 firms, seven were shown as registered in one address and five other in another single address. It was also found that some of the firms had got themselves registered on the GST portal with a single phone number and e-mail id. "In all,19 dubious firms have been detected so far,” said the press statement. The press note added that investigations had revealed that some of the firms claiming to be  registered in Jharkhand actually belonged to other states. “We are in the process of tracing their origin state to communicate with the GST department there for further action,” it read. All the 19 dubious firms have been named by the GST department with the quantum of fraud. They are  M/s T N M Enterprises (Rs 58.22 crore), M/s Singhania Construction (Rs 15.22 crore), M/s Shiv Shakti Enterprise (Rs 59.23 crore), M/s Vishal Traders (Rs 3.94 crore), M/s Dharam Enterprises (Rs 3.58 crore), M/s Radhe Traders (5.37 crore), M/s Mishra traders (Rs 3.64 crore), M/s Lakhvir Singh (Rs 1.70 crore), M/s Firoz Hussain (Rs 5.26 crore), M/s Krishna Traders (Rs 4.98 crore), M/s Om Enterprises (Rs 17.64 crore), M/s Ma Laxmi Enterprises (Rs 10.37 crore), M/s Ganesh Traders (Rs 8.53 crore), M/s Shivnath Kumar (Rs 1.77 crore), M/s Tarachand Enterprises (Rs 68.54 crore), M/s S D M Enterprises (Rs 6.25 crore) and M/s Vinayak Enterprises (Rs 5.76 crore).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||CBI takes over Dhanbad judge death probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has formally taken over the probe into the alleged murder of Dhanbad’s additional district judge Uttam Anand last month, it announced on Wednesday. In a statement issued by its headquarters, the CBI  said, “The Central Bureau of Investigation has today registered a case related to alleged murder of Shri Uttam Anand, Additional District Judge, Dhanbad on the request of Jharkhand Government and further Notification from Government of India.” A 20-member team has been set by the CBI to probe the matter. It has left for Dhanbad, they said, adding that it will be followed by a Central Forensic Science Laboratory team. It added, “The case was earlier registered by state police on a complaint from wife of deceased vide FIR No. 300/2021 dated 28.07.2021 at Police Station Dhanbad u/s 302, 34 of IPC against unknown auto driver. Two persons have been arrested by local police. CBI has taken over the investigation of the said case and constituted a Special Investigation Team. The team is proceeding today to Dhanbad.” Jharkhand government on Saturday recommended a CBI probe into the death of Uttam Anand in Dhanbad on July 28. Even though Jharkhand police had constituted an 11-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident, chief minister Hemant Soren recommended a CBI probe on July 31, a day after the slain judge’s family members met him in Ranchi. Deceased judge was on a morning walk on the morning of July 28 when an unidentified auto hit him near Randhir Verma Chowk and sped away. Later, the police recovered the auto from Giridih district and initially arrested two persons. The incident led to massive uproar in the country with the Supreme Court describing it as an assualt on the judiciary. The central probe agency had informed the Jharkhand High Court on Tuesday that it has received the state government's letter to take over the probe a day earlier. The bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad had directed the CBI to initiate a probe at the earliest. It had also directed the government to hand over all the documents of the case to the CBI. Taking cognizance of a letter filed before the court by the Dhanbad principal district judge in the case, Justice Ranjan had converted it into a writ petition and ordered the formation of an SIT headed by Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar to look into the matter. The bench, dissatisfied with the progress report, had questioned why there was a delay in registering an FIR into the case. The incident occurred at 5.08 am, and the FIR was registered at 12.45 pm when it was clear from CCTV footage that the judge was picked up from the spot and taken to a hospital, the court had said. "Do the police register an FIR only on the basis of a statement? Do the police not register an FIR on their own? Why did the police take six hours to register the FIR?" it had asked. The court said that there is fear among judicial officers following the incident and directed that the security of courts, including the high court, and judicial officers be strengthened. The Supreme Court on July 30 had also taken suo motu cognizance of the "sad demise" of the Dhanbad judge. "We direct the Chief Secretary and Director General of Police (DGP) of Jharkhand to submit a report in a week's time on the status of the investigation on the sad demise of additional district and sessions Judge Uttam Anand, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town street vendors protest 'unwarranted' eviction drive||Coal town street vendors are compelled to wander from pillar to post seeking justice after being rendered jobless during the peak of monsoon following the eviction drive carried out by Railway police. Around 30 street vendors of the station road area of Dhanbad would manage to eke out a living by selling tea, fruit and other fast foods to railway passengers. The aggrieved vendors on Wednesday wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren seeking his intervention on the issue in the wake of a series of steps taken by the state government to prevent harassment to street vendors including the recent survey launched to provide QR Code based Smart Identity Cards and QR code Smart Certificate of Vending. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Mohammed Tanvir, a street vendor of station road, said, “We have been evicted without any priority notice by Railway Protection Force last evening in presence of Government Railway Police and Dhanbad police in the name of anti encroachment drive.” “We showed them our identity cards meant for street vendors, provided by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) way back in 2017 and also the user charges receipt provided by the DMC but they were not ready to listen and demolished all the shops within an hour without providing any opportunity for many to shift their articles,” said Tanvir and added that no eviction order copy was given to them despite repeated demands. “At the time of pandemic when the income of all including us have been greatly affected such a step is beyond any comprehension as I am concerned about the sustenance of life for my family as we are not in a position to shift to any other place during monsoon,” said Tanvir. Bijay Gupta, a tea stall owner who has also become the victim of eviction drive said, “More than 40 individuals’ livelihood is dependent on my stall as besides me four to six staff members were also working with me all of whom have become jobless.” Sneham Sinha, district coordinator of National Association of Street Vendors of India,  a nation level NGO  working for street vendors said, “We have raised the issue before the chief minister Hemant Soren today by writing a letter to him in which we pointed out that one hand state government has started survey for providing QR code based smart identity card and also QR Code based Smart Certificate in order to prevent any harassment or encroachment against them but on the other hand they are evicted without any valid reason.” “We had also raised the issue with Purnima Singh, Jharia MLA, yesterday who in turn contacted Ashish Bansal, divisional railway manager;  Satyendra Kumar, Municipal Commissioner and Sanjeev Kumar but all of them expressed their ignorance about the eviction carried out yesterday,” said Sinha. Repeated efforts to contact Akhlish Kumar Pandey, Senior Divisional Manager of Dhanbad Division and RPF inspector Avinash Karosia failed in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city students shine in CBSE Class X results||16-year-old Shazia Sultan of DAV NIT, Adityapur made the steel city proud by emerging at the top by scoring 99.20 per cent marks in CBSE Class X examination, results of which were declared on Tuesday. Shazia wants to serve people by becoming a doctor. She wants to pursue medical education by studying Biosciences. "I am thankful to my teachers who have always provided me with online help in my studies as and when required in the prevailing pandemic, " she said over phone. Shazia, who stays with her grandparents at Jugsalai, scored 496 out of 500 including 100 in English, 100 in Hindi, 100 in Social Studies, 99 in Science and 97 in Mathematics. The second position was bagged by Rupali of the same school who scored 99 per cent. Forty students of the batch scored 90 per cent and above, while 114 students secured 75 per cent and above. This year’s board examinations, originally scheduled to be held in May and June, were cancelled due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Thus, the marks were calculated on the basis of internal assessments, including unit tests, mid terms and pre-board exams. Students of Bistupur-based Jusco School South Park also proved their merit by scoring 100 per cent pass percent. A total of 122 students comprised the batch for 2021. Twenty-six students of the school scored 90 per cent and above, while 27 students achieved a score between 80 – 89 per cent. Principal of Jusco School South Park Mili Sinha said, “It gives me immense pleasure to report the stupendous result of the sixth batch of students of the school.  We secured a cent per cent result. I thank the school management, teachers and parents for their constant support and motivation. I congratulate the students and parents for their stupendous performance and wish them all the best for their future.” Students of DBMS Kadma High School too achieved 100 per cent result. Of 177 students, 15 secured 90 per cent and above, 30 students secured 80 per cent and above, and the rest of the students secured 70 per cent and above. Gurpreet Bhambra, principal of DBMS Kadma High School congratulated the students on their excellent performance and wished them all the best in their future endeavours. Several other CBSE schools including DAV, Bistupur, St. Mary's English High School and Sheyn International School also registered cent per cent results. "The pandemic resulted in a shift from classroom learning to digital learning. Hence, we focussed on developing strategies to improve academic achievement which was reflected in the performance of our students in the board examinations. Eagerly taking up the academic challenges the teachers and students worked hard throughout the year for a good performance, "said Pushpa Bhalla, principal of Sheyn International School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town hospitality sector inches towards normalcy||The hospitality sector has started limping back towards normalcy after the recent relaxations provided by the state government in terms of permission for opening restaurants and food outlets during the weekends and also operational time limit increased to 10 pm from 8 pm during weekdays. The occupancy rate at the majority of the 200 hotels of Dhanbad has increased to around 50 per cent to 60 per cent while the restaurant business has also improved to around 50%. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Anutosh Bagchi, senior general manager of Skylark hotel said, “The restaurants, bars and banquets are the important outlets of hotel without which the full steam operation of hotels can’t be imagined and yes indeed the recent relaxations have increased the confidence of the guests for weekday stay although the weekend stay is yet to improve due closure of offices during weekends.” “Our guest occupancy has increased to 40 per cent for the total 37 rooms and restaurant operation rule relaxation has played a crucial role as a result of which we have now reached the break even position where we are successfully managing all the overhead expenses including the staff salary, GST, electricity charges,” said Bagchi and added that he is hopeful they will start earning profit if the situation improves. Arka Ghosh, General Manager of Hotel Sonotel, said,“The eating out culture has started reviving following the relaxations as a result of which we are witnessing increase in booking of all tables in our restaurant and even some guests keep waiting as per the norms we the operating the restaurants with 50 per cent seating capacity.” “The restaurant rule relaxations have also led to the increase in room occupancy as we are witnessing more than 65 per cent occupancy during the weekdays,” said Ghosh and added that they are expecting the situation to improve further. Satnam Singh, owner of La Piaza restaurant in Dhanbad who is also the president of Dhanbad Restaurant owners association said,“Yes indeed the customer flow has increased  following relaxation in norms but we are still far behind the normal situation as out of bookings of 15-16 tables per day of  the pre lockdown period we are getting 7-8 table bookings per day at present.” “Apprehension about Covid-19 is still persisting among the customers working as a deterrent against the full revival of restaurant dining culture but with the passage of time we are expecting the situation to improve,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||State-run RIMS to get two ECMO machines soon||Jharkhand’s premiere healthcare facility Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi will soon become the first government-run hospital in the state to offer Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) facility to critically-ill patients with severely damaged lungs, health officials said on Wednesday. State health minister Banna Gupta recently asked the RIMS administration to procure at least two ECMO machines, used for artificial breathing, in order to provide the facility of this life support system to patients suffering from Covid-induced lung fibrosis. “No state-run hospital in Jharkhand has ECMO support for patients at present. RIMS will have these machines soon and we will be able to save more lives,” Gupta said. Through ECMO, blood is pumped outside of a patient’s body to a heart-lung machine that removes carbon dioxide and sends oxygen-filled blood back to tissues in the body. When a patient with damaged lungs is on ECMO support, the gas exchange happens outside the body through the machine instead of the lungs. Once the blood is oxygenated and carbon dioxide is removed, it is given back to the heart, from where it circulates to other parts of the body. ECMO was used by several private and some government hospitals across the country to save lives of Covid patients during the first and the second waves of Covid-19, say doctors. State education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who is back in Jharkhand after his lung transplant at MGM Chennai, was also kept on ECMO support for several days in the Tamil Nadu capital. Many patients suffering from lung fibrosis recover after being kept on ECMO for a couple of weeks, say doctors. Keeping patients on this life-support system buys time for finding a lung donor if the patient does not respond to ECMO and needs a transplant. In Ranchi, only Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, a private hospital near Booty More, has an ECMO machine. Many other private hospitals in the state have also started procuring the machine after several deaths due to lung damage were reported in the state and other parts of India. With RIMS getting the facility of ECMO, many patients suffering from severe Covid-induced respiratory ailments will not have to move to bigger cities for treatment, at least during the initial phase, doctors from the state-run hospital said. Even during the second wave of the pandemic, several patients had to move to Hyderabad, Chennai or Mumbai because very few hospitals in the state had this facility, doctors involved in the fight against Covid-19 said. Doctors and technicians will also be imparted special training on operating the ECMO machines, said health officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
04-08-2021||Jharkhand||Fallout of Stan Swamy’s persecution highlighted at release of memoirs||The State should understand that the persecution of Father Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest and rights defender who died in judicial custody last month, had brought international shame to the country, Ranchi Auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas has said. “Father Stan has become an international figure after his death and it is time for the State to understand the international shame brought to our country by the persecution of the undertrial. We hope that the government and the political representatives wake up after this episode,” Bishop Mascarenhas said on Tuesday. The bishop was speaking at an event where the memoirs of Fr Stan, I am not a silent spectator: Why Truth has become so bitter, Dissent so intolerable, Justice so out of reach, was released by the central zone Jesuit province on the Ranchi campus of the Xavier Institute of Social Service (XISS). The book, described as an “autobiographical fragment, memory and reflection”, was released in Tamil Nadu, too. Published by the Indian Social Institute, Bangalore, the book includes the writings of Fr Stan during his visit to south India and poems and diaries written during the imprisonment in Mumbai. It has been edited and compiled by Father Joseph Xavier, director of the Indian Social Institute, Bangalore. “Fr Stan has made us proud, as he carried out the message of Jesus and fought for people’s rights and truth. He stood for the rights of the Adivasis and the undertrials,” Bishop Mascarenhas added. Fr Stanislaus Jerome D’Souza, SJ, president of the Jesuit Conference of South Asia, said in his address delivered as the guest of honour: “There are two types of memories, one which happen and one which are made. We all stand here because Fr Stan’s memory has touched us and moved us. His enemies want us to believe that he was against the law… but the truth is he believed in the court of law and died fighting for the poor and the marginalised.” Welcoming the gathering, Fr Joseph Marianus Kujur, director of XISS, said: “The title of the memoirs is very apt because we all know that it is indeed true that Fr Stan was never silent when he was alive. He is not silent even after his death. Through his writings, friends, associates and admirers, his voice is still reverberating everywhere. We hope to keep his spirit alive amongst us as we come together to release his memoirs.” Fr P.M. Tony, director of Bagaicha (the institution founded by Father Stan), discussed the scholarship of Rs 25,000 to be given in the name of Fr Stan to the children of two tribal undertrial prisoners. “Fr Stan had been conferred the Mukandan C. Menon Award last year and since Father was in prison, it was collected by Father Joe Xavier. Fr Stan expressed the wish that the amount be distributed among the children of undertrial prisoners. We have selected two deserving children — Kiran Barla, a seventh grader at Rajkiya Madhya Vidyalaya at Lapung in Ranchi, and Sandhya Oraon, a sixth grader at St Mary’s Girls Middle School, Kanke,” said Fr Tony. Development economist and social activist Jean Drèze said in a video message: “Fr Stan, while leaving for prison, had said that he is going to pay the price for fighting for social justice. The right tribute would be to carry forward his movement for social justice.” Mihir Desai, Fr Stan’s legal counsel and senior advocate in Bombay High Court, pointed out: “He was penalised not for any crime he committed but for raising his voice for justice to Adivasis and the poor.” In the morning, the ashes of Fr Stan were interred at the Jesuit Cemetery at Mango in Jamshedpur. The mass was attended by Fr D'Souza, the provincial and president of the Jesuit Conference of South Asia; Fr Xavier,  director of Indian Social Institute, Bangalore; Fr Ajit Xess, provincial Ranchi Jesuit; Fr Santosh Minz, provincial Hazaribagh Jesuit; and Fr Father Jerome Cutinha, Jamshedpur Jesuit provincial. Fr Xavier Lakra, former director of Bagaicha, described Fr Stan as one of the tribal martyrs. "He used to seek blessings for tribals daily and dedicated his life to the well-being of tribals, Dalits and the marginalised. A martyr's blood doesn't go in vain," Fr Lakra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
