05-08-2021||Calcutta||16-year-old girl rescued from aunt's house hours before wedding||A 16-year-old girl, a student of Class XI, was rescued from her aunt's house in Budge Budge hours before she was to be married off on Tuesday evening. A team of officers from Maheshtala police station reached the venue, all decked out, and rescued the girl. The girl’s father is a daily labourer who does odd painting jobs and the mother, a homemaker, places chumki on saris to add to the family income, police said. The teenager who was to be married off is the second of three daughters of the couple. The eldest daughter is married. The father has been ailing for a few months and lost his earning following the outbreak of Covid-19. “The girl cleared Madhyamik this year and was admitted to a higher secondary school in Bishnupur, on the southern fringes of the city. With the family struggling to make ends meet, the parents decided to get her married,” said an officer. The Telegraph has reported how pandemic-induced poverty has led to a rise in child marriage and child trafficking. An NGO had tipped off the police that the Class XI student was being married off at her aunt’s house in Maheshtala, far away from the village where the girl lives with her parents and sister. The man to whom she was to be married earns a living by selling vegetables. The police said he also worked as a tout at the state transport department's office in Alipore. “Since the marriage didn’t take place, we have not arrested anyone. But the girl’s parents and her aunt had to give us in writing that they would not marry her off till she came of age and they would allow her to complete her education,” an officer at Maheshtala police station said. “Some neighbours have agreed to help the family so that the girl could complete her education. The parents will open a bank account in the girl’s name and the neighbours would transfer money there.” “When our field workers got to know about the wedding, they tried to talk the parents out of it. When that failed, we alerted the police,” said Dalia Roy, of Jeevika Development Society, which works with women across South 24-Parganas. “Over the last year and a half, during the pandemic, we have been able to save a dozen underage girls from being married off.” Hundreds of contractual labourers in Budge Budge, Maheshtala, Bishnupur and other areas in South 24-Parganas have been struggling to eke out a living during the pandemic, which has crippled the economy. “Some of these families are agreeing to proposals to get their underage girls married off, unable to feed them any longer. Once, we had rescued a girl after she had boarded the groom’s car after marriage,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||CPM retracts on 'Beejemul' theory, considers BJP main enemy||The CPM has acknowledged there’s no hobgoblin called “Beejemul” and that the Trinamul-BJP battle is “not a got-up game”, doing a somersault that may not fetch an Olympic medal but will please those who want the Left to identify the BJP as the main enemy. The ideologues in Alimuddin Street have prepared a discussion note that draws a clear distinction between Trinamul and the BJP. While not calling it a historic blunder, the Bengal CPM has said the stress on the fictitious “Beejemul” — a term that sought to club the BJP and Trinamul as one entity — created confusion ahead of the Bengal polls. The CPM’s note has been sent to the district units as well as the headquarters in Delhi and various state CPM offices. The note is to be discussed on August 5, the birth anniversary of Muzaffar Ahmad, one of the founders of the Indian communist movement. “Some slogans regarding the party’s position on the BJP and Trinamul have created confusion. The party’s understanding is, the BJP is in no way similar to any other political party, because the BJP is run by the fascist RSS,” the three-page note says. “The use of slogans like ‘Beejemul’ and assertions that the BJP and Trinamul were two sides of the same coin created confusion during the time of the election. The 2019 Lok Sabha elections made it clear that the fight between the two parties (the BJP and Trinamul) is not a got-up game.” Titled “Post-election situation and our work”, the note covers several subjects such as the slide in the party’s support base, Trinamul’s success in defeating anti-incumbency with initiatives like Duare Sarkar (government at the doorstep) and Didike Bolo (Tell Didi), and the need to develop a strong organisation up to the booth level. The big surprise — the paragraph that distinguishes Trinamul from the BJP — comes on the second page. This understanding had eluded the CPM before the Assembly elections, where it drew a blank. “All the political lines we have been adopting since 2006 have been proved wrong — it was no different this time,” said a CPM old-timer who did not wish to be named. The CPM’s 2021 poll campaign had begun with a tall claim — “Amrai bikolpo, amrai dharmoniropekkho, amrai bhobishyot (We are the lone alternative; we alone are secular; we are the future)” — at the February 28 rally of the Sanjyukta Morcha, a fledgling alliance of the CPM-led Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front, on the Brigade Parade Grounds. Thereafter, CPM leaders travelled across the state equating the BJP and Trinamul and insisting that both needed to be defeated. When CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya argued the Left Front and the Congress should identify the BJP as “political enemy number one” and desist from clubbing it with Trinamul, CPM leaders like Biman Bose had swatted the suggestion away. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury had gone further to say that siding with Trinamul would hand the entire anti-incumbency vote to the BJP. So, the campaign was built around assertions of a “Didi-Modi understanding”. Although the note claims there was no confusion in the party’s own mind over the differences between the BJP and Trinamul, some Alimuddin insiders recalled the address delivered by state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra at the 2018 state conference. “Responding to the question why the party had struck an alliance with the Congress, the state secretary said in his report that the BJP and Trinamul were two sides of the same coin,” a CPM veteran said. This clubbing of Trinamul and the BJP was a feature even of the CPM’s main campaign slogan for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which urged voters to defeat the BJP and stop Trinamul. The slogan, believed to be the brainchild of Mishra and former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, had raised questions even within the party. The doubters had asked whether asking voters to stop Trinamul was the right strategy for the parliamentary polls, but the state leaders had ridden roughshod over all the objections. “Politburo members like Prakash Karat and Manik Sarkar never shared this view and that’s why they were not welcome to campaign ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls,” a party source said. “The party’s East Burdwan unit, which is not on the same page with Mishra, had invited Manikbabu on its own, which the state leaders didn’t like.” The latest note has raised some comrades’ hopes of a rethink in Alimuddin about the approach to Trinamul, but some others are sceptical. “This discussion note is full of contradictions…. While it admits that the party’s support base has dwindled over the years, it also makes silly claims, for instance, that the party has done better in 2021 compared with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” a party insider said. “How can the state committee of a party that failed to win a single seat make such a claim?” The source said the disclaimer on “Beejemul” owes to the CPM central leadership’s insistence at a time an Opposition platform centred on Trinamul and the Congress is shaping up in Delhi. “The CPM would clearly like to be a part of that initiative and, probably, that’s the reason the Bengal unit is under pressure to formally distinguish between the BJP and Trinamul,” he said. Besides, with party leaders in Kerala and Tripura having clearly spelt out that the BJP is the main enemy, the Bengal unit could not continue to be seen ploughing a lone furrow for too long. “This, however, doesn’t mean the Bengal CPM will edge closer to Trinamul to take on the BJP. Under the current crop of leaders, who still want to settle scores with Mamata Banerjee over Singur, Nandigram and the 2011 defeat, that seems an impossibility,” another CPM source said. One part of the note appears to lend credence to this apprehension. “The BJP may have lost the (Assembly) polls, but we can’t afford to make the mistake of taking them lightly,” it says. “On the other hand, if the fight against the autocratic and corrupt Trinamul, which has come to power (for the) third time in a row, is weakened, it will benefit the BJP.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: People from districts flock to city vaccination centres||Patients from districts are flocking to Covid vaccination centres in Calcutta as the availability of doses there is much less than in the city. The result is that in some of the facilities in Calcutta the number of people queuing for the shot is three to four times the number of doses available. “This has been the scene for at least two months and there is no end in sight,” said an official involved in Covid vaccination in the city. Many people from districts are taking the jab at private hospitals in Calcutta, shelling out a hefty sum, as they are unable to stand in a queue for hours outside government vaccination centres near home. Similar queues are for-ming outside government centres in Calcutta, too. So such people from districts are opting for private facilities. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has reported to the state health department that between 25 and 30 per cent of recipients at its vaccination centres were from other districts. Data available on the CoWIN portal reveals the disparity. The number of Covid vaccination centres in Calcutta on Wednesday was 365, compared with 68 in Howrah, 65 in Hooghly, 266 in South 24-Parganas and 254 in North 24-Parganas. Availability of doses in Calcutta, too, is much higher than in neighbouring districts. The difference becomes starker when one considers the fact that Calcutta was the least populated of these five districts according to the 2011 Census. Murshidabad, another district that was more populated than Calcutta according to the same Census, had only 76 CVCs on Wednesday. Officials in the state health department said no other civic body in Bengal could match the CMC’s drive in getting people vaccinated against Covid. The CMC alone runs 192 CVCs. “No other municipality or municipal corporation in the state has shown such keenness in setting up vaccination centres like the CMC,” a health department official said. The presence of private hospitals has helped Calcutta. There are 129 private CVCs in Calcutta, compared with only 64 in North 24-Parganas, which has the second highest number of private CVCs in the state. “Covid-19 broke out first in cities and then spread to rural areas. So we had prioritised cities. Calcutta, the epicenter of the spread, gets the majority of the doses. If doses were abundant, we would not have needed to prioritise one place over another,” said Asim Das Malakar, the state family welfare officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Regulatory panel to meet hospitals on advisory on capping test rates||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission will meet private hospitals on Thursday to discuss its advisory issued in July on capping the rates of some pathological and radiological tests. The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) had earlier written to the commission stating their objections to the advisory. “We will meet the private hospitals on Thursday regarding the advisory…. The hospitals had some objections,” retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said on Wednesday. The commission had on July 3 fixed a limit on the rates that private hospitals could charge for a number of pathological and radiological tests. The advisory has capped the chest X-ray PA rate at Rs 400 and the HRCT (128 slice CT scan) rate at Rs 5,200. Among pathological tests, the Procalcitonin test rate has been capped at Rs 4,000 and the IL-6 test rate at Rs 3,500. Days after issuing the advisory, the commission clarified that the cappings would not apply to patients with medical insurance. In its letter to the commission, the AHEI wanted to know the mechanism or the basis behind fixing the rates. An official of a private hospital, who is a member of the association, said the commission had to understand that private hospitals had to be sustainable. “One private hospital may have equipment worth Rs 10 lakh to conduct certain tests, while another may have equipment worth Rs 40 lakh to conduct the same tests. How can both charge the same rates? At the end of the day, each private hospital has to be sustainable,” said the official. The commission on Wednesday asked Medica Superspecialty Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 82,660 to a patient’s family in accordance with the advisory on test rates. The family of the patient, a 70-year-old woman who was admitted with Covid, was supposed to pay Rs 5.71 lakh post-discount. “Medica agreed to offer a further discount of Rs 71,000 when the patient’s son said he had lost both his parents during the pandemic and his business was not running well,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Couple found dead in rented flat in Nayapatty near Salt Lake||A couple in their 40s were found dead in their rented flat in Nayapatty on the fringes of Salt Lake on Wednesday, police said. Officers suspect the couple — Debashis Dasgupta, 45, and Shrutidipta Guha Biswas, 40 — lost their jobs at a Chennai-based company. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they received an alert from residents of Vasundhara Housing Complex that a couple who had moved into flat number B2 of the complex had not opened their door since morning. “The first alert came from the help engaged by the couple. As they did not open the door even after repeated knocks, the help alerted the caretaker of the complex. The caretaker got in touch with other residents, who in turn alerted us,” the officer said. A team from Sector V police station went to the complex and broke open the door. Debashis was found hanging from the ceiling fan in one of the rooms and Shrutidipta was lying in the bedroom. The police team took the two to Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital, where they were declared dead. Another officer of the commissionerate said an initial forensic probe revealed that Debashis had strangulated Shrutidipta before killing himself. “We have started a probe and got to know that the couple had learnt about the flat through a mobile app. Both of them used to work at a Chennai-based company and it seems they lost their jobs. They did not interact much with neighbours,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||ATM swindler arrested after elderly man raises alarm||Police on Wednesday arrested a man who allegedly duped elderly people in the Narendrapur-Sonarpur area on the pretext of helping them withdraw cash from ATMs. The police said they had seized six ATM cards of different banks, which they suspect could have been stolen from other elderly victims, from Jagannath Gharami, the accused. “An old man raised the alarm inside an ATM kiosk in the Narendrapur area on Wednesday when the accused tried to exchange his card with another after pretending to help him withdraw money. People outside the kiosk caught the accused. One of our patrol vehicles was not far from the spot and rushed there,” said an officer of Sonarpur police station. The police said Gharami, a resident of Sonarpur, turned out to be the same person they were looking for in connection with another ATM fraud in the same area, which was reported on July 4. An elderly person named Arun Kumar Das had reported that a man had first tried to “help” him withdraw money from an ATM and then exchanged his debit card with another card. Money had been fraudulently withdrawn from his account by the time Das realised his card had been replaced. Both incidents bore an uncanny resemblance with the ATM fraud that was recently reported from Golf Green. Sanghamitra Ghosh, a 74-year-old resident of Golf Green, had gone to the ATM of a nationalised bank on Uday Shankar Sarani on Saturday, with her son Bodhisatwa’s debit card of a private bank, when she was duped. The elderly woman had met a man in the queue outside the ATM kiosk who allowed her to withdraw money before him. However, the man allegedly entered the kiosk after her and apparently confused her by saying that double the amount she had typed had been debited from her account. He told her that she needed to take out a mini statement to check the transaction. The man allegedly spied on her PIN when she took out the mini statement before replacing her ATM card with another card. Even before the woman reached her home, Rs 90,000 had been withdrawn from the account. A senior officer of Sonarpur police station said they had shared details of the arrested person with Golf Green police to find out whether the same man had duped Ghosh. “The accused has admitted that he had been operating in Rajpur, Narendrapur, Sonarpur and pockets of Calcutta. We are trying to get more details of the cases in which he has been involved,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Online tests for Rahara RKM UG admission||Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Centenary College, Rahara, will screen students for admission to undergraduate courses based on online tests. While drawing up the merit list in each of the seven BSc courses, the college will take into account 50 per cent marks scored in the online tests. Along with it, 30 per cent of the marks in the Class X board exams and 20 per cent of the marks in the Class XII board exams will also be considered. Last year, the college had admitted students solely on the basis of marks. The dates of the admission tests and the subject cutoff for applying have been uploaded on the website of the college. Mock tests are being conducted to familiarise students with the pattern of online merit tests. The admission notification says: “All candidates have to appear in an online merit test. This online merit test is based on the syllabus of 10+2 standard. It comprises both MCQ (multiple choice question) and MSQ (multiple select question).” The mock test link is https://forms.gle/Ktt7qE1W3pRYEB6V8 and will be active up to August 14 till 4pm. “An online merit list will help us determine the merit of a prospective student. The college has acquired the required proficiency on how to conduct the tests by conducting classes and exams over the digital platforms during the past one and a half years as a precaution against Covid19,” Swami Kamalasthananda, the principal of the college, told Metro. An official of the college said since the Class XII exams could not be conducted across the boards, admitting students on the basis of equal weightage to board marks and admission test was the best option to determine the potential of a candidate to pursue a programme. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will screen students for admission to undergraduate courses in 12 out of 15 subjects through online viva voce. Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous), Narendrapur, will admit undergraduate students in all departments through online screening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
05-08-2021||Calcutta||New Town, Sector V flooded after heavy downpour||Officer-goers and other commuters headed to Sector V, New Town and the airport as well as residents of those pockets faced a tough time negotiating roads as they were under knee-deep water till late on Wednesday. All major roads in Sector V went under water shortly after the day’s downpour started around around 4.45am. A number of roads in New Town and the airport area were flooded by 9am. At one point, the water on some roads was waist high. The Salt Lake and Dum Dum stations of the weather office recorded more than 80mm of rain from 4.45am till 6.30pm. In other parts of the city the showers started around 11am, an official in the Met department said. A 2.5km-long stretch of VIP Road, near the Haldiram's outlet, and a stretch of the Major Arterial Road, near the Chinar Park crossing, were under knee-deep water around 6pm. Traffic snarls were reported from both arteries, which lead to the airport. Cars and two-wheelers headed to Sector V from the Chingrighata crossing of EM Bypass had to negotiate the pothole-ridden stretch of the flooded Sector V-bound flank of the Salt Lake Bypass. Quite a few vehicles ran into potholes, which were hidden under water. If reaching Sector V was a challenge, a tougher challenge awaited commuters inside the township. Vehicles crawled through streets knee-deep in water, while those who got off buses had no option but to wade through water. Key crossings such as Wipro, College More and Godrej Waterside were under water, too. Office-goers were spotted hailing rickshaws, which charged up to Rs 100 to travel short distances. Subhrajyoti Roy said he had to shell out around Rs 100 to travel 1.5km, from College More till the Wipro Crossing, by rickshaw. "There were no other options. I tried booking multiple app cabs but they all cancelled the bookings once I told them that I was at College More,” Roy said. An official of Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority, which looks after the amenities of the tech township, said all three pumping stations were pressed into service to drain out water but they hardly proved enough. NDITA chairman Debashis Sen said the Eastern Drainage Canal, where the pumps discharge water, was flowing at the danger level. In New Town, too, all pumping stations were pressed into service. Officials had to keep watch to prevent flowback from the Bagjola and Kestopur canals, which were flowing at the danger level, too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Heavy rain lashes city, some areas record over 100mm in few hours||Heavy rain lashed the city for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, with some areas recording over 100mm in just a few hours. The weather office has issued a rain alert for the next two days. The downpour led to waterlogging in several stretches. “The lock gates of the Hooghly were open when the rain was at its peak. Otherwise, things would have been worse,” said an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The rain was triggered by a cyclonic circulation over the north Bay of Bengal, which had led to the rain on Tuesday as well, and the position of the monsoon trough. The trough passes over Santiniketan and Diamond Harbour and merges with the circulation, said a Met official. The city is likely to get more rain over the next two days, he said. “The system is unlikely to intensify but is likely to persist till Friday. It is close to the Bengal coast and will have an impact for the next 48 hours,” the official said. On Wednesday, rain-bearing clouds travelled from east to west and, aided by strong monsoon currents, brought rain to Calcutta. The city experienced the bulk of the rainfall from 10am to 4pm, in multiple spells. In many places, a drizzle persisted till late evening. From 8.30am to 8.30pm on Wednesday, the Met office recorded around 80mm of rain each at Dum Dum and Salt Lake observatories. Alipore recorded around 25mm. Ultadanga was the wettest area in the city, having received over 110mm of rain between 11am and 4pm, according to CMC figures. Maniktala got around 85mm, Topsia 78mm and Thanthania got 75mm. In comparison, Kalighat got 35mm and Jodhpur Park 45mm. Areas along the EM Bypass received heavy rainfall, too. CMC’s Dhapa pumping station received 90 mm of rainfall. In Met parlance, 60-120mm of rain in 24 hours qualifies as heavy. Sukeas Street, Amherst Street, Muktaram Babu Street, College Street and BB Ganguly Street had ankle deep water by the afternoon. Around 3pm, parts of Central Avenue, Shakespeare Sarani and Camac Street were flooded, too. Traffic was stalled as busy thoroughfares across the city went under the water. “The water receded from most areas in the evening. Only a few areas, like Thanthania, Muktaram Babu Street, some parts of Central Avenue and College Street were waterlogged even after 6pm,” said an official of the CMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
05-08-2021||Calcutta||NGO raises Covid awareness among slum kids through comics||A city NGO has created a comic book to share Covid-related information and safety precautions amongst children in slums. The narrator of the book is an urban slum girl who the children would relate to and the book has scenes and issues from the daily lives of these children who are growing up amidst deprivation worsened by the pandemic. The idea behind the publication “Stay safe stay strong” by NGO Ek Tara is that children across the country “who do not have access to correct information will use this to gain a better understanding” of the Covid pandemic to keep themselves and their families safe. “Comic books are more relatable for children and we created a character named Tara who our children could identify with and situations that they face in their everyday life without being preachy,” said Anupriya Bhattacharya, executive programme manager, Ek Tara. The comic book includes a situation where Tara talks about employment being affected in the pandemic — “my father has no job now”. In another instance, she says: “My school is closed. I miss my teachers...I miss my daily meals and my classroom...” What follows is why Tara thinks she must “behave in a responsible way” — precautions such as wearing a mask, following physical distancing, washing hands, avoiding large gatherings and getting her family vaccinated. The importance of wearing masks correctly is heightened because of the small space these children live in. The publication in four languages, Hindi, Bengal, Marathi and English, has been given to 40,000 children across the country so far. The book has been illustrated by Falguni Gokhale. Bhattacharya said it was important to address people living in slums. “For them, the main problem is not the Covid disease but the issues arising out of it, like losing a job, no access to disposable income and no food. We have to tell them that to address other issues, Covid has to be addressed first,” she said. The book also addresses the emotional needs of a child — if he or she is sad, to approach an adult, mother, sister or a teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
05-08-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine certificate must for NIT Durgapur returnees||NIT Durgapur has asked the PhD scholars returning to the institute from August 2 to bring certificates and “show through CoWin” that they have been fully vaccinated to enter the campus. A notice signed by the dean of students’ welfare at the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Durgapur, said “at the gate, they may be asked to show through the COWIN website also” to verify that they had received both doses. The institute last month had asked those returning to the campus to give an undertaking that they had received both doses. Now, with cases of fake jab camps and fake certificates being reported from several places, the institute wants to authenticate the students’ undertakings. “We are exercising caution following reports of these instances. What if a student, desperate to return to the campus, procures such certificates to secure entry? The details regarding registration and Aadhaar are being run through the portal to verify their claims as part of a random scanning mechanism,” said an institute official. Entry is being allowed only if those managing the gates are satisfied with the scanning. Last month, cases of fake vaccination camps were reported from Kasba and Sonarpur. “Such cases might have happened elsewhere. We get students from all over India. So, extra caution has to be exercised... At a time when there is a dearth of vaccines owing to shortage of supply, acts of desperation on the part of students eager to return to the campus cannot be ruled out,” said an official of the institute. The scholars’ desperation stems from concerns that their work is stuck in the final stage of research because of the lack of access to laboratories and equipment, said a teacher. The Telegraph reported on August 3 that the Centre had till August 2 provided around 497 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to the states, nearly 20 million short of the 516 million doses it had said it expected to supply by July 31. In April, the Durgapur institute had been forced to send all the research scholars — who had been called back to campus in February — back home following a spurt in Covid cases on the campus. On July 17, the institute had asked the project and research scholars to return to the institute after giving an undertaking that they had taken both vaccine doses. “We want to maintain the maximum possible caution,” said NIT Durgapur director Anupam Basu. “Even as the scholars are being called subject to recommendation from the supervisor and the head of the department, maximum caution is being observed while allowing entry,” said an official. The students have been asked to bring an RT-PCR negative report, which is not older than 72 hours. IIT Kharagpur, while recalling the 500 BTech students facing resource constraints because of lack of access to smartphones or laptops and unstable connectivity at home, has made it mandatory for the returnees to have taken at least the first dose of the Covid vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-29
05-08-2021||Business||India to bin retrospective tax law, seeks to withdraw demands on Cairn, Vodafone||In a bid to bury the ghost of retrospective taxation, the government on Thursday brought a bill in the Lok Sabha to withdraw all back tax demands on companies such as Cairn Energy and Vodafone and said it will refund the money collected to enforce such levies. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' in the Lok Sabha that seeks to withdraw tax demands made using a 2012 retrospective legislation to tax the indirect transfer of Indian assets. The bill provides for the withdrawal of tax demand made on "indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken before May 28, 2012 (i.e. the day the retrospective tax legislation came into being)." "It is also proposed to refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest thereon," it said. The bill has a direct bearing on long-running tax disputes with British firms Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Group. The Indian government has lost two separate arbitrations brought by the two companies against the levy of retrospective taxes. While the government has virtually no liability in the Vodafone case, it has to refund USD 1.2 billion to Cairn Energy for the shares of the company it had sold, tax refund withheld and dividends confiscated. The bill states that the issue of taxability of gains arising from the transfer of assets located in India through the transfer of shares of a foreign company (indirect transfer of Indian assets) was a subject matter of protracted litigation. The Supreme Court in 2012 had given a verdict that gains arising from indirect transfer of Indian assets are not taxable under the extant provisions of the Act. But to circumvent this, the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 were amended by the Finance Act, 2012 with retrospective effect, to clarify that gains arising from the sale of shares of a foreign company is taxable in India if such shares, directly or indirectly, derive their value substantially from assets located in India. "Pursuant thereto, income-tax demand had been raised in 17 cases. In two cases assessments are pending due to stay granted by High Court," the objects of the Bill said. Out of the 17 cases, arbitration under Bilateral Investment Protection Treaty with the United Kingdom and the Netherlands had been invoked in four cases. "In two cases, the Arbitration Tribunal ruled in favour of the taxpayer and against the Income Tax Department," it said in a reference to arbitration awards won by Cairn and Vodafone. "The said clarificatory amendments made by the Finance Act, 2012 invited criticism from stakeholders mainly with respect to the retrospective effect given to the amendments. It is argued that such retrospective amendments militate against the principle of tax certainty and damage India's reputation as an attractive destination," it said. While the government has in the past few years brought major reforms in the financial and infrastructure sector to create a positive environment for investment in the country, "the retrospective clarificatory amendment and consequent demand created in a few cases continue to be a sore point with potential investors," it said. The country today stands at a juncture when quick recovery of the economy after the COVID-19 pandemic is the need of the hour and foreign investment has an important role to play in promoting faster economic growth and employment. "The Bill proposes to amend the Income-tax Act, 1961 so as to provide that no tax demand shall be raised in future on the basis of the said retrospective amendment for any indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken before 28th May 2012 (i.e., the date on which the Finance Bill, 2012 received the assent of the President)," it said. It further proposed to provide that the demand raised for indirect transfer of Indian assets made before May 28, 2012 shall be nullified on fulfilment of specified conditions such as withdrawal or furnishing of undertaking for withdrawal of pending litigation and furnishing of an undertaking to the effect that no claim for cost, damages, interest, etc shall be filed. It also proposed to "refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest thereon," it said. The bill proposes to amend the Finance Act, 2012 so as to provide that the validation of demand under section 119 of the Finance Act, 2012 shall cease to apply on fulfilment of specified conditions such as withdrawal of pending litigation and furnishing of an undertaking that no claim for cost, damages, interest, etc shall be filed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||Taxation Laws Amendment Bill introduced in Lok Sabha||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day on Thursday amid continuous disruption by Opposition members over the Pegasus spying issue and three farm laws. After repeated adjournments when the House met at 5 pm, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman rose to introduce the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary said bills were being passed in the House without a debate at an average time of seven minutes a bill. He claimed that bringing a supplementary list of business at the last minute was not correct. RSP member N K Premchandran supported Chowdhary. Later, the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was introduced by a voice vote amid slogan shouting by Opposition members. The bill seeks to amend the Income Tax Act of 1961 and the Finance Act of 2012. Rama Devi, who was in the Chair, then adjourned the proceedings for the day. Earlier, a bill to set up a central university in the union territory of Ladakh was also introduced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty scale fresh lifetime highs||Extending its winning streak to the fourth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex ended 123.07 points higher at a fresh record on Thursday amid gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ITC. After scaling its lifetime peak of 54,717.24 during the day, the 30-share index settled 123.07 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its record high of 54,492.84. In similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty rose 35.80 points or 0.22 per cent to an all-time peak of 16,294.60. It touched an intra-day record of 16,349.45. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 4 per cent, followed by ITC, Tech Mahindra, Tata Steel and HCL Tech. On the other hand, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance and ICICI Bank were among the laggards. "Domestic benchmark indices extended gains as rebound in IT and metals supported them to scale new highs. Additionally, recovery in FMCG stocks and RIL supported market," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, it was again not a broad-based rally as profit booking in midcap and smallcap stocks remained visible with Nifty midcap and smallcap indices declining for the third consecutive day, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended in the red, while Tokyo closed with gains. Equities in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.72 per cent to USD 70.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||Sensex succumbs to profit-booking in early trade after opening at fresh peak ||Equity benchmark Sensex opened over 200 points higher on Thursday, but soon pared its initial gains on profit-booking and was trading in the negative territory amid a mixed trend in global markets. After opening at its lifetime peak of 54,576.64, the 30-share index turned flat, slipping 8.33 points or 0.02 per cent to 54,361.44. In similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty inched 8.95 points or 0.06 per cent lower to 16,249.85 in early trade. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Titan, Tata Steel, M&M, Bajaj Finance and SBI. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex rallied 546.41 points or 1.02 per cent to end at its new record of 54,369.77, and Nifty surged 128.05 points or 0.79 per cent to its all-time peak of 16,246.85. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,828.57 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be flat as of now. Sharp rebound in market in last two trading days was not broad-based and sharp rebound in heavyweight financials contributed to rally, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, huge profit-booking in mid-cap and small-cap stocks was visible, he said, adding that going forward, given sharp improvement in key economic indicators like GST collection and auto sales volume, "we believe strong momentum of corporate earnings recovery may sustain in subsequent quarters". Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Equities on Wall Street largely ended on a negative note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.38 per cent to USD 70.65 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||Kumar Mangalam Birla steps down as chairman of Vodafone Idea||Vodafone Idea sent a wave of panic through the telecom industry on Wednesday evening after it announced that Kumar Mangalam Birla had decided to step down as non-executive chairman of the floundering telecom giant. Birla’s decision to quit came just two days after an anguished letter he wrote to the Narendra Modi government in June seeking a rescue package for the beleaguered telecom giant became public. The shock announcement left Vodafone Idea’s 277.62 million subscribers staring at an uncertain future unless the government can put together a viable bailout plan for the telecom giant. In his letter to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, Birla had offered to transfer his 27.6 per cent stake in the debt-laden telecom company ‘‘to any public sector/government/domestic financial entity or any other the government may consider worthy to keep the company going”. On Wednesday, the company said in a filing with the stock exchanges: ‘‘The board of directors of Vodafone Idea, at its meeting held today, have accepted the request of Mr Kumar Mangalam Birla to step down as non-executive director and non-executive chairman of the board with effect from the close of business hours on August 4.’’ The announcement came after market hours. Earlier in the day, the Vodafone Idea stock plunged 18.5 per cent to close at Rs 6.03 on the BSE as investors scrambled to sell their shares. The company said Himanshu Kampania, currently the non-executive director, would take over as the non-executive chairman of the company. Kampania is a nominee of the Aditya Birla group. The board also appointed Sushil Agarwal, another nominee of the Aditya Birla group, as an additional director with immediate effect. It was not immediately clear why Kumar Birla decided to step down and if the appointment of his nominees spells continuity of the business and, more importantly, for how long. Vodafone Plc, which acquired a 67 per cent stake in the original telecom entity from Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa in April 2007, currently holds about 44 per cent in Vodafone Idea. Vodafone Idea was created out of a merger between Vodafone India and Birla-owned Idea Cellular in August 2018. Neither the Birlas nor Vodafone Plc are prepared to pump money into the telecom venture which reported a gross debt of Rs 1.80 lakh crore at the end of March this year. Vodafone has to pay telecom dues worth over Rs 58,000 crore to the government that are linked to adjusted gross revenues and date back to 2007. During the quarter ended March 31, 2021, Vodafone Idea had posted a consolidated loss of Rs 7,023 crore, lower than the loss of Rs 11,643.5 crore in the year-ago period. The Supreme Court recently turned down a petition from Vodafone and Bharti Airtel for a recomputation of the dues. Speculation has swirled that if the government fails to come up with a viable rescue package, the telecom entity might collapse, creating a duopoly between Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel. This will not be in the interests of the telecom consumer — a point that Bharti Airtel CEO Gopal Vittal also asserted on Wednesday. Speaking during an earnings call, Vittal said: “I think from a national perspective, it would be appropriate to see a structure where three players not just survive, but thrive.’’ And, of course, the government player (BSNL) is always there.” “I feel as a country we do need three players...it is a large enough country with 1.3 billion people, which can easily accommodate three (private) players in this market,” Vittal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries opts for rights issue||Kesoram Industries has dropped its plan for a preferential allotment of shares within a fortnight of its announcement, instead opting for a rights issue after a group of shareholders said they wanted to participate in the company’s fund-raising programme. The development signals investor interest to participate in the burgeoning cement sector and the prospect of Kesoram. The company will now launch a Rs 400-crore rights issue, twice the size envisaged before, to provide ‘‘equal opportunity to all shareholders to participate in the equity raising plan’’. After the Rs 100-crore preferential allotment was announced on July 21, the company received representations from a cross-section of shareholders, minority as well as promoter group entities. “In deference to the views expressed by the shareholders of the company, who wanted to participate in a rights issue  and equity raise which is non-dilutive, we decided to cancel the preferential allotment,” P. Radhakrishnan, CEO and wholetime director of Kesoram, said this evening. The board on July 21 had decided to issue shares and warrants, fully convertible to equity after 18 months, to raise Rs 100 crore to  promoter group entity Usinara Trading and Services Private Ltd. This was the first instalment of a Rs 600-crore equity raising plan, including a Rs 200-crore rights issue, to reduce the borrowing burden of the company. The company said the rights issue, which has now been doubled to Rs 400 crore, will help it to reduce its leverage faster as the quantum of equity will be higher. Moreover, only 25 per cent of the preferential issue was upfront, with the rest to come after 18 months. It would also make the company’s liquidity position stronger and speed up the chances of a rating upgrade. The promoters of Kesoram, the flagship of the Basant Kumar Birla group, hold a 45.97 per cent stake in the company. Manjushree Khaitan, the younger daughter of late B.K, is the chairperson of the company. The promoter shareholders also include Kumar Mangalam Birla, grandson of Basant Kumar Birla and the chairman of Aditya Birla Group. At least two companies, Pilani Investment and Century Textiles, which are under control of Kumar Birla, hold close to a 20 per cent stake in the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
05-08-2021||Business||State Bank of India posts 55.24 per cent rise in net profit ||The State Bank of India on Wednesday posted a 55.24 per cent rise in net profit for the April-June quarter of 2021-22. The net profit of the country’s largest lender came in at Rs 6,504 crore for the quarter under review compared with Rs 4,189 crore a year ago. The bank’s net profit was above the Street’s expectations. Analysts had estimated the lender to report a profit of Rs 6,374.5 crore for the quarter. Operating profit increased 5.06 per cent to Rs 18,975 crore compared with Rs 18,061 crore a year ago. The net interest income of the bank was Rs 27,638 crore during the quarter compared with Rs 26,642 crore in the corresponding period a year ago, a growth of 3.74 per cent. The rise in NII came below the Street’s expectations on account of lower-than-expected credit growth of 5.8 per cent. The asset quality worsened sequentially amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, but was better compared with the previous year. The gross non-performing asset ratio stood at 5.32 per cent at the end of June 2021 compared with 4.98 per cent at the end of March 2021. The same was 5.44 per cent at the end of June 2020. ‘‘In respect of asset quality also, I am satisfied with the outcome... slippages have come on account of the lockdowns. I think once the economic activity comes back, we will also be in a position to pull back the slippages,’’ SBI chairman Dinesh Khara told reporters. Fresh slippages during the quarter were Rs 15,666 crore. Current a/c rule The Reserve Bank on Wednesday allowed time to banks till October 31 to implement changes on the current account front, following reports of small businesses being hit with account freezes in the last few days. The central bank said the circular is aimed at enforcing credit discipline among borrowers as well as to facilitate better monitoring by the lenders, but made it clear that a ‘‘graded approach’’ had been prescribed to banks on the opening and operating of current accounts and cash credit/overdraft CC/OD facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-08-2021||Business||Services sector contracts for third straight month in July||The services sector contracted for the third straight month in July as business activity, new orders and employment declined further largely because of the Covid-19 pandemic and local restrictions, a monthly survey said on Wednesday. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index rose from 41.2 in June to 45.4 in July, but was stuck in the contraction zone because of subdued demand conditions amid the Covid crisis. In Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below 50 denotes contraction. ‘‘The current Covid-19 environment continued to weigh on the performance of the service sector that is so crucial to the Indian economy. July data was somewhat disappointing, with incoming new business and output falling solidly over the month, but there was at least a slowdown in the rates of contraction,’’ Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit, said. Grim outlook Looking ahead, firms were pessimistic about the 12-month outlook for output for the first time in a year. ‘‘Uncertainty over when the pandemic will end, as well as concerns about inflationary pressures and financial troubles, dampened business confidence in July. Service providers were pessimistic towards the outlook for business activity for the first time in a year,’’ Lima said. In line with sustained falls in new work, there was a further reduction in service sector jobs during July. Employment contracted for the eighth consecutive month, albeit at a moderate pace that was slower than that seen in June. Another factor weighing on jobs was an overall view that business activity will decline over the course of the coming 12 months. "Companies were pessimistic for the first time in a year. The downbeat assessment for output stemmed from concerns over the pandemic, margins and inflation," the survey noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-08-2021||Business||Akasa Air gets NoC from civil aviation ministry and DGCA||Akasa Air, promoted by billionaire investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, is on its way to take to the skies with the civil aviation ministry and regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) giving a no objection certificate (NoC) to the fledgling entity. Aviation ministry officials confirmed NoC to SNV Aviation, the holding company of budget carrier Akasa Air. However, they did not share any further detail. The no-objection certificate is the first of the many steps that need to be taken before Akasa will get the crucial Air Operators Certificate (AOC). However, the fast-track NOC approval — the permission was given within days of the application in what usually takes about six months — has surprised analysts and raised a question mark over the real backers behind the present promoters. Maverick stock market investor Jhunjhunwala is reportedly putting in $35 million and will hold a 40 per cent stake. Former Indigo president Aditya Ghosh will make a comeback  in aviation and is expected to hold 10 per cent. Jhunjhunwala has also brought on board former Jet Airways CEO Vinay Dube, who is expected to be the CEO. According to data with the Registrar of Companies, SNV Aviation has been registered to Dubey’s personal address at Sewri in Mumbai, with Sanjay Dube, Shonali Dube and him listed as directors. Apart from Jhunjhunwala, the other investors include Airbnb and Par Capital Management — which has interests in Sun Country Airlines an very low-cost American carrier, some reports said. The airline reportedly is planning a fleet of 70 carriers over the next four years. Akasa Air is expected to be based out of Bangalore with plans to fly to places close to the city such as Chennai, Hyderabad and Mumbai, a TV  quoting sources said. The budget carrier is hoping to fly by the middle of next year, much depending on how fast the airline can raise funds and receive its clearances from the government and regulators. IndiGo sale IndiGo has opened a 3-day sale to kick-off its 15th anniversary celebrations. The airline is offering fares for as low as Rs 915 (all-inclusive) in the latest sale. Tickets can be booked from August 4 to August 6 for travel between September 1and March 26, 2022, the airline said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-08-2021||Business||Darjeeling’s Jungpana tea estate changes hands||Jungpana, one of the most celebrated tea estates of Darjeeling, has a new owner. The Santosh Kumar Kanoria Group, which owns the tea exporting house Balaji Agro International, has bought the garden that arguably ranks at the top of the leaderboard for Darjeeling teas. Chaired by Anshuman Kanoria, the group bought Jungpana along with Goomtee tea estate, marking a rapid reshuffle in the ownership of the two gardens over the past three years. “We are excited to add a garden like Jungpana to our tea portfolio. We also recognise the challenges associated with operating an estate in Darjeeling, especially during these uncertain times,” Anshuman Kanoria said. Started by British planter Henry Montgomery Lennox in 1899, Jungpana is spread out over the south-facing slopes of the hill at an altitude of 2,400-6,100 metres, and produces just about 65,000 kg of tea annually. The area took its name after a valiant Gorkha Jung Bahadur, who was mauled by a leopard while trying to save his British master. As he lay dying, he asked his master for some “pana”, or water. He was taken to a nearby spring and given water but died soon after. The area came to be called Jungpana: a combination of the man’s first name and his hoarse cry for water. The garden was with the family of Shantanu Kejriwal who bought it from the Ranas of Nepal in 1956. After the devastating strike at the hills in 2017, Kejriwal sold it to city-based businessman Sanjay Agarwal. The acquisition doesn’t seem to have turned out well. “My focus will be to produce quality tea which can fetch good prices to ensure a low-yield garden is run profitably,” Kanoria said this evening. He also hoped that Balaji Agro’s domain knowledge in marketing top quality tea to the connoisseurs in Japan, Europe and the US will come in handy to run the gardens efficiently. “I also want to diversify the market base in India for these gardens but the tea will not be available off the shelf as commodities,” Kanoria, who claimed to have paid top dollars for the gardens, said. The transaction took place at a time the pandemic hit the demand for specialty teas. Many of the 87 gardens in Darjeeling are up for sale as export prices remain tepid due to competition from cheaper Nepalese varieties. The gardens were badly hit during the lockdown a year ago as they could not pluck the first flush — the season’s early harvest which fetches the  estates as much as 35 per cent of their annual earnings. The Kanorias are also taking heart from the acquisition of Tindharia estate, adjacent to Goomtee, sometime back. The garden has turned around, producing green tea exclusively and exporting 75 per cent of the yield. “I have the best green tea garden in Darjeeling and I always wanted a match for it in black tea. In Jungpana, my wish has come true,” Kanoria signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-08-2021||India||Covid third wave may pull GDP growth down to 7%: Abhijit Banerjee||Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Thursday apprehended that the impending third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic might adversely impact the GDP, and its growth rate might go down to 7 per cent, even below the IMF's recent projection of 9.5 per cent. Banerjee, who heads West Bengal's Global Advisory Board (GAB) and advises the state government on issues related to the pandemic, said that boosting the state's economy is directly related to the revival of the country's economy as it is under stress due to the ongoing pandemic situation. "The economy is going slow due to the Covid situation. Earlier the IMF had said GDP growth would be 12.5 per cent. Now it is saying it would be 9.5 per cent. I apprehend it might go down to 7 per cent. Another wave will decrease it further. If the country's economy does not improve, the state will not be able to move forward alone," he said. Last month, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) cut its economic growth forecast for India to 9.5 per cent for the fiscal year to March 31, 2022, as the onset of a severe second Covid-19 wave cut into recovery momentum. This forecast for 2021-22 is lower than the 12.5 per cent growth in GDP that IMF had projected in April before the second wave took a grip. For 2022-23, IMF expects economic growth of 8.5 per cent, higher than the 6.9 per cent it had projected in April. "The economy of Bengal is also connected with the country. If the country's economy does not improve, Bengal alone will not be able to do anything. If the economy of the whole country is active, it will have an impact. "Many Bengalis work in other states. A lot of income comes from migrants. We cannot solve this problem alone. When the country's economy opens, that will pull us. The state government is certainly trying to help, but the problem will be solved only when the country's economy recovers," Banerjee said. The noted economist that the Centre should be more into free-spending policies like other economies of Europe and the US rather than being more concerned about balancing the deficit and the budget. "The (union) government has a fiscal problem, and it may have more faith in balancing the budget than free-spending policies. The government is trying to use the one instrument it has as other forms of tax collection are not necessarily keeping pace, given the economy is slow. It is using this to balance the budget," he said when asked to react to the Centre's decision to increase cess on various items, including fuel, from time to time in the last year. But this is not the direction the government should not have taken, Banerjee said. "I think the government should have been more open-handed with the spending. I have said this many, many times. I think the central government is too unwilling to do what US or European economies are doing - printing money and spending. And I think that would have been a better policy in the present context," the economist said. Banerjee, however, praised the Centre for now moving in that direction. "The inflation is already up due to the high fuel prices. I think there is a good case for being more open-handed. But to be fair, the central government has now moved towards that direction and have announced several relaxations. I think being less mindful of the deficit might be the right strategy," the Nobel laureate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
05-08-2021||India||Yashwant Sinha joins push for Pegasus probe in Supreme Court||Former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha on Thursday joined the league of petitioners who have approached the Supreme Court for an investigation into the Pegasus snooping scandal, as the top court started hearing the case, noting that the allegations were “serious if newspaper reports are correct”, reports NDTV. Seeking a court-monitored probe into allegations that an Israeli spyware - sold only to governments - was used in India to target opposition leaders, journalists and others, Sinha also called for directions for the creation of an oversight mechanism to deal with any surveillance-related request made by and to any ministry or government agency. Besides Sinha, a batch of petitions, including by the Editors Guild of India and senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, have sought a special probe into the scandal. Asking the petitioners whether they have tried filing a criminal complaint on the matter and taking exception that one of the pleas named Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah as parties, the court took up the cases on Thursday. The court, which asked the petitioners to serve the copies of the pleas to the centre so that somebody from the government is present before it on August 10 to accept the notice, also questioned why the matter has suddenly cropped up now when it had come to light way back in 2019. The judges told senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was appearing for N Ram and Sashi Kumar, that petitioners in the matter are "educated and knowledgeable" and they should have made efforts to put more material together. However, they said, “No doubt the allegations are serious in nature if the reports in the newspapers are correct.” An investigation by 17 global media organisations have found that the Israeli spyware Pegasus had been used in attempted or successful hacks of smartphones using malware that enables the extraction of messages, records calls and secretly activates microphones. According to The Wire, the Indian media outlet part of the international media consortium, phones of opposition leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Supreme Court judges, ministers and journalists were among potential targets. The controversy has fuelled abrasive attacks on the government by the opposition and brought parliament to gridlock over demands for a credible probe. The government has dismissed this demand, saying a statement read out in parliament by IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnav - one of the potential targets of the hacking - was sufficient. For days, the BJP has laboured to label the snooping of the phones a “non-issue”. The NSO Group, which owns Pegasus, admits this is spyware and is used to hack phones, but says it does business only with governments and government agencies. The Israeli company says it does not corroborate the list of potential targets reported by media companies around the world. The Indian government has said there is "no substance" to the reports of Pegasus being used by it against opposition leaders, journalists and others. NDTV cannot independently verify the authenticity of the list of those who were supposedly targeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
05-08-2021||India||Twitter has not designated nodal contact person, matter is sub-judice: MoS IT||Twitter appointed a chief compliance officer and a resident grievance officer as a contingent arrangement, but has not designated a nodal contact person, Parliament was informed on Thursday. On May 26, 2021 (the day when new rules for social media were enforced), Twitter was non-compliant as it failed to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person and a resident grievance officer as mandated in the norms, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. "Subsequently, they appointed a chief compliance officer and a resident grievance officer as a contingent arrangement. Twitter has also not designated a nodal contact person and the matter is sub-judice," he added. Social media platforms like Twitter are intermediaries as defined in the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. In order to ensure accountability of social media platforms to users and enhanced user safety, the government has notified the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which came into effect from May 26, 2021, the minister said. He added that in case of non-compliance, the intermediaries are liable to lose their exemption under Section 79 of the IT Act, 2000. Chandrasekhar said 'Police' and 'Public Order' are state subjects, and complaints reported against Twitter are dealt by the respective law enforcement authorities of states/ Union territories. "MeitY is not involved in filing of any FIR against Twitter," he added. Responding to a question on phishing attacks, Chandrasekhar said activities of fraudulent e-mails, SMSs, phishing websites and campaigns through WhatsApp pretending to be from legitimate services lure users to divulge credentials to conduct financial frauds. "As per the information reported to and tracked by the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), a total of 454, 472, 280 and 138 phishing incidents were observed during the year 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 (up to June) respectively," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
05-08-2021||India||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar requests appointment with PM Modi to discuss caste census||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said that he has sought an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the tricky issue of caste-based census which the Centre has proposed to hold only for SCs and STs, triggering protests in the state.  The Union government had informed the Parliament last month that a headcount of only the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes was proposed. This has led to renewed demands that the population of all castes be ascertained afresh in course of the census.  "My letter to the PM has been dispatched. Once he gives an appointment we will take the matter forward", the chief minister told reporters here.  Notably, the state legislature has on two occasions passed unanimous resolutions favouring a caste-based census. Moreover, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav had met the chief minister last week with the suggestion that since unanimity prevailed among all political parties in Bihar over the issue of caste-based census, Kumar consider meeting the PM heading an all-party delegation.  The chief minister has also said that in the event of the Centre not agreeing to the request for covering all castes in the census, his government will "keep the option open" of conducting a state-specific exercise.  Kumar is the de facto leader of the JD(U), which has been alliance partner of the BJP for close to three decades. He holds the view that a caste-based census will help better formulation and implementation of schemes aimed at targeted welfare of different social groups.  The last time a caste-based headcount was taken up in the country was in 1931.  The Bihar CM, who had recently caused a flutter by advocating an investigation into the Pegasus controversy, expressed satisfaction over the fact that the Supreme Court was seized of the matter and making needful intervention.  "Nobody should have a problem with this. If some people feel their privacy has been violated, what better thing than to have the Apex Court looking into the matter", said Kumar when asked about the phone-tapping with the help of Pegasus spyware.  The chief minister, who was talking to journalists upon returning to the city after conducting aerial survey for flood of four districts, laughed off a query about his arch rival Lalu Prasad, who is away in Delhi, becoming "politically active".  "Let us not talk about these things. Everybody has a right to act as per his wishes", said the JD(U) leader as a parting remark.  Prasad has been recuperating in the national capital following his release from a Ranchi jail where he had been lodged upon conviction in a number of fodder scam cases.  One of the most flamboyant and colourful political personalities of his generation, Prasad has been making headlines following his recent meetings with veteran socialists like Mulayam Singh Yadav and Sharad Yadav and his advocacy of a "third front".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
05-08-2021||India||We will share our vision, perspectives on Afghanistan at UNSC meet: India||India on Thursday said it will share its vision and perspectives on Afghanistan at a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on August 6 and once again pressed for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire in the backdrop of escalating violence by the Taliban in the country. The UN Security Council, under the Indian presidency, will hold the meeting on the situation in Afghanistan. ”During tomorrow's debate, we will share our vision and perspectives on Afghanistan, and we look forward to productive deliberations on this important issue,” External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. The decision to hold the UNSC meeting came two days after Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammed Hanif Atmar spoke to his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on the convening of an emergency session of the powerful global body to stop the Taliban's violence. India holds the presidency of the UNSC for the month of August. Bagchi said India is closely monitoring the evolving security situation in Afghanistan and that it continues to call for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire. ”We have been supporting the government and people of Afghanistan in realising their aspirations for a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future,” he said. Bagchi also reiterated that India supports an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process. ”You are all well aware of our close relationship with Afghanistan. Our relations are broad-based, and cover various aspects, including a strong development partnership. We are also strategic partners, and are guided by Strategic Partnership Agreement signed in 2011,” he said. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly USD 3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the war-ravaged country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. It has also been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in the country, including those from the minority communities, for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
05-08-2021||India||Uniform Civil Code: Not possible to lay out rigid time frame, says govt||The government on Thursday said in Rajya Sabha that it may not be possible to lay down any "rigid time frame" on the issue of implementing uniform civil code in the country in view of the sensitivity involved and need for an in-depth study. In a written response to a question on whether the government has any plan to implement uniform civil code in the country "any time soon", Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said Article 44 of the Constitution provides that the state shall endeavour to secure for the citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territory of India. "In view of the importance of the subject matter and sensitivity involved, and it also requires in-depth study of the provisions of various personal laws governing different communities, the government requested the Law Commission of India to undertake examination of various issues relating to uniform civil code and to make recommendation thereof," the minister said. "Hence, it may not be possible to lay down any rigid time frame in the matter," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||3.79 lakh Anganwadis don’t have toilet facility, 1.88 lakh lack drinking water||About 3.79 lakh Anganwadi centres do not have toilet facility while 1.88 lakh lack drinking water facility, the government said Thursday. Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani presented the relevant data in Rajya Sabha in response to a question. According to the information shared by her in a written reply, a total of 13,87,432 anganwadi centres (AWCs) are operational in the country. Of the 13,84,997 (AWCs) whose figures are available, 10,05,257 have toilet facilities while 11,96,458 have drinking water facilities, the data showed. Thus, a total of 3,79,740 AWCs do not have toilet facility, while 1,88,539 of them lack drinking water facility. Responding to another question, Irani said during the financial year 2019-20, a total of 2.25 lakh Severe Acute Malnourished (SAM) children received treatment at 1,072 Nutrition Rehabilitation Centres (NRCs). The respective numbers for 2020-21 were 1.04 lakh sick SAM children at 1,073 NRCs. NRCs are operational at public health facilities to exclusively cater to the under-five sick Severe Acute Malnourished (SAM) children who are admitted for clinical management of their medical complications along with nutritional management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha passes Essential Defence Services Bill before getting adjourned for the day||After passing a bill that seeks to prohibit strike by anyone engaged in essential defence services, Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day amid continuous protests by opposition members over the Pegasus controversy and various other issues. The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021 was passed in Rajya Sabha through a voice vote after the House re-assembled at 3.40 pm. The bill was cleared by Lok Sabha on August 3. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh piloted the bill in Rajya Sabha amid continuous sloganeering by the opposition members from the Well of the House. Soon after the bill was cleared, Deputy Chairman Harivansh adjourned the House till 11 AM on Friday. Rajya Sabha witnessed multiple disruptions throughout the day. The proceedings were adjourned thrice during the pre-lunch period and in the post-lunch period as well. The House was first adjourned for 15 minutes during the Zero Hour and then again soon after it met at 11.30 AM. The House which met again at 12 noon was adjourned after opposition members continued to raise slogans in the Well and disrupted the proceedings. Deputy chairman Harivansh continued with the Question Hour amid the din, but unrelenting members of the Congress, TMC and some other parties continued to create uproar. He adjourned the House for the third time till 2 PM. When the House met at 12 PM, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said some members were asked to withdraw from the House on Wednesday, but when they returned to collect their bags and other belongings after the House was adjourned, they were not allowed to enter. He was referring to the suspension of six TMC MPs on Wednesday for carrying placards while protesting along with other opposition MPs over the Pegasus spying issue. In the post-lunch period, the Deputy Chairman adjourned the proceedings of the House for half an hour following the protest and sloganeering by the opposition. He finally adjourned the House for the day after the passage of the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021. The bill allows the central government to prohibit strikes, lockouts, and layoffs in units engaged in essential defence services. According to the Statements of Objects and Reasons of the Bill, Indian Ordnance Factories is the oldest and largest industrial setup which functions under the Department of Defence Production of the Ministry of Defence. The Ordnance Factories form an integrated base for indigenous production of defence hardware and equipment, with the primary objective of self-reliance in equipping the armed forces with the state-of-the-art battlefield equipment. In order to improve autonomy, accountability and efficiency in ordnance supplies, the government decided to convert the Ordnance Factory Board into one or more fully government-owned corporate entity or entities to be registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. On June, 16, the government decided to convert the Ordnance Factory Board into seven Defence Public Sector Undertakings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||BJP hits out at Congress over Parliament disruption||The BJP on Thursday hit out at the Congress over the continued disruption of Parliament proceedings due to the opposition protests on the Pegasus issue, and claimed there is no "prima facie evidence" to suggest that certain phone numbers were indeed tapped. Senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad likened the Congress to a private firm tied to the interests of one family and claimed at a press conference here that his party is ready for a "meaningful" debate in Parliament be it on the Pegasus issue or those concerning farmers. Prasad, however, added that the opposition could have sought clarification from IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw when he made a statement on the snooping controversy in Parliament which would have led to a debate but its members, he noted, instead tore the statement. He alleged that it is not the Congress' ethos to respect Parliament, and the opposition party would allow it to function only so long as it "subserves" the interests of its ruling family. A number of opposition parties, including Congress, TMC and DMK, have joined hands to stall Parliament demanding that the legislature debate the Pegasus issue first. Attacking the Congress, Prasad said, "Having dominated Parliament for the longest time since 1947, it is ironic that the Congress has the least respect for parliamentary ethos and proceedings." "The reason for that is the Congress functions more like a private firm compared to a political party, and its sole aim is to safeguard the interests of one dynasty," he said. Prasad claimed that people who are "hostile" to the Modi government and has an obvious anti-Modi agenda are behind the Pegasus snooping controversy, and it was timed deliberately ahead of the beginning of Parliament's Monsoon session. "Is there any prime facie evidence that (phone) numbers were indeed put under surveillance," Prasad asked, noting that Justice Arun Mishra, who retired from the Supreme Court in September 2020 and is now chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, has said a mobile number of his allegedly put under surveillance was surrendered by him way back in 2014. The latest Pegasus story had named Mishra as among those who might have been targeted by the snooping spyware. The fact is, Prasad said, the Congress has not been able to reconcile to Narendra Modi being the prime minister and that the BJP keeps winning under his leadership while the opposition party has been stumbling from one defeat to another. With opposition parties pointing out that the BJP had also stalled Parliament when the Congress-led UPA was in power, Prasad sought to draw a distinction saying that the then government denied alleged scams involving 2G spectrum allocation and auction of coal blocks. The Supreme Court had quashed the 2G allocations, he noted. The ongoing disruption of Parliament has cost over Rs 130 crore, Prasad noted. With the opposition attacking the government for getting bills passed in Parliament amid uproar, he suggested that legislations were passed in a similar manner in 2007. "It is worth noting that when in power, UPA passed dozens of bills either without debate or in the din. This includes the Competition (Amendment) Bill, 2007, Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Amendment Bill, 2007, All-India Institute of Medical Sciences and the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. (Amendment) Act, 2007 and more," he said. He also cited the example of Emergency, which was imposed after an adverse court ruling against the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, and said the Congress stands to subserve the interest of a dynasty, a reference to the Gandhi family. All shameful Parliamentary lows are linked to the Congress, Prasad alleged, and also cited the use of pepper spray by a Congress MP in Lok Sabha while protesting decisions taken by the Congress governments at the Centre and Andhra Pradesh. "The last few sessions during UPA-2 were always marked by disruptions by UPA members. At times, friendly parties were used to spread chaos. This was seen during the Lokpal debate," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||PIL questions Maharashtra officials’ 2019 Israel tour||The Bombay High Court on Thursday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government on a PIL questioning a 2019 visit to Israel by officials of the state Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR), with the petitioners' lawyer claiming that it was for acquiring a "spying software like Pegasus". The petition filed by Laxman Bura and Digamber said that there was apparently “a nexus between the phone tapping cases, which are a matter of public knowledge now, and the Israel tour”. Several rules regarding the sanctioning of such foreign tours were violated in the process, the Public Interest Litigation alleged. "Israel doesn't have any specific expertise on web media (the subject of the study tour) that the state government officials could have benefited from," said their lawyer, advocate Tejesh Dande, in the court. "They (petitioners) say the actual object of sending team to Israel was to acquire a spying software like Pegasus," he added. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni directed the state government, DGIPR and five officials, all of whom have been made party to the PIL, to file their replies, if any, within four weeks. On November 15, 2019, after the Assembly elections in Maharashtra, a delegation of five "chosen" senior officials of the DGIPR was sent to Israel for ten days to study "advance web media," the PIL said. Hectic parleys for government formation were going on in the state during this period. The tour was undertaken without taking mandatory permissions from the chief minister, Union government or the Election Commission of India, and violated a host of rules for such tours set out in a state Government Resolution of 2014, the PIL alleged. The PIL sought, among other things, a judicial inquiry into the tour. "The country of Israel has an expertise in the technology of agriculture. On the contrary, the subject of the study tour was enhancement of usage of web media. It is in this backdrop that the acceptance and sanctioning of the said tour creates a reasonable suspicion on the purpose and motivation behind it," the PIL said. As much as Rs 14 lakh were spent on the tour from the state exchequer, it claimed. Further, replies to queries under the Right To Information said even though the proposal for the tour had been drafted hurriedly and violated several rules, it was nevertheless approved by the government, the petition said. The HC asked the petitioner's lawyer if the Supreme Court was adjudicating upon a similar issue. Advocate Dande said the issues in a petition related to the Pegasus row before the apex court were different. The bench then issued notices and asked the respondents to "file affidavits in reply, if any, within four weeks."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||J&K: BJP hoists Tricolour, celebrates 2nd anniversary of Art 370 revocation||The BJP Thursday celebrated the second anniversary of the Article 370 revocation by holding Tiranga rallies and hoisting the national flag across Jammu and Kashmir, while the PDP termed it "a day of mourning for J&K" and took out protest marches. Romasia Rafiq, the BJP's Municipal Councillor from Anantnag district's Khanabal, kicked off the party's celebrations in the valley by hoisting the Tricolour near the Degree College at Khanabal. She was accompanied by around 200 party workers. Bandipora BJP district chief Abdul Rehman Tikri was joined by a dozen party workers as he hoisted the national flag at the party office. Block Development Council (BDC) member Sushma Nehru along with 20 other people hoisted the national flag at Panzulla Panchayat Ghar in Baramulla district. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh, who is also the party affairs in-charge for the union territories of J&K and Ladakh, said one of the more significant achievements of the 2019 decision was that it dealt a big blow to the divisive and terrorist forces. Addressing the party workers in Srinagar, Chugh said that after many decades, the Pakistan-sponsored militancy seems to be on the back foot. Anti-national feelings among people have been replaced by the ideas of inclusive development and progress, he said. Chugh came down heavily on the Gupkar alliance parties for "trying to disrupt the positive narrative in J&K". In Srinagar, wearing black bands, scores of PDP leaders and activists, led by party president Mehbooba Mufti, took out a protest march from the party's head office near the Sher-e-Kashmir Park. They shouted slogans against the Centre's August 5, 2019 decisions and in favour of a "resolution of the Kashmir issue". The protesters were, however, stopped by police near GPO and turned back. Speaking to reporters, Mehbooba said, "Today is a day of mourning for J-K. It is unfortunate that the BJP is celebrating across the country, while Kashmir is mourning," she said. "The existence of the people of J-K will remain only when we all will together restore our constitutional position and then resolve the Kashmir issue by forcing the Government of India to talk to the people of J-K to address the internal dimension and talk with Pakistan as well to address the external dimension," she said. "There is no other option. They are already talking to Pakistan resulting in the ceasefire which in turn resulted in decline in infiltration," she said. Mehbooba said her party is of the view that J-K has to become a bridge of peace between India and Pakistan. She said the BJP will have to take back the decisions taken on August 5, 2019. In the Jammu winter capital city, led by J&K Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Arun Dev Singh, hundreds of party activists marched carrying the Tricolour and raising patriotic slogans of Vande Mataram and Bharat Mata Ki Jai. The Shiv Sena unit of Jammu and Kashmir led by its president Manish took out a Triranga rally in the city and raised slogans of Bharat Mata Ki Jai. Led by its president Ashok Gupta, Dogra Front also took out a Triranga rally in Jammu amid beats of dholaks and dance. Bajrang Dal and Vishva Hindu Parishad and some social organisations also celebrated the second anniversary of the abrogation of articles 370 and 35-A. The Jammu and Kashmir National Panthers Party (JKNPP) batted strongly for the restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir and holding of early assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||No plan at present to block any social media platform, minister tells Rajya Sabha||The government regularly interacts with social media companies on matters including accountability of such platforms and safety of users, and there are no plans at present to block any social media platform in the country, Parliament was informed on Thursday. "While some users do misuse social media platforms to create hate and ill-will among people of the country, no social media platform or any other intermediary can destroy India's democracy," Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. "At present, the government has no plan to block any social media platform in the country," he added. The minister said the government receives various grievances from users about hate content on social media platforms and responds to them in an appropriate way. "The government regularly interacts with social media intermediaries on various issues, including issuing advisories to make these intermediaries safe and accountable to users," he added. "Indian democracy has its bedrock in its Constitution and constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights for every citizen. No social media platform or any other intermediary can destroy our democracy," Chandrasekhar emphasised. He stated that under the provision of Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the government blocks malicious online content, in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order. In response to a question on whether the government proposes to regularise social media in the country, Chandrasekhar said policies are aimed at ensuring a fair, open and trusted internet. "Government policies are aimed to ensure free, fair, open and trusted Internet and intermediaries are allowed to operate in the country as long as they follow applicable laws including Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000, and Rules," he said. Chandrasekhar said the electronics and IT ministry has invoked the provisions of Section 69A of the IT Act to block certain apps following the due process specified in the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rule, 2009. It has been the endeavour of the government to put in place an enabling and investor-friendly policy environment in the country, he further said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||Opp will keep raising people’s issues including Pegasus: Cong||If attempts are made to crush and muzzle our issues by targeting us, using threats, fear or pressurising us, the Congress and a united opposition are not going to budge, says Mallikarjun Kharge New Delhi The government is trying to "muzzle" the opposition's voice, but it will not be cowed down and will keep fighting to raise people's issues, including farmers' problems and the Pegasus snooping matter, the Congress said on Thursday. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said that Parliament proceedings are being disrupted over the Pegasus issue as the government is shying away from a discussion on it. “If attempts are made to crush and muzzle our issues by targeting us, using threats, fear or pressurising us, the Congress and a united Opposition are not going to budge and will keep fighting,” Kharge told reporters here. His remarks came after a Parliament security officer complained against a Trinamul Congress (TMC) member for creating ruckus in the House Chamber after Rajya Sabha was adjourned. The Opposition is demanding a discussion on the Pegasus issue because it impinges on national security, and citizens' freedom and privacy. Media, armed forces and judges have been named as potential targets, Kharge claimed. "Revelations are being made one after the other. Why is the government running away? They are saying the opposition is not ready and therefore, a discussion is not happening," he said. Has any notice been received from the government for a discussion or has anyone sought to reach out to the opposition over the Pegasus issue, the Congress leader asked. Kharge said that the government is saying the Opposition does not want to speak on farmers' problems and inflation, among other issues, but when 10 Bills are passed in one hour "you know well of their (government's) intentions". He also claimed that the BJP caused over 90 per cent disruption when it was in the Opposition during the UPA regime. "They are telling us, Opposition is not letting the House run and not cooperating," Kharge said. On the Pegasus spyware snooping issue, Kharge said the entire world is probing it, including France, Hungary and Bulgaria, but India is not. "Why are you afraid of discussions," he said targeting the Centre. Kharge claimed that in the last 10 years, at least 10 times Rule 267 was used to discuss issues including inflation, foreign direct investment, farmers' suicide and agrarian crisis, Kashmir and demonetisation. A notice under Rule 267 calls for setting aside of the business of the day to take up discussion on the issue being raised. The Opposition leader said the precedent is there for discussions and yet a debate on the Pegasus issue is not being allowed. He said no leader from the government has come to speak to the Opposition and the informal talks do not mean much. "We suggested (Defence Minister) Rajnath Singh should call a meeting of leaders of both houses," Kharge said. He said it is wrong to say that the government has approached the Opposition. The opposition has not received any notice, Kharge said. "It is a false propaganda by the government. Pegasus is the most important issue," he said. "Parliament was disrupted. But, we acted tolerantly. They don't have tolerance. Suspension of six TMC members is wrong as they did not do anything wrong. Placards have been used earlier also," Kharge said, pointing to the suspension of TMC members. On the action against TMC MPs, he said, "They want to run the House by sending everyone out of the House. There is a conspiracy to disallow discussion on farmers and Pegasus issues. They want to crush the Pegasus issue and wrap up the session." Congress member Pratap Singh Bajwa said farmers are sitting on the borders of Delhi and "over 500" have died in the cause, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said nothing about these "martyrs". Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi border points since November against three central agri laws enacted last year. "What is the job of Parliament. PM Modi has said the laws are in the benefit of farmers but they are not accepting. I had earlier told the PM I will come with him to the border. But repeal the laws if farmers don't want the laws," Bajwa said. Earlier farmers were 50 kms away, but now they are sitting at Jantar Mantar and the government must listen to them. It should go to their Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar and also repeal the laws, the MP said. "These laws are death warrants of farmers. The intention is to usurp farm lands and hand them to MNCs. The Congress will never allow this to happen," Bajwa said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||Delhi HC extends interim protection of Newsclick editor till December 17||The Delhi High Court Thursday extended till December 17 the interim protection from arrest granted to Newsclick editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha in foreign funding case and asked Delhi Police why it needed his custodial interrogation when the RBI has given a prima facie finding in his favour. "Prima facie, there is no delay etc (as per RBI). In that case, why do you need his custodial interrogation?" asked Justice Yogesh Khanna while hearing Purkayastha's anticipatory bail application. The investigating officer, who was present before the court through video conferencing, responded that he was still verifying other transactions and the investigation was still ongoing. The allegations in the FIR, registered by the Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police, are that the company, PPK Newsclick Studio Pvt Ltd, received Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) of Rs 9.59 crore from Worldwide Media Holdings LLC USA during the financial year 2018-19, in violation of the law. The court also extended the interim protection granted to Newsclick director Pranjal Pandey in the FIR. Additional Public Prosecutor Manjziit S Oberoi, appearing for State, stated that letters rogatory have also been sent to certain institutions abroad, whose replies were now awaited, and that other persons were also being interrogated. Investigation is the prerogative of the investigating officer, Oberoi said. The court sought a final reply from the police in the matter as it questioned, what will you do with institutions' reply. There may be 100 of institutions . Let final reply be filed. List on December 17. Interim orders to continue, the judge ordered. Senior Advocate Dayan Krishnan, representing Purkayastha, urged the court to confirm the interim protection granted to his client on the ground that as per police status report, RBI, which is the concerned body, has taken a stand that was no delay in the issuance of shares and the transaction pertaining to the foreign funding were in compliance with the law. Status report supports what we say. (That) they are RBI, FEMA complaint. There is no issue of non-compliance, Said Krishnan who appeared along with advocate Arshdeep Singh. The Delhi Police FIR alleged that the investment was made by greatly overvaluing the shares of the company to avoid the alleged cap of 26 per cent of FDI in a digital news website, and violated the FDI and other laws of the country The FIR further alleged that over 45 per cent of this investment was diverted/siphoned off for the payment of salary/consultancy, rent and other expenses, which are alleged to have been made for ulterior motives. The company, through another petition, has already sought quashing of the Delhi Police FIR on the allegations of foreign funding on the ground that it does not disclose any cognisable offences as alleged. On July 7, the court had granted interim protection from arrest to Purkayastha and Pandey while directing them to join the investigation. The high court had on June 21 directed the Enforcement Directorate not to take coercive action against the news portal and its editor-in-chief in connection with the money laundering case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||Opposition cannot stop India from moving forward, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the Opposition is trying to score self-goals, accusing it of stalling Parliament while the country was keen to march ahead. These parties are trying to stop the transaction of business in Parliament, he said in a no-holds-barred attack on the Opposition for stalling parliamentary proceedings over the Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues. "On one hand, our country is scoring goal after goal of victory, on the other, some people, due to political self-interests, are doing such things which make it seem that they are scoring 'self-goals'," the prime minister said. Modi was interacting with beneficiaries of the Centre's food security scheme in Uttar Pradesh through video-conferencing as the state observed the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana Day. "They are not concerned about what the country wants, what it is achieving or how it is changing. These people are hurting both the spirit and the time of the country for their selfish reasons. They are continuously insulting Parliament of India for their self interests," he added. While very citizen of the country is working hard to get out of the biggest crisis humanity has ever faced, opposition parties are competing to stop the work of the country's interests, Modi said. Targeting the Opposition, the prime minister said, "The great people of this country cannot become hostage to such selfish and anti-national politics. No matter how much these people try to stop the development of the country, this country is not going to stop. They are engaged in stopping the proceedings of Parliament but 130 crore people are engaged in not allowing them to stop the country." The sole intention of the opposition parties is to create roadblocks on the path of development, he said, terming their action "anti national". "Bharat chall padha hain (India is on the move)," the PM said as he listed the achievements of his government on various fronts. Since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19, parliamentary proceedings have witnessed disruptions due to protests by opposition parties. The session is likely to conclude next week. The prime minister accused these parties, without naming them, of "using" Uttar Pradesh for their family and political interests. "This state was not linked with the economic progress of India. Some families did progress. These people did not enrich UP but themselves. I am happy that today Uttar Pradesh is moving ahead breaking the vicious circle of such people," he said. "The path to Delhi's throne passes through UP. And the way to the country's prosperity also goes through UP. But they kept UP as their crucible of politics only," Modi said. The prime minister launched an awareness programme throughout the state on the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. "During previous regimes, foodgrains meant for the poor were looted," he said. As Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath joined him from Ayodhya, Modi described him as "not only a yogi, but a karma yogi". The PM interacted with beneficiaries of the scheme present at select fair price shops in Varanasi, Sultanpur, Kushinagar, Saharanpur and Jhansi during the session. Almost 15 crore beneficiaries in the state have been getting free rations under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, an official statement said here. Nearly 80,000 fair price shops in UP have been distributing foodgrains to these beneficiaries, it said. District supply and marketing officers ensure availability of foodgrains at every fair price shop, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya meets Dr. Reddy's lab officials on production and supply of Sputnik V||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday said he has held a meeting with Dr Reddy's Laboratories Chairman Satish Reddy regarding the production and supply of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's, which has tied up with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for Sputnik V in India, soft launched the vaccine in India in May 2021, after receiving Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) in April 2021. In September 2020, the company partnered with RDIF to conduct the clinical trials of Sputnik V and distribute the vaccine in India. The Hyderabad-based drug major has already stated that the locally manufactured Sputnik V will be available from September-October period. "Held a meeting with Dr Satish Reddy, Chairman of Dr Reddy's Lab. Had a discussion on the production of the Sputnik V #COVID19 vaccine and its supply," Mandaviya tweeted. RDIF has tied up with six Indian drug makers, including Dr Reddy's, to manufacture Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's is in a pact with RDIF to sell 250 million vials of Sputnik V in India. The first consignment of imported doses of Sputnik V landed in India on May 1, and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, on May 13. Sputnik V uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination. Its efficacy was determined to be 91.6 per cent as per an article published in the medical journal Lancet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Congress raises issue of ministers not laying officials papers in Rajya Sabha||Senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram on Thursday raised the issue of ministers not being present in Rajya Sabha for laying of official listed papers. Chidambaram raised the issue when Parliamentary Affairs Minister V Muraleedharan was called to lay official papers on behalf of six of his ministerial colleagues. "We can understand that the parliamentary minister occasionally laying a paper on behalf of his colleagues who are unable to attend the House for some reason. But every day we find the parliamentary affairs minister lays the papers for half a dozen ministers. "Those half a dozen ministers don't respect RS. Every day it is happening, How can you do it," he asked. Deputy Chairman Harivansh said the matter was raised even on Wednesday and Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had stated that the parliamentary affairs minister has been allowed to lay papers mentioned against the names of other ministers because of the Covid situation. The practice started in the last session when working of the House was curtailed and MPs were seated in the lobbies as well as in Lok Sabha to allow for social distancing. However, the House has reverted to its normal functioning hours and all members and ministers are present in the House now. On Wednesday, Anand Sharma of Congress had stated that "the rules clearly say that the papers will be laid by the concerned minister. Only when specific permission is taken, another colleague or the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs shall lay the papers". He said those ministers who are present in the House should not be given this luxury of not laying the papers. "This is disrespecting the House," he had said. Naidu had responded to him saying the Chair allowed the parliamentary affairs minister to lay the papers mentioned against the names of other ministers because of the Covid situation. "That has been announced," he said. When other Congress MPs tried to object to the continuing of the practice despite House resuming normal functioning, Naidu said, "You are not supposed to comment on this. Your leader has brought it to my notice. Leave it there. Don't stretch it too much. It has been already mentioned in the bulletin also."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Flipkart promises to cooperate with Enforcement Directorate on notice||Walmart-owned Flipkart on Thursday said the company is in compliance with Indian laws, including FDI regulations, and will cooperate with the Enforcement Directorate on the notice sent to the e-commerce major. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued a show cause notice of Rs 10,600 crore to Flipkart and its promoters for alleged violation of the foreign exchange law, official sources said on Thursday.\ When contacted, Flipkart said it is in compliance with Indian laws and regulations, including FDI regulations. "We will cooperate with the authorities as they look at this issue pertaining to the period 2009-2015 as per their notice," Flipkart added. Comments could not be immediately elicited from the founders. According to sources, the notice under various sections of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) was issued to a total of 10 noticees last month that includes Flipkart, its founders Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal among others. The notice was issued after completion of investigation and the charges include violation of foreign direct investment (FDI) rules and those that regulate multi-brand retail, they added. The case of alleged FDI rules violation against Flipkart has been under the ED scanner since 2012, and the agency, as per official sources, has found alleged violations of FEMA under various counts including an instance of transfer and issue of security to a person/entity outside India. Notably, the US-based retail giant Walmart Inc had picked 77 per cent stake in Flipkart for USD 16 billion in 2018. Its founders and many of its investors had taken a partial or complete exit at that time. Sachin Bansal had exited from Flipkart, selling his about 5.5 per cent stake. Last month, Flipkart Group had announced raising USD 3.6 billion (about Rs 26,805.6 crore) in funding led by GIC, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPP Investments), SoftBank Vision Fund 2 and Walmart, valuing the e-commerce giant at USD 37.6 billion. With this deal, SoftBank re-entered Flipkart's cap table. SoftBank had sold its approximately 20 per cent share when Walmart bought a stake in Flipkart. Flipkart, which competes with companies including Amazon and Reliance JioMart in the Indian e-commerce space, has seen significant growth over the past many years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Manipulation of any part of woman's body amounts to rape, says Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court has held that any manipulation of the body of a woman such as penetrative sexual act between the thighs of a victim to simulate a sensation akin to penetration of an orifice is rape. The decision came in an appeal filed by a man against a trial court verdict in a matter that involved unfortunate instances of repeated sexual assault of various degrees on a minor girl by him, who is also her neighbour. "...when the body of the victim is manipulated to hold the legs together for the purpose of simulating a sensation akin to penetration of an orifice; the offence of rape is attracted. When penetration is thus made in between the thighs so held together, it would certainly amount to "rape" as defined under Section 375," ruled a bench of Justices K Vinod Chandran and Ziyad Rahman on Monday. The court said when penetration is thus made in between the thighs so held together, it would certainly amount to "rape" as defined under Section 375. "In short, considering the intention of the legislature as revealed from the above proposals, followed by the enactment of Criminal Law Amendment Act, 2013 and gradual evolution of the concept of the offence of "rape" from time to time, the irresistible conclusion is that, the definition of rape as contained in section 375 would take in, all forms of penetrative sexual assault onto vagina, urethra, anus or any other parts of the body so manipulated to get the feeling or sensation of an orifice," the court said. The court said this while deciding whether the penetration to "any part of the body of such woman" as mentioned in section 375(c) of the Indian Penal Code like sexual assaults beyond penile penetration into vagina, urethra, anus and mouth; the known orifices in the human body to which such penetration is imaginably possible is rape. "We have already found that, Section 375 as amended by Act 13 of 2013, widened the definition of "rape" by expanding its ambit beyond the penile penetrative assault into vagina. One of the consequences of such amendment is that, several penetrative sexual assaults, which would otherwise be triable under Section 377, now come within the operative field of Section 375", the court said. However, Section 377 would still be attracted in cases of penetrative sexual assaults against the order of nature, which are not falling under Section 375, the court said. In its order, the court said it is established from the evidence that, the appellant had committed the offence of rape as he had penetrative sexual act between the thighs of the victim held together; an act of manipulation of the body of the victim to obtain sexual gratification, which culminated in ejaculation. Partly allowing the appeal, the court said as the prosecution failed to provide any evidence to prove the age of the victim, the offences under the provisions of the POCSO Act and also under section 376(2)(i) of the Indian Penal Code are not attracted. "However the sexual acts committed by the appellant is sufficient to attract the offence of section 375(c) read with section 376 (1) of IPC", the court said. As he is found guilty of offence under Section 376(1) read with Section 375(c) instead of Sections 376(2) (i) and 377 by the Sessions Court, the sentence of life imprisonment with the meaning of imprisonment of remainder of natural life, is modified as life imprisonment, the high court said. "The sentences passed by the Sessions Court under Sections 354 and 354A(1)(i) are hereby confirmed. The sentences shall be undergone concurrently," the court said in the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Prashant Kishor resigns as Amarinder Singh's principal advisor||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor Thursday resigned as Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's principal advisor, saying he was taking "a temporary break from active role in public life". Kishor's move comes with assembly polls in Punjab less than a year away. Kishor had managed the Congress' successful campaign in the 2017 polls. He devised campaign programs such as "Punjab Da Captain" to garner support for Singh. In a letter to the chief minister Thursday, Kishor wrote, "In view of my decision to take a temporary break from active role in public life, I have not been able to take over the responsibilities as your Principal Advisor. "Since I am yet to decide on my future course of action, I write to request you to kindly relive me from this responsibility. I take this opportunity to thank you for considering me for this position," he wrote. The chief minister had in March appointed Kishor as his principal advisor and given him the rank and status of a cabinet minister. A notification issued by the General Administration Department had said Kishor would take a token honorarium of Re 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Gupkar Alliance leaders hold talks on 2nd anniversary of Article 370 abrogation||On the second anniversary of the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) Thursday expressed concern over the situation in J&K and resolved to continue the struggle for the restoration the "legitimate rights" of its people. The alliance held a meeting of its constituents at its chairman and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah's residence in Gupkar area here. The meeting was attended by the PAGD's vice chairperson and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, its spokesperson and CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami and senior vice president of Awami national Conference Muzaffar Shah. Speaking to reporters outside Abdullah's residence after the meeting, Tarigami said the alliance "reiterated our resolve to continue our struggle for restoration of our legitimate rights". He said the meeting expressed concern over the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. "Despite tall claims of the government, the situation since August 5, 2019 is worsening day by day. They claimed that normalcy will be restored and violence will end, but look what they have said on the floor of the Parliament recently in response to a question about statehood. The minister said that statehood will be restored only at an appropriate time when normalcy is restored," Tarigami said. "It meant that the situation continues to be abnormal and the claim of restoring peace in the region has not been achieved by the measures initiated on that 'unfortunate day of August 5, 2019". The alliance spokesperson asked where was the investment and employment opportunities the Centre claimed the revocation of J-K's special status will bring. "If you move around whether it is Kashmir or Jammu, or even in fact in Ladakh region as well, whatever development was initiated by the previous governments even that is not yet being completed. "They claimed that lot of investment will be made here that will generate employment, that will generate hope for the youngsters, just tell me, where are those projects, where is that investment taking place? Forget about Kashmir, what about Jammu? Ask the chamber there, ask the chamber here and ask the people in Leh," he said. Tarigami said none of the promises made by the Centre has been fulfilled. "Rather, implementing such laws which restrict the freedom of the press, of the people, have become an order of the day. While there have been two lockdowns (in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic) elsewhere (in the country), our Kashmir has continuously passed through crackdowns since August 5, 2019," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Snooping allegations serious if true, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said allegations of snooping are serious if the reports regarding it are correct as it commenced hearing on a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant asked some questions at the outset from senior counsel Kapil Sibal appearing for the Editors Guild of India and senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar. "Before going into all that, we have certain questions. No doubt, the allegations are serious, if the reports are true," the CJI observed and raised the issue of delay, saying the matter had come to light way back in 2019. "Reports of snooping came to light in 2019. I do not know whether any efforts were made to get more information," the CJI observed, adding that he did not want to say that it was an impediment. The top court said that it was not going into the facts of each case and if some people claimed that their phones were intercepted then there is the Telegraph Act under which complaints can be filed. "I can explain. We do not have the access to many materials. The petitions have information about 10 cases of direct infiltration into phones," Sibal said. The apex court asked the counsel appearing for the petitioners to serve the copy of the pleas to the Centre. "Let them serve copies of the petition to the government. Somebody should appear for the government to take notice," the bench said while posting the matter for hearing on August 10. "We do not know in which matter we will issue notice. Let them come before us to accept the notices and then we will see," the bench said. The hearing on as many as nine petitions, including those filed by the Editors Guild of India and senior journalists seeking an independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter is presently on. The Guild and veteran journalist Mrinal Pande have challenged the constitutional validity of Section 5 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, Rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Interception, Monitoring and Decryption of Information) Rules, 2009. These provisions permit the government to intercept the electronic devices of citizens subject to various safeguards. The petitions are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. An old phone number of former Supreme Court judge Arun Mishra and the numbers of two officers of the Supreme Court registry are on the list that featured potential targets for surveillance using the Pegasus spyware, The Wire news portal reported on Wednesday. Other new names disclosed by the portal include that of a lawyer for Christian Michel, the British “middleman” extradited to India in 2018 in the Agusta Westland helicopter deal case. The Centre had hoped to use Michel’s testimony to implicate the Nehru-Gandhi family in the scam. The Narendra Modi government has so far resisted the Opposition’s demand to discuss the issue in Parliament and refused to acknowledge or deny whether it had bought the Pegasus software which can only be accessed by governments or government-run agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||India logs over 42,000 fresh Covid cases, 533 casualties in a day||India added 42,982 new coronavirus infections in a single day taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,18,12,114, while the active cases increased to 4,11,076, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,26,290 with 533 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.29 per cent of the total infections and the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.37 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 723 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. As many as 16,64,030 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 47,48,93,363. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.58 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.37 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,09,74,748, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 48.93 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. The 533 new fatalities include 195 from Maharashtra and 108 from Kerala. A total of 4,26,290 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,33,410 from Maharashtra, 36,680 from Karnataka, 34,197 from Tamil Nadu, 25,058 from Delhi, 22,767 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,180 from West Bengal and 17,211 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 1 dead, 11 injured as Naxals blow up SUV in Dantewada||Twelve people were injured, three of them seriously, after Naxals blew up a sports utility vehicle (SUV) in which they were travelling using an improvised explosive device in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district on Thursday, a police official said. The incident took place at around 7.30 am near Ghotiya village under Malewadhi police station limits, located around 400 km from the state capital Raipur, on an under-construction route that connects Narayanpur to Dantewada, the district's Superintendent of Police, Abhishek Pallava, told PTI. The vehicle, a Bolero, came under the impact of the IED blast, causing injuries to all 12 occupants, including a woman. Three of them received critical injuries," he said. After being alerted, a team of security personnel from a nearby camp rushed to the spot. The injured people were being shifted to the district hospital, Pallava said. The official further said they suspect the rebels might have planned to target security forces, but mistakenly attacked the civilian vehicle. He also said police never use four-wheelers while moving on that route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Chances of light rain in Delhi today||The Meteorological (MeT) Department has forecast generally cloudy sky with light rain in Delhi on Thursday. While the minimum temperature was recorded at 26.5 degrees Celsius, the maximum temperature is expected to settle around 35 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 78 per cent. The weather department has predicted light to heavy rainfall in Delhi over the next three to four days. It had earlier said that Delhi is likely to receive normal rainfall -- 95 to 106 per cent of the long-period average -- in August. Notably, the national capital had witnessed uncharacteristically heavy rainfall and an irregular weather pattern in July. The air quality in the city was recorded in the "satisfactory" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 93 at 8.05 am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The maximum and minimum temperature recorded on Wednesday was 35.2 and 25.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Opposition accuses Modi govt of conspiring to break their unity||The Opposition parties on Wednesday accused the Narendra Modi government of conspiring to break their unity but asserted they would not waver from their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy in Parliament, followed by a debate on the farmers’ protests. To stamp out any misgivings or confusion about the stand of the Opposition, the parties issued a joint statement iterating their demand for discussion and condemning the government’s stubborn denial of any debate on pressing issues. At least two leaders publicly accused the government of trying to create divisions while another said on the condition of anonymity that “pressure was being exerted to move on and not stick to Pegasus”. The Opposition also spoke about efforts to malign its protest by criticising the disruption of Parliament. The joint statement by the Opposition parties, which included the Aam Aadmi Party that had not been present at Rahul Gandhi’s breakfast meeting on Tuesday, said: “The Opposition parties stand firm and united on their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus issue in both Houses, replied to by the home minister, as this has national security dimensions. The Opposition has also unequivocally conveyed that the discussion on the farmers’ issues and agitations arising from the three anti-farmer and black agriculture laws should follow the discussion on Pegasus.” The statement was signed by Mallikarjun Kharge and Anand Sharma of the Congress, Sharad Pawar of the NCP, T.R. Baalu and Tiruchi Siva of the DMK, Ram Gopal Yadav of the Samajwadi Party, Derek O’Brien and Kalyan Banerjee of the Trinamul Congress, Sanjay Raut and Vinayak Raut of the Shiv Sena, Manoj Jha of the RJD, Elamaram Kareem of the CPM, Sushil Gupta of the AAP, Mohd Basheer of the Indian Union Muslim League, Hasnain Masoodi of the National Conference, Binoy Viswam of the CPI, N.K. Premachandran of the RSP and M.V. Shreyams Kumar of the Loktantrik Janata Dal. Jairam Ramesh, the Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, tweeted: “Opposition is united in spite of Modi Government’s efforts to break the unity.” Trinamul MP O’Brien said on social media: “Desperate BJP trying to divide Opposition in Parliament. Good try. But you failed. All Opposition parties want Parliament to run….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Phone number of ex-judge, SC officials on spyware list||An old phone number of former Supreme Court judge Arun Mishra and the numbers of two officers of the Supreme Court registry are on the list that featured potential targets for surveillance using the Pegasus spyware, The Wire news portal reported on Wednesday. On Thursday, the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear several petitions seeking directives to the Narendra Modi government to clear the air on the Pegasus controversy. Other new names disclosed by the portal include that of a lawyer for Christian Michel, the British “middleman” extradited to India in 2018 in the Agusta Westland helicopter deal case. The Centre had hoped to use Michel’s testimony to implicate the Nehru-Gandhi family in the scam. The numbers of a lawyer for Nirav Modi and an aide to former attorney-general Mukul Rohatgi also figure on the leaked list of potential targets. The Wire report on Wednesday evening said: “The presence on the list of a number associated with a sitting judge was mentioned…. Having now spoken to him on the record, we can confirm that a Rajasthan mobile number formerly registered in the name of Justice Arun Mishra, who retired from the Supreme Court in September 2020, was added to the database in 2019.” A source told the portal that the number was registered in the name of Justice Mishra from September 18, 2010, to September 19, 2018. Justice Mishra had heard several important cases and played a key role in the apex court’s handling of the sexual harassment case against then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi in April 2019. Justice Mishra, now chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, told the portal that the number “is not with me since 2013-2014. I don’t use this number”. “He subsequently noted that he had ‘surrendered the number on April 21, 2014’. Why this number was added to the database in 2019 by an India-based Pegasus operator is not clear,” The Wire said. The presence of the numbers of the officers of the Supreme Court registry is also significant. “It is the registry which helps determine when, where — and even if — new cases, especially ‘sensitive’ ones, move, or languish,” the portal said. N.K. Gandhi and T.I. Rajput both worked in the crucial “writ” section of the Supreme Court’s registry when their numbers were added. More than 1,000 writ petitions are filed directly in the apex court in any given year, and these are of direct concern to the Union government. Some of them are considered politically sensitive. Earlier, in 2019, two junior court employees had been dismissed from service by then Chief Justice Gogoi “for tampering with an order” in a contempt of court case against Anil Ambani of the Reliance ADAG Group but, according to The Wire, there is nothing to suggest that the inclusion of Gandhi and Rajput in the list had anything to do with the Ambani case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Home ministry recommends action against  Alok Verma||The Union home ministry has recommended disciplinary action against former CBI director Alok Verma who had taken the Narendra Modi government to court after being benched and had allegedly considered probing the Rafale deal, sources said. “The home ministry has recommended disciplinary action against (the now retired) Verma for violating service rules by refusing to take up the charge he was assigned after being removed as CBI chief,” a ministry official said. Such disciplinary action — if approved by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) — can include a temporary or permanent stoppage of pension and other retirement benefits. The move comes at a time the Pegasus controversy has rekindled interest in Verma’s sudden removal as CBI chief in a midnight purge in October 2018, which had prompted speculation that he had started enquiring about possible corruption in the Rafale deal and paid the price. Last week, news website The Wire reported that shortly after Verma’s benching, an unknown Indian agency had put his phones and those of his family members on the list of potential targets of Pegasus-enabled snooping. An IPS officer posted in the Union home ministry said the government’s latest action was “nothing but vendetta”. “Verma had taken the government on and moved the Supreme Court. The government wants to teach him a lesson and send out a message to others,” the officer told The Telegraph requesting anonymity. Verma had in 2018 challenged his benching in the apex court, which had held his ouster to have been hasty and reinstated him with certain riders on January 8, 2019. But on January 10, the government transferred him as director-general of fire services, civil defence and the home guard, and said he would occupy the post till January 31, 2019 — the day he would have retired as CBI chief. But the 1979-batch IPS officer — who had reached retirement age on July 31, 2017, and was continuing in service because he had a fixed two-year term as CBI director till January 31, 2019 — had declined the new assignment on the ground that he had already crossed the superannuation age for the director-general.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Six members of the TMC suspended from the Rajya Sabha for a day||Six members of the Trinamul Congress have been suspended from the Rajya Sabha for a day for holding up placards in the House and demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations. Wednesday’s suspension, however, did not deter the rest of the Opposition from returning to the Upper House with placards when the proceedings resumed in the afternoon. The six MPs who were suspended under Rule 255 of the Rajya Sabha were Dola Sen, Md Nadimul Haque, Abir Ranjan Biswas, Shanta Chhetri, Arpita Ghosh and Mausam Noor. Soon after ordering their suspension for repeatedly entering the Rajya Sabha with placards, Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the House till 2pm. While the six suspended Trinamul MPs were not allowed to return to the House when proceedings resumed, videos from the Rajya Sabha lobby showed them shouting slogans at the door to the chamber with the watch and ward staff surrounding them to prevent them from entering. Inside, their colleagues in the Opposition picked up the cudgels for them and continued with the slogan shouting in an attempt to drown the discussion on the bills that were taken up in quick succession. Since the television cameras always focus on the Chair or the designated speaker of the moment whenever there is pandemonium in the House, the Opposition members could be seen trying to use their placards to block off the MPs addressing the Rajya Sabha to get some airtime for their issues. Many of the Opposition members had also got themselves listed to speak on the three bills the government had slated for the afternoon in the hope of using the opportunity to raise the farmers’ protests. However, deputy Chairman Harivansh refused to allow this, warning that nothing would go on record if they spoke on anything other than the bills under consideration. When CPM member John Brittas stood up to say that he opposed the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, the Chair said: “Please speak on the subject, only then it will go on record.” CPM leader Elamaram Kareem later told The Telegraph that this was undemocratic. “We are well within our rights to oppose any bill as per our party line. Why should the Chair be interrupting a member just because he said ‘Sir, I stand to oppose the bill’. Why was the member interrupted even before he had said anything unrelated to the bill? In any case, it is undemocratic to dictate to members how they shall speak on a bill.” Member after member from the Opposition used the same strategy to draw attention to the farmers’ movement but they were cut short and nothing was included in the records. Later, when finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tried to find fault with the Opposition’s actions during her reply to the discussion on a bill, the DMK’s Tiruchi Siva objected, saying that after dictating to MPs that they should not speak beyond the bill under consideration, the minister was levelling accusations against them beyond the matter at hand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Cabinet approves bill to restore states' right to own OBC lists||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a bill to amend the Constitution to restore the rights of the states to maintain their own lists of Other Backward Classes (OBCs). “The cabinet has approved the bill to amend the Constitution to ensure states get back their power to maintain their list of OBCs,” said a senior government functionary, who did not wish to be named. In May, the Supreme Court had struck down the Maharashtra government’s inclusion of Marathas under the OBC quota in 2018 as “unconstitutional”. It analysed Article 342A and said the Centre alone can maintain the OBC list. The apex court had ruled that under the 102nd constitutional amendment by which Article 342A was engrafted, only the National Commission for Backward Classes can have the final say on the preparation of the list of backward classes. Article 342A states: “The President may with respect to any State or Union Territory, and where it is a State, after consultation with the Governor thereof, by public notification, specify the socially and educationally backward classes which shall for the purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be socially and educationally backward classes in relation to that State or Union Territory, as the case may be.” The Centre has an overall OBC list, which is the basis for the 27 per cent quota in central government jobs and higher education seats. But earlier the states too had their own OBC lists — which tended to include additional castes — and their own OBC quotas for state-level jobs and college and university seats. After the apex court ruling, OBC groups had criticised the Centre for ambiguity in the law. “When the government brought the (102nd constitutional amendment) bill in 2017, this lacuna was pointed out. But the government ignored it. This (new) bill is not anything extra but a corrective measure for its own mistakes,” said G. Karunanidhi, national general secretary of the All India OBC Federation. Shashank Ratnoo, a Supreme Court lawyer and a researcher on OBC issues, welcomed the government decision. “Whatever apprehensions and ambiguities had arisen post the Supreme Court judgment in the Maratha case has been taken care of by the restoration of states’ powers to identify OBCs. It’s a welcome and proactive move by the Centre which will again restore the powers of state governments in the interests of OBCs as well as in the spirit of federalism,” Ratnoo said. When the bill was referred to a select committee of Parliament in 2017, the matter of states losing their right was raised. Trinamul MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy had submitted a note of dissent. “The proposed amendments to the Constitution of India through the present bill appear to be against the spirit of cooperative federalism. The proposed amendment to the Constitution through this Bill undermines the role of state governments and state commission for backward classes,” Roy had said. However, the committee had overruled the objections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Death of Dalit girl triggers protest against BJP-led central govt||The alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl on Sunday, followed by Dalit demonstrations at a village near Delhi Cantonment, has triggered protests against the BJP-led central government that supervises Delhi police. Under public pressure, the police have arrested four men — a crematorium priest and three others — on charges that include rape and murder. The girl’s parents have alleged she was cremated without their consent. The BJP has attacked Rahul Gandhi for meeting the girl’s parents, and the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked Twitter to remove a tweet by Rahul showing him with the parents as it violates the norm against revelation of the victim’s identity. However, photographs of the parents of the December 2012 gang rape and murder victim meeting political leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others from the BJP, have frequently been published in the past. Trinamul MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Shanta Chhetri and Mausam Noor have visited the spot where the nine-year-old was allegedly murdered, and the Left parties and their mass organisations protested in the capital. The Congress held candlelight marches in each of Delhi’s 70 Assembly constituencies on Wednesday. DCP (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh has said the girl went to the crematorium around 5.30pm on Sunday to get cold water from the cooler. “At 1800 hrs the priest of crematorium Pandit Radhey Shyam and two-three other persons known to the mother... called her to crematorium and showed dead body of girl stating that she got electrocuted while having water from water cooler, and that there were burn marks between left wrist and elbow of girl, also her lips were blue. This was seen by the mother,” Singh said. Singh said Shyam and the co-accused told the mother that if she called the police, “in post-mortem doctors will steal all organs of the girl and so it’s better to cremate her. The girl was cremated”. After the parents protested, the police stopped the cremation and detained Shyam, but only the child’s legs could be retrieved. On Tuesday, Bhim Army leader Chandrashekhar Azad and AAP legislator Rakhi Birla led a sit-in at the village. The girl’s mother claimed she and her husband had been held at Delhi Cantonment police station for several hours on Sunday, and that the police did not protect her husband from being assaulted there by an unidentified man who was not wearing a uniform. The police have denied the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Rahul calls attention to rape and murder of Dalit minor girl in Delhi||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday flagged the rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi, trying to jolt the nation’s conscience at a time its women’s successes in the Olympics have encouraged a self-congratulatory narrative about women’s empowerment. The rag-picker’s daughter who had gone to a crematorium near her home to fetch drinking water was allegedly raped by the facility’s priest along with three of his friends on Sunday evening. She was then allegedly murdered and her body burnt, but the police are accused of trying to hush up the atrocity that the intervention of activists and local Congress functionaries brought to light. Delhi, which had erupted over the death of the December 2012 bus gang-rape victim nine years ago, has largely remained indifferent. Central and state government authorities did not express even the customary condolences till chief minister Arvind Kejriwal woke up on Tuesday and tweeted his shock at the crime after the Delhi Congress chief visited the girl’s family. Kejriwal paid the family a visit on Wednesday after Rahul’s drew national attention. Rahul, who had on Tuesday tweeted that “A Dalit’s daughter too is a daughter of the nation”, arrived at her village, Nangal, on Wednesday morning to console her parents. After Rahul spoke to them in the presence of activists and local people, the mother said she would not be able to narrate everything in front of the crowd. Rahul took the parents into his car and heard them in private. Asked about the incident later, he told reporters: “I only know that my job is to help them.” Rahul and Priyanka had last year visited Hathras in Uttar Pradesh despite stiff resistance from the administration to express solidarity with the family of another Dalit rape-and-murder victim whose body the police had burnt without the parents’ consent. “The Delhi incident is painful and condemnable. Imagine what her family must be going through,” Priyanka has tweeted. “The home minister (Amit Shah), who is responsible for law and order in Delhi, had gone to distribute certificates (of good governance) in Uttar Pradesh. But he can’t fulfil his own responsibilities. From Hathras to Nangal: There is jungle raj.” While Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tweeted on Indian sportswomen winning medals at the Olympics, neither he nor any other Union minister had commented on the Nangal atrocity till Wednesday evening. Even women and child development minister Smriti Irani, who attended an event on Sunday to celebrate the second anniversary of the enactment of the triple talaq law — a milestone in the RSS-BJP’s perception of women’s empowerment — has remained mum on the Dalit girl’s rape and murder. Shaktisinh Gohil, the Congress’s minder for Delhi, said: “Crime against women has become routine. After killing this girl, the culprits tried to hush up the matter, offered money to the mother. The police took the mother into custody. The FIR was filed only when some local Congress leaders and activists created pressure.” Delhi Congress chief Anil Chowdhary said: “They tried to pass the murder off as an accidental death from an electrical shock. There are allegations against the priest of similar crimes but the police didn’t act.” He added: “The Prime Minister gave us hollow slogans but did nothing about crimes against women. There have been 15,000 rapes in Delhi since 2014. We want adequate financial assistance to the family.” Kejriwal has now announced an assistance of Rs 10 lakh to the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||'Second assassination': Eminent people write to PM on Sabarmati redevelopment ||Over 100 eminent people on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s plans to redevelop the Gandhi Ashram in Sabarmati could end up becoming a “second assassination” as “the most authentic monument (to) Gandhi and our freedom struggle will be lost forever to vanity and commercialisation”. In a letter, they echoed sentiments held by many who are closely associated with the ashram, where considerable effort has been made in the past seven decades to preserve a simplicity reminiscent of the time the complex was home to the Mahatma. “The proposed plan at best envisions a ‘Gandhi theme park’ and at worst ‘a second assassination’,” says the letter, whose signatories include the Mahatma’s grandson, Rajmohan Gandhi. Writer G.N. Devy, filmmaker Anand Patwardhan, freedom fighter G.G. Parikh, writer and Jawaharlal Nehru’s niece Nayantara Sahgal, historian Ramachandra Guha, retired high court judge A.P. Shah and musician T.M. Krishna are also among the signatories. The letter voices fear at the government’s attempts to control Gandhian institutions, especially the archives, citing how Gandhi was murdered by people whose ideology still inspires some of those in power in the country. It queries the plans to reclaim “the visual wholesomeness, tranquillity and uncluttered environment of 1949” and turn the ashram into a tourist destination with an amphitheatre, a VIP lounge, shops and food courts. “Lakhs of Indians, especially schoolchildren, as well as foreign visitors come to Sabarmati Ashram every year. The place has never needed a ‘world-class’ makeover to attract tourists. The charisma of Gandhi along with the authenticity and simplicity of the place has been enough,” the letter says. Aware of media reports on the “Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project”, the signatories have expressed fear that the proposal “severely compromises and trivialises the sanctity and importance of the present-day ashram, mainly Hriday Kunj, surrounding buildings, and the museum”. Hriday Kunj served as the residence of Gandhi and his wife Kasturba from 1917 to 1930, till the Mahatma left the ashram pledging not to return till the country had attained independence. “The simplicity of the ashram will be completely lost in a Rs 1,200 crore project,” the letter says. The redevelopment plan has been drawn up by HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt. Ltd, which is developing the Central Vista Project in Delhi. The protest letter follows reports that work has started with the Gujarat government beginning the process of getting ashram residents to vacate by paying them a lump sum. The residents are descendents of people whom Gandhi had settled in the ashram over a century ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Six shot dead over land dispute  in Bihar||At least six persons were shot dead and two others were seriously injured in Bihar’s Nalanda district on Wednesday allegedly over a land dispute. Nalanda also happens to be the native district of chief minister Nitish Kumar and the incident reflects poorly on the continuously deteriorating law and order situation in the state. The massacre happened at Lodipur village under Chhabilapur police station in the historic Rajgir area following a clash between two groups of people affiliated to Parshuram Yadav and Nitish Yadav. Parshuram and Nitish are distant relatives and had a running feud between them over a piece of land. “So far six persons have been found to have been killed while two others are injured in the incident. We are conducting raids to arrest the culprits. All the deceased belong to one group of people,” Rajgir SDPO Somnath Prasad told The Telegraph. Senior officials were camping in the area where the killings occurred in broad daylight somewhere between 10am and 12pm. The bodies were being sent to the government hospital for post-mortem. Police officials said that Parshuram and a few members of his family were tilling a piece of land when Nitish arrived with dozens of armed persons and started firing indiscriminately at them. Panic prevailed in the village and all adult men residing there fled out of fear. The attackers also escaped. The chief minister has constantly expressed worry that the majority of violence in Bihar occurred over land disputes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul offers activist Akhil Gogoi to lead party in Assam for 2024 Assembly elections||After a victory in the Bengal Assembly polls, Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress(TMC) is working hard to create a strong base in Assam and Tripura. TMC has set its eyes on Tripura Assembly elections slated in 2023 and recently offered anti-CAA leader and MLA in Assam Akhil Gogoi to join TMC and lead the party for the 2024 polls in the BJP-ruled state. Speaking to reporters in Guwahati on Wednesday, Gogoi said, “After I came out of the jail, Mamata Banerjee invited me to meet her. I visited Calcutta twice recently and met her too. Trinamul wants me to join their party and lead the party as state president in Assam. We have not yet told her anything but my party Raijor Dal is trying hard to unit the opposition parties against BJP.” Gogoi is opposed to both BJP and RSS, saying both are trying to divide people on religious lines to win elections. He has been vocal against the BJP-led government in Assam and its policies including the CAA. Gogoi, who was arrested during the anti-CAA agitation in December 2019, came out of jail on July 1 this year, after a special National Investigate Agency court's order. The Assam police had charged him for sedition, while the NIA had charged him of having links with Maoists but the court cleared him of all charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid situation might turn grim if vaccine supply not augmented in Bengal: Mamata tells PM Modi||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing apprehension that the Covid situation might turn grim if the vaccine supply in the state is not augmented. She also alleged that the state is getting a “much lower number of doses” of vaccines despite having a very high population density, and urged him to ramp up the supply of vials. The state would require around 14 crore doses of Covid vaccines to cover all the eligible people, she said. “Presently, we are administering four lakh doses per day and are capable of administer 11 lakh doses per day. Yet, we are getting much lower number of doses despite having a very high population density and a higher rate of urbanisation,” Banerjee wrote in the letter. She also alleged that several letters sent to the PM on the same matter earlier have “not received due attention” at the Centre. “I am sorry to say the central government is providing a larger number of vaccine doses to other states. I have no problem if any other state receives higher number of vaccine doses, but I cannot remain a mute spectator to see Bengal deprived,” she said. The CM claimed that the positivity rate of Covid-19 has come down to 1.57 per cent due to the state's sustained efforts. “So, my earnest appeal to you is to see that Bengal receives adequate vaccine doses as per its requirement,” she said in the letter.    Till Wednesday, over 3.09 crore people have been inoculated in Bengal, health department sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata mulls opening schools, colleges after Durga puja||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said her government is weighing options for reopening schools and colleges on alternate days after the Durga Puja vacation in November. Educational institutions have been closed in the state since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year. "However, nothing has been finalised just yet," Banerjee told reporters following a meeting of the Global Advisory Board (GAB), headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, at the state secretariat. The economist is in West Bengal to discuss Covid strategies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata asks power regulator to switch to monthly bills||The Mamata Banerjee government has directed the Bengal power regulator to revise the billing cycle from the existing quarterly to a monthly one, the move raising questions of the authority of a government over a statutory entity. The move, if it gets a nod from the West Bengal Electricity Regulatory Commission (WBERC), a statutory body, will bring an end to the practice of quarterly billing cycle in the state since 1955. A letter signed by additional chief secretary S Suresh Kumar on August 3, states, ‘… the state government, in public interest, under section 108 of the Electricity Act 2003 issues the following policy directions to the West Bengal Electricity Regulatory Commission as under= a)    Define the billing cycle or billing period as one month for all consumers of WBSEDCL (West Bengal State Electricity Development Corporation Limited) b)    Work out the transitional plan for WBSEDCL to roll over to the monthly billing cycle from the existing quarterly billing cycle. “The commission can take decisions on its own, the commission has that power. There was no need for the government to issue a directive. Why they did so I cannot say,” said Rabindranath Sen, former chairman of the West Bengal Electricity Regulatory Commission. Sen said power tariff has always been a sensitive issue in the state.  WBSEDCL chairman Santanu Bose held a meeting with senior officials of the company to discuss the billing cycle issue on Thursday. According to sources, state power minister and Mamata confidante Aroop Biswas is keen to ensure the change happens quickly. Sources in the power department said the state government would ask the power utility to bring the new billing cycle into play in Salt Lake, Rajarhat and New Town. By when the change will take place is not yet clear as the WBERC is yet to respond to the letter. Transmission and supply of power in Bengal is divided between the Calcutta Electricity Supply Corporation (a private entity), the West Bengal State Electricity Development Corporation Limited (a state-owned utility that is the largest distributor) and the India Power Corporation Limited. The command area of CESC is around 765 sq km and India Power is limited to 618 sq kms across the Asansol-Raniganj belt leaving around 1.85crore consumers from Sagar Islands to Ghum in the Bengal Himalayas to WBSEDCL. Currently,  WBSEDCL is facing a staggering loss of Rs 250crore per month with 26 per cent accounted for transmission, distribution and commercial loss. “This move will guarantee a revenue spike for the WBSEDCL,” said a senior official in the power department. The official did not explain how the monthly billing cycle would plug the hole. In the letter, the government has argued, the universal norm in the country has been that the billing cycle is at monthly intervals. The letter also cites examples of CESC and IPCL. The government also plans to use the monthly bills for advertising to generate additional revenues, which is not possible in the current spot reading. For Biswas’ pipedream to be realised, the government (rather the WBSEDCL) will have to shell out additional funds, the tune of which is yet to be calculated. A  rough estimate can be made from the fact that WBSEDCL has 538 customer care centres with cash counters which would have to be increased by three times, which will also mean direct recruitment. Metre reading and spot billing is now completely outsourced, handled by one person. According to sources, agencies working on behalf of WBSEDCL have deployed around 5,300 persons for the work carried out over a period of three months. For the process to be completed on a monthly basis, more agents will have to be deployed as well. Can a cash-strapped WBSEDCL afford this overhaul -- is a question that none in the state administration is willing to answer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to Modi, expresses concern on vaccine shortfall||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing apprehension that the Covid situation might turn grim if the vaccine supply in the state is not augmented. She also alleged that the state is getting a "much lower number of doses" of vaccines despite having a very high population density, and urged him to ramp up the supply of vials. The state would require around 14 crore doses of Covid vaccines to cover all the eligible people, she said. "Presently, we are administering four lakh doses per day and are capable of administering 11 lakh doses per day. Yet, we are getting much lower number of doses despite having a very high population density and a higher rate of urbanisation," Banerjee wrote in the letter. She also alleged that several letters sent to the PM on the same matter earlier have "not received due attention" at the Centre. "I am sorry to say the central government is providing a larger number of vaccine doses to other states. I have no problem if any other state receives higher number of vaccine doses, but I cannot remain a mute spectator to see Bengal deprived," she said. The CM claimed that the positivity rate of Covid-19 has come down to 1.57 per cent due to the state's sustained efforts. "So, my earnest appeal to you is to see that Bengal receives adequate vaccine doses as per its requirement," she said in the letter. Till Wednesday, over 3.09 crore people have been inoculated in Bengal, health department sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee flags ‘manmade’ floods to PM, prods DVC||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him for measures to desilt DVC’s dams to increase their water-holding capacity so that Bengal was spared regular floods. The letter was sent after her phone conversation with Modi in the morning on the flood-like situation in some south Bengal districts, which she termed “manmade”. “Kindly refer to our telephonic conversation today on the grave manmade flood situation in some districts of West Bengal due to unprecedented release of water from the DVC dams at Panchet, Maithon and Tenughat...”she wrote. “Despite raising the issue to you and DVC way back in 2015, for the urgent need for renovation, upgradation and modernisation of assets of DVC and other allied systems, inter alia, essential desiltation and dredging, to prevent the recurrent wrath of floods in West Bengal and most importantly increasing water holding capacity of the DVC dams by around 1.2 lakh acre-feet, the issue still remains unaddressed,” she added. Mamata informed Modi through her letter that 16 lives had been lost after nearly 2 lakh cusecs of water got discharged from Panchet, Maithan and Tenughat dams (in Jharkhand) leading to severe flooding in Hooghly, Howrah, East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Birbhum and West Midnapore. She wrote about the “unprecedented displacement, suffering and loss of livelihood of lakhs...”, adding that the Bengal government was assessing damages and would send a detailed report  to the Centre. Mamata also made specific proposals in her letter to enhance the water holding capacity of the dams of the DVC network, such as desiltation of Panchet dam and a ring embankment on Maithan dam. Soon after the phone conversation, the PMO tweeted that Prime Minister spoke to the Bengal chief minister on the flood situation caused by water discharged from dams in parts of the state. Thousands of people in at least 100 villages in three flood-hit districts, Howrah, Hooghly and West Midnapore, were inaccessible to the administration on Wednesday. An official said if a problem is identified and nothing is done to save lives and livelihoods, it is the failure of the government. “In this case, the Centre should be at the receiving end,” he said. Nabanna sources said Mamata told the PM that the DVC was not sending proper information to the state government before releasing dam water. “The chief minister pointed out that the DVC had released nearly 2 lakh cusecs of water from its dams but had informed the state about 55,000 cusecs would be released a couple of days ago,” a source said, adding this information lacuna prevented the state government from evacuating people in advance. “We had to release a maximum of 1.2 lakh cusecs of water a few days ago. Every time we released water, the state government was informed in advance,” said a DVC source. Mamata on Wednesday visited flood-hit areas of Amta in Howrah. As her chopper could not fly in bad weather, she went by road. She had planned to visit flood-hit Udaynarayanpur in Howrah and Khanakul in Hooghly, but floods prevented her. Sources in the disaster management department said death toll reached 23 while 1.13 lakh people had to be evacuated. In all, 361 relief camps have been set up where 43,000-odd people have taken shelter. About 4 lakh hectares of farmland have gone under the water and the damage would be assessed only after the water recedes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 826 new infections, 838 recoveries and 10 fatalities||Bengal on Wednesday reported 826 new infections, 838 recoveries and 10 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 22 to 10,745 on Wednesday, marking 45 consecutive days of the slide. Bengal currently has 2.65 per cent of the nation’s active Covid-19 cases, and is ninth among states with the most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is  at its all-time high of 98.11 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.36. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.19  per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34. Calcutta logged 77 new infections and one death on Wednesday. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.57 per cent on Wednesday. Only one district, North 24-Parganas, reported a three-digit figure of new infections in a day, at 116. Eighteen Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia single-digit figures. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday while Kalimpong, Bankura, South 24-Parganas and Calcutta reported one each. Bengal now has nearly 15.31 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March 2020, which includes close to 15.02 lakh recoveries and 18,180 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP’s minder Kailash Vijayvargiya’s ‘fall’ from peak||Bengal BJP’s minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, a leader who called the shots till May 2 afternoon, when it was clear that Trinamul was returning to power with a thumping majority, has apparently been reduced to an afterthought. On Tuesday, the allegedly steady decline in Vijayvargiya’s importance was indicated in a meeting of the BJP’s Bengal MPs in Delhi. According to multiple sources at the meeting that national joint general-secretary (organisation) Shivprakash attended, Vijayvargiya was not invited initially. It was as an afterthought, said sources, that BJP state general-secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty suggested Vijayvargiya be called since he was in Delhi and was the party’s Bengal minder. Vijayvargiya, in charge of picking candidates, has been widely blamed for the poll debacle. However, some believe he is being made a scapegoat so that blame doesn’t fall squarely on the shoulders of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. “Till the early afternoon of May 2, Kailashji would convene meetings, he had the final say on most things, and we would only listen. It is funny how tables have turned so quickly. He was invited yesterday only because Amitavada didn’t want to disturb protocol,” said a BJP MP. Two south Bengal MPs of the BJP, Asansol’s Babul Supriyo and Bongaon’s Shantanu Thakur were also conspicuous in their absence from the Delhi meeting. This was only the second time since May 2 that Vijayvargiya was seen interacting with colleagues from the state unit directly. He met with the functionaries of the BJP’s state committee virtually on July 24. Most leaders believe he made serious mistakes in choosing candidates that restricted the party to 77 seats, despite claims by Shah of 200-plus seats in Bengal. What also went against him was the return to Trinamul of Mamata’s former trusted lieutenant Mukul Roy, a BJP national vice-president in whom Vijayvargiya had invested tremendous faith, despite repeated warnings from within the saffron camp that Roy could have been a double agent. State unit chief Dilip Ghosh said: “The MPs were supposed to meet along with Shivprakash. They asked me whom else we should call, and I told them to call the observers.” Amit Malviya, Vijayvargiya’s deputy, was also invited later and was present at the meeting. Arvind Menon, another co-minder for Bengal, was unavailable to join. “All three of them were invited later, as an afterthought. But the fact remains that this is the first time that Kailashji’s name wasn’t the first on the list of invitees,” said a north Bengal MP of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Metropolitan Police floats new aerial surveillance system||The Siliguri Metropolitan Police on Wednesday launched an aerial surveillance system to keep a tab across Siliguri sub-division and in adjoining areas of the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district. Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of police, launched the facility on the tenth raising day of Siliguri police commissionerate. “We have introduced a sophisticated drone today (Wednesday) and in due course, more such drones will be engaged. Also, our men will be trained to run the drones so that they can aerially monitor the commissionerate area,” said Sharma at a programme held in the town. Siliguri, known as the gateway to the northeast, is the largest urban hub of north Bengal and is located close to the international borders which the country shares with Bangladesh and Nepal. Also, China and Bhutan borders are located within 200 kilometres from the Siliguri, known as “chicken’s neck”, the most vulnerable part of the Indian sub-continent where the width of the country is slimmest, with Bangladesh and Nepal located in south and north, respectively. “This facility can help us in handling law and order issues, traffic related crimes and traffic movement as a whole. Also, we can keep a better watch during major festivals and public functions,” said Sharma. The monitoring can facilitate more prompt services to people and can also help the police to check whether people are adhering to the Covid-19 restrictions,” added Sharma. The drones, which also have facilities to record videos, would also assist the police in keeping records of criminal activities, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||People in 100 villages from flood-hit districts remain inaccessible||Thousands of people in at least 100 villages in the state’s three flood-hit districts —Howrah, Hooghly and West Midnapore — remained inaccessible to the administration as water levels stayed high owing to incessant rain in south Bengal since Tuesday night. Sources said at least six gram panchayats in Hooghly’s Khanakul, five in West Midnapore’s Ghatal and three in Howrah’s Udaynarayanpur stayed under water and administrative officials failed to reach them. The situation is worst in half a dozen gram panchayats in Khanakul’s Dhanyaghori, Kishorepur and Thakuranichawk where no relief team has been able to reach despite appeals for drinking water and food from thousands stranded on rooftops of two or three-storey houses, said sources. Ranjit Maiti, a farmer who runs a seed shop in Khanakul’s Bamunghata village of Kishorepur gram panchayat, is stuck on his roof with his wife since Saturday night. “We have managed to place the LPG cylinder on the staircase leading to the roof of my house. We are staying on the roof. When it pours we run under the shed of the staircase. We have some rice but there’s no water to boil it. We are making do with only 4 litres of drinking water since Saturday,” said Maiti. “No relief has reached us,” he added. District officials admitted that relief teams had been unable to reach several villages of Khanakul because of high water level, often 30 feet or more, and prevailing strong current in many flooded areas. “There are at least six gram panchayat areas in Khanakul I and II blocks that remain inaccessible. We are trying our best to send NDRF teams to those areas with relief items,” said Hooghly district magistrate Deepap Priya P. “This year, the water level in rivers is at least 4 feet higher compared to previous years. Many elders said they had not seen such a flood since 1978,” said Abhijit Bag, a local Trinamul leader in Khanakul. Many officials said they had no other option but to wait for the water level to drop. They said fresh rain from Tuesday night had compounded the problems. Apart from Khanakul, several villagers under five gram panchayats like Ajaynagar, Birsingha and Mohanpur were inaccessible. In Howrah, several parts of Amta and Udaynarayanpur were submerged mainly as water was released from DVC’s barrages. Flooding triggered a severe drinking water crisis. “As DVC released huge amounts of water from its barrage, the situation in Howrah is unmanageable. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday visited Amta but could not visit Udaynarayanpur or Khanakul as several roads are under water. Our department has arranged lakhs of pouches of drinking water for the flood-affected people,” said Pulok Roy, the state public health engineering (PHE) minister and an MLA from Uluberia South in Howrah. “We have sent drinking water pouch manufacturing machines to all flood-affected blocks in the state and our officials are reaching out to remote areas in boats.” . Officials cited another problem, that of many people refusing to leave their homes. “Many are refusing to leave home, fearing theft of property,” said Suman Biswas, the SDO of West Midnapore’s Ghatal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||‘TMC bias’ cry at two Covid vaccine camps in North 24-Parganas||Tension broke out in at least two vaccination camps under Bongaon subdivision in North 24-Parganas district on Wednesday as people alleged they were denied the jab despite waiting for hours as those with “recommendations” from Trinamul leaders got vaccinated. Vaccination at Gopalnagar and Gaighata had to be suspended for a few hours after local BJP MLAs rushed to speak to the aggrieved people who had been allegedly heckled by Trinamul workers. Tension broke out at Palla Debrani Balika Vidyalaya in Gopalnagar of North 24-Parganas on Wednesday morning after residents alleged they were being ignored to favour those close to Trinamul. Residents alleged that the list prepared by them since Tuesday midnight was rejected by local Trinamul leaders to ensure those close to their party got jabs. They were joined by Bongaon South’s BJP MLA Swapan Majumdar, which prompted Trinamul workers to stage a counter protest. In Gaighata, similar tension erupted at Chandpara block hospital’s vaccination centre when people in the queue alleged “Trinamul activists managed to get the jab”. Gaihata’s BJP MLA Subrata Thakur rushed to the spot. Trinamul’s Bongaon panchayat samiti president Prabir Das said people had been misguided and this camp was specifically for traders and toto operators. “The list of beneficiaries had been pre-approved. There is no question of denying vaccines to anybody but the BJP was trying to fuel tension.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||BJP supporters and leaders protest at party office in North Dinajpur||Around 50 BJP supporters, including some local leaders, protested in front of the North Dinajpur district BJP office on Wednesday, seeking the removal of the party’s district chief Basudeb Sarkar. In recent times, this is the first open protest at the district BJP office, that too against the party’s district chief. Balaram Chakraborty, a key protester on Wednesday, accused Sarkar of anti-party activities, including his “helping Trinamul to grab panchayats that the BJP had won in 2018”. Sarkar sounded unfazed and said the BJP had recently served a showcause notice to Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC asks Centre for explanation on 'permanent political solution' for Darjeeling region||Trinamul has sought from the Centre “a detailed explanation” on the “permanent political solution” for Darjeeling region with a “definite timeframe”. Shanta Chhetri, Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member, said she was to raise this issue at Zero Hour in the Upper House on Tuesday but could not speak amid “disruptions in the House”. “However, my written statement was accepted by the Speaker and has been recorded,” said Chhetri. In her written statement, Chhetri sought a “detailed explanation”, “definite time frame” and the “government’s current stand on this issue”. This is the first time that Trinamul has done so. The BJP promised a “permanent political solution" for Darjeeling hills, Dooars and Terai region along with tribal status to 11 hill communities but hasn’t spelt out details. Trinamul in its campaign during the 2021 Assembly polls had also spoken about it but not spelt out the details. The issue came in the focus after S.P. Sharma, general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang camp), started an indefinite hunger strike in Darjeeling from Sunday seeking an explanation on PPS and tribal status from Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista. His fast seems to have put pressure not just on the BJP but also its allies in the hills. On Wednesday, one of its allies, Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), shot off a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah requesting the Centre to open a dialogue on “Gorkhaland”. Jana Andolan Party president Harka Bahadur Chhetri and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction president Bimal Gurung visited Sharma and extended their support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
05-08-2021||North East||Assam decides to revoke travel advisory on Mizoram as states talk to resolve issues||Representatives of Assam and Mizoram held talks in Aizawl on Thursday and agreed to resolve the inter-state border dispute amicably, officials said. The Assam government also decided to revoke an advisory issued earlier against travel to Mizoram, they said. "Both the state governments agreed to maintain peace in the inter-state border areas and welcomed the deployment of neutral force by Government of India in this regard. "For this purpose, both the states shall not send their respective forest and police forces for patrolling, domination, enforcement or for fresh deployment to any of the areas where confrontation had taken place between the police forces of the two states during recent times. This would include all such areas along the Assam-Mizoram border in the districts of Karimganj, Hailakandi, and Cachar in Assam, and Mizoram's Mamit and Kolasib districts," a joint statement issued by the two states said. The joint statement was signed by Assam's Minister for Border Protection and Development Atul Bora and the department's commissioner and secretary G D Tripathi, and Mizoram's Home Minister Lalchamliana and Home Secretary Vanlalngathsaka. "Representatives of Governments of Assam and Mizoram agree to take all necessary measures to promote, preserve and maintain peace and harmony amongst people living in Assam and Mizoram, particularly in border areas," the statement, shared on Twitter by Assam minister Ashok Singhal, said. Six Assam Police personnel were killed and over 50 people, including the Cachar SP, were injured in an inter-state border clash between the two northeastern neighbours on July 26. Both the states also condoled the deaths of those killed in the incident and prayed for the speedy recovery of the injured persons. "Govt. of Assam & Govt. of Mizoram successfully signed a Joint Statement today after deliberations at Aizawl. Both governments agree to take forward Ministry of Home Affairs' initiatives to remove prevailing tensions and to find lasting solutions through discussions," the Mizoram CMO tweeted. Assam minister Ashok Singhal said in a Twitter post, "With great optimism from both sides, we held our discussion with the Home Minister of Mizoram @Lalchamliana12 Ji & other officials on resolving the #AssamMizoramBorder issue. This is in continuation of the discussion initiated by HCM @himantabiswa Ji & HCM @ZoramthangaCM Ji." Both states have differing interpretations of their territorial border. While Mizoram believes that its border lies along an inner line' drawn up in 1875 to protect tribals from outside influence, Assam goes by a district demarcation done in the 1930s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
05-08-2021||North East||In touch with Mamata on merger offer: Akhil Gogoi||Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul, emboldened by the 2021 mandate in Bengal, has set its sights on neighbouring Assam, besides Tripura, to enhance its political presence beyond the state of its origin. Trinamul is working on plans to carry out a  rebuilding exercise of its Assam unit, which has been a nominal presence for years. Leading anti-CAA activist and Raijor Dal’s lone MLA Akhil Gogoi on Wednesday said he has been offered by the Bengal chief minister to be her party’s Assam’s unit chief, and merge his party with hers in the Northeast state where the BJP  is in power. “On Mamata Banerjee’s request, I have met her twice in Calcutta, along with senior party colleagues. She has offered me to run the state unit as the state unit president... she also wants me to merge my party with Trinamul,” said the 45-year-old peasant leader, who rose to prominence as an RTI activist leading anti-corruption movements in Assam. Gogoi said he was yet to decide on Mamata’s offer. However, he also added that it has been his party’s stand that all the regional parties should close ranks for a joint offensive against the BJP. “As a regional party (Raijor Dal) we want to coordinate with other regional parties who are trying to come together,” said the Sibsagar MLA. “We also want to be part of the federation of (national) Opposition parties. The Opposition had come together after the 1975 Emergency. They are now trying to come together during the undeclared Emergency under the BJP-RSS regime. We want to be part of the joint Opposition, minus the AIUDF,” he added. Political observers from the region said the Gogoi negotiations suggest Trinamul is planning to rebuild its hitherto feeble state units in Tripura and Assam, before the 2023 Assembly polls in Tripura and the Lok Sabha election in 2024. A Trinamul vice-president, currently in Delhi, said the party “means business” this time in its plans for forays outside Bengal, and that its newly appointed national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee — Mamata’s nephew and political heir-apparent — has been spearheading hectic parleys behind the scenes to ensure this does not remain a pipe dream. “A thorough Swot (Strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) analysis has been done for states that are promising for us. Tripura and Assam are right up there. Back-channel talks have been taking place at several levels, in multiple states,” he said. “Abhishek is helming this. PK (poll consultant Prashant Kishor) and his team are also, obviously, involved. She (Mamata) has been kept in the loop, regularly updated… she often helps out with crucial, incisive pointers for breakthroughs,” he added. “Akhil Gogoi has, I believe, been spoken to extensively.” Trinamul has already publicly announced its plan to contest the Assembly polls and form the state government in Tripura. The past 10-odd days have seen several senior party leaders, including Abhishek, undertake tours of the state to make a statement of intent. Political observers in Assam said Gogoi is very unlikely to join another party given his “independent nature”, but will not be averse to a tactical tie-up with a regional party, especially an avowedly anti-BJP party such as Trinamul. More so, if Trinamul shows healthy signs of growth before the general election. They said it would be an uphill task for Trinamul in both states, but it is not wasting time at the moment. “They have already started tapping into known political faces in Tripura, and will do the same in Assam,” said an observer. Trinamul had fielded six candidates in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Assam, and 16 in this summer’s Assembly polls, but drew a blank in both. “The state unit in Assam was formed in 2010, but it has not really taken off. We have only won one MLA seat (Hajo) since. But things have been changing after Trinamul’s mammoth victory against the BJP in Bengal, which has national repercussions,” said a leader in Assam. Jnanendra Barman, who has been with the party since 2010 as the office secretary, said a number of Congress leaders are being spoken to. “Then there is a leader of a regional party, besides Akhil Gogoi. A major rebuilding exercise will be launched soon. Most believe that Mamata Banerjee is the leader who can take on the BJP nationally. We are in for some good times,” Barman told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
05-08-2021||North East||Tokyo Olympics: Assam celebrates Lovlina's bronze||The “collective” dream of Assam lay shattered as Lovlina Borgohain lost her welterweight (69kg) semi-final bout to reigning world champion Busenaz Surmeneli of Turkey at the Tokyo Games on Wednesday morning. But her backers and supporters picked up the pieces pretty quickly because it was a time to celebrate the achievement of a 23-year-old girl instead of drowning in sorrow of what could have been. “There is nothing to feel disappointed about. We are very happy and satisfied with her achievement even if it is a bronze. We all wanted her to qualify and then wanted her to win a medal. After she achieved both, we wanted her to win the gold, which she too wanted badly. It was our collective dream. We need to celebrate her journey. And hope she does the golden turn in Paris 2024,” said Devojit Phukan, a family friend of the Borgohains who, many say, shared Lovlina’s inspiring story with the world —14 articles on Facebook — before her Olympic debut. He is also the man who broke the news of Lovlina’s defeat to her parents like the earlier two bouts she had won because her parents do not watch her matches. “Her father is happy but a bit tired because of all the people who dropped in to extend their wishes and later commiseration. Her native village, her native town (Borpathar) ... our state was hoping and praying for a win but it was not to be. Everyone has come to terms with the loss and looking forward to her next Olympics,” Phukan said after visiting Lovlina’s residence. The build-up to the semi-final bout back home in Assam was much like what’s seen only during important cricket fixtures like the World Cups. On Tuesday, there were cycle and car rallies in several places extending morale support to Lovlina. There was lighting of diyas and offering prayers at the Nehru Stadium in Guwahati. In her native town Barpathar, locals danced to Bihu beats in expectations of a gold. Subhash Basumatary, a former SAI official who had played a huge part in unearthing the raw talent of Lovlina in 2012, told The Telegraph after the bout that he had messaged Lovlina, congratulating her — and to concentrate on Paris 2024. “She still has age on her side, at least two more Olympics,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
05-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Lost interest||Children have been victims of the pandemic in a particular sense. As cases began to rise and schools were forced to shut down, students were left with no choice but to accustom themselves to the ‘new normal’ of online schooling. This magnified the challenges to learning outcomes that are often the result of entrenched socio-economic differences. Recent reports show that these gaps have manifested themselves not just in access to education and participation rates as is often discussed, but also in interest and quality of learning outcomes. Virtual classes have thrown up significant challenges for learners and teachers. Online schooling has often been reduced to drudgery, robbing young minds of the joy of participatory, collaborative education integral to the experience of learning in the physical classroom. Teachers are not being able to assess whether learners have understood a concept during online sessions — a further drop in learning abilities would be a matter of concern in a country where only 28.1 per cent of students of Class III were able to perform basic subtraction. The loss is not limited to knowledge gathering. Online education — the government has been an enthusiastic endorser of the medium — seems to extract a significant social price. According to a Unicef report, prolonged confinement at home has deprived children of such skills as social bonding that is made possible by real time interactions with peers in school. The impact of these truncated experiences synonymous with growing up is likely to be quite severe on the mental health of children. There is thus an urgent need to assess the impact of online education on learning abilities. But the government seems to be in no hurry. Ironically, the Centre has cited the pandemic as an excuse to postpone by a year the routine, three-yearly National Achievement Survey conducted to assess the learning standards of students of Classes III, V, VIII and X. Reliable data about the limitations thrown up by these surveys would have been of critical importance to address the gaps in online education. But if the government’s mindless push towards online and vocational education in the National Education Policy at the cost of the overall learning experience is any indication, policymakers are increasingly viewing education and learning from a narrow, utilitarian perspective. This instrumental attitude could prove to be disastrous to India’s pursuit of transforming itself into a knowledge economy in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
05-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Assam-Mizoram border clash, Gianmarco Tamberi and Mutaz Essa Barshim share Olympic gold||On fire Sir — The clash between the police forces of Assam and Mizoram last month that led to the death of six police officers and a civilian is shameful (“Fault lines”, July 29). The incident calls for a thorough investigation by the Centre. The failure of the state governments to diffuse the conflict is a matter of great concern given the sensitive situation in the region. It is in the best interest of both the states to maintain peace and harmony in the disputed area and prevent further escalation of violence. It has been difficult to establish peace in the Northeast. After decades of insurgencies and political instability, the region has now slowly begun to bury the ghosts of the past and move towards development. Assam must strive towards resolving the boundary disputes through consensus, compromise and confidence-building. Other states, too, must work towards finding an amicable solution. Himangka Kaushik,Guwahati Sir — It is alarming that seven people lost their lives and over 60 were injured in an armed conflict between the police personnel of Assam and Mizoram. Interstate border disputes have been festering in the Northeast since colonial times, but an escalation to this extent betrays a complete failure of the law-and-order mechanism. The incapability of the successive chief ministers of the two states to resolve the border issue indicates that there is a lack of effort from both sides. Both Assam and Mizoram have accused the other of encroaching upon their territories. It is unfortunate that the bloody clash took place between the police forces of a state ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party and another where the saffron party is part of the ruling alliance. This clearly shows that there are fissures between the BJP and its allies. The Central government must try to resolve this at the earliest. With the Indo-China and Indo-Pakistan border disputes dominating the public discourse, problems in the northeastern states are often overlooked by policymakers. The Union government must find solutions acceptable to all stakeholders before such clashes take place elsewhere in the region. It is not enough for the home minister, Amit Shah, to ask both chief ministers to ensure peace at the border. The Centre must take an active role in settling the matter. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Shared glory Sir — In a rare display of sportsmanship, Italy’s Gianmarco Tamberi and Qatar’s Mutaz Essa Barshim decided to share the gold medal in men’s high jump at the Tokyo Olympics instead of going for a jump-off after a tie. The athletes executed the first six jumps up to 2.37 metres; but even after three additional attempts, neither succeeded in matching the Olympic record of 2.39 metres for the sole ownership of the title. Both athletes were exhausted and opted to share the victory. This development has delighted spectators around the world and will certainly be remembered as one of the most heart-warming moments of the Tokyo Olympics. The ultimate goal of the Olympic Games is to cultivate friendship and cooperation among countries through sports. Moments like these enrich the Games. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — The decision of Gianmarco Tamberi and Mutaz Essa Barshim to share the gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics in the high jump event has endeared them to all. The athletes have shown that the true spirit of sportsmanship lies in cooperation and mutual respect. Amit Kundu,Calcutta  Modelling change Sir — Recently, Mattel unveiled a Barbie modelled after Sarah Gilbert, the co-creator of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, in an effort to inspire young girls to work in STEM subjects. Over the years, Mattel has attempted to launch inclusive toys, but research has shown that playing with Barbie — its portrayal of the female body is problematic — can reinforce cultural stereotypes about women. While the toys may not have the desired impact, financial donations by Mattel to organizations dedicated to the education of women can go a long way in contributing to their welfare. Aishi Sengupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
05-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Stalemate||Swallowing a bitter pill is seldom a pleasant experience. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, has lashed out at the Opposition for stalling proceedings in Parliament. It is possible that the Opposition — it is protesting against the Centre’s refusal to address its concerns on a range of issues, including allegations of surveillance against the government as well as its refusal to roll back the controversial farm laws — may have simply taken a leaf out of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s book of parliamentary conduct. After all, the BJP had paralysed the 15th Lok Sabha — its productivity was the worst in five decades — with its leaders claiming that the stifling of the august House was a form of democratic protest. Mr Modi is crying foul, with the proverbial boot now on the other foot. Of course, the Indian Parliament has had a sorry history of being unproductive as an institution. Unfortunately, the monsoon session is not proving to be an exception. Data suggest that repeated disruptions have led to over 80 per cent of Parliament’s time being wasted, with the two Houses clocking an abysmal 17 per cent productivity. The consequences can be ominous for public welfare and democracy. For instance, several bills have been rushed through by the government amidst the din without adequate scrutiny and discussion. This absence of deliberation goes against the democratic ethos and is likely to strengthen public endorsement of a presidential, as opposed to parliamentary, form of governance. There is certainly a case for raising the number of working days for Parliament: this was one of the suggestions that was put forward in the course of a historic conference in 2001 that was attended by luminaries cutting across party lines. A higher number of working days for parliamentarians would give the Opposition more time to put forward its views or contest those presented by the government. At the moment, the government’s business is given precedence. But the greater impediment is the erosion in the compact of cooperation between government and Opposition. Mr Modi leads an obtuse, arrogant dispensation that seems to believe that debate is entirely dispensable. An enlivened Opposition would have none of it. The deadlock, a recurrent feature in recent times, is inimical to the health of parliamentary democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
05-08-2021||Opinion||The value of learning about death||In recent times our lives have been relentlessly punctuated by news of death. During this bewildering period, we have lived intimately with loss and grief and learned afresh about last rites and closure. Most of us wish to believe in the immortality of the soul, its liberation from the body and its new life beyond worldly cares — indeed, in some subcultures, death is a cause for joyous celebrations. Yet, it is hard for most of us to accept this inescapable feature of life. Immersed in loss and sadness, I have begun to think about the incompleteness of our education. Children are taught about the life cycles of living creatures, their reproductive systems and about their birth, growth and development, but we keep them ignorant about the process of ageing and death. The widespread deaths and untold losses generated by the ongoing pandemic have left almost every family profoundly affected. In the wake of these tragedies, we have come to realize, with a deep sense of inadequacy, that adults are generally ill-equipped to help children deal with bereavement. Yet we are content to leave our children vulnerable because we flinch at the very thought of discussing with them the taboo topic of death. No wonder there are so many euphemisms for ‘death’. So, when a person dies, the preferred terms are ‘demise’, ‘passing on’ (or ‘away’), ‘going to her heavenly abode’, ‘attaining liberation’ and so on. Adults deal with death in different ways. While alive, we pretend that it does not exist. Some of us even refrain from pronouncing the dreaded word lest its utterance cause death to make a sudden and unwelcome call. Another coping mechanism is to joke about death to make it less fearsome. Grandma exclaims, “Do you know what Rana said when I told him that he would get my coin collection when I die? He asked, when will you die, Granny?” This exchange causes much laughter and there the matter ends. Children believe that death happens to very old people. Perhaps they don’t think too much about it till it actually happens to someone they love. Eventually, Grandma becomes a bright star in the sky and Granddad looks down from a picture on the wall. The other day a colleague sent me a cinquain written by a young student: “Small feet/ Her crooked smile/ Picture frame on the wall/ Looking down, a garland around/ Alone.” I realized with shock that we adults don’t know what children’s minds make of death and disappearance. When we are relatively young and death seems far away and unreal, some of us grandly declare how we wish to die, what kind of funeral or memorial service we want and how we would like to be remembered. As we get older, a few of us begin to prepare for death in a practical way. Döstädning or ‘death cleaning’ is a Swedish practice which prompts ageing people to set their affairs in order, so as not to leave behind a thankless mess for one’s family to disentangle. Perhaps we should emulate this practice. All these thoughts have made me feel the need to teach children about death in the same way that we try to teach them about life. Perhaps we should let them grow up knowing that death is as real as life and all living creatures will die when their time comes. There should be nothing morbid or frightening about these lessons but just a dispassionate learning of the truth. What happens after death is, of course, related to individual beliefs or the belief systems of different cultures and religions. Most creeds promote the belief that a person moves into a new phase after death, but some individuals may not believe in life after death. A child may reflect on death on her own but is likely to ask adults questions. It is up to adults to make the child accept reality, make her feel loved and secure and at the same time abstain from filling her mind up with falsities. While talking to children about death, some people refer to heaven as the place where all good people eventually go. However, unwittingly, they portray heaven as a singularly unattractive place. As a child, I remember being completely put off by the supposedly wonderful paradise populated by harp-carrying angels and chubby cherubs atop billowy clouds. I certainly did not wish to be perpetually good in order to be ultimately transferred there. Instead of being in constant ‘death denial’ mode, we should talk freely, openly and naturally about death. This will help children in the long run. I believe that if children are brought up to understand that life is just a span of time on earth, it would be less traumatic for them to face the death of a family member or a pet. When adults try to shield their children from death, they don’t realize that children witness it all the time. Wilting flowers, a dead insect, the end of a day (signified by nightfall) — all signify death. However, there is a big difference. There will be a new day, different insects and fresh flowers, but their dead pet or grandparent (in some tragic cases a dead parent or sibling) will not come back. We rush to comfort children who have faced sudden bereavement but fail to do so at a deeper level. It is a serious shortcoming on our part that we deny our young an appropriate death education. Instead of keeping things associated with death shrouded in darkness and mystery, some countries have woven death education into the school curriculum and older children are also informed about euthanasia, the writing of wills and the disposal of bodies. Having expressed these brave words, I now need to confess that, deep inside, I feel like the person who famously declared: “I’m not afraid of death; I just don’t want to be there when it happens.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
05-08-2021||Opinion||Democracy’s temple||There are many scholars and others with a nodding acquaintance of scholarship who love prefacing the contemporary experience of countries such as India with the term, ‘post-colonial’. As a chronological expression, this is unexceptionable. However, post-colonial comes with a great deal of excess baggage, some necessary, some imaginatively contrived, and most well beyond the comprehension of those outside an academic bubble. Post-colonial also comes with its own set of values, mostly the creation of talented individuals whose greatest regret in life is that they have been kept at a distance from political power. Judged by this value system, parliamentary democracy is a system of government that was implanted in the colonies by rulers who either knew nothing better or were too intellectually lazy to consider other possibilities. Echoing Mahatma Gandhi and some others who felt that robust decision-making in a country such as India ought to have been based on village councils — the panchayats — and other indigenous institutions, the conviction is that the whole business of Constitution-making that accompanied the unravelling of the British Empire (or, for that matter, its French counterpart) was inherently flawed. It was thought to be a culturally disruptive exercise because the post-colonial elites were created in the mirror image of their erstwhile colonial masters. In the evocative language of Nirad C. Chaudhuri, Indians always aspired to be an integral part of the British Empire but felt short-changed because subjecthood was not accompanied by citizenship. At the same time, “all that was good and living within us was made, shaped, and quickened by... British rule.” By this logic, the emulation of the pure ideals of the Westminster form of democratic government — what Dadabhai Naoroji deemed the removal of the “un-British” facets of British rule — was a compelling purpose behind the restoration of sovereignty to Indians. Chaudhuri was no admirer of Jawaharlal Nehru, a man who distanced his anti-colonialism from his association with the civic culture of Britain. But their ideas did have a convergence. Consequently, a mischievous thought arises: what did India’s first prime minister have in mind in his speech to the Constituent Assembly on August 14-15, 1947, when he spoke of giving expression to the “soul of a nation, long suppressed”? Dissecting the mind of Nehru is a fashionable pastime, not least in today’s context when the consensus he crafted is being challenged. However, it is undeniable that apart from the old Dominions that internalized the political culture of the ‘mother country’, India is perhaps the only former colony that has broadly adhered to democracy and the parliamentary form of government for over seven decades. Most of the other territories that were coloured red in the pre-1939 map of the world have deviated in one way or another since regaining national sovereignty — although, as in the case of Sri Lanka, this may not have resulted in the abdication of democracy. The deification of parliamentary democracy is now deep-rooted in India. During the Emergency, Indira Gandhi may have set up a committee headed by Sardar Swaran Singh — otherwise known for his redoubtable skills in prevarication — to report on the feasibility of a presidential form of government. Her resounding defeat in 1977 put paid to all such plans and they were never revived when she returned to power in 1980. True, there are those who still argue for a presidential system (or at least a variant of the French system, as in Sri Lanka). But apart from drawing-room conversations, a departure from the present parliamentary system has not found acceptance. On the contrary, references to Parliament as the ‘temple of democracy’ are recurrent. In 2014, on entering the circular building designed by Sir Herbert Baker for the first time as both prime minister and member of Parliament, Narendra Modi knelt and touched his forehead on the steps of this ‘temple’ of modern India. Indeed, so strong is the attraction of MPs, both past and present, to the present Parliament building — admittedly lacking in many modern facilities and good housekeeping — that there is some resistance to moving to a new building in 2022. The acknowledgement of Parliament as a pillar of Indian democracy runs quite deep. The five thick volumes of the proceedings of the Constituent Assembly enjoy an iconic status in India, almost equivalent to that of the Federalist Papers in the United States of America. The speeches of the founding fathers are routinely cited in political debates and even in the judgments of the high courts and the Supreme Court. Elements in the Constitution enjoy an elevated, scriptural status of being the ‘basic structure’ that is inviolable by subsequent Parliaments. Although — and unlike Westminster — parliamentary sovereignty is circumscribed by the principle of judicial review, the belief that its decisions are special runs through the political discourse. While fiercely guarding their own status, even judicial pronouncements seek constant parliamentary endorsement — as happened with modifications in personal laws. In the mythology of Indian politics, parliamentarians also enjoy a special status. Despite his occasional bouts of bad temper, Nehru is held up as a leader who accorded exceptional importance to Parliament and who participated in the crucial debates of the day. Atal Bihari Vajpayee made his mark as an old-style orator and his interventions were appreciated across party lines. The respectability enjoyed by the communists among opinion-makers owed greatly to the performances of MPs such as Hiren Mukherjee, Indrajit Gupta, Bhupesh Gupta and Jyotirmoy Basu. And, of course, there were special characters such as the noisy Raj Narain, the clinical Minoo Masani, and the Falstaffian wit, Piloo Mody. Together, these individuals contributed to the establishment of Parliament as India’s most exclusive political club whose membership was sought after by good people. Of course, Parliament also held out a strong attraction for the disreputable. The sanctity and exclusivity of Parliament as an institution owed substantially to the fact that over the decades it developed a robust culture and traditions of its own. Once upon a time, it was Erskine May’s collation of parliamentary procedures in Westminster that was the guide. Today, it has been replaced by Kaul and Shakdher’s and, lately, by Subhash Kashyap’s work on the subject — pointers to the fact that Parliament, like cricket, has ceased to be regarded as an inappropriate foreign import. The two principles that made Parliament work effectively are incredibly simple. First, the decision of the Chair was deemed to be final. By implication, the Chair was expected to be non-partisan and a stickler for the rule book. Secondly, Parliament provided for a member to be heard — even if he/she was talking rot — with at least the pretence of courtesy. Regrettably, these assumptions have been both challenged and brazenly disregarded in recent days. The disruption of proceedings by a boisterous Opposition isn’t unique — it has been happening on a routine basis since the mid-1990s — and no party can be absolved of responsibility. Yet, two features stand out. First, the disrespect of the Chair by MPs shouting slogans from the Well of the House has crossed all boundaries. Today, the flaunting of placards has also become the new norm. Secondly, in a new twist to the protests, errant MPs have begun moving across benches to drown out fellow members who have dared to make their interventions above the slogan-shouting. This was the treatment meted out to members of the Biju Janata Dal, the Telugu Desam Party and the YSR Congress in the Rajya Sabha last Tuesday. West Bengal’s role in the derailment of parliamentary conventions has been seminal. A few more similar incidents and the demand for a presidential form of government will become unstoppable. Parliament is making itself dysfunctional.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-56
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town Sadar hospital workers boycott work over salary dues ||The ongoing Covid vaccination and other health services at Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad was disrupted for more than four hours from 8am to 12 noon after 148 health workers boycotted work demanding immediate release of three months pending salary. The agitating workers including ANM, GNM, compounders, lab technicians, dressers, ward boys, etc protested against the Sadar Hospital administration and district administration also demanded incentives for their work during the pandemic. The protesters charged that while health workers of other hospitals of the district, including National Rural Health Mission workers are getting their regular payment and incentives, only 148 health workers of Sadar Hospital recruited through District Mineral Foundation Trust Fund in 2017 are facing the salary delay and other incentives due to payment. Meanwhile, due to the disruption of vaccination, over 200 people of 18 above age group faced difficulties until the issue was resolved at around 12 noon after the intervention of nodal officer of Sadar Hospital Dr Rajkumar Singh. Talking to the media during the agitation at Sadar Hospital, Shivli Banerjee, a GNM of the Hospital said, “We are facing salary delay almost every month ever since we joined work four years ago despite the fact that we are serving the people risking our and our family members life during the time of pandemic.” “While our colleagues in other hospitals of the district including Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital and different Community Health Workers are getting regular Salaries only the staff of Sadar Hospital are facing the problem of delayed Salary and other incentives compelling us to resort to work boycott today,” said Banerjee and added that they have been assured payment of salary within four to five days and if the payment doesn’t come they will be compelled to go on an indefinite strike. Satyendra Kumar Rawani, a resident of Gaya in Bihar, who was standing in long queue of Covaxin administration at the hospital since 8 am said, “Due to lack of vaccines in Gaya I booked the slot at Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad but faced a lot of difficulty here due to work boycott of the health workers and finally got vaccinated at around 12.30.” Dr Rajkumar Singh, nodal officer of Sadar Hospital admittedly said, “There was some disturbance due to pending salaries and other issues but the issue was resolved as we apprised the staff that their May salary allotment has already arrived while June and July salary is also likely to be credited in their account within three four days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||CBI begins Dhanbad judge death investigation||After taking over the case of Dhanbad Judge Uttam Anand's death, the CBI team from Delhi swung into action Thursday to crack the issue that triggered nationwide outrage. The probe team of the premier investigative agency is headed by Additional Superintendent of police (ASP) Vijay Kumar Shukla. The CBI had on Wednesday taken over the investigation into the death of 49-year old judge who was allegedly mowed down by a heavy autorickshaw while he was on a morning jog on July 28 in Dhanbad. A 20-member team has been sent by the CBI to probe the matter. Besides visiting the accident spot, six members of the team also reached Dhanbad sadar police station and discussed with senior police officers of the district who were involved in the probe as part of special Investigation team (SIT). A senior police officer said besides Dhanbad sadar police station, the CBI team in different groups visited varied places associated with the tragic incident and questioned people in connection with the incident. At sadar police station the CBI team took information from city superintendent of police R Ramkumar, additional superintendent of police Manoj Swargyari and police station officer in-charge Vinay Kumar. All these police officers were also members of SIT. The 20-member team under ASP Shukla had reached Dhanbad on Wednesday and took over the case from Dhanbad senior superintendent of police (SSP) cum SIT member Sanjiv Kumar. The team has started investigation after lodging FIR in Dhanbad sadar police station making auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma as accused under IPC Section 302. Both the accused are in jail after their five days police remand ended on Tuesday. Anand was killed by a heavy autorickshaw on July 28 at Randhir Verma Chowk close to district court while he was on morning walk at around 5.30 am. CBI received the Jharkhand government's request, routed through the Centre, to investigate the matter. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren had on last Saturday decided to hand over the probe into the hit-and-run case of the 49-year-old Dhanbad judge to the Central Bureau of Investigation. CCTV footage showed that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled. Doctors at hospital declared him brought dead. The bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad had directed the CBI to initiate a probe at the earliest. It had also directed the government to hand over all the documents of the case to the CBI. Taking cognizance of a letter filed before the court by the Dhanbad principal district judge in the case, Justice Ranjan had converted it into a writ petition and ordered formation of an SIT headed by Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar to look into the matter. The bench, dissatisfied with the progress report, had questioned why there was a delay in registering an FIR in the case. The incident occurred at 5.30 am, and the FIR was registered at 12.45 pm when it was clear from CCTV footage that the judge was picked up from the spot and taken to a hospital, the court had said. The Jharkhand High Court had Tuesday pulled up the police for the manner in which it was investigating the death by unnecessarily "feeding question" to doctor about possibility of head injuries by fall on a road surface when the post-mortem report clearly stated that the death was due to the head injuries. The court expressed its dismay over Special Investigating Team (SIT) ways of probing the matter while hearing a PIL on the issue the previous day. The court said it posed questions to the investigating officer regarding the probe in the presence of the Director-General of Police and head of the Special Investigating Team (SIT). The Supreme Court had on July 30 also taken suo motu cognizance of the "sad demise" of the Dhanbad judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad JMM activist robbed of Rs 2.5lakh||Two days after the twin robberies during which Rs 2.5lakh was stolen from two different persons at Kenduadih and Hirapur area, two more incidents of robbery of Rs 4.70lakh took place in broad daylight on Thursday from two more persons. The first robbery, Rs 2.5 lakh, was taken from the car of Kusum Vihar resident and property dealer Abhishek Kumar at around 11.30 am near the city centre market complex. The CCTV footage was taken from a chemist’s outlet. Kumar, who is also a JMM activist, later lodged an FIR in Dhanbad Sadar Police station against the unidentified person. He claimed that the youth captured in the CCTV footage was also present in the Axis Bank branch from where he withdrew the money. “I withdrew Rs 5lakh from the City Centre branch of Axis Bank at around 11.30am out of which I kept Rs 2.5lakh with me and put the remaining amount on the rear seat of the car and went to a chemist’s shop,” said Kumar. “As soon as I returned near the car parked in front of city centre I was stunned to find the glass of the rear seat broken and the cash bag missing,” said Kumar who raised an alarm after which a team of Dhanbad police reached the site and lodged an FIR and also scanned the CCTV footage of a chemist shop. In the second incident, two unidentified bike borne criminals snatched a bag containing Rs 2.2 lakh from Mohal Bagan locality resident Jitni Das at around 1.30pm when she was returning to her house after withdrawing the money from Kumbarbadi branch of State Bank of India. “I withdrew the money for purchasing land and was returning back to my house on foot along with my son and since I was firmly holding the bag the handle of the bag remained in my hand while the criminals who arrived on bike from behind took away the remaining portion of the bag containing the cash,” said Das. Nirsa DSP, Pitambar Singh, said, “An FIR has been lodged on the complaint of the victim while we are questioning the bank staff and also scanning the video footage of the bank to investigate the case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand opts for single stage exams for government jobs||Examinations conducted for Jharkhand  government jobs will henceforth follow a single stage format as opposed to mains and prelims, a senior official revealed after Thursday's cabinet meeting, adding that  preference would be given to local candidates. The state cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren in the evening, okayed amendments to recruitment rules according to which Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission conducts competitive exams to hire employee's for state government jobs at the matric, intermediate and graduate levels. The examinations will now be of single stage format  for various segments as opposed to the earlier pattern of a two-step format of preliminary test (PT) and mains. Cabinet coordination secretary Vandana Dadel said, “Earlier, a two-step exam was held—PT and Mains. That has been done away with and only one exam will be held by JSSC for recruitments. However, aspirants having knowledge of local and indigenous languages, about local rituals/customs etc will get more weightage. Preference will be given to those who have passed matric or intermediate or both from the state.” The examinations would now comprise three papers. “The first paper comprising English and Hindi will be called as qualifying in which an applicant must score a minimum of 30 per cent jointly. Paper II will be based on tribal and indigenous languages in which minimum score must be of 30 per cent. Paper III will be general knowledge with a minimum score requirement of 30 per cent. The final merit list will be made on the basis of scores of paper II and III,” she said. Sources said that the idea was to provide locals more opportunities to get jobs in the state government. An official of the state personnel department said, “The new rules have been devised after studying the pattern of different states to provide more opportunity for residents of this state to get jobs here.” The state cabinet also decided to hold the monsoon session of the Assembly from September 3 to 9 with five working days.  Dadel said, “A proposal in this regard was moved by the state parliamentary affairs department to which the cabinet has given its nod." A total of 27 proposals were taken up at the cabinet meeting. These included nods to several road projects in rural districts, extension of 22 special fast-track POCSO courts for  another two years for speedy disposal of cases, amendments in appointment rules for contractual teachers in colleges and universities at  graduation level, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand likely to get genome sequencer soon||Jharkhand is likely to get a genome sequencer soon to detect and study new variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus amid the growing fear of Delta Plus variant and new mutated variants of concern that may pose higher risk than the earlier  strains that have affected people globally, health officials said on Thursday. A proposal for procurement of a genome sequencer machine is likely to be floated during the next Governing Body meeting of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), a source closely associated with health minister Banna Gupta said. “We are already planning to set up a department of genome and genetics biology at RIMS. A genome sequencing machine will also be procured soon,” the source said. Jharkhand had sent a proposal for procurement of a genome sequencer machine to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare back in March. However, the proposal was not approved for several months and the state was asked to send RT-PCR samples of Covid patients to the Institute of Live Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneshwar for genome sequencing, officials said. The health department recently asked  civil surgeons of all the 24 districts to ensure at least 300 swab samples were sent to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing every month. As per the directive, each of the 10 sentinel sites for collection of Covid samples will have to send 15 samples every fortnight to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing – a practice that is likely to help in identification of mutated strains of coronavirus. However, this process was time consuming and the state would be in a better position to detect new variants of coronavirus if genome sequencing was done in Ranchi itself, officials said. State health minister recently asked the RIMS administration to work on starting a department of genome studies in the premiere state-run hospital. Gupta, during a meeting earlier this week, said that genome sequencing was an important part of the state’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and the infrastructure will also help in combating diseases caused by viruses in future. “We are trying our level best to improve the health facilities in our state, and genome studies appears to be an important part of the fight against various diseases in future,” said Gupta. In the last lot of samples sent to Bhubaneshwar for genome sequencing from Jharkhand, it was found that the Delta variant of coronavirus was the most prevalent variant in the state. The state, however, is yet to report cases of infection caused by the Delta Plus variant, which is said to be even more lethal than the Delta variant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Celebrations erupt across Simdega and Dhanbad after men's hockey team wins Olympic bronze||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Shalimar station to take off load from Howrah||South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to shift the terminals for some of the trains from Howrah to Shalimar station with an additional stoppage being at Santragachi. The move is an attempt to ease the traffic load of Howrah station – the busiest railway junction of the eastern region. The move will affect five pairs of Jharkhand-bound trains that fall under the jurisdiction of SER. The trains being Howrah-LTT Mumbai-Howrah Samarsata Bi-weekly Express (12152/12151), Howrah-Sambalpur-Howrah Weekly Express (22803/22804), Howrah-Puri-Howrah Garib Rath Bi-weekly Express (12881/12882), Howrah-Puri-Howrah Weekly Express (12887/12888) and Howrah-Puri-Howrah Weekly Express (12895/12896). “The date for the implementation for the change of terminal from Howrah to Shalimar will be notified soon,” said railway officials at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of SER. Timing for services from Shalimar station instead of Howrah station after shift of terminal will be as: Trains - Howrah-Puri-Howrah Garib Rath Bi-weekly Express, Howrah-Puri-Howrah Weekly Express and Howrah-Sambalpur-Howrah Weekly Express will leave Shalimar at 8.45 pm on their respective days of journey and will depart from Santragachi at 9 pm. For the downward journey, trains -  Howrah-Puri-Howrah Garib Rath Bi-weekly Express, Howrah-Puri-Howrah Weekly Express and Howrah-Sambalpur-Howrah Weekly Express will depart from Santragachi at 6.15 am and will arrive Shalimar at 6.50 am. The terminal for Howrah-Sambalpur-Howrah Special will be shifted to Shalimar and will run as per mentioned timings. The Sambalpur-Howrah Special (08306) leaving Sambalpur from December 3 this year will arrive at Shalimar instead of Howrah and Howrah-Sambalpur Special will depart from Shalimar from December 4 onwards instead of Howrah. The Howrah-LTT Mumbai-Howrah Samarsata Bi-weekly Express (12152) which goes via Tatanagar railway station will leave Shalimar at 7.55 mm and will depart from Santragachi at 8.10 pm. In the return direction the train will depart from Santragachi at 6 am and will arrive at Shalimar at 6.25 am. Though additional stoppage will be provided at Santragachi in Up direction but there will be no change in timings for all these trains from Kharagpur and onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
05-08-2021||Jharkhand||Immunisation pace slows down in state, around 50k get jabbed||Jharkhand on Wednesday vaccinated about 50,000 residents against Covid-19 and almost 40,000 of the beneficiaries who got jabbed on the day were younger than 45 years, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 37,860 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine on Wednesday, while 14,759 beneficiaries got their second jab. As many as 29,477 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got their first dose of vaccine, while 8,496 beneficiaries from the same age group got their second jab, NHM data highlighted. The momentum of the immunisation drive in the state witnessed a marginal drop on the day. The vaccination numbers in Jharkhand did not cross the 1-lakh-mark in the past three days despite sufficient doses available in stock. The state, officials said, was not going all out with the vaccination campaign in order to ensure that sufficient doses are available to achieve decent jab counts daily until fresh supplies arrive. Data available on the Co-Win portal highlighted that at least 834 session sites were operational across Jharkhand on the day. Close to 4000 Ranchi residents were inoculated at 27 session sites, while 19 session sites administered vaccine jabs to almost 3000 residents in East Singhbhum, as per data on Co-Win platform. As per data shared by the NHM on Wednesday evening, Jharkhand had 4,76,210 doses of vaccines available in stock, enough to last about four days. According to NHM, the state has so far received 1,01,66,910 vaccine doses from the Centre and administered 98,78,690 doses. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 continued to dip on Wednesday as the state reported 41 Covid recoveries against 30 fresh cases of infection, highlighted a bulletin from the NHM. As per NHM data, as many as 223 Jharkhand residents were battling a Coronavirus infection by the end of Wednesday. However, the active caseload in Ranchi, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum witnessed a spike as fresh cases outnumbered recoveries in these districts. As per NHM data, at least seven cases against two recoveries took the active caseload in Ranchi to 52, while six cases against only one recovery took the active caseload in Dhanbad to 19. In East Singhbhum, three fresh cases surfaced and two patients recovered. The active caseload there was 14 on Wednesday. At least 15 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 49,946 residents and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in the state and 98.45 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Wednesday and the fungal infection did not claim any lives. As per data with Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has so far reported 104 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of black fungus. The fungal infection has claimed 31 lives in the state so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
