06-08-2021||Calcutta||From none to nine||I t was the year 1978 when both the Labony Estate post office and I made Salt Lake our home. The township in those days was a far cry from the bustling place that it is today. Except for Sector I and some parts of Sector II, there was hardly any habitation in the other areas. The major landmarks were Karunamoyee Housing Estate on the southern fringe and PNB at the entry point. All nearby areas were known by tank numbers! I was a student in those days and my mother sent me to the post office to buy a few aerogrammes. I still remember I used to walk to Salt Lake Post office from our AE Block home. Who knew that one day I would be joining the department of posts! In those days, the township had very few post offices. The Salt Lake Post Office near PNB was the first post office, later rechristened as Bidhannagar sub post office. Incidentally it is still housed in the same rented building at AB33. In the early days, a mail peon would fetch mail from the Sreebhoomi post office and carry it on a bicycle to Salt Lake post office. Labony Estate, Sech Bhawan and AE Market post offices were established thereafter. CC Block post office was the first in the township to have its own spacious departmental building. It was inaugurated by Prasanta Sur, the then UD minister, government of West Bengal, on July 5, 1984. The government in those days had decided that along with a market in every sector there would also be a post office. Sech Bhawan Post office was set up in a state government building and later converted into a delivery post office. By now, Salt Lake had quite a few post offices but as more and more residents started moving in, demand grew manifold and the inadequate postal service could not cope with the mounting pressure. One must remember this was before the advent of e-mail and the only means of communication were letters and phone calls. Moreover, with attractive interest rates the residents made a beeline for small savings. Sech Bhawan and CC Block Post offices did delivery work but with restrictions on recruitment, the postmen were a scarce resource and the few who were on duty could not cover all the areas for delivery. When the Purbachal Housing Estate came up, again a huge clamour grew for a new post office in that area. By then, I had already joined the Indian Postal Service for 11 years and at that time, was director, Calcutta region. A large delegation came to meet me at my Yogayog Bhawan office and handed over a memorandum, demanding a post office in Purbachal. Eventually we could manage to find space inside the society and a post office was set up. The Purbachal post office was inaugurated by the then finance minister of West Bengal Asim Dasgupta in a grand function on July 30, 1998 in the presence of the then chairman of Bidhannagar municipality Dilip Gupta. The residents of Purbachal were very happy and thanked me profusely for the brand-new post office. A record number of savings bank accounts were opened on the first day! At present, there are nine post offices in Salt Lake. In my various interactions with the senior postmen in the township, I have been told that in those days the residents of Salt Lake were mostly educated and prominent bureaucrats and professionals. Therefore, the staff had to be courteous and provide cutting-edge service. In the early 80s, Salt Lake was also a tony address with a sizable number of working couples. The postmen had such friendly relationship with the residents that they would leave an informal intimation and the residents would pick up their letters or parcels at their convenience, a practice which was formalised much later. It is unfortunate that such personal relationships are a thing of the past. A post office needs reasonable space to provide all its services to the customers. In Salt Lake, CC Block post office offers all services such as Aadhaar enrolment, speed post, saving bank and ATM facility because it is housed in its own building. Over the years, many Post Masters General have tried to modernise the rented post office buildings with limited budget and provide a pleasant public space. Ergonomics and comfort for customers on public premises was a foreign concept in our country. Public offices are dark and dingy because we rarely do town planning and when a planned township does come up, the planners fail to earmark land for public utilities such as post offices. However, in Salt Lake a plot was allotted for the post office and we can look forward to a new and modern Sech Bhawan post office building soon! “The post-office is a wonderful establishment! The regularity and dispatch of it! If one thinks of all that it has to do, and all that it does so well, it is really astonishing!” So said Jane Austen, the famous novelist. In the present age, people may or may not share her views as communication has undergone a sea change and citizens may not need postal services frequently but the post office in its modern avatar, with E-com delivery and India Post Payments Bank, has reinvented itself and remains a mandatory public utility. Mailmen to the rescue The pandemic showed us how relevant the post office is even today. During the nation-wide COVID-19 lockdown in 2020 when the entire country shut down, the post offices remained open. In such a scenario, as director general (postal services), based in Delhi, I was finding it extremely difficult to connect the country and ensure delivery in the absence of passenger flights, trains and road transport, which had closed operations. One day I got a frantic call from a Covid-19 test kit manufacturer who wanted to send his samples to some hospitals in Delhi and Mumbai for testing. We arranged to send those essential goods by cargo flights and from the airports to the hospitals by our red mail vans. Soon we arranged logistics that connected the entire country with cargo flights and mail vans, and were despatching Covid-19 test kits, medicines, PPEs, masks etc all over the country, including Calcutta. Across Salt Lake, during the time, postal employees provided free home delivery of medicines as well as pension to the elderly residents of the township as a gesture of appreciation and gratitude to this unique township! When I bid adieu to my service and came back to my CG Block home last year from Delhi, some of my friends and neighbours conveyed their appreciation for this service of the post office to the senior citizens. This probably was the best parting gift for me. Arundhaty Ghosh joined the Indian Postal Service in 1986. From 2014 to 2018, she was the chief post master general of the West Bengal circle. She retired from service in 2020 as director general, postal services, the highest rank in postal services, as the second Bengali in the chair after Ganendra Prosad Roy in 1925, who happened to be the first Indian in the post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||CA Block girl in top 10 of statistical service||Sutapa Ghosh of CA Block has made it to the top 10 of the Indian Statistical Service (ISS) merit list for 2020. The result was announced by the Union Public Service Commission last Friday where her name featured as the 10th on the list. There were just 17 seats for the general category candidates out of 47 vacant seats. But mention that to her and she protests: “There are far less seats in other years, often just three or four for the general category. So 17 was a lot.” Sutapa is happy and relieved in equal measure. “I have been taking the UPSC selection tests since 2016, along with Staff Selection Commission, State Bank of India and such government service recruitment exams. I got through in my fifth attempt,” says the 29-year-old. This was her last chance as she could not appear for the 2021 written tests. Candidates in the general category can appear in the examination till the age of 30. “This year, the written round was scheduled on July 16, 17 and 18 while I had been called to Delhi on July 19 for the interview for the 2020 exam. Since this was my first call-up for the interview, I realised I must have done well in the written round and decided to skip this year’s test,” said Sutapa. Though this was the first time that she appeared for the interview, she had gone to Delhi another time for the ISS interview. “That was in April, when the original exam date was scheduled. I had just checked into a hotel in Delhi in the morning when a message came with the information that lockdown had been announced in the city and our interview the day after had been cancelled. I had to book the next day’s flight immediately and left for the airport that evening itself for fear of not getting transport in the morning,” she recalls. This time, on July 19, there were about 130 candidates who had been called to Delhi. “I could answer whatever was asked,” she recalls, adding that she met Preetam Sen of Bansdroni there who has come fifth. She still does not know how much she scored as the marks have not been declared. “The merit list is declared about a week after the interview round, so I was checking the website regularly.” Big data dreams Sutapa knew she wanted a career dealing with data. “I liked mathematics at the Plus II level. But higher studies in the subject restricts one’s employment option to research and teaching. So I chose statistics for graduation,” she said, about her decision to enrol with statistics honours at Lady Brabourne College in 2013. A Masters degree followed from Calcutta University in 2015. She spent a few years working as a data analyst in a private company and also in a public sector bank. But her heart was set on UPSC. “I realised that a full-time job was hindering my preparations. So two years ago, I decided to quit.” She did not enrol anywhere for tuitions. “I focused on the class notes of my university professors, solved test series online and followed the YouTube and website lectures of Shalabh sir, a professor in the department of mathematics and statistics, IIT Kharagpur,” she said. The written round of ISS, held over three days, involves six papers, of which four are on statistics. “Of these four, two are two-hour objective tests while the other two are three-hour tests with descriptive pattern questions. One has to also take a three-hour English test and a three-hour general studies test involving history, geography, current affairs, economics and polity.” Sutapa believes it was lucky that the written tests got pushed back from July to October last year because of the pandemic. “I could prepare better,” she smiles. There has been no celebration yet due to an illness in the family. But Sutapa is looking forward to the upcoming two-year training period. “The institute is in Greater Noida. I hope they allow us to attend the training in person. I don’t know what will happen in this Covid situation.” Though there are as many as 40 government departments that has statistics departments, the ministry of statistics and programme implementation is where most ISS officers are posted. “I will then have to deal with gross domestic product estimates, rates of inflation and employment, livestock census etc.” But she would not look so far ahead right now. “The house is in a mess. Now that I have free time, I am trying to arrange and organise things,” says the girl who clearly has a mind organised enough to take on the challenges of big data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Dutta cries foul as club helmed by him fetes Bose||Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose was felicitated at the BF Block premises of Bidhannagar Swimming Association on Sunday. While felicitations have been happening regularly ever since Bose, also the fire and emergency services minister, won the seat for the fourth time, what raised eyebrows was the name of Salt Lake Maitri Sangha as the organiser of the event. The club has for years been helmed by Sabyasachi Dutta, who was the local councillor before the civic board’s tenure ended. Dutta had contested against Trinamul Congress’s Bose on a BJP ticket in the recent Assembly election. Bose chose to play down the incident. “There is nothing to be surprised about if residents of Bidhannagar decide to felicitate their representative. What has happened is a realistic scenario. Many of their members were present. I had attended Maitri Sangha’s culture programmes before but this is the first time that they felicitated me,” he told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Kripa Shankar Sharma, a CF Block resident who is a founder-member of the swimming club as well as of Maitri Sangha, said outsiders were running Maitri Sangha. “Sabyasachi turned the club into his personal fiefdom. No elections were ever held,” he alleged. Dutta, in turn, alleged that Maitri Sangha was being “hijacked by Sujit Bose and company”. “I am still the president. Neither I nor the club’s secretary attended the programme. Ninety per cent of those present were not even members of the swimming association,” Dutta said. Sharma said Bose had promised to help with both the swimming pool and the club. “Why can’t this club be like the top swimming clubs of Calcutta? It’s been 18 years that a court-appointed receiver has been controling the club after a member filed a case of financial irregularity. The building is falling apart. Annual membership has remained stuck at Rs 400. The club is running out of fees raised from seasonal members. The reins of management need to return to members’ hands to turn around the club’s condition,” Sharma said. He plans to hand over the court case documents to the minister to sort things out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Kin of affected refuse Covid test offer ||Several households in Salt Lake are refusing to undergo Covid tests despite multiple families members displaying symptoms. “Our department is conducting door-to-door surveys, through which we are identifying houses where multiple residents are displaying symptoms,” said an an official of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department. “But when we send over teams of health workers, these families are refusing to get themselves tested. We cannot force them. This is a worrying trend.” Although the number of fresh Covid cases in the corporation area is now hovering around 15-20 a day, multiple members of the same family are testing positive, said the official. Meanwhile at least four new micro-containment zones have been earmarked in different wards of the corporation by the district administration on Monday. The four are in different blocks of Salt Lake, the official said. Of the new buildings identified as micro-containment zone, one is in BC Block, another in AC Block and a third in FC Block. A first floor apartment of the Meghnad Saha Abasan in AF Block has also been identified as a micro-containment zone. The total number of containment zones in the planned area of Salt Lake is now 12. Last week it was 11 but some houses in the older list are now off the radar. The civic body still has the highest number of containment zones as compared to the district’s municipalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Students protest low Board marks||Many students who were awarded Board examination marks through internal assessment are highly dissatisfied with the scores and are agitating, along with their parents, at their schools. Owing to Covid-19 restrictions, Board exams were cancelled earlier this year and students of Class X and XII were given marks on the basis of earlier assessments in previous classes and some internal marking system. But when the marks were finally handed over to the students, there were was an uproar. Parents and students of National English School in Baguiati protested outside the school on July 26. As many as 50 students and their parents demanded a meeting with the principal to talk about their dissatisfaction over the internal marking system. Shrishti Mata, one of the students of the school, said: “As per my internal assessment and previous report cards, I should get an aggregate of 95 to 96 per cent. But I have been given 87 per cent. This is not fair and I don’t know how this has happened. Something is definitely wrong. Not just me, there are students in my class who should be getting 95 per cent and above. But they have all got below 85 per cent. They are all good students and have never scored below 90 per cent in any class. Then how can the average be less than 85 per cent?” Not just students, parents have also found other errors in the marksheets. “My daughter had scored 98 per cent in English. But the marks have been entered as 89 per cent. This is definitely an error made by the school authorities. They are the ones who sent the marks to the board. How can they make such silly mistakes?” said Soma Saha, a resident of Baguiati. Mousumi Saha, principal of National English School, said: “We have requested the parents to calm down. Yes, there may have been an error and it will be looked into. I have asked the guardians to submit written applications and mention exactly how many marks were allocated for each subject. We will take this up with the Board. All applications will be looked into individually.” It’s not just private schools. Some students of government schools have also complained of being given lower marks. At BD Block’s Bidhannagar Government High School, “four or five students” have applied for marks revision. “For one of them, a Class X student, it was indeed a clerical error on our part and we have forwarded the correction to the authorities. She is a sincere student and after revision, may even be a topper,” said head master Reyaz Ahmed. Matters are not as smooth in other schools. “When it comes to internal assessment one expects teachers to be sympathetic towards the children since this year has been a chaotic year. But the opposite has happened. The girls in my class have got very low marks. I don’t know which college will grant us admission under such circumstances,” said Sreemita Sarkar, a student of Deshapriya Balika Vidyamandir in Rabindra Palli, Kestopur. “We have met the principal but even if marks are reviewed college admission dates will long be over by then,” she added. Some students from Ramakrishna Sarada Mission Sister Nivedita Girls’ School complained of similar fate. As many as 50 of them and their parents gheraoed the school, seeking a review of marks. Saheli Chakraborty, a Class X student, said: “There is no Plus II facility in my school. But my internal marks are so low that I am not even able to collect admission forms from other schools for Class XI. Which school will take me in if their cut-off is high? I’ve got 75 per cent. That is too low it seems to take admission into any other school.  But my internal marks were much higher.” Authorities at Deshapriya Balika Vidyamandir and Ramkrishna Sarada Mission Sister Nivedita Girls’ School have assured agitated guardians of a second look at the marking system. However, with college admissions fast approaching the deadline, the question remains how long their wait is going to be. Are students you know happy with their Board exam results this year? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Court rap for illegal Salt Lake buildings||Calcutta High Court has criticised both the state government and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) for their indifferent attitude towards carrying out an order of the court, asking them to take action against persons who allegedly constructed buildings illegally by grabbing plots owned by the state urban development department and to take steps to demolish the buildings. The order came following a public interest litigation by the residents of Nabapalli, Shantinagar and Naobhanga areas under BMC wards 35 and 36, alleging that a good number of buildings were coming up in their areas illegally on state-owned plots. On July 19, appearing for the residents, advocate Bilwadal Bhattacharya claimed before the court that a good number of illegal buildings had already been constructed on state-owned land and neither the state urban development department nor the municipal corporation was taking any action in these regards. “Complaints had already been lodged with the police, the department concerned and the corporation by my clients. But due to reasons unknown, no one is ready to stop the land grabbers,” Bhattacharya claimed. The lawyer claimed that the promoters did not bother to keep space even for the entry of fire brigade vehicles in the areas behind the buildings. Bhattacharya also claimed that 28 such new buildings were still vacant while flats in other buildings had been sold to others. Hearing the plea, the division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had directed the state and corporation to identify the buildings and demolish them. The bench also asked the government and the civic body to initiate legal measures against the persons grabbing government property. But on July 30, when the matter came up for hearing again, Bhatacharya claimed that no step had been taken yet. State advocate general Kishore Datta told the court that correspondence between the state urban development department and the BMC had already started so the court order could be obeyed. But the acting chief justice said that the government and the civic authority were “more interested in writing letters to each other. It seems that they are not at all interested in taking legal action against the offenders”. Justice Bindal said: “The court cannot be a mute spectator even after noticing the irregularities. Respondents must take steps.” The bench fixed August 9 for the next hearing of the case when both the state and civic body would have to file compliance reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||‘Hakim can’t help Hidco get market’||Putting Firhad Hakim at the helm of the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) will not help in finding investors for land as the market is in recession. The view was put forth by Gautam Deb, housing minister in the Left Front regime who was the first chairman of Hidco. “Recession is for everyone. Even if Mamata Banerjee is made the chairperson, it will not help Hidco find a market,” he said. In course of his speech at the launch of his book Forging an Audacious City on the birth of New Town, the former minister praised chief minister Mamata Banerjee for letting a bureaucrat steer New Town and not ministers. For the last 10 years, Debashis Sen, an IAS officer, was the chairman cum managing director of Hidco. Hidco has now been transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the housing department. Sen will continue as its managing director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Fruit orchard on empty plot offer to BMC||The food processing and horticulture department has requested the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to earmark a plot where a fruit orchard can be set up. Subrata Saha, the minister of state, food processing and horticulture department, said last week that they were keen to plant fruit-bearing trees in Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat as such trees attract a lot of birds and the “fruits can be enjoyed and shared by the residents”. Saha was speaking at a Vanmahotsav programme organised by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation at the newly-inaugurated CK Park near Tank 9. According to Saha, his department wants to focus on a different plantation strategies. “The forest department conducts avenue plantation and most of those trees are not fruit-bearing. We want to plant more trees that yield fruits in Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat in open spaces as we feel that they provide a ready habitat for birds and can be consumed by residents and visitors alike,” said Saha. The department has also promised to donate around 5,000 saplings of different fruit trees including pomegranate, guava, papaya, mango and custard apple among others to the civic body. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the corporation’s board of administrators, said that they would plant these trees in “secured” locations. “We will ensure that we can protect the saplings and then plant them in areas earmarked by us. Purbachal is one such complex that has large open spaces and we are looking for other spots as well,” said Chakraborty. She has asked civic officials to earmark a large plot suitable for an orchard in both Salt Lake and Rajarhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
06-08-2021||Calcutta||The Telegraph Salt Lake turns 16 this week||General Age- Sixteen is the age of majority in countries like Vietnam, Cambodia, Cuba and Kyrgyzstan. It is the age for obtaining a learners driver’s licence in places like the US, Canada and Australia. Sweet 16 is a coming-of age party, usually for girls, when they turn 16. In the West, these parties can be lavish ones thrown to celebrate the teenager’s entry into adulthood. Weight- The British use a measure of 16 ounces in a pound. The Chinese, too, used to have 16 liangs in one jin in measurement. 16/8 intermittent fasting- A popular weight-loss programme, this involves eating during an eight-hour window and fasting for the remaining 16 hours of the day. Many people prefer to eat between noon and 8pm, having to simply skip breakfast while enjoying an early dinner and snacks in between. Wildlife Spider- The longest lived spider recorded was called Number 16. She was a wild female trapdoor spider that lived in Australia and was studied by researchers. While the average age of such spiders is within 20 years, Number 16 was about 43 when she died in 2016, probably killed by a parasitic wasp sting. Animals in war- Over 16 million animals served in World War I. They were used for transport, communication and companionship. Eyes- Mantis shrimp possibly have the most complex eyes in the animal kingdom. While humans have three types of cones in our eyes, allowing us to see the colours red through violet, Mantis shrimp have 16 types of cones, giving them an advanced colour recognition system. History Louis XVI was the only French king to be executed. He and his wife Marie Antoinette were seen as a symbol of tyranny while the masses suffered from food scarcity and his 1793 death by the guillotine during the French revolution brought an end to more than a thousand years of continuous monarchy. Sports and entertainment Chess- A chess set contains 16 pawns and each player starts the game with a total of 16 pieces. Sixteen Going on Seventeen Is a song from the iconic 1965 film The Sound of Music. Sung by 16-year-old Liesel and 17-year-old Rolfe, it describes how Liesel, at the threshold of womanhood, looks to Rolfe for guidance as he’s a year older. Tu kitne baras ki is a song from the 1980 film Karz where Rishi Kapoor asks the age of Tina Munim and she replies “sola” (16). Rendered by Lata Mangeshkar and Kishore Kumar, the song is about budding romance. Solva Sawan was actress Sridevi’s debut in Bollywood and she was, incidentally, 16 years old during the making of the film. The 1979 romantic drama also starred Amol Palekar. Fairy tales- In the oft-retold story of the Sleeping Beauty, a princess is cursed to sleep for a 100 years when she reaches her 16th birthday. The princess, called Talia and Aurora in different versions of the tale, can only be awakened by a prince who loves her. Culture Sola singar- it is traditionally believed that when an Indian woman dresses up, it takes 16 items to complete her look. While the 16 can vary, they usually include bindi, kajal, flowers in the hair, mang tika, earrings, nose ring, necklaces, armlets, bangles, henna, hathphool, finger rings, waistbands, anklebells, toerings and perfume. Sholo aana - is a Bengali idiom that means pure, unadulterated. It originates from the old concept of an anna, that was a unit of currency equal to 1/16th of a rupee. Sixteen annas thus meant an entire rupee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Warning as hospitals in Calcutta see rise in admission of Covid patients||Several private hospitals in Calcutta are witnessing a slow rise in the admission of Covid patients. Health officials, too, said they were noticing an uptick in Covid admissions and warned people not to drop their guard, though there was no indication yet of a fresh wave of infections. Officials of several hospitals said the number of Covid admissions had dropped in the middle of July but had been rising steadily since. Others said admissions were not going up but the number of patients in the Covid wards was not declining either. “We are observing a rise in the admission of Covid patients in some private hospitals. However, we have to see the trend for a few more days to say definitively that the numbers are steadily rising again,” an official of the state health department said on Thursday. At Peerless Hospital, during the peak of the epidemic’s second wave in May, all 175 beds were occupied. From there the patient count had dropped below 10. In the last week of July, there were 17 patients. On Thursday, the count stood at 27. “We are getting Covid patients from everywhere, from Alipore in Calcutta to Jhargram and Midnapore,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Narayan Memorial Hospital in Behala would have around 100 patients in its Covid wards in May. A couple of days back, there were no patients..On Thursday, there were three Covid patients. Woodlands Hospital, too, has been witnessing a rise in admissions. “We have been seeing a spurt since last week. It’s been going up and down over the last few weeks. We feel it’s a prolonged second wave,” said Rupali Basu, the managing director of Woodlands. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, all 261 Covid beds were occupied during the peak of the second wave. “Covid admission started dropping gradually in June. But it’s not going down any more over the last couple of weeks. The count is hovering between 15 and 18,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, of Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. Doctors said the virus was still active and spreading but facing resistance because of the immunity a section of the population developed following infection and vaccination. “It is too early to say whether this is an indication of a fresh wave. It seems immunisation and herd immunity are putting up a stiff fight against the coronavirus. More vaccination is the only way ahead, along with personalprotections,” said physician Amitabha Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||State govt will try to reopen schools and colleges after Durga Puja vacation, says Mamata Banerjee||The state government will try to reopen schools and colleges “on alternate days” after the Puja vacation, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. “After the Puja vacation, we will try to reopen schools and colleges on alternate days,” Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna following a meeting with the state's global advisory board on Covid-19, headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee. “Diwali is in early November. The state government is considering the possibility of reopening schools and colleges after that,” an official in the education department said. Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, who attended the meeting at the state secretariat, said the chief minister had informed them that the state government was considering the possibility of reopening schools. In Bengal, schools affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the classes were suspended on April 21 following the state government’s decision to bring forward the summer vacation because of a renewed rise in the number of Covid cases. Students of Classes III to VIII and those in colleges and universities have been away from campuses since March 2020. An official in the education department said: “Education in schools has taken a major hit. Attending classes on digital platforms is not possible for a large section of students as they cannot afford a smartphone or a data pack. So reopening schools is a must, but the possibility of infection through assembly cannot be ruled out. Therefore, the government is exercising caution.” The state has around 59,000 primary and 18,000 secondary schools, close to 550 colleges and more than 40 universities. The colleges have been asked to start receiving online applications for admission to first-year classes on August 2. Classes will start on October 1. A college principal said that since a good number of students encountered digital hurdles and were unable to attend classes on online platforms, in-person classes should resume at the earliest. “We are more worried about students pursuing science and engineering. Their studies are suffering because they cannot access laboratories and workshops. They are eagerly looking forward to resumption of in-person classes,” he said. The headmaster of a school in central Calcutta said reopening of campuses, particularly for Classes X and XII, was required so the students could undergo as many internal assessments as possible. “If the Class X and XII board exams are cancelled next year, too, the scores in the internal assessments will determine their board performance,” he said. “As the schools did not conduct enough internal tests when they reopened briefly earlier this year and restricted themselves to conducting classes and practicals, the exam-conducting bodies did not have enough data while evaluating the students. While preparing the HS results, the higher secondary council gave 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to Class XI annual exam marks,” he said. The secondary education board prepared Madhyamik mark sheets this year awarding equal weightage to a candidate’s performance in Class IX annual exams and internal formative assessments of Class X. In July last year, Mamata had said the state government might reopen schools and colleges on September 5 if the Covid situation improved. That did not happen as cases kept rising.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination to remain suspended at 152 centres of Calcutta Municipal Corporation||Covid vaccination will remain suspended from Friday at 152 vaccination centres of the civic body that administered Covishield because the authorities have run out of doses, officials said on Thursday. Forty other centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will continue administering Covaxin. Of the 152 common vaccination centres (CVCs), 102 are primary health centres. Officials said the primary health centres would continue offering other services such as outdoor clinics. The remaining 50, which were opened only to administer Covid vaccines, will remain shut till further orders. “We have run out of Covishield doses. We will not administer any Covishield doses from Friday. Administration of Covishield will resume once fresh stocks arrive,” said a CMC official. Fresh Covishield doses are expected to arrive on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Bus breaks Covid protocol, teacher on board lodges complaint||A 31-year-old teacher from Arambagh who travels in “non-stop” government buses connecting Calcutta to districts, with reduced seats following Covid protocol, dialled the police emergency number on Thursday to report that the bus was illegally picking up passengers, leading to crowding. Police stopped the bus near Fort William and prosecuted the driver and his help under the disaster management act. Pratiksha Goswami, the teacher, said she had booked the bus ticket through an online portal, like she usually does. “The website clearly shows the seating arrangement. The seats where people cannot sit are marked in grey. I had booked my seat like other days. The bus is supposed to travel non-stop from Arambagh till Esplanade, the destination,” she told The Telegraph. When she boarded the bus, she found someone else occupying her seat. “When I approached the conductor, I was told to sit elsewhere. It was disappointing to see that despite the best efforts of the government to make Covid rules, people were breaking them. I sat in another seat. But the bus kept stopping and picking up passengers, which was illegal,” she alleged. Goswami clicked a few photographs of how passengers were made to sit side by side, violating the government notification that clearly mentions public vehicles can run with only 50 per cent occupancy. Goswami said she was aware that people who did not have smartphones found it difficult to book seats online. For them, bus conductors usually keep a few seats vacant. “But that number is very limited. What happened today was a gross violation,” she said. On reaching Santragachhi, Goswami dialled 1901 — a women’s distress helpline. They responded almost immediately, she said. Cops tried to stop the bus once it came down the Santragachhi flyover but the driver allegedly sped past the policeman. A few hundred metres away, the police again apparently tried to stop the bus but failed once more. Finally, when the bus came down the Vidyasagar Setu and was entering the city through Kidderpore Road, it was forced to stop by a number of police vehicles that blocked its way. The police evacuated the bus and shifted the passengers to other vehicles to reach Esplanade, which was not far. Goswami lodged a complaint with Maidan police station and the driver and the help were prosecuted. The driver told the police that it was difficult to run bus services with half capacity given the fuel prices. Several officers The Telegraph spoke to said the police had not been prosecuting buses for ferrying passengers over the 50 per cent limit. “If we start prosecuting for crowding, we will have to stop almost every second bus, which will only cause a lot of inconvenience to the people,” said an officer. “Today’s prosecution was based on a specific complaint,” a senior officer said. Citizens who depend on public transport are sometimes forced to board crowded buses because of limited public vehicles and restrictions on local trains in the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||JEE results to be announced on Friday||The results of the JEE exams — the entrance tests for engineering, architecture and pharmacy courses across Bengal — will be announced on Friday. The results, in the form of downloadable rank cards, will be available on the board's websites, www.wbjeeb.nic.in and www.wbjeeb.in, from 3.30pm on Friday. The board had conducted the tests in-person across 274 centres on July 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Time for minority voices to be heard, says bishop of Calcutta diocese of Church of North India||The death of Father Stan Swamy has taught “minorities to be alive” and unite or else “your voice will not be heard”, Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, said on Thursday. Father Stan, a Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, died in judicial custody last month while waiting for bail. He was 84 and ailing. Reverend Canning said Father Stan was a Christian priest but his work was “not only for Christians” but for “the tribals who are downtrodden”, in one way “minority”, and he came forward to give them “new life” and tell them they had rights in their own land. Father Stan was condemned so that “tribals do not know their rights”, said Reverend Canning. On Thursday, the Bengal Christian Council, affiliated to the National Council of Churches in India, had called a meeting in remembrance of Father Stan. At the event at St Paul’s Cathedral, a minority forum was inaugurated with a call to all minorities to come together. Speaking on the occasion, Reverend Canning said: “They (the tribals) should not be like us, they will be like tribals all the time. They will be like servants lifelong…. This is the cause why Father Stan… was killed…. It was not a normal death.” Later, on the sidelines of the event, the bishop said: “His death has taught us that the minority voice is not heard even many years after Independence. So we have to be united. It is a matter of great sadness that even after so many years… we are having to talk about minority rights. It is a matter of shame. After so many years the people of India have failed to provide minorities their place.” At the inauguration of the minority forum, Bishop Canning, also the president of the Bengal Christian Council, said “minorities are dying in jail and nobody is hearing”. Other people are getting bail but not the minorities, he said, asking: “Why? Where are we living? Is there a place for the minorities in the country or not?” In the audience were many priests of the Calcutta diocese and representatives of several communities. “…Father Stan’s life, death, has taught us to be alive, minorities have to be alive, otherwise like Father Stan, you will be in trouble tomorrow…. Tomorrow your turn is coming… Your voice will not be heard. Nobody will care for you. You will die, not maybe in jail, but somewhere else. You will be killed. This is the status of minorities in India,” said the bishop. “Father Stan’s death has taught us, as minorities, please be united…. His blood is saying to us today ‘please minorities, come together, be united. Otherwise, you will be treated as I am treated’”. A statement issued on Thursday by Reverend Canning, and read out at St Paul’s Cathedral, said: “...The prevailing circumstances call for a deep introspection on part of the minorities in India to discern the sign of the times and come together in a Forum with renewed vigour to move forward to make our voices heard, to safeguard our Constitutional rights and responsibilities and let us start this from Bengal, the birthplace of Renaissance in India. “Today, as we are standing in the crossroads we feel that such an extraordinary situation calls for an extraordinary action/initiative. “We, the Christians of Bengal, under the umbrella of Bengal Christian Council… as justice and peace loving citizens, strongly condemn such inhuman and mindless acts on part of the central law enforcing agencies (under the current dispensation) and denial of the fundamental freedom of life and liberty enshrined in the Indian Constitution to an individual who belonged to the minority community.” The statement said: “This is our fond hope, our cherished desire and our fervent prayer that we, the minorities in India take lesson from the life of Father Stan Swamy in the rapidly changing scenario of our country and move on till we reach our goal of justice, peace, fraternity, feeling of brotherhood/sisterhood, mutual care and concern and integrity of creation.” Earlier, the bishop said the minority forum, of which he is convener, “will see that our voice is heard”. “Will see that we are noticed, we are respected.” The forum will hold seminars, conferences and workshops on minority rights. “Minorities will decide tomorrow who will form the government, provided all minorities come together,” the bishop said. Like a pledge, the audience repeated after Bishop Canning: “We will teach Article 29 and 30 (to) every minority person in Bengal and in India. And we will fight for our rights, together. We will not be selfish. We will work for everybody.” The articles guarantee certain rights to the minorities. Also present on Thursday was Reverend Sameer Khimla, the bishop of the Durgapur diocese, and Angelina Mantosh Jasnani, the president of the Catholic Association of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Health panel refuses to change rate cap of diagnostic tests||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Tuesday refused to change the cap on the rates of various diagnostic tests - which it had announced in July, despite objections from private hospitals. The commission held a virtual meeting with various private hospitals on Thursday to discuss the objections raised by the hospitals. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said after the meeting that the ceilingwould remain unchanged and urged private hospitals to think about ways to offer affordable treatment. “The advisory (on the ceiling) that we have issued will remain in force,” said Banerjee. “We have fixed a cap on 15 out of 250 pathological tests. Only two or three hospitals have problems with the rates fixed by us. Another four or five have problems with the rates of one or two items. The rates being charged by other hospitals are within the limits,” Banerjee said. The commission will meet the hospitals on the issue once more the week after next. Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, which had written to the commission against the cap, said Thursday’s meeting was inconclusive. “The hospitals will keep charging the rates they charge till the next meeting, where we are expecting a conclusion,” said Barua, who is also the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. He said the association wanted to know from the commission the mechanism based on which the caps were fixed. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said the rates charged by hospitals and diagnostic centres cannot be the same. “A diagnostic centre collects samples throughout the day and runs all the samples in a machine together. In a hospital, often a machine has to be run with one or two samples. Running a machine with 10 samples and running it with one sample costs the same. A hospital cannot wait to test the sample the next day, when more such samples will be collected, because often a patient’s life is at stake,” he said. At the meeting, the chairman asked hospitals to consider how they can offer treatment to people at affordable rates. “There have been instances of patients’ families leaving the hospital without paying the bills. That happens because the families cannot afford to pay…. People are forced to keep dues (because of the rates),” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Fake call centre busted in New Town, six arrested||Six men were arrested for allegedly operating a fake call centre from a rented apartment inside a New Town housing complex on Thursday. The group cheated both foreign nationals as well as people across the country to the tune of Rs 5 crore, police said. An officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said that the men used to call people in US and Canada, among others, posing as officials of major software providers like Microsoft and inform them that their computer data and operating system have been compromised and an urgent upgrade of software is required. “The victims would be asked to download a software which would allow the men remote access to the computer. Once the victim would enter the payment gateway to transfer the fee for the services, these men would alter the amount with a much higher number,” the officer said. This apart, these men would also pose as officials of mobile network providers and would offer people money in exchange for space to install 5G mobile-towers. “The men would offer Rs 10 lakh as installation fees and then Rs 30,000 as a monthly rent for the space needed for the mobile tower. A person who would agree would be asked to deposit Rs 25,000 as processing fee. All communications would stop once the victim would transfer the sum,” said the officer. The officer said that they have checked all the bank accounts used by the group and found that they had been opened with fake documents. “It is evident that there are more people involved in the racket. The people who were making the calls were only at the front, but there are those who collected the phone numbers, opened bank accounts and withdrew cash. We are we are trying to locate them,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Businessman loses Rs 84 lakh after bank account hacked||A city businessman has lodged a police complaint alleging he was duped of Rs 84 lakh by someone who hacked into his online banking portal, police said. An officer of Hare Street police station said: “Preliminary inquiry suggests that the fraudsters had reported loss of a SIM card that actually belonged to the complainant and got a new SIM card issued.” The SIM card that was deactivated was registered with a current account in the name of Shivam Arora, 30, the police said. “It appears that the original SIM card was deactivated to ensure that Arora did not receive any text message from the bank when money was transferred out of his account and so that the fraudsters got time to transfer the amount through multiple accounts and e-wallets,” the officer said. It is not clear whether the money that was transferred out of the complainant’s bank account had been withdrawn through ATMs or only had been transferred through multiple accounts. In majority of such cases, the transferred money is first sent into bank accounts or e-wallets that are opened using fake identity documents and then withdrawn using ATM cards of the respective bank accounts, said a senior officer. A woman, who had been admitted to a private hospital along EM Bypass last week, was allegedly molested by a male nurse, the patient’s family has alleged. The victim’s father had dialled 100 to alert Calcutta police headquarters in Lalbazar and the accused was arrested. Police said according to the complaint registered with Anandapur police station, a male nurse had allegedly molested the woman when she was semiconscious because of the effect of medicines. “She woke up and started screaming seeing him. Her father dialled 100. Anandapur police station received an alert from Lalbazar and the duty officer went to the hospital,” said a senior police officer. The victim gave a written complaint against the hospital staff member and based on that a case under section 354A of the Indian Penal Code that deals with outrage of modesty, was registered with Anandapur police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-27
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Police rescue 2 girls from train in Bilaspur, one arrested||Police rescued two teenagers onboard Howrah-Mumbai Duronto Express in Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh, and arrested a young man who was allegedly taking the two to Mumbai with the lure of jobs in Bollywood. The girls are from Baduria in North 24-Parganas, about 50km from Calcutta. The police said the two were missing since July 27 and the parents had lodged a diary with Baduria police station a day after. Within hours of the complaint, the police reached the house of a young man of the same village, who the girls often spoke to. The man’s family told the police he had left for Mumbai in the morning. “By the time we learnt he would be taking the Howrah-Mumbai Duronto, it was late in the afternoon. The train had already left Howrah station,” said a senior officer of Baduria police station. “We collected a photograph of one of the teenagers and got in touch with GRP after drawing up a specific case.” At Howrah station, officers from GRP told the district police that after Tatanagar, the train’s next stop would be Bilaspur junction. That would be around 6pm. The details of the case and the photograph of one of the teenagers were immediately forwarded to GRP officers in Bilaspur. “While speaking to the GRP team in Bilaspur we gave them an exact description of how the two teens were dressed based on what their parents told us,” the officer said. “The train had a stoppage time of 10 minutes at Bilaspur is all we knew.” Armed with a team of lady officers, GRP scanned the train when it chugged into the Bilaspur station and finally spotted the two teenagers and arrested the youth. A team of officers from Baduria left for Bilaspur later and brought the three back on Wednesday. The youth has told the police that he worked as a painter in Mumbai and was taking the two for a guided tour of the country’s economic capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Man impersonating as government official arrested||A man who was allegedly masquerading as a government official and used his “stature” to demand free food from at least one dhaba along EM Bypass, was arrested on Wednesday night. Golam Rabbani, 40, was arrested on charges related to impersonating a government official, cheating and criminal conspiracy. Officers of Pragati Maidan police station found a car parked outside the Bypass Dhaba well past 9pm on Wednesday. The car had two boards attached to it. “One read ‘National Crime Control Bureau deputy director’, while the other said ‘member, Supervisory Committee of Waqf Board’. On enquiring with the organisations, we found both were false,” said an officer of Pragati Maidan police station. The National Crime Control Bureau is an NGO, the police said. A senior officer said the eatery authorities complained that the owner of the car was in the habit of demanding free food citing his “official” position. “Rabbani would allegedly threaten the eatery with dire consequences if they did not supply food to him even after it was closed to the public, post-8pm.” The city police have arrested several impostors in the past few weeks who had mostly been posing as police officers to cheat others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
06-08-2021||Calcutta||Affidavit on frontline workers’ compensation sought||Justice Harish Tandon of Calcutta High Court on Thursday asked the government to file an affidavit on the number of frontline workers treating or nursing Covid patients, who had been compensated. The order followed a writ petition that stated they were not getting the money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-28
06-08-2021||Business||CBI moves court to seek warrant for Rana Kapoor in Avantha group case||The CBI on Friday moved a plea before a special court here seeking a production warrant of Rana Kapoor for custodial interrogation in connection with its case related to Avantha group of companies. Kapoor, who is currently in judicial custody after being arrested in March, 2019 in connection with the Yes Bank fraud case, has opposed the probe agency's plea through his lawyer Parnav Badheka. Special judge S U Wadgaonkar said these prayers need consideration, including the maintainability of objection on behalf of accused to the application of production warrant made by the investigating officer in cited crime, and posted the matter for hearing on Saturday. The Central Bureau of Investigation's move comes two days after the arrest of Gautam Thapar, promoter of Avantha Group, by the Enforcement Directorate, which is also probing the case. Thapar (60) was held under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Tuesday night in Delhi after the agency carried out raids in Delhi and Mumbai. The CBI, in its FIR, has claimed Kapoor, then MD and CEO of Yes Bank Limited, obtained illegal gratification in the form of a property, belonging to Avantha Realty Limited, in a prime location in Delhi at much less than the realizable market for sanctioning a loan to ARL, extending concessions, relaxations and waivers in existing credit facilities provided to Avantha Group and for advancing new and additional loans. The CBI had, last year, booked Kapoor and his wife Bindu for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 307 crore, by way of purchase of a bungalow in a posh Delhi area from a realty firm at half the market price and facilitating around Rs 1,900 crore bank loans to it in return. The CBI has claimed that the discounted transaction for the 1.2-acre bungalow on Amrita Shergill Marg in Delhi was gratification to Kapoor through a company called Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd in return for non-realization of over Rs 1,900 crore in loans from Yes Bank to Avantha Realty and group companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Sensex ends 215 points lower as Reliance tumbles||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 215 points on Friday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC and SBI, after the Reserve Bank kept interest rates unchanged and maintained its accommodative stance.  The 30-share index ended 215.12 points or 0.39 per cent lower at 54,277.72, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 56.40 points or 0.35 per cent to 16,238.20.  Reliance Industries was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, SBI, Tata Steel, HDFC and Axis Bank. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, Tech Mahindra, Maruti, NTPC and Bajaj Auto were among the gainers.  Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities, said domestic equities traded range-bound but sharp correction in RIL dragged the market.  "RBI's policy meeting outcome was broadly on expected line with continued focus to support economic recovery through soft monetary policy," he said, adding that RIL witnessed sharp correction after the Supreme Court's ruling came in favour of Amazon in the Reliance-Future Group deal.  Further, weak cues from Asian markets also weighed on sentiments.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red, while Tokyo ended with gains.  Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.56 per cent to USD 71.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||RBI Governor praises Centre on retro tax move||Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday welcomed the government's decision to end retrospective taxation and termed it as a "timely" move. The career bureaucrat-turned-central banker also welcomed the government's approach to the pandemic-triggered crisis as a prudent and calibrated one. On Thursday, the government brought a bill in the Lok Sabha to withdraw all back tax demands on companies such as Cairn Energy and Vodafone and said it will refund about Rs 8,100 crore collected to enforce such levies. "It is my assessment I have been revenue secretary and economic affairs secretary that this (retrospective taxation) had been a long-pending issue. It (introduction of the bill) is a very good step, it's a timely step and it is definitely a welcome measure," Das told reporters during the customary post-policy conference call. Responding to a specific question on the move, he wondered why we blame the government if it does not take any action by calling it indifferent while when the government initiates an action it is termed as one taken under pressure. "It cannot be a situation where you say 'heads I win and tails you lose'," Das said. Meanwhile, the fiscal response from the government to navigate the economy out of the reverses of the pandemic was also welcomed by Das, who was appointed to the post after the sudden resignation of Urjit Patel in 2018. "I think the government's fiscal response has been very prudent, calibrated and responsive," Das said, adding that there is a "pattern" to the response as well. He said the government first responded to the stress at the individual level where it tended to the poor sections, and followed it up with measures to boost credit offtake and then veered to the sectoral interventions. Das said we "have not heard the last word" from the government and RBI expects it to continue with the same fiscal response. As for the central bank's own monetary response, Das said it has done whatever was possible for them to do and will keep at it. "We (RBI) are still in the 'whatever it takes' mode. The pandemic is still on. We have to be very vigilant," Das said. He said the economic recovery has been uneven and varies from sector to sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Retrospective tax bill passed in Lok Sabha as House adjourns for the day||Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day shortly after noon on Friday after passage of two bills, including the one which proposes to end a controversial retrospective tax policy, amid protests by Opposition members over Pegasus and other issues. As the House convened for the day at 11 am, Speaker Om Birla took up the Question Hour. However, the members resorted to sloganeering over Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws. As the protests continued, the Speaker urged the agitating members to go back to their seats. The proceedings lasted for around 15 minutes after which Birla adjourned the House till noon. When the House resumed at noon, Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the chair, allowed discussions on 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021', which proposed amendments to the Income Tax and Finance Act 2012 to make it clear that no tax demand will be raised for any indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken prior to May 28, 2012. After a brief statement by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and clause-wise consideration of the bill, it was passed by voice vote. When the 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' would be passed by Rajya Sabha too, all tax demands made on companies like Cairn Energy and Vodafone using a 2012 legislation on indirect transfer of Indian assets prior to May 28, 2012 will be withdrawn. Sitharaman said in 2014, the then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had made a commitment to set up a high-powered committee to look into the provisions of the 2012 law as the NDA government did not believe in retrospective taxes. The finance minister said once the lawsuits were settled in September and December 2020, the government had started consultations with various stakeholders, including the Law Ministry. Similarly, another bill 'The Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021', to set up a central university in Ladakh was passed by the House following a brief statement by Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan. After the two bills were passed, the chair announced the adjournment of the House for the day. Lok Sabha will now resume on Monday after the weekend break.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||SC holds Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator award against FRL-Reliance Retail deal enforceable||The Supreme Court on Friday ruled in favour of US-based e-commerce giant Amazon by holding that Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award, restraining the Rs 24,731 crore merger deal of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) with Reliance Retail, was valid and enforceable under Indian laws. A bench of Justices R F Nariman also dealt with the larger question and as a proposition of law, held that an award of an EA of a foreign country is enforceable under the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act. FRL had argued that an EA is not an arbitrator under the Indian law as the term does not find any mention in the statute here. The EA Order is an order within section 17 (1) and can be enforced under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, it said. Pronouncing the verdict, Justice Nariman said the top court has agreed with the findings of the single-judge of the Delhi High Court which had found the EA award in favour of the US firm to be enforceable in India. Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC and FRL are embroiled in a bitter legal fight over the deal and the US-based firm has sought in the apex court that the EA award was valid and enforceable. While the two companies did not immediately comment on the judgment, a legal expert who did not wish to be named, said that Future Retail is expected to file a review plea against the order and an appeal under section 37 (20) of the Arbitration Act against the EA's interim award before the Delhi High Court to obtain appropriate relief to pursue its deal with Reliance. The judgment, he said, does not deal with the merits of the dispute between FRL and Amazon. It has dealt with the questions of law which are academic in nature. The judgment has held that the interim award of SIAC emergency arbitrator is a binding order under section 17(1) of the Arbitration Act, he added. The top court had reserved the judgement in the high profile case on July 29 after hearing battery of lawyers including senior advocates Harish Salve and Gopal Subramanium, appearing for FRL and Amazon respectively. We will decide whether EA award falls under section 17 (1) (which deals with interim award by arbitral tribunal) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. And if yes, then whether it can be enforced under section 17 (2) (of the Act), the bench had said. The provisions of the Act deal with the interim measures ordered by an arbitral tribunal and section 17 (1) says: Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may, at the request of a party, order a party to take any interim measure of protection as the arbitral tribunal may consider necessary in respect of the subject-matter of the dispute. Section 17 (2) provides that the arbitral tribunal may require a party to provide appropriate security in connection with an interim measure ordered. Salve, appearing for FRL, had referred to judgements on validity and the enforceability of arbitral awards and said that there was no notion of EA under the Indian law on arbitration and conciliation and, in any case, there was no arbitration agreement to this effect. There was no provision for EA under the Indian Law and it cannot be done by the process of construction , Salve had said referring to the single-judge order of the Delhi High Court which had held the award of the EA to be valid. Amazon had told the bench that the Biyanis of Future Group had negotiated with it to enter into certain agreements and is bound by the EA award restraining FRL from going ahead with Reliance Retail merger. Subramanium in his submissions had reiterated that the EA's award in favour of Amazon was valid and enforceable under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act of India. Kishore Biyani and 15 others including FRL and Future Coupon Pvt Ltd (FCPL) have been made parties by Amazon in a batch of pleas challenging the Delhi High Court order of the division bench which paved the way for the deal. On February 8, the division bench had stayed the single-judge direction to FRL and various statutory authorities to maintain the status quo on the mega deal. The interim direction was passed on FRL's appeal challenging the February 2 order of the single judge which had ruled in favour of the US firm saying that the EA's award was valid and enforceable. Amazon had first filed a plea before the high court (single judge) for enforcement of the October 25, 2020, EA award by Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance Retail. The high court division bench had however said that it was staying the single-judge order as FRL was not a party to the share subscription agreement (SSA) between Amazon and FCPL and the US firm was not a party to the FRL-Reliance deal. FRL, in its appeal, had claimed that if the February 2 order was not stayed it would be an absolute disaster for it as the proceedings before the NCLT for approving the amalgamation scheme have been put on hold. It had contended that the single judge's status quo order will effectively derail the entire scheme which has been approved by statutory authorities in accordance with the law. In August last year, the Future group had reached an agreement to sell its retail, wholesale, logistics, and warehousing units to Reliance. Subsequently, Amazon took FRL into EA before the SIAC over alleged breach of contract by the Future group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||RBI keeps policy rate unchanged for 7th time in a row||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday decided to keep benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance as the economy is yet to recover from the impact of second COVID wave. This is the seventh time in a row that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has maintained status quo. RBI had last revised its policy rate on May 22, 2020, in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. MPC decided to maintain status quo, that is keeping benchmark repurchase (repo) rate at 4 per cent, Das said while announcing the bi-monthly monetary policy review. Consequently, the reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. Das said MPC voted unanimously for keeping interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance as long as necessary to support growth and keep inflation within the target. MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2026, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent. Observing that economy is slowly recovery from brief hiatus, the Governor said, some of the high frequency indicators reflect recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open marginally higher ahead of RBI's Monetary Policy||Equity benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty opened marginally higher on Friday ahead of the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy decision.  The 30-share index was trading 54.98 points or 0.10 per cent higher at 54,547.82, while the broader NSE Nifty inched 17.50 points or 0.11 per cent higher to 16,312.10.  The RBI will announce its bi-monthly monetary policy amid expectations that it may opt for status quo on interest rates on account of inflationary concerns.  IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by M&M, Maruti, Bharti Airtel, Sun Pharma and NTPC.  On the other hand, HCL Tech, Titan, Nestle India and Infosys were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex settled 123.07 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its new closing record of 54,492.84, and Nifty rose 35.80 points or 0.22 per cent to its lifetime peak of 16,294.60.  According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, there are two major factors supporting the ongoing bull run: one, the strength of the mother market the US, riding on the support from huge liquidity and highly accommodative monetary stance of the Fed; two, the exuberance of the retail investors who are exerting a disproportionate influence on market movements.  "While retail investor participation is a desirable trend, it is important to note the fact that the quality of retail investment - chasing low-quality cheap stocks - leaves a lot to be desired. In the long run, the majority of retail investors will be better- off investing through mutual funds," he said.  Meanwhile, foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 719.88 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was trading with gains.  Equities on Wall Street largely ended on a positive note in overnight trade.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.14 per cent to USD 71.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea share price surges before Centre introduced retro tax rollback bill||The Vodafone Idea share price, which had fallen to a 52-week low in early trading on Thursday, suddenly surged at 2:10pm, hours before the Centre introduced the retro tax rollback bill in the Lok Sabha that struck off the government’s Rs 22,000-crore tax demand on the British company. The stock closed at Rs 5.94 on the BSE, down 1.49 per cent but much higher than the day’s low of Rs 4.55. Investors had hammered down the stock by 24.54 per cent in early trade in the wake of Kumar Mangalam Birla’s announcement that he was stepping down as the chairman of the company. According to Moneycontrol, Birla decided to quit in an apparent bid to ringfence the assets of Aditya Birla group from any adverse impact of a possible default by Vodafone Idea. Vodafone Idea CEO Ravinder Takkar on Thursday reached out to employees seeking to reassure them, and  urged the staff to continue focusing on providing quality services to customers and sustain intensity in the market. Meanwhile, UK-based Vodafone declined to comment on a report that suggested it is ready to offer its VIL stake for free to Indian banks, financial institutions or to state-owned BSNL, provided they take over the mobile telephony firm. “We will not be commenting,” Vodafone said in response to a mail sent by PTI. Last month, Birla had offered to hand over the Birla group’s stake in VIL to the government or any other entity to ensure the company remains a going concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Bengal-based Keventer Agro Ltd is set to debut on the bourses ||Bengal-based Keventer Agro Ltd is set to debut on the bourses — a rare entry of a food and beverage player from the east into the stock exchanges in recent times. KAL, which is the largest milk producer in the private sector in the East and the Northeast, will file a draft prospectus with market regulator Sebi in the next few days. The company, which is also the franchisee for Parle’s Fruity, Appy and FIZZ, is likely to raise anything between Rs 800 crore and Rs 900 crore, valuing Keventer in the range of Rs 2,400-2,800 crore. The IPO will offer an exit route to the existing private equity investor Mandala Capital, which holds close to a 22 per cent stake in Keventer. Moreover, the issue will raise cash to retire debt and build a capital base to expand the business in other parts of India. The promoters are not selling any shares in the company, which clocked a revenue of around Rs 1,000 crore in the last fiscal. Post IPO, the Jalan family of Calcutta is likely to hold a 68-70 per cent stake in Keventer, which also owns popular pouch milk and ice cream brand Metro. Sources said fresh issue of shares would be in the range of Rs 325-375 crore. While about Rs 125 crore would be kept for capital expenditure, Rs 250 crore would be used to retire debt. The issue, the second this year from Bengal after iron and steel company Shyam Metaliks, may hit the market during Diwali. In the recent past, regional dairy focused brands have done well on the bourses. The latest was the Rs 521-crore Dodla Dairy, which saw interest from retail as well as institutional buyers. Keventer, however, has been in the process of diversifying to the fast growing frozen foods segment. It is also a large procurer and seller of bananas in India, especially in Bengal. The company has been traditionally strong in the East and the Northeast, where it has a manufacturing base (in Barasat) and a good distribution network. However, it is slowly stepping out of the region. The East contributes about 12 per cent share to the overall FMCG market in India, even though the size is growing faster than the rest of India because of a lower base. The company plans to continue with a dual engine of growth — owned brand and a strong franchisee brand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Bengal industries and IT minister calls meeting to take stock of Rajarhat Silicon Valley Hub projects||Bengal industries and IT minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday said the department has scheduled a meeting on August 11 to take stock of the progress of projects at the proposed Silicon Valley Hub in Rajarhat. Chatterjee said a “cha-chakra” (tea-roundtable) has been scheduled with some of the companies that have taken up plots in the IT hub. State industry and IT department officials will be present at the meeting. Reliance Jio, TCS, Cognizant, Capgemini, Firstsource and Tech Mahindra were among the companies that had applied for land in the early phases. Expressions of interest for the sixth phase of land allocation at the IT hub was floated by Hidco earlier in February. The IT hub will be set up on approximately 200 acres of land in a strategic location in New Town’s Action Area-II near Eco Park. Chatterjee said around 120 participants are expected to attend the meeting, which will follow the existing Covid guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
06-08-2021||Business||Zoom alerts India users about updated terms of service||California-based communications technology firm Zoom has started alerting its users in India about its updated terms of service. Zoom’s updated privacy statement, globally announced in June, includes an opt-out option for its users from sharing data to third parties. “Zoom customers and users decide when a content is recorded and whether to share it with third-party apps or others,” Lynn Haaland, chief compliance, ethics and privacy officer, said in a statement. The updated privacy statement also clarifies Zoom’s use of automated tools to protect people’s safety. The development comes at a time the web conferencing major, which became a global phenomenon during the Covid pandemic, reportedly agreed to pay $85 million and bolster its security practices to settle a lawsuit which claimed it violated users’ privacy rights by sharing personal data with Facebook, Google and LinkedIn, and let hackers disrupt Zoom meetings in a practice called Zoombombing. Zoom’s usage ballooned unexpectedly in the pandemic - from 10 million daily meeting participants in December 2019 to 300 million daily meeting participants in April 2020, as per disclosure in the company’s annual report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-08-2021||Business||GFG Alliance settles disputes with Tata Steel and Rio Tinto||The GFG Alliance, owned by commodities tycoon Sanjeev Gupta, has settled disputes with Tata Steel and Rio Tinto, the company said on Thursday as it makes progress in refinancing after its main lender collapsed. Gupta Family Group (GFG) Alliance has been seeking fresh funding to rescue its cash-starved web of businesses in steel, aluminium and energy after supply chain finance company Greensill filed for insolvency in March. “It is encouraging that discussions with creditors continue to progress well and our global restructuring plans continue to develop,” Jeffrey Stein, chief restructuring officer, said in a statement. The deal with Tata brought to an end proceedings launched against several GFG units, including Liberty Speciality Steels, GFG said without providing further details. In 2017, GFG bought Tata’s UK speciality steel business for £100 million ($139.21 million) and its pipe mills for an undisclosed sum. The Tatas confirmed that an agreement had been reached, but added in an emailed statement that the terms were confidential. GFG said it had also settled a dispute with global mining group Rio Tinto over the acquisition of the Dunkirk aluminium smelter in 2018. Rio declined to comment. Gupta’s family conglomerate GFG paid Rio Tinto $500 million for Europe’s largest aluminium smelter in France in a complex deal that involved borrowing from a syndicate of banks and commodity trader Trafigura, sources have told Reuters. GFG also said that a previously announced deal with commodities group Glencore to refinance the debt on its aluminium unit would be finalised once it had resolved repayment issues with an unnamed creditor. GFG had previously said it was planning to use the Glencore facilities to repay debt owed to buyout firm American Industrial Partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-08-2021||Business||House panel on finance asks Centre to prepare White Paper on debt ||The parliamentary standing committee on finance has asked the Centre to prepare a White Paper on debt and a road map for fiscal consolidation in the wake of the immense pressure on government finances caused by the pandemic. The House panel has also pushed for the RBI’s intervention in the functioning of the bad bank, which the regulator has refused to do till now. “The committee cannot emphasise enough on the importance of clear understanding of debt and fiscal dynamics to manage the fiscal situation of the country as Covid-pandemic induced growth and fiscal dynamics could definitely increase our debt burden over the next few years,” the panel said in its report tabled in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday. The report suggested intensive use of modelling techniques to forecast the debt situation so that the government is prepared beforehand to face contingencies. “The DEA (department of economic affairs) should publish a White Paper on fiscal dynamics and how much fiscal space is created. They should highlight the use of fiscal resources and impact on GDP,” it said. The finance ministry has said it would strive to bring down the fiscal deficit to below 4.5 per cent of the gross domestic product by 2025-26 against a projected 6.8 per cent for the current fiscal. Bad bank “The RBI should intervene and bring about administrative clarity instead of leaving each bank to deal with singular cases which may trigger hiccups and reduce the efficiency of the desired outcome. If ARCs were sufficient, there would be no need for a ‘Bad Bank’. The RBI must clarify how the ‘Bad Bank’ will operate differently from existing ARCs,” the report said. On the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID), the parliamentary committee said “it needs to follow Sebi’s best practices in corporate governance to ensure that public funds are appropriately utilised for the best projects rather than being captured by crony capitals in the future”. Only the nomination and remuneration committee of the board of the infrastructure bank should appoint the non-official directors, board chairperson, MD and DMD. This committee  should be chaired by an external equity investor operating in its financing capacity and with full transparency and accountability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-08-2021||Business||Centre overturns retrospective amendment to tax laws||The Centre on Thursday introduced the retro tax rollback bill in the Lok Sabha that allows the government to withdraw all the tax demands made on asset transfers prior to May 28, 2012, and refund the money collected on this count without any interest, provided the parties concerned take back all their tax cases against the government. The tax proviso will, however, apply prospectively to all indirect asset transfers after that date. The bill has a direct bearing on the government’s long running tax disputes with British firms Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Group. The Indian government has lost two separate arbitrations brought by the two companies against the levy of retrospective taxes. While the government has virtually no liability in the Vodafone case, it has to refund $1.2 billion to Cairn Energy for the shares of the company it had sold, tax refund withheld and dividends confiscated. The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 comes after a French tribunal last month ordered a freeze on some 20 centrally located properties belonging to the Indian government as part of a guarantee of the amount owed to Cairn. Finance secretary T.V. Somanathan said the government would repay Cairn the Rs 7,900 crore it had collected as retrospective tax under the 2012 Act. “We are monitoring the situation and will provide a further update in due course,” Cairn said in a late night  statement on its website in response to the government’s tax law amendment. Tax analysts, however, said the the refund of only the principal amount may not be seen favourably by the parties which have won arbitration awards. Tax expert Narayan Jain said “after having lost the arbitration proceeding, the government had no choice but to withdraw the retro tax. It is doubtful whether Cairn and Vodafone would accept the rules in the present form. They would press for the interest component”. Revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said “we have taken this bold step to assure the investor community about the predictability in the tax regime. The retrospective taxation continued to be a sore point and hence the government has voluntarily decided to bring in this bill to nullify all retro tax demands”. With this amendment, the Centre is finally coming good on the promise that the then finance minister Arun Jaitley made in his budget speech in 2014 that the Modi government would not raise retrospective tax demands. However, the Centre has failed to also knock down its tax law amendment in the Finance Bill 2017 — with a roughly 55-year retrospective effect — that permitted tax sleuths to raid assessees based on a rumour, canard, whim or unsubstantiated suspicion without having to disclose to anyone the source or the basis of the information on which the operation was ordered. Amazon verdict The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce on Friday the verdict on e-commerce giant Amazon’s pleas against the merger of Future Retail Ltd with Reliance Retail and is likely to decide whether Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award, restraining the Rs 24,731-crore deal, was valid under Indian law and can be enforced. As per the apex court website, the verdict would be pronounced at 10.30am by a bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-08-2021||India||Enforcement Directorate conducts multiple raids in fake Covid testing labs during Kumbh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted multiple raids in connection with a money laundering probe into fake Covid testing during the recently-held Kumbh mela in Uttarakhand's Haridwar.  Searches were conducted at the offices of Novus Path Labs, DNA Labs, Max Corporate Services, Dr Lal Chandani Labs Pvt Ltd and Nalwa Laboratories Pvt Ltd and also at the residential premises of their directors in Dehradun, Haridwar, Delhi, Noida and Hisar, the agency said in a statement.  The ED said it has seized "incriminating documents, bogus bills, laptops, mobile phones and property documents and Rs 30.9 lakh cash" during the raids that were ongoing.  The agency recently registered a criminal case under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the accused companies and their directors after studying Uttarakhand Police FIRs against them.  This was followed by the raids.  These labs were given the contract by the Uttarakhand government for conducting rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests for coronavirus during the Kumbh Mela, the ED said.  These labs hardly carried out any COVID-19 test and made "fake entries" for the testing and raised "bogus" bills in order to earn illegal financial gains, it said.  "An amount of Rs 3.4 crore has already been received by them from Uttarakhand government as part payment," the ED said.  The agency said its investigation found that the "modus operandi used by these labs was that they used single mobile number or a false mobile number, single address or same specimen referral form (SRF) for multiple persons for showing the inflated numbers of coronavirus testing without actually doing the testing".  "Testing was claimed to be done in the name of the persons who never visited the Kumbh mela in Haridwar," it claimed.  Due to false negative testing by these labs, positivity rate of Haridwar at that time was shown at 0.18 per cent against the actual 5.3 per cent, the ED said.  One of the world's largest religious gatherings, the Kumbh was held in the state from April 1 to 30, and the notified area for the congregation covered various places in Haridwar, Dehradun, and Tehri districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
06-08-2021||India||Hopeful of launching Covovax for adults in October this year, for children in Q1 2022: Serum CEO ||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Friday said he is hopeful that Covovax, another COVID-19 vaccine being manufactured by his company in India, will be launched in October for adults and for children by the first quarter of 2022.  He also thanked the government for all the support provided to Serum Institute and said the company is always trying to expand its Covishield production capacity to meet the demand.  Poonawalla met Home Minister Amit Shah in Parliament and the meeting between the two lasted for 30 minutes.  "The government is helping us and we are facing no financial crunch. We are thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for all the cooperation and support," Poonawala told PTI after his meeting.  When asked about vaccines for kids, he said, "The Covovax vaccine for kids will be launched in the first quarter of the next year most likely in January-February."  Poonawala said he is hopeful that for adults Covovax will be launched in October, depending on DCGI approvals.  It will be a two-dose vaccine and the price will be decided at the time of launch, he added.  On production capacity of Covishield, the vaccine being manufactured and supplied by Serum in India under a licensing agreement with Oxford and AstraZeneca, he said the present capacity is 130 million doses per month and always try to increase it further.  Earlier in the day, Poonawalla also met Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya.  The minister tweeted that he had a productive discussion on the supply of the Covishield vaccine with Poonawalla.  "I appreciated their role in mitigating #COVID19 & assured continued Government support in ramping up vaccine production," Mandaviya said.  Last month, an expert panel of India's Central Drug Authority recommended granting permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years with certain conditions, official sources had earlier said.  The trials would cover 920 children, 460 each in the age group of 12-17 and 2-11 across 10 sites.  The Pune-based pharmaceutical company had submitted a revised protocol for inclusion of pediatric cohort in the ongoing Covovax phase 2 and 3 observer-blind, randomised, controlled study in Indian adults aged 18 years and above to determine the safety and immunogenicity of the jab.  In the revised application, SII director (government and regulatory affairs) Prakash Kumar Singh and director Dr Prasad Kulkarni had stated that globally, all adults aged 18 and above are being vaccinated and after this population is protected against COVID-l9, children will remain the most susceptible group.  Currently, only those who are 18 or above are eligible for vaccination against the coronavirus.  The SII is learnt to have informed that their collaborator, Novavax, Inc, US has already generated a large amount of data in adults in different countries and that the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data on the Novavax COVID-I9 vaccine are very robust which includes a safety database of more than 50000 adults with data from Australia, South Africa, UK and USA and preliminary safety data in 2248 children.  "Further in the ongoing Phase 2/3 study in India, more than 1400 participants have received at least first dose of the vaccine with no safety concerns reported so far," the application stated.  "This will ensure that a life-saving vaccine can be brought at the earliest for our pediatric population also in addition to the adult population immediately after the grant of Emergency Use Authorisation.  The SEC on June 30 had recommended against granting permission to SII for conducting phase 2 and 3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years following which the company had submitted a revised study protocol last week.  In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax, Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its COVID-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
06-08-2021||India||Karnataka schools to reopen for classes 9 to 12 from August 23||The Karnataka government has decided to reopen schools for students from class 9 to 12 (II PUC) from August 23, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday.  After taking stock of the COVID-19 situation in the state, he said that the government has decided to impose weekend curfew in districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra, and that the existing night curfew across the state will begin from 9 PM instead of 10 PM.  The Chief Minister on Friday chaired a meeting with health and education experts, Ministers and senior officials of the state government to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the state.  "We have discussed the current COVID situation, also some directions have come at the all-India level about the possible increase or decrease in the positivity rate in the days to come, based on that we have come to certain decisions," Bommai said.  Speaking to reporters here, he said, "we have decided to impose weekend curfew in districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra and the night curfew in force across the state will begin from 9 PM itself instead of 10 PM (it will be from 9 PM to 5 AM), and police have been asked to implement it strictly."  Currently, night curfew in the state is from 10 PM to 5 AM.  Those districts that are bordering Maharashtra where weekend curfew will be applicable are- Belagavi, Bidar, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi.Similarly those districts bordering Kerala are- Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagara.  Stating that at the meeting detailed discussions were held with education and health experts on opening of schools and also regarding the positions taken by other states in this regard, Bommai said, "We have decided to do it in two stages.In the first stage, class 9,10, also 11th and 12th (I and II PUC) classes will start from August 23."  There are certain conditions for opening schools, as per which classes will be held in batches on alternate days and details will be given in the order, he said.  Experts are of the opinion that a decision should be taken by August-end on starting primary and secondary classes up to class 8, after taking into account the possibility of a third wave and the intensity of COVID infections, he added.  The Chief Minister said a new COVID-19 task force consisting of Ministers will be constituted in a couple of days.  Later in the day an order regarding containment measures to prevent spread of COVID-19 in the state, issued by the Principal Secretary Revenue Department (Disaster Management) Tushar Giri Nath said, all social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious functions and other gatherings and large congregations are prohibited.  However, marriages, family functions are permitted to be conducted involving not more than 100 people strictly adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, while cremation and funerals will be allowed with a maximum of 20 people.  According to the order, it was suggested by the health experts that additional containment measures need to be imposed in light of upcoming festival season to prevent the spread of COVID-19.  In guidelines for districts where weekend curfew will be imposed, the government said, movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between Friday 9 pm to Monday 5 am, except for essential and emergency activities.  It said, shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, dairy and milk booths, and animal fodder shall be allowed to function from 5 am to 2 pm.  Street vendors, Public Distribution System shops, and standalone liquor shops and outlets for takeaways only are also allowed to function from 5 am to 2 pm.  Home delivery of all items shall be encouraged 24x7 to minimize movement of individuals outside their homes, while restaurants and eateries shall be allowed only for takeaway and home delivery, it added.  Movement of Public Transport, private vehicles and taxis to and from airports, railway stations and bus terminals/stops/stands is allowed for facilitating movement of passengers by air, rail and road, but the movement will be allowed only on displaying valid travel documents/tickets and strictly adhering to COVID appropriate behavior.  Movement of employees of organisations dealing with emergency and essential services shall be allowed on producing valid ID cards issued by their respective organisation or institution, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
06-08-2021||India||Modi praises government's decision to get rid of retrospective tax demands||A day after taking the bold decision to scrap all retrospective tax demands and refund money collected, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the move shows his government's commitment to providing businesses stability of investment climate and policy consistency. Speaking at a meeting with the industry for boosting Indian exports, Modi said exporters know the importance of policy stability. "The decision to abolish retrospective taxation shows government's commitment (to providing stable investment regime) and consistency of policy," he said. His government had on Thursday introduced in the Lok Sabha a bill to scrap retrospective taxation that has spooked overseas investors and dented the reputation of Asia's third-largest economy. India lost high-profile arbitrations initiated by companies such as Vodafone Group Plc and Cairn Energy Plc against levy of back taxes and risked its assets abroad being seized to enforce such tribunal awards. 'The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' was passed by the Lok Sabha on Friday and is expected to be taken up by the Rajya Sabha next week. "Exporters doing business in various countries know the importance of stability," Modi said, referring to the decision to abolish retrospective taxation. The bill provides for the withdrawal of tax demands made on "indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken before May 28, 2012 (i.e. the day the retrospective tax legislation came into being)." "It is also proposed to refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest thereon," the bill said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
06-08-2021||India||ED summons Mehbooba Mufti's mother in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate Friday served a notice on the mother of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti in connection with a case related to money laundering, official said here. The summons served on Gulshan Nazir, who is in her late seventies, has asked her to appear before the ED's Srinagar office on August 18, they said. The Mehbooba Mufit-led PDP slammed the ED over the development, saying it was no coincidence that a summons is served every time the party registers a protest against the Centre's policy on Jammu and Kashmir. On Thursday, Mufti had led a team of protesters from her party to mark the second anniversary of the Centre's move to abrogate the special status of the erstwhile state on August 5, 2019. The PDP has asked the ED the details of the case including about the FIR and the accused "just so we can prepare legally and know what she is going to be asked about". She was summoned by the ED on earlier occasions also. The party had conveyed to the ED that she should be allowed human assistance as she was not well versed with English, Hindi and Urdu languages and if the details of the case were known, it would help her in being prepared for the questioning. The criminal case filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the ED after raids on an alleged associate of Mufti. The diaries contain the details of some purported payments made from the chief minister's discretionary fund in alleged contravention of rules, officials said. These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rule in the erstwhile state. A few lakh rupees from these funds are alleged to have been transferred into the accounts of Nazir and some others, and the Enforcement Directorate wants to question her about it, the officials said. Nazir is the wife of the late Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
06-08-2021||India||Govt always open to talks with protesting farmers, says Tomar||Amid farmers protest against three contentious farm laws at Jantar Mantar here, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday informed Parliament again the government is always open for discussion to resolve the issue. For over seven months now, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders in protest against the three laws that they say will end state procurement of crops at MSP. Out of them, a small group of 200 farmers are staging a protest against the farm laws at Jantar Mantar -- only a few hundred metres from the Parliament Complex -- in central Delhi after getting a special permission from Delhi government. "Government is always open to discussion with farmers unions and will remain open to discussion with agitating farmers to resolve the issue," Tomar said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha. Asserting that the government engaged itself actively and constantly with the agitating farmer unions to end the protests, the minister said that 11 rounds of negotiating talks were held between the government and agitating farmers to resolve the issues. "However, farmer unions never agreed to discuss the farm laws except for demanding their repeal," he said. In the last meeting on January 22, the government's negotiations with 41 farmer groups hit a roadblock as the unions squarely rejected the Centre's proposal of putting the laws on suspension. During the 10th round of talks held on January 20, the Centre had offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions, in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi's borders. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. Asked if consultations were held before introducing the bills, Tomar said various committees/task force were constituted recommending for several market reform measures to remove restrictive provisions impeding development of an efficient and competitive marketing system, for promotion of direct marketing, and for encouraging contract farming. They also recommended rationalisation of market fee/tax structure, deregulation of the marketing system to promote investment in market infrastructure, motivating corporate sector to undertake direct marketing and to facilitate a national integrated market, he said. Further, the minister said that during COVID-19 lockdown due to disruption of markets and supply chains, there was utmost need to allow free direct marketing outside the mandis to facilitate the farmers in selling their produce near to farm gate at remunerative prices. As COVID-19 situation may have a prolonged effect globally on demand side, hence the urgency for promulgation of Ordinances, to provide a new facilitative framework to promote barrier free inter-state and intra-state trade to increase market accessibility for farmers to enhance their income, he added. The minister also said that the draft of the Ordinances had been circulated to various Ministries/ Departments; NITI Aayog etc, for their comments. State governments were also consulted through video conferencing (VC) on May 21, 2020, which was attended by the officials of various states/ Union Territories (UTs), to obtain feedback on new legal framework facilitating barrier free inter-state and intra-state trade in agriculture produce to provide a choice to farmers, he added. "Government of India has proactively undertaken efforts on a series of extension activities through webinars, online conferences, workshops, teleconferencing, social media, print media, electronic media with the stakeholders on the aforesaid three Ordinances and thereafter on respective Acts," he said. Asked how the government will ensure payment of minimum support price (MSP) to farmers after implementation of the farm laws, Tomar said the MSP policy has nothing to do with Farm Acts. Farmers are free to sell their produce to government procurement agencies at MSP or Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) markets or through contract farming or in the open market whichever is advantageous to them, he said. The centre announces MSP for 22 major agricultural commodities of Fair Average Quality (FAQ) each year in both the crop seasons after taking into account the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP). The government also extends remunerative prices to farmers through its various intervention schemes. The procurement at MSP is being done by central and state agencies under various schemes of the government. Besides, the overall market also responds to declaration of MSP and government's procurement operations, results in increase of selling price of the various notified crops, the minister added. The Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and set up a committee to find solutions. The committee has already submitted the report. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporations, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
06-08-2021||India||Permanent officers appointed in compliance with new IT Rules, Twitter tells HC||Twitter Inc Friday informed the Delhi High Court that it has appointed a Chief Compliance Officer, Resident Grievance Officer and Nodal Contact Person on permanent basis in compliance of the new Information Technology (IT) Rules. The court, however, said the affidavit filed by the microblogging platform in this regard is not on record and asked Twitter to ensure that it is brought on record. Justice Rekha Palli noted that the copies of the affidavit have been served to other parties, including the Centre's counsel who shall come back with instructions on August 10. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, said the company has appointed permanent officials for the posts of CCO, RGO and Nodal Contact Person on August 4 in compliance of the new IT Rules and has also filed an affidavit in compliance of the court's earlier order. During the hearing, the court said, so they are in compliance now? To this Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre, said, Seemingly so but we need to verify. The high court had earlier expressed displeasure over Twitter Inc for appointing a contingent worker as CCO and had said the microblogging platform was non-compliant with the new IT Rules. It had noted that while the rules mandated appointment of a key managerial person or a senior employee as CCO, Twitter had disclosed in its affidavit that it had appointed a contingent worker through a third party contractor. It had directed Twitter to not only disclose all the details pertaining to the appointment of the CCO as well as the Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) but also clarify as to why a Nodal Contact Person had not been appointed yet and by when the position will be filled. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyber space, including social media platforms, and were notified in February by the central government. Petitioner-lawyer Amit Acharya, represented by senior advocate G Tushar Rao, has claimed that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance of IT Rules by Twitter when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets. The court had earlier granted time to Twitter to file an affidavit to show compliance with the IT Rules. The Centre had said in its affidavit that Twitter failed to comply with India's new IT Rules, which could lead to its losing immunity conferred under the IT Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
06-08-2021||India||83 Covid cases of Delta plus variant reported in India till August 4, says govt||A total of 83 cases of Delta plus variant of COVID-19 have been reported in India till August 4 with Maharashtra registering 33 of these cases followed by Madhya Pradesh with 11 and Tamil Nadu 10, the Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. Responding to a question on whether private laboratories are permitted to do genome sequencing of coronavirus, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar in a written reply said inclusion of private labs in Indian INSACOG (SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium) is under consideration. "Few labs have submitted their willingness to be part of INSACOG. Their inclusion will be decided based on capacity assessment with respect to their human resources and infrastructure," she said in her reply. Analysis of the genomic data is a continuous and ongoing process. Periodic updates are shared with experts and states and are also regularly made available in the public domain through the media bulletin of INSACOG. States are regularly advised to send samples for genome sequencing and provide clinical data of positive persons to enable greater epidemiological insights to identify link between surge in cases at various places to the variants, the minister stated. Elaborating on the steps being taken to check the spread of the Delta variant, Pawar said to monitor the variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus, initially genomic sequencing was conducted through National Institute of Virology, Pune. Subsequently, the Centre established Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG) in December 2020 as a consortium of 10 laboratories of Ministry of Health, Department of Biotechnology, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). The network of INSACOG laboratories has since been increased to 28, Pawar stated. While monitoring the prevalence of variants through the network of labs, according to advice from experts it is noted that the public health measures to manage the pandemic in the field and the treatment protocol remain the same and the five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccinate and Covid-appropriate behavior is to be followed at the field level, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
06-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders join Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar, extend support to protest||Several leaders of Opposition parties, including former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, on Friday extended their solidarity to protesting farmers and joined their Kisan Sansad at the Jantar Mantar here, saying the three "black" agri laws will have to be withdrawn. Leaders of 14 Opposition parties met at Parliament House and then reached the nearby Jantar Mantar to participate in the Kisan Sansad, which began on July 22 to mark over seven months of the farmers' protests at Delhi's border points against the laws. The leaders neither spoke from the podium of the Kisan Sansad (farmers' parliament) nor were they seated on the dais. "Today all Opposition parties together decided to support the farmers and demand the withdrawal of the three farm laws," Gandhi told reporters. "We want to give our entire support to all the farmers of the country," he said. The three farm laws were enacted in September last year, following which farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi border points since November. "It will not work with a discussion on the farm laws and these black laws will have to be withdrawn," Gandhi said, when asked that the government says it is ready to hold talks with farmers. He also alleged that the government is not allowing the Opposition to raise the Pegasus snooping issue in Parliament. "You know what is happening in Parliament. We want to discuss the Pegasus (snooping) issue and they are not allowing it to happen. (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi has got into every telephone," he said. Gandhi, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and several other Congress leaders besides members from other Opposition parties were present at the meeting at Parliament House. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, RJD leader Manoj Kumar Jha, CPI (M) leader Elamaram Kareem, CPI leader Binoy Viswam, IUML leader Mohammed Bashir and DMK leader Tiruchi Siva were among those present at Jantar Mantar. AAP and TMC leaders were not present at the Kisan Sansad site. "The Opposition leaders' meeting decided to hold their protest at Jantar Mantar at 1 pm and sit with the protesting farmers," a senior leader told PTI earlier. The leaders left Parliament at 12.30 pm in a bus to reach Jantar Mantar. Farmer groups have alleged these three agri laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. They are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Leaders of several parties including the Congress, DMK, TMC, NCP, Shiv Sena, RJD, SP, CPI(M), AAP, CPI, IUML, RSP, NC and LJD attended the Opposition meeting in the morning. The Opposition leaders also discussed their floor strategy in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha of Parliament during the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
06-08-2021||India||2 militants killed in encounter with security forces in JK's Rajouri||Two terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Friday, officials said. The operation is going on in the Thanamandi forest belt area and so far, two militants have been killed, they said. "It is a group of three to four terrorists of which two are foreign terrorists," Additional Director General of Police, (ADGP), Jammu Zone, Mukesh Singh said, adding that "we feel they have moved from Kashmir to this side". Security forces were tracking a group of militants in the forest belts of the district for the past one month through digital surveillance, he said. "Today, we got inputs from Thanamandi and contact was established with the terrorists, resulting in an encounter in the forest belt," Singh said. Firing started as soon as security forces zeroed-in on the location of the militants, the officials said. Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajouri Sheema Nabi Qasba, is supervising the operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
06-08-2021||India||Bill to establish central university in Ladakh passed in Lok Sabha||A bill that seeks to establish a central university in the Union Territory of Ladakh was passed on Friday in the Lok Sabha, which has been witnessing Opposition protests over the alleged snooping by Pegasus spyware and other issues. In his brief statement on the Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said every year, about 7,000 students go out of Ladakh for study and with the establishment of the central university, about 2,500 students will get the opportunity to study there. "We want to set up a central university in Ladakh. It is a happy coincidence that the bill is being brought on the second anniversary of the scrapping of Article 370," he said. Pradhan said abrogation of Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, was not a slogan but a commitment. "Under that commitment, we have given Ladakh a Union Territory status and going to set up the Sindhu central university at a cost of Rs 760 crore," he said. After a brief clause-wise discussion of the bill, Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the chair, announced the passage of the bill by voice vote. According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill, at present there is no central university in Ladakh and therefore, the government has decided to establish a new central university there to ensure increase in accessibility and quality of higher education, and to facilitate and promote avenues of higher education and research for the people of the Union territory. This shall also cater to the regional aspirations for years to come, it said. According to the statement of objects, the bill seeks to amend the Central Universities Act, 2009, to provide for the establishment of a University named "Sindhu Central University" in Ladakh. The university will cater to all areas of Ladakh that include Leh and Kargil. The government had said the university is expected to reduce the imbalance in the region on the education sector and students of Ladakh to get quality higher education opportunities. The university will help in intellectual development and better higher education and will help improve the quality of education, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
06-08-2021||India||Mandaviya holds meeting with Biological-E MD on progress of Corbevax||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said he held a meeting with Biological-E Managing Director Mahima Dalta on the progress of the company's upcoming COVID-19 vaccine, Corbevax. The minister on Thursday had also held a meeting with Dr Reddy's Laboratories Chairman Satish Reddy regarding the production and supply of COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V. "Met Ms Mahima Datla, MD of @Biological_E , who briefed me on the progress of their upcoming #COVID19 vaccine, Corbevax. I assured all the Government support for the vaccine," Mandaviya said in a tweet. Earlier in June, the Union Health Ministry had finalised arrangements with Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer Biological-E to reserve 30 crore of COVID-19 vaccine doses. "These vaccine doses will be manufactured and stockpiled by M/s Biological-E from August-December 2021. For this purpose, the Union Ministry of Health would be making an advance payment of Rs 1,500 crore to M/s Biological-E," the Health Ministry had said in a statement. The arrangement with Biological-E is part of the wider endeavour of the Centre to encourage indigenous vaccine manufacturers by providing them support in research and development and also financial support. The Biological-E COVID vaccine candidate has been supported by the Centre from preclinical stage to phase-3 studies. The Department of Biotechnology has not only provided financial assistance in terms of grant-in-aid of over Rs 100 crore but has also partnered with Biological-E to conduct all animal challenge and assay studies through its Research Institute Translational Health Science Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad, the health ministry had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
06-08-2021||India||SC expresses displeasure over bulky documents filed  before it||The Supreme Court Friday expressed displeasure over the set of bulky documents being filed before it in a matter and observed that voluminous materials are filed to terrorise the judges. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant made the observations while hearing a batch of petitions arising out of the Bombay High Court verdict on pleas concerning the validity of a tariff order passed by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India last year. The apex court said that 51 volumes have been filed in the matter. "Yesterday, we had to arrange a lorry to carry these materials. What is the purpose of filing 51 volumes? We cannot keep on reading them. We cannot hear such a matter. You want to terrorise us by filing so much volumes", the bench said. At the outset, the bench observed that the purpose of filing 51 volumes seems to be that the judges does not read them. It asked the advocates appearing in the matter to sit together and file a convenient compilation so that the matter could proceed. The bench has posted the matter for hearing on August 18. While hearing another case, the bench pointed out that hundreds of volumes are being filed to terrorise the judges. The counsel appearing in the matter said he would file a short convenience compilation. However, the bench said despite so many volumes being filed, the judges have read the files.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
06-08-2021||India||Sporting fraternity welcomes decision to rename Khel Ratna after Dhyan Chand||India's sporting fraternity on Friday welcomed the renaming of the Khel Ratna in the honour of hockey wizard Major Dhyan Chand, saying that it is only befitting that the country's highest sporting honour is named after one of its greatest. Dhyan Chand is widely regarded as the greatest player in hockey. In his career that spanned from 1926 to 1949, he clinched Olympic medals in 1928, 1932 and 1936. The country's National Sports Day is also celebrated to commemorate his birth anniversary on August 29. India's only athletics medal winner in World Championships, Anju Bobby George, who won the Khel Ratna in 2003, said sports awards should be named after sportspersons. "It is high time we name our sporting awards after our sporting legends. It is the right step. Dhyan Chand is our sporting hero and hockey legend and hockey is our national game. "It is only fitting that the country's highest sporting award is named after Dhyan Chand at a time when India won an Olympic medal after 41 years," she told PTI. Commending the decision, former hockey skipper Ajitpal Singh said although the recognition came late it's better than never. "It's a welcome move. It's a good decision which the Prime Minister has taken. Sports awards should always be in the name of sportspersons and there is no bigger sportsperson in the country other than Dhyanchand ji. The recognition came late but better late than never," Singh said. Olympic bronze-winning boxer Vijender Singh said while honouring the memory of Dhyan Chand is a good move but merely that is not enough to raise the standard of sports in the country. "Nothing against the move because we all respect Dhyan Chand ji's immense contribution but the government ought to do more than this to support sportspersons. They need facilities at the basic level, unless we can do that, mere renaming of awards won't make much of a difference," he told PTI. Making the announcement of the change on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he had been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. "Major Dhyan Chand is India's most legendary & loved sporting icons; it is only befitting that India's Highest Sporting Honour be named after him. "His life and achievements have inspired generations of sportspersons who have achieved glory for India," Sports Minister Anurag Thakur tweeted after the announcement. The Khel Ratna was earlier named after former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The change comes in the wake of exceptional performances by the men's and women's hockey teams in the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. While the men's side claimed a bronze medal which was India's 12th Olympic hockey medal that came after a gap of 41 long years, the women's side put forth its best-ever performance in the Games, finishing a creditable fourth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
06-08-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson applies for Emergency Use Authorisation of vaccine in India||Global healthcare major Johnson & Johnson on Friday said it has applied for Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India. Earlier on Monday, the company had said that it remained committed to bringing its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to India and looks forward to ongoing discussions with the Indian government. "On August 5, 2021 Johnson & Johnson Pvt Ltd applied for EUA of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to the government of India," a Johnson & Johnson India spokesperson said in a statement. This is an important milestone that paves the way for bringing the company's single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to the people of India, and the rest of the world, through a collaboration with Biological E Limited, the statement added. "Biological E will be an important part of our global supply chain network, helping to supply our Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine through the extensive collaborations and partnerships we have with governments, health authorities and organisations such as Gavi and the COVAX Facility," the statement said. The EUA submission is based on topline efficacy and safety data from the Phase 3 ENSEMBLE clinical trial, which demonstrated that company's single-shot vaccine was 85 per cent effective in preventing severe disease across all regions studied, and showed protection against Covid-19 related hospitalisation and death, beginning 28 days after vaccination, it added. "We look forward to concluding our discussions with the government of India to accelerate availability of our Covid-19 vaccine to help end the pandemic," the statement said. India recorded 44,643 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,18,56,757, while the active cases registered an increase for the third consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,26,754 with 464 fresh fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-348
06-08-2021||India||Modi announces renaming Khel Ratna Award after Dhyan Chand||India's highest sporting honour Khel Ratna Award, which was named after former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, was on Friday rechristened in the honour of hockey wizard Dhyan Chand following the admirable performance of both men's and women's hockey teams in the Tokyo Olympics. Making the announcement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he had been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. "Respecting their sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award! Major Dhyan Chand was among India's foremost sportspersons who brought honour and pride for India. It is fitting that our nation's highest sporting honour will be named after him," he tweeted. The exceptional performance of the men's and women's Hockey Team has captured the imagination of our entire nation, the Prime Minister said, adding that there is a renewed interest towards the sport that is emerging across the length and breadth of India. "This is a very positive sign for the coming times," he said. The prestigious award carries a prize money of Rs 25 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
06-08-2021||India||CBI does not help when judges complain of threats, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Friday termed "serious" the incidents of judges being threatened and asked the states to file status reports on the security they are providing to the judicial officers. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant also issued notice to the CBI which has taken over the investigation into the recent incident of alleged mowing down of a judge at Dhanbad. The apex court was informed by the counsel appearing for Jharkhand that the probe into the July 28 incident has been handed over to the CBI. The bench told Attorney General K K Venugopal that there are several cases, which involve gangsters and high-profile persons and there are instances of judges getting threats or abusive messages. "There is no freedom to the judges to even file a complaint," the bench said, adding that police or the CBI is not helping the judiciary if such complaints are filed. "The CBI has not changed its attitude. When Judges complain to the CBI, Intelligence Bureau on threats, they do not respond. Investigating agencies do not help at all and I am making this statement with some sense of responsibility," CJI Ramana was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. "We will hear the Jharkhand matter on Monday (August 9). We are issuing notice to the CBI," the bench said. In wake of the Dhanbad incident, the top court has taken suo motu cognizance on the issue of safeguarding courts and protecting judges. A 20-member team has also been set by the CBI to probe the matter. It has left for Dhanbad, officials said, adding that it will be followed by a Central Forensic Science Laboratory team. District and Sessions Judge-8 of Dhanbad court, Uttam Anand, was out on a morning walk on Wednesday when he was killed by an auto-rickshaw at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district court in the Sadar police station area, stepping up investigations into his death that has led to a nationwide outrage among the legal fraternity which believes he was murdered. Judge Anand, a Hazaribagh native posted in Dhanbad six months ago, had been handling several cases of mafia killings in Dhanbad city. He had denied bail to Ravi Thakur and Anand Verma, suspected shooters who have been linked to alleged Uttar Pradesh gangsters Abhinav Singh and Aman Singh. Even though Jharkhand police had constituted an 11-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident, chief minister Hemant Soren recommended a CBI probe on July 31, a day after the slain judge’s family members met him in Ranchi. The central probe agency had informed the Jharkhand High Court on Tuesday that it has received the state government's letter to take over the probe a day earlier. The bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad had directed the CBI to initiate a probe at the earliest. It had also directed the government to hand over all the documents of the case to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
06-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders to join protesting farmers at Jantar Mantar||Several Opposition party leaders will on Friday go to Jantar Mantar here to express solidarity with farmers protesting against the contentious farm laws and participate in the 'Kisan Sansad'. Leaders of 14 Opposition parties met in Parliament house at 10 AM and decided to extend their support to the farmers' agitation and sit in solidarity with them. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and several other leaders of Opposition parties were present in the meeting held in the chamber of Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. Opposition leaders including Gandhi will participate in the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar and support the farmers in their demand for repeal of farm laws, Kharge told reporters after the meeting. "The Opposition leaders' meeting decided to hold their protest in Jantar Mantar at 1 PM and sit with the protesting farmers," a senior leader told PTI. The leaders would travel from Parliament at 12.30 PM in a bus and would participate in the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar. Leaders of several parties including the Congress, DMK, TMC, NCP, Shiv Sena, RJD, SP, CPIM, AAP, CPI, IUML, RSP, NC and LJD attended the Opposition meeting. The Opposition leaders also discussed their floor strategy in both houses of Parliament during the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
06-08-2021||India||Tokyo Olympics: Praise for Indian women's hockey team after gritty display||The bronze medal slipped out of its grasp but the Indian women's hockey team have earned plaudits for a gritty display against Great Britain in the play-off match as the country celebrated the side's best-ever performance at the Olympics. The history-making Indian women's hockey team, which had already surpassed all expectations by entering the semifinals of the Games for the first time, signed off with a fourth place finish after going down to Great Britain 3-4 in the bronze medal play-off. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the team can take pride from a campaign, in which it beat Australia 1-0 in the quarterfinals. "We will always remember the great performance of our Women's Hockey Team at #Tokyo2020. They gave their best throughout. Each and every member of the team is blessed with remarkable courage, skill and resilience. India is proud of this outstanding team. "We narrowly missed a medal in Women's Hockey but this team reflects the spirit of New India- where we give our best and scale new frontiers. More importantly, their success at #Tokyo2020 will motivate young daughters of India to take up Hockey and excel in it. Proud of this team," Modi tweeted. Sports Minister Anurag Thakur said he is proud of their effort. "India's daughters - our determined athletes; we are immensely proud of you!" he wrote. "A giant leap of faith & fighting spirit by our women's hockey team; a legacy that will inspire us to do even better! You have shown us the way," he said. Former sports minister Kiren Rijiju said hockey's golden era is back. "Don't break down girls, you all played superb at Tokyo2020 by reaching top 4 in the world! I appreciate our Women's Hockey for making India proud.!!" he posted. Men's team skipper Manpreet Singh and former hockey player Viren Rasquinha said the women's side's journey at the Olympics was one of the best stories of the ongoing Games. They were there to cheer the team from the stands during the match. "The performance of the Indian women's hockey team has been one of the best stories of the Tokyo Olympics They played as a team and gave it their all. Cannot ask for any more. Thank you for giving us fans so many wonderful memories," Rasquinha said. "This being our TheHockeyIndia eves highest finish at the Olympics - tough luck but they fought superbly till the end! They have won the nations heart and we are proud of them," Manpreet tweeted. Batting legend Sachin Tendulkar said "Well done TeamIndia on giving your best and fighting till the very end. You may have lost the match but you have won our hearts. We are all very proud of you." Former cricketers Virender Sehwag, Anil Kumble and VVS Laxman said the spirit with which the team performed will serve as an inspiration for the next generation. "Brilliant Effort girls. You must hold your heads up high for the magnificent effort and the spirit with which you fought. You have been instrumental in making the nation ho crazy for Hockey again @TheHockeyIndia #IndvsGBR," Sehwag said. "You gave it your all. Proud of how you played. Won a billion hearts. Created history and inspired the next gen," Kumble said. "Nothing but respect for our girls who gave their best. We are very proud of you and I am sure they will only get better," Laxman tweeted. Shooter Heena Sidhu, shuttler Jwala Gutta and gymnast Dipa Karmakar, who had finished fourth in the Rio Olympics, too paid rich tributes to the side "GB played better than us no doubt. We have lost to a better team there's no shame in that. We celebrated the medal yesterday, we must stand with them during this loss as well. They give it their all. Proud of #Ourgirls," Sidhu wrote. "Played like tigresses ..chin up girls .you were outstanding there's more to come!!! @TheHockeyIndia @Tokyo2020hi #womenhockeyindia," Gutta wrote. "Just so emotional. Each and every member of this team must be celebrated for the fight they have put up. #womenshockey #Hockey #Tokyo2020," Karmakar said. Indian Olympic Association Secretary General Rajeev Mehta said "The Indian Women's @TheHockeyIndia team gave it their all and delivered a brilliant performance at #Tokyo2020. The country is absolute proud of your fightback spirit today against Great Britain! More power to you #StrongerTogether #TeamIndia." Bollwood star Shah Rukh Khan, who famously played the coach of the women's hockey team in Chak De India also chimed in. "Heartbreak!!! But all reasons to hold our heads high. Well played Indian Women's Hockey Team. You all inspired everyone in India. That itself is a victory," Khan tweeted. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
06-08-2021||India||India logs over 44,000 fresh Covid cases, 464 casualties in a day||India recorded 44,643 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,18,56,757, while the active cases registered an increase for the third consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,26,754 with 464 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 3,083 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 16,40,287 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 47,65,33,650. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.72 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 11 days.The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.41 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,10,15,844 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 49.53 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 464 new fatalities include 120 from Maharashtra and 117 from Kerala. A total of 4,26,754 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,33,530 from Maharashtra, 36,705 from Karnataka, 34,230 from Tamil Nadu, 25,060 from Delhi, 22,770 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,193 from West Bengal and 17,328 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
06-08-2021||India||Narrowly missed medal but women's hockey team reflects spirit of new India, says PM||Hailing the Indian women's hockey team's performance at the Olympics, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said it narrowly missed a medal but it reflects the spirit of new India, "where we give our best and scale new frontiers". The history-making Indian women's hockey team's dream of securing its maiden Olympic medal remained unfulfilled as it lost 3-4 to Great Britain in a hard-fought bronze play-off match at the ongoing Games in Tokyo on Friday. "We narrowly missed a medal in Women's Hockey but this team reflects the spirit of New India -- where we give our best and scale new frontiers," Modi tweeted after the match. "More importantly, their success at #Tokyo2020 will motivate young daughters of India to take up Hockey and excel in it. Proud of this team," he said. Modi said people will always remember the great performance of our women's hockey team at the Tokyo Olympics. "They gave their best throughout. Each and every member of the team is blessed with remarkable courage, skill and resilience. India is proud of this outstanding team," the prime minister said. The team had already created history and surpassed all expectations by entering the semifinals of the Games for the first time. But the maiden Olympic medal remained out of bounds as world no. 4 Great Britain, who were gold-winners in the 2016 Rio Games, came out on top in the pulsating encounter. The heartbreak came a day after the Indian men's team ended a 41-year-old medal drought by clinching a bronze with a 5-4 win over Germany.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
06-08-2021||India||Pegasus truth has to come out, says CJI Ramana ||The Supreme Court on Thursday observed that the Pegasus snooping allegations, if true, were no doubt “serious” and the “truth has to come out”. Hearing a batch of petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into the Pegasus controversy, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said: “No doubt the allegations are serious, if the reports are true…. Truth has to come out, that’s a different story. We don’t know whose names are there.” The bench, which also had Justice Surya Kant, agreed to examine the Centre’s view on August 10. CJI Ramana said no order could be passed without hearing the government’s version on the allegations. The court directed the petitioners to serve copies of their petitions on the Union government so that the matter could be taken up for further hearing on Tuesday. The apex court said in a written order later: “Heard senior counsel appearing for the petitioners… at a considerable length. Let the matters be listed on Tuesday, the 10th August, 2021. In the meantime, learned Advocate­on­Record appearing for the petitioners are directed to serve copies of the Writ Petitions upon the Union of India well in advance.” During the 45-minute hearing, the court directed one of the petitioners, advocate Manoharlal Sharma, to remove the names of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah from his list of respondents. The other petitions don’t name the politicians as respondents. A collective of 17 media organisations has claimed to have found in an investigation that phones in many countries had been infected with the Israeli spyware Pegasus for the purpose of snooping. In India, the list of those allegedly snooped on or selected as targets includes judges, senior politicians, journalists and rights activists. The Modi government has stonewalled Opposition demands for discussions in Parliament on Pegasus and dismissed it as a “non-issue”. The Centre has not even clarified whether it had purchased the Pegasus spyware. On Thursday, the Supreme Court initially felt that except for the petition filed by the Editors Guild of India, the others were not based on adequate research. CJI Ramana wondered why no FIRs had been registered by the aggrieved persons and recalled that the allegations of intrusion had first surfaced in 2019. “The surveillance issue came to light two years ago, why come now suddenly?” the CJI asked. “If you know your phone is hacked, why not file a criminal complaint?” “We are not saying the petitions are based on hearsay and we cannot say there is no material, but with your access to international material, resources, the petitioners, some of them who are reputed persons and intellectuals, should have made more efforts,” Justice Ramana told senior advocate Kapil Sibal. Sibal was appearing for veteran journalists N. Ram and Shashi Kumar. Sibal said fresh evidence had emerged late on Wednesday that suggested that an old phone of a former Supreme Court judge and two ex-registrars of the top court had been on the list of potential Pegasus targets. The Wire news portal reported on Wednesday that an old phone number of former Supreme Court judge Arun Mishra and the numbers of two officers of the Supreme Court registry were on the list that featured potential targets for surveillance. Terming Pegasus a “rogue technology”, Sibal said that with the help of the spyware the government could intrude into the private lives of people. “If I move around in my private moments, they can watch me. They can activate my camera, my mic…. Pegasus is a rogue technology that enters our lives without our knowledge. It is an assault on privacy, dignity and the value of our republic,” the senior counsel said. Sibal added: “The government has to answer who purchased it? How much was spent? Where was the hardware placed? Why did the government not register the FIR? It’s a matter of our privacy. It is only the government that will be able to tell us facts.” Senior advocate C.U. Singh, appearing for some of the petitioners, said the names of the individuals allegedly under surveillance were not known in 2019, when too there had been a flurry over snooping using Pegasus. He said the identities of the people had emerged now after forensic analysis, prompting the petitioners to approach the Supreme Court. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, representing CPM Rajya Sabha member John Brittas, said then law and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had in 2019 told Parliament that to the best of his knowledge there had been no such surveillance. Since sufficient materials have surfaced now, it was necessary for the court to order a probe into the fresh allegations, Arora said. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for academic Jagdeep Chhokkar whose phone was allegedly hacked with the help of Pegasus, said the US and French governments had ordered investigations into the allegations. Assailing the surveillance, he said it amounted to a “war by the government on the citizens”. Arvind Datar, senior advocate representing journalist Rupesh Kumar Singh, quoted Section 43 of the IT Act to point out that it only provides for filing a suit for damages. There is no provision in criminal law for prosecution of officials responsible for hacking, Datar told the court. He said that as of now the names of 300 people whose phones had been “hacked” had surfaced “God knows how many more names are there,” Datar said. As soon as the hearing began, CJI Ramana told Sharma, the petitioner: “Mr Sharma, except newspaper cuttings, what is there in your petition?” The court, however, clarified that it was not disbelieving news reports but said the petitioners must be able to collect independent materials to substantiate the allegations of illegal surveillance. “You have added individual persons as respondents. We can’t issue notice, we know why you have named them. We are not here for your entertainment,” Justice Ramana told Sharma. Justice Surya Kant pointed out that Sharma had not made the Centre a respondent and instead chosen to array the Prime Minister and the home minister. The judge pointed out that Sharma had submitted a complaint to the CBI on June 21 seeking an investigation into the allegations of snooping, but on the very next day he filed a PIL in the Supreme Court. Justice Surya Kant said the petitioner should have given a few days to the CBI to act on his complaint instead of rushing to the court. Sharma offered to amend the memo of parties. Later the court said in the written order: “…The Court is convened through Video Conferencing. Permission to appear and argue in person is allowed in Writ Petition (Civil) (M.L. Sharma). “As prayed, he is permitted to amend the Memo of Party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
06-08-2021||India||Modi links India's hockey bronze to Article 370 dilution & Ram Mandir construction||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday linked India’s feat of winning an Olympic hockey bronze to the dilution of Article 370 and the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya on the ground that they shared the “special” date of August 5. Elsewhere, in a display of how sporting success can bring a country together, hockey Olympians from Zafar Iqbal and Gurbux Singh to Joaquim Carvalho and Dhanraj Pillay lauded Manpreet Singh’s team for ending India’s 41-year hockey medal drought. “Aisa lag raha hai Bharat ki vijay ki shuruwat ho chuki hai. Isme 5 August ki taarikh bahut vishesh ban gayi hai, bahut mahatwapurn ban gai hai. Itihas isko saalon tak darz karega (It seems the process of India’s triumph has begun. In this, August 5 has become very special, very important. This date will be lodged in history for years),” Modi told an event in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh virtually from Delhi. “Yeh 5 August hi hai jab do saal pahle desh ne Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat ke sapne ko aur sashakt kiya tha. Karib saat dasak baad Article 370 hatakar Jammu-Kashmir ke har nagarik ko har adhikar har suvidha ka pura bhagidar banaya tha (It was on August 5 two years ago that the country had strengthened the dream of One India, Best India. The removal of Article 370 after nearly seven decades gave every citizen of Jammu and Kashmir full partnership in every right and every benefit).” Modi added: “Yehi 5 August hai jab pichhle saal koti koti bharatiyon ne saikdon saal baad bhavya Ram mandir ke nirman ki taraf pahla kadam rakha. Aaj teji se Ayodhya mein Ram mandir ke nirman ka karya chal raha hai (It was on August 5 last year that crores of Indians had, after centuries, taken the first step towards the construction of a grand Ram temple. Today, construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is on in full swing).” He went on: “Aur 5 August ki tarikh phir ek baar hum sabhi ke liye utsah aur umang leke aayi hai. Aaj hi Olympic ke maidan par desh ke yuvaon ne hockey ke apne gaurav ko phir se sabit karne ke taraf badi chhalang lagai hai. Char dashak ke baad ye swarnim pal aayi hai (August 5 has once again brought us excitement and enthusiasm. Today, at the Olympics, the country’s youth have taken a giant leap towards reinstating India’s pride in hockey. This golden moment has come after four decades).” While scrapping Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5, 2019, the Modi government had enforced a lockdown and information blockade on the ground, suspending phone and Internet services and arresting hundreds of politicians and activists. On August 5, 2020, as the country reeled under a pandemic, Modi had led the “bhoomi pujan” (groundbreaking ceremony) for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The revocation of Article 370 and the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya had been part of the BJP’s core agenda since its birth, but during Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s time it had been forced to exclude these from its political programme to gain allies. But with the BJP gaining absolute majority in 2014 under Modi, the party has revived these agendas. A bigger majority in 2019 encouraged it to implement them, making brazen use of state power. Modi might not know it but August 5 is a memorable date in Olympic history for reasons that go beyond sport. It was on this day in 1936 that the African American athlete Jesse Owens won the 200m sprint to complete the 100m, 200m and long jump treble in the Berlin Olympics, shattering Adolf Hitler’s hopes of turning the Games into an advertisement of Aryan superiority. On Thursday, Modi slammed the Opposition parties for stalling Parliament, saying they were “blocking national interest” at a time the country was surging ahead after overcoming the Covid pandemic. “Our country, our youth are accomplishing so much, scoring winning goals — yet there are some who for their political motives are intent on scoring own goals,” he said. “At a time when every Indian is trying to battle the once-in-a-century pandemic, they (the Opposition) are bent on blocking national interest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
06-08-2021||India||Opposition accuses govt of playing TV trick to black out protest inside the House||The Opposition on Thursday accused the ruling dispensation of “playing a trick” on them to black out visuals of their protest inside the House on Lok Sabha TV while giving the impression to them that it was being aired. For the first time during the ongoing monsoon session on Thursday, two big screens installed inside the Lok Sabha showed visuals of Opposition members waving placards and raising slogans in the well of the House. The Opposition’s happiness, however, was short-lived when they found out that the protest visuals were being shown on the internal screens but not aired on Lok Sabha TV for public viewing. “Our placards and slogans were being shown on the screens inside the House. Later we found out that the visuals were not shown outside so that people could see it on Lok Sabha TV,” Congress MP Suresh Kodikunnil told The Telegraph. “After the House was adjourned, Opposition members complained to the Speaker and he assured us that portions of our protest would be shown,” Suresh added. Some long shots of Opposition members standing in the well of the House were shown later. The Opposition, however, wants their protest and the issues they are raising to be given ample coverage on Lok Sabha TV so that people know why Parliament is being stalled. “Not only are they (the government) not allowing us to raise the issues by admitting adjournment motions that are being given repeatedly, but Lok Sabha TV is also being used for political purposes only to show the ruling party and not what the Opposition is protesting over,” Akali Dal MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal said. The Lok Sabha secretariat does not show close-ups of protests on the ground that unruly scenes denigrate the dignity of Parliament. On Lok Sabha TV, viewers can hear the protests, though not clearly, but can’t see close-up visuals. Lok Sabha TV has the sole right of broadcasting uninterrupted House proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
06-08-2021||India||Tokyo Olympics: Efforts of Naveen govt to support hockey bear fruit ||Efforts by the Naveen Patnaik government in Odisha to support hockey bore fruit on Thursday when the Indian men’s team bagged bronze at the Tokyo Olympics. The Odisha government is the official sponsor of the Indian hockey teams (both men and women) since 2018. It is contracted to sponsor the teams till 2023 in a deal worth over Rs 100 crore. Congratulating the players, Naveen, who himself played hockey in his schooldays as a goalkeeper, said: “Many congratulations to our hockey team. The whole of India is so excited, as is Odisha of course. We are all behind you and wish you the very best. We are looking forward to receiving our Indian Olympic hockey team in Bhubaneswar on the 16th of this month. All the very best for all of you for the future. All the best.” Naveen also tweeted: “Brilliant in Blue. Congratulations Indian Men’s Hockey team on the spectacular victory to give us an Olympic medal after 41 long years. This historic win at Tokyo 2020 will inspire generation of sportspersons. All the very best for the future.” Showering praise on Naveen for his support, men’s team captain Manpreet Singh said: “It’s a special moment for all of us. We finally achieved our dream of winning an Olympic medal. On this special occasion, I would like to express our special thanks to the Hon’ble chief minister of Odisha, Naveen Patnaikji, who has supported us throughout this journey. “His vision for hockey and encouragement has helped us achieve this remarkable feat for the country. While everyone was supporting cricket, the Hon’ble CM chose hockey and today you can see the result of the vision. I would like to say thank you so much, Sir.” The chief minister spoke to the family members of two Odisha players — Birendra Lakra and Amit Rohidas — who are part of the team. Official sources said the Odisha government was planning to organise a grand welcome for the Indian contingent when it arrives in Bhubaneswar on August 16. “When no one came forward to sponsor hockey, chief minister Naveen Patnaik took the responsibility upon himself. Today is a proud moment for India. When we talk about Chak De! India, the leadership and vision of Naveen Patnaik is reflected through hockey,” said BJD spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sasmit Patra. In 2018, then official sponsor Sahara had backed out, putting the future of Indian hockey in jeopardy. Odisha sports minister Tusharkanti Behera said on Thursday: “To promote hockey, we worked on a two-fold strategy — to build infrastructure and to groom and encourage talent. When other states had declined to host the (men’s) hockey World Cup, Odisha came forward to organise it. Kalinga Stadium was refurbished in record time. A second astroturf was also laid in no time….” Sources said nearly Rs 450 crore was spent. “Money has never been a constraint in promoting sports. We are now building a world-class hockey stadium at Rourkela for the upcoming Men’s Hockey World Cup. For 2020-21, we have earmarked over Rs 300 crore for building sports infrastructure. Besides, we are channelling money from the district mineral fund to build the infrastructure,” the minister said. The new stadium at Rourkela, which is being built at a cost of around Rs 100 crore, will have a capacity to hold 20,000 spectators. “Now we are laying astroturfs in 17 blocks in Sundergarh, considered the home of hockey in Odisha,” said Behera. To give the best possible grooming to players, the Odisha government, along with Tata Steel and Tata Trusts, set up the Naval Tata Hockey Academy on the premises of Kalinga Stadium in 2019. “The Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance Centre here is currently grooming 61 players and the number will reach 80 by September. We have brought in raw talent from the rural belt through various programmes and worked with them to ensure that they reach the next level. With training on astroturf, we are now on a par with western players in terms of speed and resilience,” Rajiv Seth, project director of the centre, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-349
06-08-2021||India||Prashant Kishor resigns as Punjab CM’s principal adviser||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Thursday resigned as Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s principal adviser, saying he was taking “a temporary break from active role in public life”. The Assembly elections in Punjab are less than a year away. Kishor had managed the Congress’s successful campaign in the 2017 polls. In a letter to the chief minister on Thursday, Kishor wrote: “In view of my decision to take a temporary break from active role in public life, I have not been able to take over the responsibilities as your principal adviser. “Since I am yet to decide on my future course of action, I write to request you to kindly relieve me from this responsibility. I take this opportunity to thank you for considering me for this position.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
06-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Modi govt will crumble the moment India’s youth understands the truth, says Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the Narendra Modi government would crumble the moment India’s youth understood the truth and Pegasus was a weapon to ensure that didn’t happen easily. Arguing that the purpose of surveillance was to suppress the truth, the Congress leader said: “The day India’s youth understands the truth, starts raising this truth, the Narendra Modi government will fall apart. Pegasus is a weapon to suppress the truth. They haven’t put it only in my phone. Every youth is targeted. It is a conspiracy to ensure the truth doesn’t come out. If you speak the truth, Modi is in your phone through Pegasus.” Rahul was speaking at a Youth Congress rally that had been organised as part of “Parliament gherao” to protest the alleged snooping, farm laws, unemployment and the economic mess. A police crackdown had started from Wednesday evening itself. Buses were stopped from entering the national capital and Youth Congress workers were evicted from hotels. Despite massive mobilisation, the protesters were prevented from moving towards Parliament. Mild force and water cannons were used to disperse the marching crowds. Many senior Congress leaders addressed the rally, which is being seen as the biggest post-Covid protest against the government in the capital. Rahul said: “The whole focus of the Modi government is to hide the truth. In Parliament, Opposition leaders are protesting with placards, but that will not be shown on TV. Only BJP MPs speaking is shown on Lok Sabha TV. People won’t be shown the truth. Mediapersons are here. Ask them whether they have the freedom to show the truth. Do they talk about unemployment?” Referring to the distress all around, he said: “Farmers are suppressed, youth is suppressed, small businesses are suppressed. It is a ‘hum do-hamare do’ government. This is the reason India is unable to create jobs. And there won’t be jobs as long as Modi is there because his partnership is with two-three corporate houses. His partnership is not with the youth, farmers, the poor, small and medium businesses, workers.” The former Congress president added: “Unemployment is the biggest issue today. But the Prime Minister will talk about every issue except unemployment. He promised 2 crore jobs every year, but millions of existing jobs are being snatched every month. This happens because Modi works for only two-three corporate houses.” Rahul asked the Youth Congress to open its doors to the disgruntled youth who are not getting jobs and promised to stand with them in their fight for employment. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, later told the media: “We want a discussion (on Pegasus) in Parliament, but the government is running away. They don’t allow us to speak on farmers, on snooping and pass 10 bills in one hour. Is this democracy?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
06-08-2021||India||Covid: Bombay High Court moots travel pass for the fully vaccinated||Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government to consider identifying and segregating those who have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccine from the rest, and provide a “common card” to fully inoculated people to allow them unrestricted travel and work. The court said the state government should consider allowing people who have received both doses to travel in local trains and resume normal activities. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni also said the state and the Centre must consider issuing a “common card” that identifies a citizen as fully vaccinated and permits him or her to travel and work unrestrained. Advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who appeared for the Maharashtra government, told the court that a letter from the state disaster management authority would be issued for lawyers and registered judicial clerks, based on which the railways would give them travel passes. The bench referred to an interview with Maharashtra Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi, published in a newspaper on Thursday. Dr Joshi said one-third of Maharashtra’s population was still susceptible to the coronavirus, and unrestricted local train travel could not be permitted yet as identifying the fully vaccinated was cumbersome. “If Dr Joshi says it (train travel) can be done subject to identification, it is for the state and the Centre to identify the fully vaccinated (people),” the court said. “One-third of the population is still susceptible to the virus. Then, this one-third population should be separated from the two-third or from the fully vaccinated. At least provide them with a card identifying them as fully vaccinated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
06-08-2021||India||Covaxin bar in Saudi, expatriate from Kerala approaches high court seeking Covishield vaccine ||A Gulf expatriate from Kerala has approached the high court seeking the Covishield vaccine since Saudi Arabia, where he has to return by the month end, does not recognise Covaxin, with which he has been fully immunised against Covid. Girikumar Thekkan Kunnumpurath, 50, from Kannur who works as a welder in Dammam, has urged Kerala High Court to direct the central government to either vaccinate him again with Covishield, which is recognised in Saudi Arabia, or get Covaxin validated in other countries. He could face job loss if he did not reach Saudi Arabia by the end of August, Girikumar said. Girikumar’s counsel Manas P. Hameed said the court had served notice to the Union health ministry seeking its opinion on the matter. “The notice was served on the Union ministry since the Kerala government doesn’t have any role in formulating vaccination policy,” Hameed told The Telegraph. The lawyer said the case would be heard on Monday when the Centre’s version would be considered. As of now, there is no provision to opt for another immunisation cycle with a different vaccine after being inoculated with two doses. Girikumar has to reach Saudi Arabia by August 30 when his re-entry permit is set to expire. “I had no idea a vaccine would land me in trouble. But soon after my second shot (on May 17), I came across news reports that Covaxin is not among the vaccines recognised by Saudi Arabia and many other countries,” he told this newspaper on Thursday. “I came home on leave in January. But then the situation worsened in India and all flights were stopped to Saudi Arabia and other countries. I waited in anticipation that the crisis would be resolved, only to land in this mess,” Girikumar said. In his petition, Girikumar has mentioned that he would not also be able to travel to Saudi Arabia via a third country as those nations that can be used as pit stops by Indian expats don’t recognise Covaxin. Non-tourists from India are not allowed to fly directly to Saudi Arabia because of the Covid restrictions. They can travel via countries such as the Maldives, Qatar and the UAE, provided they are fully inoculated with a recognised vaccine. Girikumar’s employer had earlier helped him by extending his re-entry permit for a second time since he got stranded. “My re-entry permit was last extended on July 30 and I was granted 30 days to return. I could lose my job if I don’t return by then,” said the father of two daughters. Girikumar said the Kannur district medical officer had pleaded helplessness when he had asked for Covishield shots. “The government should either allow me to take Covishield or get Covaxin recognised everywhere,” Girikumar said. Although the two Covishield doses are administered at least 84 days apart, the government has allowed that gap to be reduced to 28 days for students travelling abroad and expats. India has till now administered close to 60 million doses of Covaxin. The third and final-stage trial results of the vaccine have been made public but are yet to be peer-reviewed. Bharat Biotech has said Covaxin has so far received emergency use authorisation approvals in 16 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
06-08-2021||India||State govt will impose complete lockdown if people fail to observe Covid guidelines: Naveen Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday warned that the government would be forced to impose a complete lockdown in the state if people fail to observe Covid-19 guidelines properly as this is bound to result in a spike in Covid cases. The chief minister issued the warning while addressing the people of the state and cautioning them against the possible third wave of the pandemic. Coinciding with Naveen’s address, the chief administrator of the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple announced the decision to re-open the famous shrine from August 16. The chief minister said that scientists have already warned about a third wave of the pandemic and the situation in some of the countries has taken a serious turn. “At this point, there is an urgent need to adhere to Covid guidelines,” said Naveen. Stating that his government’s focus was on both life and livelihood, Naveen said the state has begun the unlocking process but this does not mean that people should become careless as the threat of a third wave still persists. The state has allowed shops to remain open from 6am-8pm so that livelihood is not affected. However, weekend shutdown continues in three cities — Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri — owing to the high corona caseload. The state during the last 24 hours reported another 1,315 corona positive cases and 66 deaths. So far the state has recorded 6,168 deaths. While the chief minister was cautioning people and advising them to wear masks and follow social distancing norms, the announcement about the re-opening of the Shree Jagannath Temple was made as part of the unlock process. Making the announcement the chief administrator of the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA), Dr Krishan Kumar said: “The temple will be open for devotees from August 16. However, only the people of Puri town will be allowed to have ‘darshan’ of the deities for the first five days. As there is a weekend shutdown on August 21 and August 22 (Saturday and Sunday) devotees from other parts of the state will be allowed entry into the shrine from August 23.” However, devotees entering the shrine will have to produce either their final Covid vaccination certificate or the RTPCR negative report. All the Covid guidelines will be followed inside the shrine and devotees will have to stand in a queue and wait for their turn to enter the temple. The administration has decided to launch a door-to-door campaign in Puri to ensure that all the servitors, officials of the temple administration have already taken the second dose of vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
06-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC delegates meet Bengal chief electoral officer for conduction of bypolls||A delegation of TMC ministers on Thursday met the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Bengal, Aariz Aftab, and urged him to expedite the process of holding elections and by-elections to seven assembly seats in the state, party secretary general Partha Chatterjee said here. The delegation, of which Chatterjee was a part, also requested Aftab to zero in on a date as soon as possible for conducting the pending polls, given the fact that the Covid-19 situation is currently "under control". "We urged the CEO to declare a poll date and make necessary arrangements for holding elections to two seats and bypolls to five constituencies at the earliest," Chatterjee stated. He said that the CEO has given assurance that work was being undertaken in this regard. "Almost three months have passed since the conclusion of the assembly election process. We sought to know what measures were being taken to conduct the pending elections and by-elections," Chatterjee told reporters following the meeting. Others who were a part of the TMC delegation include ministers Subrata Mukherjee, Chandrima Bhattacharya, and Shashi Panja. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who lost the Nandigram seat to BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, is likely to contest from Calcutta's Bhabanipur constituency which was vacated by winning TMC candidate Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, days after the poll results were declared. Chattopadhyay is slated to contest by-election from Khardah, which fell vacant after the TMC's Kajal Sinha succumbed to Covid-19. According to the rules of the Constitution, Mamatahas to get elected to the Assembly within six months of taking oath as the CM to be able to retain the chair. The CM has also moved an election petition before the Calcutta High Court challenging Adhikari's victory from Nandigram. Chatterjee further said that the eight-phase elections were held in the state when the second wave of the pandemic was wreaking havoc, and thousands of people got infected daily. The TMC had demanded back then that the number of phases be reduced in view of the rising cases of Covid-19, but the EC had stuck to the original schedule, he pointed out. "Daily infections, as per the data available up to August 2, have come down to around 500 or 600. That is why we want the elections to seven constituencies be held immediately with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols," the minister of industry, commerce and enterprise maintained. Asserting that election commissioners were not being proactive on the issue", the senior TMC leader, in a veiled dig at the BJP, said "those who talk of upholding democracy are trying to delay the polls". "We have requested the Election Commission to steer clear of such influences," he added. Last month, a delegation of TMC MPs had met EC officials in New Delhi with a plea to hold the elections as early as possible. Elections to Samserganj and Jangipur seats were countermanded earlier in the year following death of candidates due to Covid-19. In Gosaba too, TMC MLA Jayanta Naskar died of Covid-related complications. In Dinhata and Santipur, the winning BJP nominees quit as MLAs as they wanted to retain their parliamentary berths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
06-08-2021||West Bengal||WBJEE results declared, about 99.5 per cent examinees get ranks||An estimated 99.5 per cent of the 65,170 candidates, both from the state and outside, got ranks in this year's West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination (WBJEE), the result of which was declared on Friday. Candidates who cleared the exam will be able to apply for undergraduate courses in engineering, architecture and pharmacy in institutes of the state. WBJEE Board Chairman Malayendu Saha said that the counselling for ranked candidates, numbering 64,850, will begin from August 13 and end on September 11 for admission to 115 institutes, either state-run or private. He said that 74 per cent of the successful candidates are boys and 26 per cent girls. Altogether 92,695 candidates had registered for the WBJEE and 71 per cent of them (65,170) appeared for the test, the first offline public exam in the state this year, Saha told a press meet here. He said that 23 per cent of the successful candidates were from outside West Bengal. While Panchajanya Dey of Rahara Ramakrishna Mission Boys' Home High School got the first rank, Soumyajit Dutta of Bankura Zilla School secured the second position. Bratin Mondal of Santipur Municipal High School came third in the exam, Saha said. The schools from where the top three students came are under the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE). Saha said that 34,217 successful WBJEE candidates belonged to the WBCHSE while the rest belonged to other boards. The exams were held offline in 274 centres across the state on July 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad: Mini truck veers off NH12, hits five people, killing four||A mini truck veered off NH12 and hit five persons killing four of them on spot and then rammed into the local bus stop in Murshidabad’s Pomia village early on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Subhankar Mondal, 45, Joy Mandal, 45, Raju Mondal, 42, and Rubel Sheikh, 40. Archan Mondal is admitted to the Murshidabad Medical College and is reported to be in a serious condition. Sources said the victims were waiting for the Farakka-Behrampore bus when the accident took place. “A case of unnatural death has been started and the bodies have been sent for post-mortem. The driver will be traced and arrested soon,” said police superintendent K. Sabari Rajkumar. Drug peddler held Baruipur police district arrested a homemaker suspected to be a major supplier of narcotics in South 24-Parganas on Thursday. The police said 4 kilo of heroin worth about Rs 1 crore was seized from the possession of the woman. The cops said Sazina Biwi, 29, was arrested from an undisclosed location in Ghutiari Sharif. A police officer said: “Sazina has developed a network using young girls who work as local suppliers. They are trapped with job offers but are engaged as drug suppliers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
06-08-2021||West Bengal||West Midnapore: Elderly couple dies after mud wall of hut collapses||An elderly couple died after the mud wall of their hut collapsed while they were asleep in West Midnapore’s Jogardanga early on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Dulal Bal, 65 and Sadhana Bal, 60. Sources said the bodies were recovered from the rubble after over an hour-long rescue led by neighbours. “We tried to rush them to hospital immediately but it was too late,” said an eyewitness. Continued rainfall owing to a trough of low depression over the Bay of Bengal has contributed to at least 15 deaths in West Midnapore over the last week. Jogardanga had witnessed inundation last Friday. Police said the bodies had been sent to Midnapore Medical College for post-mortem. In neighbouring Keshpur, Sushama Dolai, 32, a homemaker was killed in a lightning strike late on Wednesday. “The recent incessant rainfall has killed 15 people across the district in the past one week. We are looking at government schemes under which we can possibly compensate the kin of the deceased,” Ajit Maity, West Midnapore zilla parishad deputy chief, said. Several West Midnapore rivers including Shilabati, Jhumi and Kangsabati are flowing over the danger level. This has led to inundation of areas such as Ghatal, Birsingha, Ajabnagar, Chandrakona and Keshpur for the past several days. On the direction of district magistrate Rashmi Kamal 127 boats have been sent to the flood-affected areas to rescue people and distribute relief materials, including water pouches. Minister of water resources investigation and development, Manas Bhunia, who visited the flood-affected Keshpur and Chandrakona, said: “Every year at least eight blocks in East and West Midnapore get flooded. People die, crops get damaged, livestock are killed and houses collapse. This has become a ritual.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board of India to constitute district-level committees in north Bengal||The Tea Board of India has decided to constitute district-level committees in north Bengal to confirm that tea leaves supplied by small growers to bought-leaf factories are of proper quality and also notified a minimum price which BLFs will have to pay for the produce during August this year. In the past few weeks, the small growers had resorted to protests and written to Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal, mentioning that they were selling teal eaves at prices which did not cover even the cost of production. “In another 10 days, monitoring committees under the supervision of the district magistrates of North Dinajpur, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling and Cooch Behar (the four tea-producing districts which have small growers) would be formed in each district. These committees will be entrusted with the responsibility to ensure that there is a consonance in the quality of tea leaves supplied by the growers,” said a source in the Tea Board. On one hand, the growers had flagged the issue of low prices. On the other hand, BLF owners, who buy tea leaves from growers and process them to make tea, have time and again mentioned that their produce does not fetch proper prices in auctions because growers do not maintain the quality of leaves. The formation of committees can address this issue, said an official of the Tea Board. Along with this move, the Tea Board has also notified the minimum prices for a kilo of tea leaves for each of these districts for August. “The prices have been calculated on the basis of prices the tea made by BLFs have fetched at the auction in July. Again next month, a fresh notification would be issued,” the official said. According to the notification issued on Wednesday, BLFs will have to pay a minimum price of Rs 17.65 for a kilo of tea leaves in Jalpaiguri district in August, followed by Darjeeling (Rs 16.84),  North Dinajpur (Rs 16.69) and Cooch Behar (Rs 16.30).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista claims to have asked Centre for ST status for 11 Gorkha communities||Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista on Thursday said he had taken up with the Centre the demand for Scheduled Tribe status for 11 Gorkha communities. The clarification comes in the wake of an indefinite hunger strike by an office-bearer of a faction of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL) in Darjeeling, seeking a timeline from Bista for meeting two key demands of Gorkha people by the Centre. The demands are Gorkhaland and the ST tag for the 11 communities.The fast unto death by S.P Sharma, the ABGL (Bharati Tamang faction) general secretary, continued for the fifth day on Thursday. “I have requested the Union government to expedite the process of granting ST status to Gorkhas without further delay. I have raised this issue in Parliament and mentioned that till Independence, the entire Gorkha community was known as hill tribes but later, this status was taken away without any consultation with community members,” Bista said in a press release. On Thursday, he met the Union health minister, urging him to upgrade Darjeeling and Kalimpong district hospitals to medical colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal floods: Severe drinking water scarcity in three districts||The Bengal public health engineering department is struggling hard to combat severe scarcity of drinking water in three flood-affected districts — West Midnapore, Hooghly and Howrah — as around 15,000 tube wells have been lying inundated for several days. After floods hit parts of Bengal, the PHE department conducted a survey which found that around 15,000 tube wells in 15 blocks of the three districts had become defunct as they were under water. Sources said 9,000 tube wells in West Midnapore, mainly in Ghatal subdivision, were affected, while 4,000 tube wells had become useless in Hooghly. In Howrah, around 1,600 such tube wells have gone under water. “The main problem during floods is the crisis of drinking water as tube wells go under water and remain out of use for a long time. We are struggling hard to provide water pouches by boats in remote pockets. We have distributed at least 15 lakh water pouches so far,” said Pulak Roy, the PHE minister. Officials said seven motorised pouch making units had been deployed in flood-affected districts and 15 lakh litres of water through van-mounted tanks provided so far. “The demand for water is high and we are struggling hard to meet the demand. Although we are extending our full strength to combat the situation, the supply can’t be the same as demand,” said a senior PHE official. Heavy rain and water discharge from several barrages, including the DVC, have resulted in devastating floods in areas of Hooghly’s Khanakul, West Midnapore’s Ghatal and Udaynarayanpur in Howrah. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday visited Howrah’s Amta to witness the situation. The sources said thousands of people in remote pockets of the flood-affected areas were inundated and had taken shelter on rooftops of concrete buildings. Several people, who have taken shelter on rooftops, complained that they were forced to go without food as they were unable to cook because of the lack of potable water. “There is water everywhere but no source of drinking water. We have been staying on a rooftop for the past four days but lack of drinking water has forced us to fast,” said Bimal Samanta, a resident of Khanakul’s Dhanyagheri. Asima Bauri, a 50-year-old woman from Khanakul’s Bagnan, waded through flood water for around 3km to fetch drinking water for her family. “I went with 10 small bottles and an aluminium pot to bring water from a tank installed by the government 3km from my village. We have many tube wells in our village but all have been inundated,” said Asima. PHE officials said they had sent several teams to restore the tube wells in places where water level had dropped. “Our team to repair tube wells are on the ground but they can do little till the water recedes. We have already restored 200 tube wells in the past two days,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Erosion forces dismantling of school in Nadia||The Nadia administration on Thursday began dismantling a primary school on the banks of the Hooghly at a village near Chakdaha to retrieve building materials like bricks, steel bars as well as door and window frames before erosion eats up the two-storeyed structure. This is the second school which has been dismantled in a decade in the district because of erosion. The primary school has four teachers and 75 students. Panic gripped the students and guardians living at Sannyalchar Malopara village of Chakdaha when they realised that the school would soon be lost to the river, which has changed course because of erosion and is flowing barely 150-meters away from the building. The situation has been aggravated further following the recent spate of rain that caused fresh erosion. It has so far engulfed at least 10 residential houses apart from around 100 acres of agricultural land. Dilip Sarkar, a teacher of the school, said: “We fear the surging river will soon eat up the school. Continuous rain has led to erosion, bringing the school closer to the river bank. Anticipating further erosion, the administration has decided to dismantle the building and shift academic activities temporarily to the nearby Atal Behari Vidyapith.” Jharna Biswas, a local resident, said: “People are concerned about the future of the school. Heavy erosion started in July and brought the school closer to the bank.” Sources in district administration said the irrigation department had tried to arrest the erosion using sand bags, but it did not work. Nadia district primary school council chairman Jyotiprakash Ghosh said: “We have already purchased a piece of land to rebuild and relocate the school at a nearby location. We began dismantling the existing building so that some materials could be saved for use in the new construction.  I am hopeful to get funds for the new building."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Centre should engage more in free spending policies: Abhijit Banerjee||Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Thursday said the Centre should have been more open-handed in spending in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have said this many, many times. I think the central government is too unwilling to do what the US or the European economies are doing, printing money and spending. I think that would have been a better policy in the present context,” said Banerjee in Calcutta on Thursday. The Nobel laureate was in Calcutta to chair the meeting of the Global Advisory Board, which the Mamata Banerjee government had set up last year in view of the pandemic, that discussed how to prepare for the possible third wave of Covid-19. After a meeting of the committee, which includes people like Swarup Sarkar, former regional director of the WHO, Jishnu Das, economist, World Bank, and J.V.R Prasad, former Union health secretary, the chief minister and some members of the panel interacted with the media at Nabanna. Although most of the queries revolved around the possible third wave and what advice the Committee had given to the state government, some questions on the Centre’s economic policies were hurled at Banerjee. Asked to comment on the Centre’s decision to increase cess on various items, including petroleum products, Banerjee said the Union government may be trying to balance the budget in view of the fiscal problems it had been facing because of lower tax collections. Reiterating what several eminent economists and some Opposition parties had said earlier, the Nobel laureate said the Centre should not have taken this path and instead should have been more open-handed with spending. He, however, acknowledged that the Centre had moved away from the path of fiscal conservatism by announcing some relaxations. Asked about measures that could boost the state economy, Banerjee linked it to the revival of the country’s economy. “Migrant workers from the state go to other places and contribute to the state’s income. Given the situation of the Indian economy, it is not possible for West Bengal alone to do something for economic revival,” he said. The chief minister, who was listening to Banerjee with rapt attention, intervened at this point and said the state government did its best to offer employment opportunities and free rations to migrant workers who returned home because of the pandemic. Banerjee said the Indian economy would suffer badly if the third wave hit the country. Although the Nobel prize winner expressed concerns about the economic impact of the pandemic, he praised the state government for its efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 and its success in carrying out vaccination with minimum wastage. He also appreciated the state government for implementing the protocol that the committee had suggested before the festive season the last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||812 Covid cases and 13 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday recorded 46 consecutive days of a fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases as the state logged 812 new infections, 823 recoveries and 13 deaths, including one in Calcutta. The total of active cases fell by 24 to 10,721. Bengal currently has 2.64 per cent of the national total of active cases and is ninth on the list of states with most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.11 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.34. The daily positive confirmation rate was 1.66 per cent on Thursday. With Calcutta logging 79 new infections, Thursday saw seventeen Bengal districts reporting a two-digit figure of new infections detected. North 24-Parganas, with 114, was the only one with a three-digit figure. North Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Thirteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday, while Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Bankura, East Midnapore, West Burdwan, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas and Calcutta reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.32 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes close to 15.03 lakh recoveries and 18,193 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa set to launch new party for Darjeeling||Anit Thapa, who is heading a faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, has decided to float a new political party, said a source close to him. If the new party is formed in the Darjeeling hills, it might become a litmus test for not only Thapa but a large number of political leaders in the hills who have been associated with his camp since 2017. “Anit Thapa has decided to form a new political party. The party will be launched either during the last week of this month or the first week of September,” the source confirmed to The Telegraph. Thapa is currently camping in Darjeeling and has also taken a house on rent, suggesting that the leader from Kurseong now plans to base himself in this hill town. Sources said leaders started piling pressure on Thapa to form a new party and establish their identity independent of the Morcha after Binay Tamang had resigned from the organisation on July 15. The Morcha was founded by Bimal Gurung in 2007 and he heads the other faction. “It has now been decided that a new party will be formed. Party workers are finalising the party’s name and flag. Three probable names of the party are under discussion now,” said the source. Supporters coming to meet Thapa have also stopped using the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha flag. They are pasting stickers like “We support Anit Thapa” in their vehicles. The sources admitted that the decision to form the new party was a litmus test for them. “It is a litmus test for us as it will be a new beginning for us. But we are confident. We have the party structure in place. We have our various committees and also 23 frontal organisations,” said a leader. Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa had revolted against Bimal Gurung in 2017, when the Gorkhaland agitation was in full swing, to form a faction in the Morcha. Gurung was then on the run and returned to the hills last year. In 2019, Calcutta High Court had allowed both Gurung and Tamang to describe their groups as “Bimal faction” and “Binay faction”, respectively, while contesting elections. After Tamang’s resignation, Thapa was selected as the acting president of the faction. Thapa had been a businessman until 2007. However, he was actively associated with a campaign to promote singer Prashant Tamang who went on to win the Indian Idol — a TV reality show — that year. Soon after Prashant’s victory in September in 2007, Gurung decided to rebel against his party, Gorkha National Liberation Front, and formed the Morcha on October 7, 2007. Tamang and Thapa, who were part of Prashant Tamang Fan Club, decided to join the fan club patron Gurung when he floated the new party. Thapa’s rise in the party was slow but steady. He overtook two prominent leaders from Kurseong, Pradip Pradhan and Bimal Darjee, to be the party’s pointsman in this hill town. He also won the GTA election uncontested from Kurseong in 2013. The Tamang-Thapa faction made significant gains in the last Bengal Assembly elections. The faction polled 32.9 per cent of the total votes cast in three hill Assembly segments, while Gurung’s group bagged 20.6 per cent. The Tamang-Thapa faction also won the Kalimpong Assembly seat. “We are confident of taking forward this momentum with the new party,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata seeks more doses for Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to ensure that Bengal got required number of Covid-19 vaccine doses at the earliest while alleging that some BJP-ruled states were getting more doses compared to Bengal. “Even after the devastation caused by the second wave, the Centre has not been augmenting supply of vaccines to the states on warfooting to combat future waves. As a result, thousands of innocent people are still being affected every day,” the chief minister wrote in her letter. Mamata wrote that Bengal had received only 2.68 crore doses so far while the state required nearly 14 crore doses to administer two doses each to 7 crore eligible people who are above 18 years of age. “So, my earnest appeal to you would be kindly see that Bengal receives adequate vaccine doses as per its requirement as mentioned above at the earliest,” reads the letter. The chief minister said some BJP-ruled states were getting more vaccines. “I am sorry to say that the Central Government is providing larger number of vaccine doses to states like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka which are BJP-ruled. I have no problem if they or any other state for that matter receives higher number of vaccine doses, but I cannot remain a mute spectator to see Bengal deprived.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||North East||Assam, Meghalaya to set up committees to resolve border issues ||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad K Sangma on Friday said the two states will set up committees to resolve the inter-state border disputes. Two panels to be headed by cabinet ministers of each state will be set up, they said. The committees will aim at resolving the border disputes in a phased manner in six of the 12 disputed sites initially, the chief ministers said at a joint press conference here. Each panel will have five members, including a cabinet minister of each state besides bureaucrats, Sarma said, adding that local representatives may be part of a committee. Members of both the panels will visit the sites, interact with civil society members and complete discussions within 30 days. Five aspects, which are to be considered to resolve the disputes, are historical evidence, ethnicity, administrative convenience, mood and sentiments of the people concerned and contiguity of land, Sangma said. "In principle, we will try to find a solution within the framework of these five aspects", he said. The six disputed sites taken up in the first phase are Tarabari, Gijang, Phalia, Baklapara, Pilingkata and Khanapara. These areas fall in Cachar, Kamrup Metro and Kamrup Rural districts in Assam and West Khasi Hills, Ri Bhoi and East Jaintia Hills in Meghalaya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
06-08-2021||North East||Assam govt not to file new case in foreigners tribunals against Gorkha people||The Assam government has decided not to file any new case in the foreigners tribunals against Gorkha people and also withdraw cases filed earlier against them. Foreigners tribunals are quasi-judicial bodies that determine whether a resident is a foreigner or not. There are 100 such tribunals in Assam handling over 1.4 lakh doubtful citizenship cases. The state cabinet decision on Wednesday will benefit about 22,000 of the 25 lakh-strong Gorkha community in Assam. The Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh welcomed the government move but also wanted it to remove the doubtful voter or D-voter tag of around 22,000 community members. The D-voter tag has not only “disenfranchised” 22,000 Gorkhas but also led them and their family members being “left out” of the draft National Register of Citizens published in 2018. The updated NRC published in August 2019 had excluded 19.07 lakh applicants. Those left out of the NRC can appeal for inclusion in the foreigners tribunals with documents but this process has not yet started. D-voters are people whose citizenship is disputed or doubtful. This group was included in voter list when the Election Commission was revising the electoral rolls in 1997. There were over 1.08 lakh D-voters in Assam till March this year. They cannot vote in elections unless they get their names cleared in foreigners tribunals and removal of their names as D-voter on the voter list. Getting their names cleared will also pave the way for their inclusion in the NRC. Wednesday’s decision was the second taken by the BJP-led state government benefiting Gorkhas after it had accorded the community protected class status in the tribal belts and blocks of the Bodoland Territorial Region and Sadiya tribal block in July. The protected class status will make it easier for the Gorkhas to buy, sell and transfer land in the notified areas. There are 17 tribal belts and 30 blocks across Assam. Parisangh national secretary Nanda Kirati Dewan said the decision was a huge relief for Gorkha families who were prosecuted under the citizenship law but also wanted the government to take all possible steps to remove the D-voter tag from community members. “The Gorkha community wants that the D-voter tag should also be removed as part of this cabinet decision so that they can exercise their right to vote from the forthcoming by-elections,” Dewan, also president of the youth wing Bhartiya Gorkha Yuva Parisangh, said. “Even the Supreme Court in a ruling related to the NRC case had said on September 24, 2018, that Gorkhas should not be tried under the Foreigners Tribunal Act and Citizenship Act. We want this tag to go because we are also original inhabitants of Assam and bonafide Indian citizens,” Dewan said. The setting up of the Gorkha Development Council in 2003 was the first baby step towards recognising Nepali/Gorkha language speakers as indigenous Gorkhas in Assam. The Parisangh has already moved the poll panel regarding the D-voter and foreigners tribunal issues. It had suggested the formation of an empowered committee comprising representatives of the commission, ministry of home affairs, border police, state home department and district administration officials to sort out the D-voter issue locally by verifying documents before a case is referred to the tribunals. “We request the government to come up with some mechanism for the hearing and disposal of D-voter cases at the local level... may be in a couple of districts as a pilot project before launching it across the state,” Dewan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
06-08-2021||North East||Assam and Mizoram govts not to send forces to areas along border||The Assam and Mizoram governments on Thursday decided not to send their forest and police forces to any area along the inter-state border, which has witnessed “confrontation and conflict” recently, to ensure peace, according to a joint statement issued after a ministerial-level meeting in Aizawl. Within hours of the meeting, Assam withdrew a travel advisory issued last week asking people not to travel to Mizoram because of safety concerns. The advisory, the first-of-its-kind issued by one state against another, had further strained ties after the border flare-up on July 26 that claimed the lives of six Assam policemen, fuelling tension on both sides, filing of FIRs against each other and disrupting the flow of goods to Mizoram from Assam. The meeting in Aizawl was attended by Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana and revenue minister Lalruatkima and Assam border protection minister Atul Bora and urban development minister Ashok Singhal. Mizoram home secretary Vanlalngaihsaka and Assam commissioner for border protection and development G.D. Tripathi also attended. A joint statement issued after the meeting said both states welcome and agree to take forward the initiatives by the Union ministry of home affairs and both chief ministers to “remove” tension prevailing along the inter-state border and find lasting solutions to the disputes through talks. The clashes took place two days after Union home minister Amit Shah discussed border issues with chief ministers of the northeastern states in Shillong. As such the incident had also left the home ministry embarrassed, sources said. While welcoming the deployment of a neutral force by the Centre, the statement said both the states shall not send their respective forest and police forces for “patrolling, domination, enforcement or for fresh deployment to any of the areas where confrontation and conflict” has taken place between the police forces of the two states in recent times. This would include all such areas along the Assam-Mizoram border in Karimganj, Hailakandi and Cachar districts in Assam and Mamit and Kolasib districts in Mizoram. The Mizoram government representatives also conveyed their condolences in the statement for the loss of lives on July 26 and best wishes for the speedy recovery of those injured, a gesture which most feel will go a long way in calming tempers in Assam. Over 45 policemen were injured in the clashes between the police forces of both states. Mizoram has accused Assam police for entering their territory and firing first. “Representatives of governments of Assam and Mizoram agree to take all necessary measures to promote, preserve and maintain peace and harmony amongst the people living in Assam and Mizoram, particularly in the border areas,” the statement said. Most observers said that both sides will have to go the extra mile on the ground to normalise ties like Assam ensuring the smooth flow of traffic and goods to Mizoram and the latter ensuring the safety of the truckers. There has been no movement of traffic and goods trucks to Mizoram till 6.30pm on Thursday through the National Highway 306 that connects the affected Vairengte (Mizoram) with Lailapur (Assam). The unofficial blockade in Assam’s Barak Valley, many feel, is a huge hurdle in normalising ties. Moreover, the Kolasib district administration wrote to its Cachar counterpart soon after the meeting that a new camp site was “constructed” by the Assam police on Thursday at Bankang within Saipum Village Council area in Mizoram near Hadama, Assam. The site is around 10km from the Vairengte-Lailapur border. “In this regard, I am urging you to kindly honour the agreement of the senior ministers of both the governments and withdraw your troops from the newly constructed camp site at the earliest,” the Kolasib deputy commissioner said in a letter to his Cachar counterpart.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
06-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Fight over 'papri chaat' and fish||Food fight Sir — It seems that political leaders of the day would rather eat than eat their words. The Trinamul Congress leader, Derek O’Brien, was recently seen tucking into plates of papri chaat to prove the innocuousness of his comment comparing the passing of bills in Parliament with making papri chaat. This remark has apparently offended the government so much that the Union minister, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, hit back by asking O’Brien to have fish curry — the dish is a Bengali staple — if he so preferred. At least O’Brien seems to be making amends; one wonders how Naqvi will get out of this soup. Debdeep Kar,Calcutta Bold words Sir — The chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, has asserted that investigation into the Pegasus snooping scandal “should definitely be done” (“Nitish backs Pegasus probe”, Aug 3). He heads the state government with the Bharatiya Janata Party, which has made its reluctance towards such a probe adequately clear. Kumar must be aware that his take on the matter is likely to have an adverse impact on the functioning of his government. But, as behoves a person of his stature, he has prioritized propriety over diplomacy. The attitude of the Union government in dealing with the Pegasus imbroglio is intriguing. In the recent past, when Western media were vocal against the Indian government for allowing election rallies and gatherings — the Kumbh Mela is an example — thereby causing further spread of Covid-19 in the country, the ruling party had dubbed it an anti-India propaganda led by the foreigners. However, its response to the Pegasus case is strikingly different. Pegasus is a spyware of foreign origin. If it has indeed been used to infringe on the privacy of Indian citizens, why should the government turn down demands for an investigation and take it upon itself to protect some nefarious foreign country Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas Sir — Nitish Kumar’s support for the Pegasus investigation is bound to have caused a lot of consternation in the BJP camp. Kumar is surely aware that he is still chief minister owing to the BJP’s support — the Janata Dal (United) had won fewer seats than its ally in the last assembly elections. This makes his decision an act of dare that is rather intriguing. Perhaps Kumar is on a good wicket as most of the major allies that the BJP had have now left and it cannot afford to lose any more friends, especially as elections are due in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. It would be interesting to see how the other allies react to this provocation and take their own stands on the issue. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — Many have read Nitish Kumar’s decision to back the Opposition’s claim for an investigation into the Pegasus spyware controversy as a sign of the BJP’s eventual fallout with yet another ally. But perhaps Kumar has other things in mind. With the return of his rival, Lalu Prasad, in public view — the Rashtriya Janata Dal supremo made a speech after around four years at the silver jubilee celebration of his party — Kumar must have gathered that he needs to put his own house in order as soon as possible. What better way is there for him to begin than by strengthening his already-clean image — he is known as ‘sushasan babu’ in Bihar — and appearing righteous before his people? Biswajit Chaki,Howrah Early signs Sir — The ongoing protests in Iran as a result of a water crisis are a warning; the whole world is about to face an inevitable water shortage, which could lead to conflict, disease and even war. It is a fact that the elixir of life is fast depleting in many parts of the world. Iran has witnessed unprecedented cases of strikes and now even death for water. Mismanagement of water, ignorance of its availability in various places, thoughtless construction of dams, careless maintenance of water bodies and lack of planning to save water are some factors that lead to water shortage. If these are attended to properly, water shortage can be prevented to some extent. Climate change, resulting in irregular rainfall, is another cause for this problem. Water shortage can lead to mass migration of people, causing an imbalance in population. This would give rise to more problems — societal inequalities and tension at the regional, national or international levels. According to the World Wildlife Fund, almost 350 million people living in 100 cities across the world are at immediate risk of a water crisis. Several Indian cities, too, fall in the ‘high-risk’ category. This should not be surprising. In recent years, many towns and metros have experienced severe water scarcity. The South African city of Cape Town and the Indian city, Chennai, have recently become ‘water-wise’ — they have learnt to collect, conserve, and use water prudently. Such methods should be followed everywhere. Water conservation techniques, recycling of effluents, making mandatory water-harvesting methods mandatory, proper groundwater extraction, installing desalination plants, and stopping the encroachment of water bodies can also help avoid severe water scarcity. M. Pradyu,Kannur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
06-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Light dawns||Wisdom, much like the Revolution, can dawn belatedly. That, at least, seems to be the case with the wise men in Alimuddin Street. A post-mortem of the shocking debacle in the recent assembly elections in Bengal — the Communist Party of India (Marxist) failed to win a single seat in its former fief — has resulted in a note that admits that the conflation of the Trinamul Congress with the Bharatiya Janata Party resulted in sending confusing signals. The comrades, not the people, remain a confused lot. The strategic — yet another ‘historic’? — blunder of attempting to project a tacit understanding between the TMC and the BJP, the two sides of the same divisive coin according to the Marxists, only goes to show how removed the Marxists are from the reality on the ground. That the CPI(M) decided to enter into an alliance with an allegedly sectarian outfit undermined its long and cherished legacy of secularism and made the allegation of the TMC being communal ring hollow. The results show that both the charge and the party had been summarily dismissed by the people of Bengal. But then hindsight is better than ignorance. Now that the Bengal CPI(M) has managed to identify the greater adversary, it would be interesting to see the ramifications of the discovery in terms of political alignments. Already, in Tripura, where the Left had been booted out by the Right, there are whispers of the formation of an alliance that may see the CPI(M) inch towards the TMC. The latter is gearing up to challenge the BJP there. The signs of a broader consolidation of Opposition parties at the national level are emerging too. In fact, the Bengal CPI(M)’s epiphany may have been brought by a nudge from its leaders in Delhi. It must be mentioned that segments within the Left fraternity — the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) is an example — had been opposed to the CPI(M)’s eagerness to paint the TMC and the BJP with the same brush. If a broader coalition of secular, progressive forces that includes the Left and the TMC were to take shape closer to the parliamentary elections in 2024, Bengal’s comrades would have to contend with the dilemma of being friends with Mamata Banerjee nationally and enemies in Bengal. Achieving that balancing act may demand greater wisdom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
06-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Rights ruse||The Central government’s faith in fanfare is almost touching. Almost, because the fanfare is usually meant as a distraction from dark themes. Thus the Muslim Women’s Rights Day on August 1 attracted the description of ‘cynical optics’ from men, women and transpersons across religions and castes. The phrase was part of a letter written by over 600 people to the Union minority affairs minister, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, who celebrated the self-reliance, self-confidence and self-respect of women from the minority community which, he claimed, had grown with the Centre’s enactment of the law against instant triple talaq. August 1, identified by the Narendra Modi government as the day to honour Muslim women’s rights, is the anniversary of the enactment of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019. The law itself is highly controversial, because it criminalizes men from the minority community in a civil matter, suggesting that the government is eager for punitive measures against them. This is made even clearer by the fact that the Supreme Court had ruled in 2017 that instant triple talaq was unconstitutional — as critics point out, no law was necessary. But instant triple talaq offered the government a ruse for intervention and criminalization in the name of women’s rights. Mr Naqvi’s comments express the government’s condescension and its arrogant sense of control. The name, Muslim Women’s Rights Day, shows that the Bharatiya Janata Party cannot think without discrimination — the rights of women of one community are set apart from those of all women — while it also associates Muslim women’s empowerment with the government’s success in ramming through the law. The BJP-led government’s ceaseless efforts to put the largest minority community at a disadvantage at every level, through the nexus of citizenship laws, for example, or illicit policies against a non-existent love jihad, or by imprisoning its members for bewildering reasons or moving late when there is violence against them by cow-protection vigilantes, turn the Muslim Women’s Rights Day into a symbol of the regime’s doublespeak. That leaders right up to the prime minister refused to engage with the women sitting at Shaheen Bagh in peaceful protest against the citizenship laws even after their ardent requests indicates that the BJP may not be too anxious to face the much-celebrated rights in action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
06-08-2021||Opinion||Still kept out||The recent dispute between corporates and female claimants for seats on the board has propelled the discussion on attitude towards women in business. The conflicts in the Murugappa group’s Ambadi Investments versus Valli Arunachalam and the Hinduja brothers versus Vinoo Hinduja shone a spotlight on the lack of gender parity in corporate governance. The National Stock Exchange database shows that only 2,044 of 11,416 directors and 1,235 of 5,524 independent directors of NSE-listed companies are women. Appalling as this is, 75 NSE-listed companies have no women directors on their board. Under-representation of women in boardrooms is a global phenomenon and India is no exception. With the odds already stacked against women, structural barriers and orthodoxies impede them from gaining requisite skills, knowledge and experience. Back in 2014, Amazon attempted to develop an AI recruiting tool aimed at eliminating human biases against women in leadership roles. Instead, it started penalizing résumés that mentioned terms analogous to women such as “women’s chess captain” and so on since the algorithm had been developed using the résumés of leaders in the past 15 years, all of them male. All female candidates were thus eliminated. This indicates that the issue is larger than the paternalistic nature of policies. In India, directives and judicial pronouncements have addressed the issues ailing corporate governance. Section 149(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 mandating one woman director on the board is a progressive stance, but this provision is applicable only to listed and certain public companies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 has ensured that the one woman director mandate is implemented. As per the Kotak Committee recommendations on corporate governance, Sebi, in May 2018, mandated the appointment of at least one woman “independent” director on the board of top 500 and top 1,000 listed companies. But these directives are not enough to exhaust the patriarchal ecosystem that has pervaded the boardrooms for years. The quota system has taken the form of tokenism. It has been observed that the women members appointed are generally related to the family of the chairperson or promoters, which stations them as quota fillers. This renders the purpose of including women in the strategic decision-making process a mere box to be ticked. The issue is not limited to mindset, as can be inferred from the 2014 Amazon experiment. Industries which have traditionally been led by men have come to define leadership roles from a masculine perspective. When women in leadership adopt the same perspective and follow their instincts, they are often characterized as “unladylike” and incompetent. The registrar of companies has called out companies on several instances for failing to appoint a woman director. For instance, in ROC versus M/s Gehna Precious Metals Ltd; Re: ICOMM Tele Ltd; Re: Teamasia Semiconductors (India) Ltd; Re: MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Ltd; and Re: GTPL Hathway Ltd. Sadly these companies are usually let off with minimal penalties that are nothing but slaps on their wrists. This indicates the frivolous attitude towards provisions of inclusion. There are numerous examples of women breaking the glass ceiling but there are even more unheard stories of women being restricted by the shackles of stereotypes and mindset. The true implementation of inclusion measures can happen only when leadership roles are redefined in a gender-neutral manner. The need of the hour is to reconsider existing provisions and include all classes of companies in the ambit. Corporate governance policies should not just offer preferential treatment but should become the basis of affirmative action. The onus lies with policymakers, key managerial persons and regulators to formulate policies that engender the spirit of gender egalitarianism in business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
06-08-2021||Opinion||Remove the stain||The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act is a blot on the nation. In no nation reputed to be civilized is there a law that allows the State to pick up literally anybody and keep the person in jail for years, without trial and without bail; and, if, at the end of the trial, whenever it occurs, the person is found innocent, then there is no question of the State being obliged to pay any compensation for the lost years in the person’s life. But this is exactly what the UAPA does. Even the British colonial government did not arrogate to itself such sweeping powers. True, it had the infamous sedition law, but the person charged under it was at least given a swift trial, not incarcerated for years awaiting it. The leaders of the freedom struggle went to jail many times and spent altogether many years in jail; but on each occasion, they never spent more than about three years in jail. Mahatma Gandhi’s longest period of incarceration was in the early 1920s: he was arrested on March 10, 1922 and sentenced to six years of imprisonment but was released on February 5, 1924, after a year and eleven months. (His jail term during the Quit India movement was even shorter). Jawaharlal Nehru’s longest period of incarceration was during the Quit India movement when he spent 1,041 days, or two years and ten months, in the Ahmednagar Fort. By contrast, some Bhima-Koregaon accused under the UAPA have already spent more than three years in jail and most others will reach the three-year mark later this month. The charges against them have not been framed, let alone their trial starting, even as the courts keep denying them bail. Meanwhile, an internationally-reputed firm, Arsenal, has conclusively established that files used as evidence against them had been planted in their computers long before their arrests. True, the revolutionaries engaged in armed struggle against colonial rule spent much longer periods in jail. But even as prominent a revolutionary as Ganesh Ghosh, who spent 14 years in the Andaman Cellular jail for participating in the Chittagong armoury raid (he joined the communist party after being released), had to spend less than two years between his arrest and the end of his trial. The practice of keeping people in jail for years without trial was uncommon even during colonial rule. We find that exactly the same holds true elsewhere in the world. Let us leave aside more recent times when the sanctity of individual freedom is widely accepted; let us go back to pre-war Germany. The accused for the Reichstag fire in 1933 which gave the Nazis the excuse to change the nature of the German State and suppress the communist party whose handiwork the fire was alleged to have been spent no more than seven months between being arrested and facing trial. Three of the four accused were released as innocent at the end of the trial; one of them, Georgi Dimitrov (later to become president of the Communist International), who acted as his own lawyer, was even allowed to call Reichsminister Hermann Goering to the witness box and cross-examine him. (Imagine one of the Bhima-Koregaon accused being allowed to cross examine the home minister, Amit Shah, in today’s India!) That was what Germany was like when Hitler became chancellor; it was to change later, of course, but then Hitler had no pretensions of being democratic and was keen to establish a fascist State which is not India’s avowed objective. The problem with the UAPA is that it completely inverts the basic principles of jurisprudence accepted in any democratic society. In most criminal cases, bail is granted as a matter of course unless there are overriding concerns relating to public interest, such as the possibility of the bailed accused tampering with evidence or putting pressure on witnesses. This is summed up in the adage, ‘bail is the rule and jail the exception’. But under the UAPA, bail is given only if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is innocent. This means that even before the trial the court has to make a decision on the person’s innocence, which contradicts the basic principle that unless convicted at the end of the trial, an accused must be presumed innocent. Likewise, leaving aside the question of arrest and bail, the amendment to the UAPA enacted in July 2019 permits the State to declare not just an organization, as was the case earlier, but even an individual a terrorist. It also allows the National Investigating Agency to attach that person’s property without any reference to the police of the state government. If that individual is to escape the stigma of being labelled a terrorist, then it is incumbent on that person to prove his or her innocence; and this has to be done when all his or her property has possibly been attached by the NIA. It is not the State that has to prove the guilt of the person it has declared a terrorist, but the accused who has to prove innocence. This, again, represents an inversion of the basic principles of democratic jurisprudence. All this is in addition to the well-known fact that the definition of ‘terrorism’ under UAPA includes not just terrorist acts but even the propagation of ideas and views that supposedly have the potential to cause disaffection among the people. This can cover all views for bringing about a change in society away from the status quo. The UAPA, in short, can be used against all dissenting opinion, all critical thinking, all ideas that seek to carry India’s democratic revolution forward. It forces society into acquiescing to a status quo marked by the legacy of millennia of institutionalized inequality and oppression (or, worse still, in putting the clock back in the name of returning to some mythical glorious past); and anyone daring to speak out against this can be jailed for years without bail or trial. Some may argue that the incarceration for long periods of those held under UAPA is the fault not of the law but of our over-burdened courts. But this argument lacks validity. First, because any legislation must keep in mind its practical consequences given the constraints of the system; and, second, because official agencies find numerous ways of delaying any UAPA case from coming to trial. For instance, the chargesheet in the Bhima-Koregaon case was originally in Marathi; when several of the accused professed their ignorance of Marathi, the chargesheet had to be translated, which took considerable time. When it was finally translated, since it ran into thousands of pages, the Maharashtra police gave the accused pen drives containing the chargesheet; but the accused, with no access to computers in jail, had no means of perusing it. The trial judge therefore asked the police to give print-outs of the chargesheet but the police pleaded the lack of funds for printing and photocopying. When the judge persisted, the police said that special sanction had to be obtained from the government for the purpose. And so it goes on, while the accused, among the most sensitive and thoughtful people in contemporary India, are kept languishing in jail on dubious charges. The UAPA is a blot on the nation that must be removed at the earliest.  Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bokaro police arrrest members of Koda gang||Bokaro: A special police team headed by DSP of Chas, Mukesh Kumar, arrested two members of the infamous Koda gang by conducting a raid at Nagnagar area of the neighbouring district of Dhanbad. Police busted the gang after it triggered the first theft incident in Kalapathar area under Chas Muffasil police station. According to DSP, both the accused had committed theft of Rs 91,000 in cash from a motorcycle three days ago. Those arrested have been identified as Amar Kumar Nat and Vipul Gowala. The accused were arrested by Bokaro police team from their hideout in Dhanbad. "During interrogation, they confessed that on August 8, they had stolen cash by breaking the trunkof a motorcycle parked in front of a grocery shop at Kalapathar, adjacent to National Highway-32,” said the SDPO. The members of Koda gang belong to Korah village of Katihar district. The gang takes full preparation before carrying out the robberies. The gang members own high speed bikes. Before committing the crime, they do complete recce which prevents them from getting caught by police. "The recovered black colored Pulsar 180 motorbike contains fake engine number and chassis number. The accused used this motorcycle to carry out the theft. The stolen amount of Rs 91,600 is recovered. Police also recovered their fake Aadhar cards, 7 mobile phones and additional five SIM cards from the possession of both the accused," said the DSP. (Our correspondent) Daltonganj: The anti corruption bureau officers of Daltonganj on Friday caught Palamau district welfare officer Subhash Kumar and his assistant Manoj Kumar taking bribe worth Rs 20,000, said K.N. Ram the deputy superintendent of police and officer-in-charge of the divisional office of the ACB. Ram said the two were arrested in the district welfare office located in the Palamau collectorate. He said a trap was laid on the written complaint of Uma Shankar Baiga. Baiga had given in writing to the ACB that district welfare officer Subhash Kumar was pressuring him to give him a bribe of Rs 20,000 in lieu of a Rs 12 lakh worth scheme. Ram said the scheme was of a community hall for the tribal community. This kind of hall is called Dhoomkoorya in tribal lingo. Ram said Baiga was not ready to give this bribe and so he had lodged his complaint with the ACB. During a search operation at Subhash Kumar’s house, ACB sleuths seized cash worth Rs 2,83,000. The two have been remanded in judicial custody.  (Our Correspondent) Hazaribagh : A renowned doctor couple’s Shiv Nandan Estate-1 apartment at Harangunj locality in Hazaribagh town has been robbed of Rs.4lakh in cash and jewellery worth Rs.3lakh along with other expensive items. According to police, the couple were not in their flat when the robbery took place. An FIR has been registered followed by raids to catch the thieves. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad police lathicharge protesting JAC examinees||A team of Dhanbad district administration and police led by Surendra Kumar, Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad, on Friday carried out a lathicharge on JAC plus two examinees when they were trying to forcibly enter the conference room of District Collectorate to meet health minister Banna Gupta while he was holding a review meeting with senior officials. The police also arrested some of the agitating students who allegedly tried to break furniture of the district collectorate. The lathicharge took place at around 2.30pm when over 100 students reached the collectorate. Though, the policemen deputed at the collectorate tried to convince the agitators to come later after the conclusion of the meeting but they were adamant to meet the minister. The lathicharge evoked sharp criticism by opposition leaders as senior leaders of BJP led by district vice president, Sanjay Kumar Jha who reached the Dhanbad police station in support of the JAC plus examinees, termed the incident as barbaric. “The barbaric lathicharge carried out by administration and police against the innocent students is inhuman, highly condemnable and uncalled for,” said Jha. “The action of the sub divisional officer who is facing various corruption charges, and carried out the lathicharge himself on the girl students shows the anti-people face of the administration under Chief Minister Hemant Soren,” he said. “We will carry forward the agitation of the students protesting against the faulty evaluation and publication of results by JAC leading to failure of a large number of students to a logical conclusion,” said Jha. Mukesh Pandey, former district President of young wing of BJP said, “The lathicharge carried out by the administration under the leadership of Sub Divisional officer against the students can’t be justified by any sense.” Soniya Kumari, one of the agitating students who was present during the lathicharge said, “Despite the presence of women constables, we were beaten by policemen and manhandled by them.” “On hand the government is giving the slogan of beti bachao and beti padhao and on the other hand the girl students protesting against the injustice against them are being beaten by policemen and administrative officials,” she further said. Notably, over 200 unsuccessful plus two examinees of JAC have been protesting continuously since August 2 against its faulty evaluation at Randhir Verma Chowk. Sandeep Kumar, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner on Thursday also held a meeting in district collectorate with the agitating students in the presence of district education officer besides the officials of different colleges and schools during which he instructed the officials to take up the issue of the students with JAC but the students continued their agitation and tried to meet minister Banna Gupta during his Dhanbad visit on Friday. Banna Gupta, later talking to media, said, "The lathicharge on the students is not justified and action will be taken against the responsible persons by conducting a probe and if the sub divisional officer is found guilty, action will be taken against him."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon breather in Jharkhand till Monday||After experiencing three days of heavy rain, most districts of Jharkhand can look forward to a dry spell, courtesy subdued monsoon activity. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre, in its forecast issued on Friday afternoon, hinted at a dry spell for the next few days as the monsoon currents is expected to become weak over Jharkhand from Saturday. "In the absence of any favourable system, monsoon currents would become weak over Jharkhand resulting in a dry spell for at least three days from Saturday, " said Abhishek Anand, the head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. On Friday, the monsoon trough was passing through Daltonganj and Digha (in Bengal). Satellite pictures indicated a cyclonic circulation over southeast Bangladesh but it is unlikely to impact  Jharkhand. Met data of last 24 hours - from 8.30 am of Thursday to 8.30 am of Friday - indicated highest rainfall of 44.4 mm in Ranchi while Hindgiri in Ranchi district recorded moderate rainfall of 30 mm. Several places in Dhanbad and Lohardaga districts recorded around 20 mm of rain while Gumla, Bokaro and Jamshedpur recorded around 12 mm of rain. As many as 15 IMD observatories recorded around 10 mm of rain. The forecast between Saturday and Tuesday ( August 7 to August 10 ) suggested  light cloud with light rain at one or two places. No alerts have been issued for the next 72 hours . But weathermen said a few isolated places might experience light thunder and lightning. Rain data suggests that so far since the onset of monsoon in June, Jharkhand has actually received 620.4 mm of rain against a normal of 587.5 mm, a surplus of six per cent. Except for nine districts - Chatra, Garhwa, Godda, Gumla, Khunti, Pakur, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Simdega and West Singhbhum  _ which figure in rain deficit list, the remaining 15 districts recorded surplus rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Twin minor rapes shock Hazaribagh||The father of an 11-year-old girl was arrested for raping his minor daughter in a village of Katkamdag block of Hazaribagh. The minor’s mother had passed away last year following which her father tried to take advantage of her which compelled her to take shelter in neighbours houses at night. On July 3, the father raped her and she fled and informed some villagers of the incident. A member of Jharkhand Chhatra Morcha, Vicky Kumar, and a village woman Sunita Devi brought the girl to Katkamdag police station after which she was provided treatment and an FIR lodged. Her father was arrested. Officials said they will ensure speedy trial for punishment to the father. In another shocking incident, a 15-year-old was raped at the foothills of the famous Canary hill forest in Hazaribagh town on Wednesday night. The victim has lodged an FIR against a Suraj Kumar with Korra police on Thursday, According to sources, the minor girl had stepped out of her house to look for her mother who worked as a daily wage labourer when she didn't return from work on Wednesday evening. The accused Suraj Kumar, living in Brambe House, a locality close to Canary, offered to help. She sat with him on his bike but Suraj took her to Canary. He raped her at the foothills of Canary and later dropped her home in the morning. The victim’s mother approached Korra police and informed them about the incident. An FIR has been registered under Pocso act against Suraj who escaped. Officer-in-charge of Korra police station, Prashant Mishra said raids have started to nab Suraj. Canary is a famous tourist spot but remains deserted due to cases of eve teasing in the past including a college girl who was also raped a few years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Geological museum and lab for Dhanbad's premiere college||A state-of-art Geological Museum and Microscopic Lab established in the Geology department of Dhanbad’s P.K. Roy Memorial College was inaugurated on Friday by Anjani Kumar Srivastava, vice chancellor of Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal. The newly established museum cum lab spread over around 600 square feet area established on the line of IIT (ISM) Geological Laboratory contains the rare specimen of a wide variety of fossils like dinosaur and shell; ores like raw silver & platinum and minerals like raw pyrite and rose quartz, which were collected from different sites across the country over the last two months. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, B.K. Sinha, Principal of PK Roy Memorial College Dhanbad said that the museum cum laboratory established through the internal fund of the college is meant to provide opportunity to the students of Geology department as well as other relevant departments including Chemistry, Botany, Zoology and Geography departments to carry out a study of rare specimens of different categories and enhance their ambit of knowledge. The museum cum laboratory comprising of wide range of microscopes including, Petrographic microscope, optical microscope and Stereo microscope will help the students and researchers to identify rocks and minerals in thin sections and other equipment like rock hammers, compasses, hand lenses will help them to understand the techniques and delicacies associated with of collection of specimens from the sites and on site study of the specimens. He further said that the move to establish the museum cum laboratory is also aimed at strengthening the infrastructure of different departments of the college, ahead of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council for fetching better, A grade for the college which at present possesses B grade. Notably, the better grade of NAAC ensures more fund flow through various bodies like University Grants Commission, Department of Science and Technology etc. Sagar Kumar Swain, Head of the Department of Geology of PK Roy Memorial College who is also in-charge of the newly established museum cum laboratory said, “The specimens collected in the museum have been grouped  into three broad categories including Fossil, Ore and Minerals.” Elaborating more about the different categories of specimens Swain said, “The fossil specimen collections of museum comprise of Brachiopod, Othoceras, Ammonite, Trilobite, Rhineastes, Dinosaur, Petrified Wood Fossil,  Shell Fossil, Edicarian, Echinoid, Crinoid and Glyptodon species while the Ore species collection include, Zinc, Lead, Nickel, Coal, Platinum Palladium, Raw Silver, Manganese, Iron, High Grade Cobalt, Gold, Copper and Platinum. He further said mineral species of the museum include, Actinolite, Argentiferous Galena,Biotite,Botrite, Botryoidal Purple Smithsonite, Chalcopyrite, Green Selenite, Kyanite, Orpiment, Pectolite, Pentlandite, Raw Pyrite and Rose Quartz.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand administers vaccines to 1 crore beneficiaries ||The total count of Covid-19 vaccines administered in Jharkhand since the launch of the nationwide immunisation programme on January 16 crossed the 1 crore mark as the state inoculated almost 60,000 residents on Thursday, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state administered the first dose of vaccine to 42,595 residents on Thursday, while 16,197 beneficiaries got their second jab. The total number of vaccine doses – both first and second – administered in the state so far reached 1,00,03,374, highlighted government data. Over 80 lakh residents have received the first dose of vaccine and close to 20 lakh beneficiaries have got their second jab in the state so far. At least 826 session sites, including 24 private ones, were operational in the state on Thursday, as per data available on the Government of India’s Co-Win portal. At least 53 session sites were operational in Ranchi, while 36 session sites in East Singhbhum opened their doors for vaccine beneficiaries. More than 8,000 residents were inoculated in Ranchi, while over 5,000 got jabbed in East Singhbhum. As per data with the NHM, the state has almost 3 lakh doses of vaccines in stock, enough to last around three days. So far, the state has received 1,01,66,910 doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre, while additional doses of Sputnik V were procured by private facilities, highlights NHM data. Jharkhand on Thursday reported 28 Covid cases and also 28 recoveries, which kept the active caseload at 223, a separate bulletin from NHM highlighted. At least 10 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19, while the active caseload in Ranchi rose to 55 as the district reported five cases against only two recoveries. East Singhbhum reported one fresh case of infection and two recoveries. The active caseload there was 15 by the end of Thursday. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 54,894 residents and about 0.05 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand and 98.4 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. The state did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on the day, while three patients of the fungal infection were discharged from hospital. As per data with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has reported 163 cases of black fungus so far and 111 patients have recovered, while 31 died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Manipuri winger Len Doungel signs for Jamshedpur FC till 2024||Jamshedpur: Jamshedpur FC has signed Manipuri winger Seiminlen Doungel for the upcoming Indian Super League season of 2021-22. The Tata Steel-owned club signed the 27-year-old Len on a permanent deal after impressing with his seasoned performances in the second half of 2020-21, including a Man of the Match in 8 appearances with the JFC. He will ply his trade for the club till May 2024. Fondly known as Len, the winger, who was capped for the Indian national team, brings with him a trophy-winning pedigree, having previously won the I-League in 2015-16 and Federation up in 2012 and 2017. He was the runners-up in the AFC Cup in 2016 and played an important role in the FC Goa team that finished top of the league in the 2019-20 ISL season, thereby helping them become the ISL Premiers (shield winners). Len exclaimed his delight at extending his tenure under the Owen Coyle mentored side as he said: "Jamshedpur FC has the ambition to do well in the ISL. The gaffer is extremely committed to qualifying for the playoffs and try to win the league for the first time. I want to create history with the club. I am glad to continue as I had the coach's faith in me, and I want to play as much as I can to contribute to help the club achieve silverware." Head coach Owen Coyle was extremely delighted to have Len in his ranks. "I think everyone will agree that Len impressed and improved the team when he joined Jamshedpur. He is fast and is a good finisher too -- two very important qualities for a winger. He is one of the top Indian players in the ISL and I am glad he's here to say," he said. (Jayesh Thaker) Dhanbad: Lone state-run engineering institute of Dhanbad BIT Sindri on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding with Steel Authority of India Limited, IISCO Steel Plant Burnpur in an online programme for joint collaboration in terms of finding solution of technical hurdles of operation & production and also for providing internship and project opportunities for students. A.V. Kamlakar, Chief Executive officer SAIL-ISP Burnpur said,‘The MoU will be beneficial for both BIT Sindri and SAIL-ISP Burnpur as it would help to solve the technical difficulties of our industry and simultaneously provide internship and project opportunities for student and faculty members of BIT Sindri.” (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Railway police on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old youth for allegedly stealing two sacks containing human hair from Pune-Howrah Duronto Express near Tatanagar station on the evening of July 11. The arrested person identified as Mohammed Golu had stolen the sacks by breaking the seal of the train's parcel van at about 4 pm on July 11 when it was waiting for a green signal to arrive at the Tatanagar station. A resident of Garib Nawaz Colony in Jugsalai, Golu had, along with another associate, unloaded two sacks out of a total 27 sacks which were to be unloaded at Howrah. Sanjay Kumar Tiwari, inspector, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Tatanagar said the railway officials at Tatanagar station had discovered the broken seal of the train's parcel van when it arrived at the station but the theft of two sacks only after the train had reached Howrah. "The human hair consignment had come from Manmar in Maharashtra by the Duronto Express and a criminal gang must have kept a track of this before committing the theft at Tatanagar," the inspector pointed out. He said during interrogation the arrested person revealed that the human hair has a great demand in Chinese market and stated that they are trying to find out whether the stolen hair sacks were planned to be sent to China. Tiwari said Golu is a small entity in the racket, but the one who is still absconding is the kingpin, adding that the real intention behind stealing the human hair sacks will be known only when he is caught. (Kumud Jenamani) Jamshedpur: Tata Steel’s West Bokaro Division inducted 16 women Heavy Earth Moving Machinery (HEMM) operators through all shifts from Thursday under its flagship programme - Women@Mines promoting equal opportunity for all employees. ‘Women@Mines’ programme aims to provide technical training to the unskilled women workers and enable them to work in core jobs at mines. West Bokaro Division is the first coal division in the company to launch this initiative. It received over 446 applications of which 16 candidates were selected after a written test and a personal interview. The minimum qualification required was matriculation. The 16 women candidates will undergo intensive training for a year to hone their skills as HEMM operators. Post successful completion of their training, these women will be deployed as operations assistant to operate dumper, dozer, shovel, excavator, and drill. Atrayee Sarkar, vice-president, Human Resource Management, Tata Steel, said, “Tata Steel has always provided career opportunities to the talented youth from the community, and Women@Mines at West Bokaro is yet another milestone in this journey. Focused on industry-wide efforts to foster a diverse and inclusive culture, Tata Steel is making sure it provides a safe and an enabling environment to its workforce. We take great pride in welcoming onboard the new women recruit at our West Bokaro site and wish them an empowering career ahead.” (Pinaki Majumdar) Dhanbad: Twelve days after the surrender of notorious criminal Vikash Singh in connection with the murder case of BJP leader Satish Singh last year, one of the key conspirators of the case, Satish Sao on Thursday surrendered in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate of Dhanbad. Senior advocate Jaya Kumar who was present in court on behalf of Sao said that his bail petition would be submitted later. Vikash Singh, the main conspirator of Satish Singh murder case, who is also named in several other murder cases including the murder case of Sudhir Singh, owner of Bundela travels of October 31, 2013 surrendered in court on July 24 and his bail application was submitted by Jaya Kumar on August 3. Satish Singh, a close aide of BJP MLA of Dhanbad Raj Sinha was shot dead on August 19, 2020 at around 3 pm near Matkuria Chhath Talab when he was heading towards Vikash Nagar area of Matkuria on foot after disembarking from a car. Though, he was rushed immediately to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital after the incident but he was declared brought dead. Dhanbad police in its earlier submission to the court informed that the murder Singh was carried out by Baburaja Chandraprakash acting on the indication of Vikash Singh and his gang member Satish Sao. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt makes regional languages mandatory in mains examination ||The Jharkhand government has made regional languages mandatory in the mains examination conducted by the state’s staff selection commission in an attempt to facilitate the selection of local and tribal population in government jobs. The state cabinet on Thursday included 12 regional languages for the second paper (language and literature) of the mains examination of the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission and excluded English, Hindi and Sanskrit from the list. The list contains Santhali, Odiya, Bengali, Urdu, Mundari, Kurukh, Kurmali, Panchpargania, Nagpuri, Khadia, Khortha and Ho for the second or regional language paper. The third paper of the mains exam will be on general knowledge and current affairs. “Candidates will have to pass individually in both paper two and three with a minimum 30 per cent marks. The marks obtained in both the papers will form the basis for preparing the merit list. Candidates will also have to pass with a minimum of 30 per cent marks in paper one (Hindi and English) but that will not form the basis for the merit list,” said cabinet secretary Vandana Dadel. Till now, English and Hindi were included in the second paper but now candidates would have to know any one of the 12 regional languages to succeed in the exam. The cabinet has decided to allow only general candidates who have passed the matriculation exam from educational institutions based in the state, irrespective of the boards. The staff selection panel will conduct only one (mains) exam, instead of prelims and mains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
06-08-2021||Jharkhand||US initiative to aid women entrepreneurs in Jharkhand, Bihar||An initiative of the US state department’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs will provide guidance to budding women entrepreneurs of Jharkhand and Bihar, in partnership with other organisations. The Academy for Women Entrepreneurs (AWE), which is part of the White House-led Women’s Global Development and Prosperity Initiative, aims to empower 50 million women worldwide by 2025 to fulfil their economic potential. “This is the first time that the US Consulate General, Calcutta, in partnership with Startup India, Aroh Foundation and Nexus Start-up Hub at the American Centre, New Delhi, is announcing applications for the AWE in Bihar and Jharkhand. The AWE will support a selected cohort of 90 prospective women entrepreneurs and early-stage business owners from Bihar and Jharkhand by providing US-style online education with guided facilitation from the US state department alumni, local businesswomen and other partners,” said Richa Sethi from Women in Business, implementing partner of the AWE, who was in Jamshedpur on Wednesday. The selected participants will join an AWE network that will support access to peer-to-peer mentorship, business partners and scaling opportunities with businesses in the region and in the US. “We have completed roadshows in Jamshedpur and will be hosting one in Dhanbad and Ranchi this week. Simultaneously, there are roadshows being held in Patna, Nalanda and Begusarai in Bihar. So far we have attracted over 700 women entrepreneurs during the roadshows. State-level organisations such as Startup Bihar and Startup Jharkhand are supporting the AWE initiatives to nurture women entrepreneurs and help them set up innovative ventures in their respective states,” she said. The programme is running an Idea Challenge and aspiring women entrepreneurs can apply through a web link (https://lnkd.in/eakH-4Y) to win AWS (Amazon Web Services) credits worth $1,000. In the second phase, women entrepreneurs will need to undergo an online Dreambuilder programme from the University of Arizona. In the third phase high-potential women entrepreneurs will proceed to Calcutta for a boot camp and pitching session. At least six women entrepreneurs will receive AWS credits worth $5,000 and support at one of the state incubators. “The US Consulate General, Calcutta, is committed to strengthening the entrepreneurship ecosystem in east India, with a particular emphasis on empowering women. Our AWE program has already proven to be a success in the Northeast, and we are happy that we can now bring this program to Bihar and Jharkhand. I invite women entrepreneurs and early-stage business owners to apply for this unique US department of state opportunity,” said acting consul general Monica Shie in a communiqué.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
