07-08-2021||Calcutta||ICSE council to conduct two examinations for ICSE and ISC students this year||The ICSE council will conduct two examinations, one at the end of each semester, for both the ICSE (Class X) and the ISC (Class XII) students in the academic year 2021-22. The first semester exam will be conducted in November on the portion of the syllabus specified for that period in the reduced syllabus for the ICSE and ISC exams for this academic year. It will be an MCQ-based, online exam, a circular issued by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) said. The second semester exam will be conducted in March or April next year on the portion specified for the second semester. The exam will be conducted online or offline, depending on the pandemic situation. The “semester-wise bifurcated theory syllabus for Classes X and XII” is available on the council website under the head “Publications”. The circular, signed by Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the council, and addressed to principals, carries details of the “modified assessment plan” for the ICSE and the ISC. It says that each of the two end-semester exams will have equal weightage during the computation of the board results. The council had to cancel both the ICSE and ISC board exams this year because of the pandemic. “In view of the continuing pandemic situation in the country and the disruption in educational activities brought about due to extended lockdowns, and the various alternate modes of syllabus transaction that need to be adopted, due to the closure of schools, the CISCE had carried out an extensive exercise of syllabus review,” Arathoon said. The question papers for each semester exam will carry 80/100 marks for the ICSE and 70/80 marks for the ISC, according to the maximum marks now allocated to the theory component of the subjects, the circular says. For the ISC results, in addition to the exams conducted at the end of each of the two semesters, the candidates will be assessed on practical/ project work, the circular says. It adds that if the situation permits, the ISC practicals will be conducted with visiting examiners setting the practical question papers based on guidelines and instructions from the council. “In case the situation is not conducive due to the pandemic, and candidates are unable to come to their respective schools to take the practical examination... (online/virtual mode) will be exercised,” the circular says. For the ICSE, in addition to the semester exams the candidates will be evaluated on the basis of “internal assessments”, whose weightage remains unchanged, the circular says. The council has asked the schools to ensure that all the candidates finish the stipulated practical/ project work/ internal assessment as specified in the reduced syllabuses for the ICSE and the ISC. “Schools must maintain a record of all work done by candidates for practical/ project work/ internal assessment. The CISCE may ask schools to send sample/s of work done by the candidates, should the need arise,” the circular says. It says the council will “not be conducting the Class IX and XI examinations during the academic year 2021-22”. “There is no change in the syllabus for Classes IX and XI,” the circular adds. Arathoon told The Telegraph: “The exam by the council will ensure uniformity as far as question papers and assessment is concerned across schools in the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta airport goes under water for hours after a spell of heavy rain ||The city airport went under water for hours after a spell of heavy rain on Friday morning. Some of the aircraft parking bays were flooded, forcing passengers getting off planes to wade through water to board buses on their way to the terminal, airport officials said. Toilets in the arrival area of the terminal could not be used because of backflow of water. Outside, too, the approach road to the terminal was flooded, causing traffic snarls. An official who has been working at the airport for many years said the facility was no stranger to waterlogging during the monsoon or after a spell of heavy rain but the situation had rarely been so bad. Water finally receded in the afternoon. “Passengers of aircraft which were parked near the terminal building had no problem in boarding or getting off as they could access aerobridges. But those who had to take a coach to reach the terminal or the aircraft had to wade through water,” said an official of an airline. A south Calcutta resident who had gone to the airport to receive a relative said the parking booth was flooded. “There was a long queue as vehicles were moving slowly. Many arrival passengers were inconvenienced because they could not use the washrooms.” Airport officials blamed Metro construction and lack of proper pumping system of municipalities surrounding the airport for the waterlogging. Metro Railway’s underground station at the airport is under construction. Airport officials said the work had left some of the drains blocked, causing water to flow back into the airport. The deep trenches dug for the Metro work were all submerged and the water was pumped out into the airport side, the officials said. “We have asked the Metro authorities to install more pumps. They should pump the water out of the airport premises,” said airport director C. Pattabhi. A Metro official said no drains were blocked because of Metro work. "We have diverted all utilities. The airport authorities would not have handed us the site had we not done so,” the official said. An official of Dum Dum Municipality, which is in charge of areas around the airport, said they were aware that rainwater was accumulating in the airport compound as well as the roads leading to it. “We tried to pump out some of the water that had accumulated on the road leading to the airport from gate 2.5 (on Jessore Road) but could do little as VIP Road was getting flooded,” the official said. Another official said: “We could not do much because the drains around the airport had got clogged by construction materials that accumu-lated because of the Metro work.” Harinder Singh, the chairperson of Dum Dum Municipality's board of administrators, said they were not responsible for maintenance of the airport premises. “We tried to drain out as much water as we could from Jessore Road, which leads to the airport. There was not much water there. We know there was water inside the airport but that is not under our jurisdiction. It is maintained by the Airports Authority of India (AAI),” said Singh. Traffic headed to the airport through VIP Road in the morning was badly hit because the Haldiram’s and Chinar Park crossings were under knee-deep water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Strike leaves Multiple pumps in Calcutta low on stocks||Multiple pumps in Calcutta ran out of fuel by Friday afternoon and many others were running low on stocks after a flash strike by oil transporters cut off the supply line. The city and its adjacent areas receive their stock of petrol and diesel from Indian Oil Corporation’s depot at Mourigram in Howrah. Private transporters, who carry the fuel by oil tankers, resorted to flash strike on Wednesday, protesting a tender floated by the public sector oil company to pick truckers for the next five years. Even though IOC has sought help from the state administration and has written to chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, there was uncertainty on possible refills anytime soon unless the company can make alternative arrangements. Uma Service Station in Dhakuria, one of the busier pumps in south Calcutta, had run out of normal petrol when this newspaper visited around 4pm. “Petrol out of stock, inconvenience regretted,” a poster greeted motorists. Premium petrol, a tad costlier than the normal fuel, and diesel were available. “We ran out of stock in the morning. We are not sure when we will get a refill,” said an employee. The GQ Mondal Service Station at Behala Chowrasta, 200m from DH Road, had run out of petrol on Thursday night. “The diesel stock is running low and should be exhausted by the evening,” the manager of the pump said around 3.30pm. At pumps where fuel was available, many motorists opted for a full tank instead of a partial refill. “Half the cars are going in for a full tank,” said an employee at a pump in Tollygunge. “We have a day’s stock left.” Pumps owned and operated by fuel companies were better off. One such pump, at the intersection of AJC Bose Road and Shakespeare Sarani, one of the busiest in Calcutta, had long and separate queues of two-and four-wheelers waiting for fuel. “We did not have any supply issues,” said an employee. Two tanks came to the pump for a refill on Friday. An IOC official said a section of transporters had put up a blockade at the gate of the terminal preventing the entry of tank trucks for loading of petroleum products. The protesters are also obstructing entry of personnel into the premises for official work. The agitation appears to be a fall-out of the tender IOC is floating to transport petrol or diesel from the Howrah terminal by tankers. Such a tender is floated every five years for deployment of tank trucks. The tender was due from April 2020 but it was deferred because of requests from existing transporters on account of the pandemic. However, IOC has finalised a similar tender for oil depots located in  Siliguri, Durgapur, Haldia and Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||High court gives schools freedom on fee default action||A division bench of the high court on Friday modified its earlier order and gave 149 private schools that take no aid from the government the liberty to act against students who fail to pay half the outstanding fees within three weeks. The schools can even strike the names of such students off the rolls. The division had on November 18 — it was then headed by Justice Sanjiv Banerjee — waived 20 per cent of the tuition fees and several other charges levied by schools for the period when classes are held online because of the Covid pandemic. That order restrained the school authorities from barring students from taking part in online classes and writing online exams for failing to pay the fees on time. On Friday, the bench — now comprising Justice I.P. Mukerji and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya — held that the schools would have the liberty to take any step against a student for not paying at least 50 per cent of the dues within three weeks. “Within three weeks from the date, at least 50 per cent of the claimed amount should be paid, irrespective of any dispute with regard to the claim of the school,” the order says. The court said a student’s name could be struck off the rolls if the parent did not pay at least half the claimed amount in the stipulated period. “We permit the school and teaching institutions to suspend instructions to the students in all forms including name of students from the roll of students”. “For those students who have taken the school final and higher secondary examinations and qualified, a direction to be made to the respective boards to suspend their qualification and certificates till the school fees are paid,” the order says. Vineet Ruia, the main petitioner in the case, said the order needed clarification. “The order did not make it clear whether 50 per cent of the actual fees would have to be paid or 50 per cent of reduced fees (as directed by Justice Banerjee), in the three-week period.” Across schools, hundreds of parents have defaulted on fee payment. Many of them have been hit hard financially because of the pandemic but schools say there are many willful defaulters as well. Ruia had last year filed a case on behalf of parents of students of private schools claiming that the institutions were not allowing students to participate in online classes or to sit in exams because of non-payment of fees. On July 4, the schools moved the high court alleging that the guardians were not even paying the fees fixed by the court. Friday’s order comes on that prayer. Parents said they would challenge the order in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Duped of  Rs 24 lakh for son’s medical seat||A 42-year-old man was arrested on Friday from his rented accommodation in Salt Lake’s Sector III for allegedly duping a Delhi resident of Rs 24 lakh by promising a medical degree for his son. Navin Kumar Sharma, who hails from Haryana, was picked up from his house by a team of Delhi police, which was accompanied by cops from the Bidhannagar commissionerate. An officer of the Delhi team said Sharma had met a man several months back who wanted his son to be a doctor. Sharma told the man, a resident of Rajouri in Delhi, that he could not only secure a seat for his son at a medical college but would also ensure that he got the degree “no matter what his performance was”, the officer said. “Sharma then told the man that he would need to pay a total of Rs 1.5 crore, which would include the course fee and a ‘donation amount’,” the officer said. “The victim paid Sharma Rs 24 lakh in installments. He, however, could not secure a seat for his son. After a few months, Sharma switched off his cellphone and stopped all communication with him. It was then he realised that he had been duped and lodged a police complaint.” The complainant had given the cops the number from which Sharma used to call him. “We placed the number under surveillance but it was switched off for the past few months. A few days back when it was switched on, we zeroed in on this location here,” the officer said. Delhi police got in touch with their counterparts at the Bidhannagar commissionerate and they rounded up Sharma from his rented accommodation. Sharma was produced in a Salt Lake court and is being taken to Delhi on a transit remand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Offline ICSE and ISC compartment examinations to start on August 16||The offline ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) improvement and compartment examinations will start on August 16, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations announced on Friday. The exams for the ICSE will end on September 2 and those for the ISC on September 7. The council has published the timetable on its website and issued safety instructions to be followed by the examinees. “The results of the Compartment and Improvement Examinations will be declared around September 20, 2021,” Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the council, said. The examinees must return the original copies of their previous statement of marks and pass certificate to the council through their school. “On receipt of the same, the revised statement of marks and the pass certificates, if applicable, will be sent to the candidates’ school. These marks will reflect their updated marks in the subject/s for which he/ she appeared,” the council said. “The marks obtained by the candidates in the improvement examination shall be considered their final marks.” Candidates who are unable to take the improvement examination will be marked absent, and the marks already awarded to them will remain unchanged. “Candidates are required to bring their own writing stationery/ art material and avoid sharing the same with other candidates,” the council said. “Candidates must use face masks/ cover and carry their own hand sanitiser. The use of gloves is optional.” The examinees must reach the exam centre well ahead of time to ensure staggered movement and smooth entry, the council said. This year's ICSE and ISC candidates have been awarded scores on the basis of past exam marks, project and practical work, and their schools' overall performance in board exams in the recent past. Those unhappy with their scores and those who failed in certain subjects were eligible to register for the compartment and improvement exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Presidency Alumni Association awards Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee||Nobel Laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, an alumnus of Presidency College, was conferred the Atul Chandra Gupta Distinguished Alumnus Award 2020 by the Presidency Alumni Association on Friday evening at his home in Ballygunge. Although the alumni association had decided to confer the award on the occasion of the Presidency’s Foundation day on January 20, 2020, Banerjee was not available for the occasion. The award ceremony could not be conducted later because of the pandemic. Alumni association president Sutirtha Bhattacharya and vice-president Bivas Chaudhuri handed the award plaque to Banerjee. The economist said in a video message that studying at Presidency “was like discovering heaven all of a sudden”. “At Presidency, I found myself in the company of like-minded people. I met friends who took interest in the subjects that also interested me…. It was like discovering heaven all of a sudden. I am reminiscing those times. I am happy to receive the honour,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Nurses of government hospitals withdraw their agitation||Nurses of government hospitals withdrew their agitation on Friday after being told by the state health department that their demand for a pay hike had been sent to the state finance department. The nurses had been taking turns in joining a sit-in at SSKM Hospital for the past 11 days demanding pay parity with state government employees with similar qualifications in other departments. They cancelled their plan to organise a rally on Chowringhee on Friday after receiving an invitation to meet the state’s junior health minister, Chandrima Bhattacharya, in the afternoon. Bhattacharya told Metro that the state pay commission would now have to take a call on the issue. “We sent our proposal to the state pay commission (which functions under the finance department) in March. It is no longer in our hands. Now, we have to wait for the pay commission’s decision.” When asked whether the health department had recommended a pay scale revision for the nurses, Bhattacharya said: “Why else would we send a file to the pay commission?” Bhaswati Mukherjee, the secretary of Nurses Unity, the association of nurses that had been spearheading the protests, said the junior health minister told them that a recommendation for the pay revision had been sent to the state pay commission. “The minister told us they had already sent a file recommending a revision of our pay grade to the state’s pay commission. We asked her how much time it could take for the revision to take effect. She said it would be known within three or four months,” Mukherjee said. The state pay commission makes recommendations for pay revision of state government employees to the finance department, which takes the final call. Mukherjee said since the movement of nurses demanding an end to alleged pay disparity had been going on for years and the nurses had protested time and again, they were ready to wait for another four months. “We trust the government will do the needful. We are calling off the sit-in and will wait for four months. We are thankful to the state government for thinking about our demand,” Mukherjee said on Friday evening. Nurses in the government sector have been putting up with pay discrimination for years, they alleged. A nurse with a diploma should be entitled to Level-12 pay but they get Level-9 pay. Nurses across all categories — diploma-holder, BSc-degree holder, experienced, fresher — get less than what they should be entitled to, the nurses alleged. “An engineering diploma-holder gets Level-12 pay. There is a difference of nearly Rs 8,000 between levels 9 and 12. We want an end to this discrimination,” said a protesting nurse. The “pay disparity”, she said, has been there for years and nurses have protested against it time and again. The latest round of protests started on July 26, when the nurses began a sit-in demonstration inside the SSKM Hospital compound. Before that they had written to the chief minister listing their demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Giant potholes 'grow' on roads across all three sectors of Salt Lake||Giant potholes have formed on roads across all three sectors of Salt Lake. Residents and regular commuters said the potholes had formed before the onset of the monsoon but they have become wider and deeper following the recent spells of downpour. According to the residents this newspaper spoke to, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has not even done what it usually does — a basic repair work. Some said no major repair work had been carried out by the civic body over the past couple of years. “We are not getting a stretch of dry weather to carry out repairs. We will do the needful as soon as we get a week of dry weather,” said an official in the road repairs and upkeep department of the civic body. At least two bikers met with accidents recently after their two-wheelers skidded while they tried to negotiate craters. Among the worst-affected stretches is a 1-km road in front of the Geographical Survey of India headquarters. “Some of the potholes are so deep that traffic police had to place guardrails to ensure that motorists do not run into them,” said Bikash Choudhary, a resident of DL Block. The situation is similar in front of the administrative building in DJ Block, where the office of the sub-divisional officer of Bidhannagar is located. “We have notified the corporation but no repairs have been carried out yet,” said a resident of the neighbouring BJ Block. The stretch that leads to Tank Number 8 from Karunamoyee, too, is in a bad shape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
07-08-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal JEE board cuts down on lengthy counselling process||The state JEE board has cut down the lengthy counselling process so that engineering classes can start by September. The board has scrapped the practice of an engineering aspirant getting testimonials verified at a reporting centre before seeking admission to a college. Last year, the centralised counselling had started on August 12 and continued till October 28. This year, the process will start on August 13 and be completed on September 11, a board official said. The admissions can take place faster because the engineering aspirants can now get their documents verified at the college, chosen through centralised counselling. The state JEE results were announced on Friday. A total of 65,170 candidates had written the test in-person on July 17 and 64,850 received rank cards. During registration, the candidates have to upload documents such as Class X and XII mark sheets on the counselling portal developed by the board. Earlier, the candidates had to go to reporting centres for verification of documents after locking their choice of institute, a board official said. Last year, the board had virtual reporting centres so a candidate did not have to physically go to one because of the pandemic. “But this, too, would delay the admission process,” said a board official. “This year, the institutes will themselves work as the reporting centres, enabling the institutes to start classes early,” said Malayendu Saha, chairman, JEE board. An official of the higher education department said that because of the lengthy counselling process last year, BTech classes at Jadavpur University and Calcutta University could only start in January 2021. “Since 487 of the 1,253 BTech seats at JU and 89 of the 237 at CU had remained vacant after the three-phased centralised counselling by the JEE board, both universities had to conduct counselling independently to fill the vacant seats. Classes could only start in January. This year, the board wants to complete the admission early so that these institutes — even if they hold counselling independently to fill vacant seats — can start classes in November,” said the official. A JU teacher said candidates could quit the university after taking admission in NITs, which have better infrastructure, this year, too. “Wrapping up the three-phased centralised counselling early is a wiser proposition. This would enable JU to undertake decentralised counselling to manage the inevitable vacancies and start classes early,” he said. JEE board chairman Saha said that after the counselling process would end on September 11, the institutes should take about a week to complete the admission. “We are creating an opportunity so they can start the classes as early as possible. We want the students of Bengal to study in the engineering institutes of the state as much as possible,” said Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
07-08-2021||Calcutta||Teenager arrested impersonating an IPS officer||An 18-year-old boy was arrested on Thursday for allegedly impersonating an IPS officer. Ankit Kumar Singh, police said, was allegedly sending text and WhatsApp messages to people saying they had police cases against them and that he could help them “settle” the cases if they paid |him. The police said he had been using 29 different mobile phone sets for the past few weeks to contact his “targets”. “He had masked his Internet protocol (IP) address hoping that was enough to avert the police glare. He would introduce himself as Mohammad Nooral Hossain, IPS cyber cell police officer of the city police,” said a senior officer in Lalbazar. Sources in Lalbazar said there was no IPS officer of the name attached with Calcutta police at present. The police said they had received a complaint on July 31 based on which a case was drawn up at cyber police station in Lalbazar. During investigation, the cops found that Singh, a resident of Bally in Howrah. One mobile phone, two SIM cards and a few forged documents were seized from his possession, an officer said. The police have found that Singh had been extorting anything between Rs 2,000 and Rs 1 lakh from his victims. He was produced before the court on Friday where he was remanded in police custody till August 13. Calcutta police had recently arrested another man who had allegedly introduced |himself as an officer of the enforcement directorate and contacted a Trinamul Congress MP claiming he had a case against him with the central agency and that he could help the MP get rid of the charges if the latter agreed to pay him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-26
07-08-2021||Business||Court sends Ambience group promoter to judicial custody||A Delhi court on Saturday sent Ambience group promoter Raj Singh Gehlot, arrested in a money-laundering case linked to an alleged bank loan fraud of Rs 800 crore, to judicial custody after the ED said his further interrogation was not required. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana sent the accused to jail till August 21 after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) produced him before court on expiry of his custodial interrogation and moved a plea seeking his judicial custody for two weeks. The ED case against Gehlot, who is also a promoter of the Ambience Mall in Gurgaon, is based on a 2019 FIR of the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Jammu against AHPL and its directors for alleged money laundering in the construction and development of the five-star Leela Ambience Convention Hotel located at 1, CBD, Maharaj Surajmal Road, near the Yamuna Sports Complex in Delhi. The central probe agency had raided Gehlot, his company Aman Hospitality Private Limited (AHPL), some other firms of the Ambience group, director in the company Dayanand Singh, Mohan Singh Gehlot and their associates in July last year. The ED probe found that "a huge part of the loan amount of more than Rs 800 crore, which was sanctioned by a consortium of banks for the hotel project, was siphoned off by AHPL, Raj Singh Gehlot and his associates through a web of companies owned and controlled by them". "A substantial part of the loan money was transferred by AHPL to several companies and individuals on the pretext of payment of running bills and advance for supply of material and work executed," the agency had alleged. The employees of the Ambience group and Gehlot's associates were made directors and proprietors in these companies and Gehlot was the "authorised signatory" in many of these entities, it had said. No material was supplied and no work was executed and almost the entire amount was immediately routed back to the entities owned by Raj Singh and Sons HUF (Hindu undivided family) and his brother's son, it said. "Money was further siphoned off through multiple layers in a complex web of group entities," the ED had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||I-T department issues three email IDs for faceless grievance ||The Income Tax (I-T) department on Saturday notified three official email IDs for taxpayers to register grievances under the faceless or e-assessment scheme. The department issued a message on its official Twitter handle saying: "In a move aimed to further improve taxpayer services in alignment with the Taxpayers' Charter, the Income Tax Department creates dedicated e-mail ids for registering grievances in respect of pending cases under the Faceless Scheme." It said grievances can be furnished under three separate email IDs created for the purpose. "For faceless assessments: samadhan.faceless.assessment@incometax.gov.in; For faceless penalty: samadhan.faceless.penalty@incometax.gov.in; For faceless appeals: samadhan.faceless.appeal@incometax.gov.in," the department said. Under the faceless assessment system, a taxpayer or an assessee is not required to visit an I-T department office or meet a department official for income tax-related businesses. A central electronic-based system picks up tax returns for scrutiny based on risk parameters and mismatches, and then allots them randomly to a team of IT officers in any city. The scrutiny by these officers are stated to be reviewed by officers at another randomly selected location. The scheme was launched by the Union government in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||SC blow puts Kishore Biyani's future at stake||There was a time when Kishore Biyani was determined to seize the crown and be the unquestioned King of the Indian high street and the largest malls. In 2006, he had some 200 outlets including everything from supermarkets and hypermarkets to department and home product stores. He aimed to open one new outlet a day and talked about having 3,500 by 2010. “We want to capture consumer spending,” he declared without the slightest flicker of doubt about his Future Group’s ability to pull it off. Now fast forward to today: Biyani's fending off creditors and reckons if his deal with Reliance Retail Ventures to sell for Rs 24,713 crore he struck in August last year after being battered by Covid-19 is stalled, he'll be forced to file for bankruptcy in three months. Half his stores have been shut by the pandemic and most of the rest aren't selling enough to cover costs. (The company lost Rs 59.43 billion in fiscal 2020-21 and it's got debt of Rs 207.42 billion)  The banks granted Biyani a debt-restructuring deal on condition his agreement with Reliance went through – they were betting it would be easier to recover debts from Reliance Ventures which had also agreed to take on various existing debts. That may have been a bargain-basement deal for Reliance Ventures. But there's a hitch and it's a big one. The problem is Biyani had already struck a deal in 2019 giving Amazon the right to buy a 49-per-cent stake in Future Coupons, a group company that owned 7.3 per cent of Future Retail, the group flagship. Under the deal, Amazon had the first right to buy into Future Retail in a time frame of between three to 10 years and it paid Biyani Rs 1,431 crore in December 2019. Inevitably, Amazon took Biyani and the Future Group to court after the deal with Reliance was struck, arguing their rights. The chosen forum under the Amazon-Future Group agreement was the arbitration tribunal in Singapore. An emergency arbitration tribunal issued an injunction preventing the Future Group-Reliance Ventures deal from being completed. After a series of battles in the Delhi High Court, Amazon took the case to the Supreme Court which has just ruled in its favour. Biyani's still weighing the legal options and plans to file a review petition before the Supreme Court. Yesterday’s court battle had a battery of legal heavyweights including, Harish Salve appearing for Biyani and Gopal Subramanium representing Amazon. But it's hard not to conclude Biyani will have a tough time in the near future. Looking in the rearview mirror, it's possible to conclude that overweening ambition may have got the better of Biyani. But business is also sometimes about taking gambles and it's true he had to face conglomerates like Reliance with gigantic gameplans and a heap of cash for a massive shopping spree. Besides the arrival of online players like Amazon and Flipkart changed the game in ways that couldn’t easily have been foreseen in the early 2000s. He never reached his 3,500 store goal but by 2018 Future Retail had 1,550 outlets, led by his biggest winner BigBazaar and including others like Heritage Fresh, Nilgiris, Easyday, Foodhall and Brand Factory. He also had a tie-up with W. H. Smith, the news, books and convenience conglomerate. His Future Lifestyle had around 350 outlets. By then, though, he was also staggering under the weight of accumulated debt and the pandemic that came in 2020 piled on massively to his woes. Biyani, always frank whether he was on top of the world or hounded by bankers, admitted that Covid-19 was the very last blow. “We got into a trap to be very honest with Covid-19. In three-four months, we lost nearly Rs 7,000 crore,” he confessed at a retailers' conference. Even more importantly, he conceded at the conference: “We did too many acquisitions in the last six to seven years.” That was why he was forced in 2019 to strike the deal that gave Amazon the right to buy a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons, a group company that owned 7.3 per cent of Future Retail, the group flagship and also the first right to buy into Future Retail . But when the pandemic changed the entire picture, plunging the Future Group even deeper into debt. Biyani needed cash much more urgently to avert bankruptcy. That’s why he changed course abruptly and struck the deal with Reliance Ventures in August 2020. What’s next? Biyani and analysts note that if he's forced to declare bankruptcy, that would lead to enormous losses for the banks. He says that the company has few actual assets that could be sold to recover debts and that its outlets are almost all rented. He also owes vendors huge amounts. RIL's share price fell more than 2 per cent Friday on the back of the court verdict to trade at Rs 2,0287 while Future Retail slid 10 per cent to Rs 58.20. Biyani is standing in front of an abyss and the only thing that can pull him back is a fountain of cash or an easing off of Friday's Supreme Court verdict. It’s a grim plight to be in. Biyani has been able to confound the naysayers for decades. It remains to be seen if he can do it again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||Sebi agrees in principle to 'controlling shareholders' concept||Market regulator Sebi on Friday agreed “in-principle” to a proposal to move away from the concept of promoter to “controlling shareholders”, and decided to reduce the minimum lock-in period for promoters after an IPO. The watchdog has also decided to streamline the disclosure requirement of group companies, the Securities and Exchange Board of India said in a statement after the board meeting. The regulator is looking to move away from the concept of the promoter to “controlling shareholders” or person in control as nowadays several businesses, including new-age and tech companies, are non-family owned and do not have a distinctly identifiable promoter group. About the lock-in period, Sebi said if the object of the issue involves an offer for sale or financing other than for capital expenditure for a project, the minimum promoters’ contribution of 20 per cent should be locked in for 18 months from the date of allotment in the initial public offer and follow on public offer. At present, the lock-in period is three years. Further, in all these cases, the promoter shareholding above the minimum promoter contribution will be locked in for six months, instead of the existing one year. Sweat equity The Sebi board also cleared amendments to regulations governing alternative investment funds. At a time many start-ups are attracting significant investments, including from overseas, Sebi has decided to provide relaxations on the quantum of sweat equity that can be issued to new-age technology companies listed on the Innovators Growth Platform. In the case of IGP-listed companies, the yearly limit for sweat equity shares will be 15 per cent while the overall limit will be 50 per cent of the paid-up capital at any time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||India’s largest bulk tea producer McLeod Russel faces bankruptcy||India’s largest bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd (MRIL) has been admitted for insolvency proceedings on Friday for defaulting on the repayment of a Rs 100 crore loan. The company, promoted by the Khaitan family of Calcutta, operates 31 tea gardens in Assam and two gardens in Alipurduar, Bengal. It also has gardens in Africa and Vietnam. The company employs over 73,000 people across tea estates and produces about 73 million kg of tea every year. A bench of National Company Law Tribunal, New Delhi admitted the company for corporate insolvency resolution proceeding under Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016 and appointed Kanchan Dutta as interim resolution professional. Even though multiple banks have filed cases against MRIL for loan default, the applicant in the instant case was Techno Electric and Engineering Co Ltd, which had loaned Rs 100 crore at an annual interest of 14 per cent on September 28, 2018. The entire amount was to be fully repaid with interest on or before March 31, 2019. However, McLeod failed to repay the amount on that date and later as well. The court observed in its order that MRIL had not disputed the quantum of default or existence of the loan amount. In a statement, MRIL said it would function as a normal business on a ‘going concern’ principle and and the interests of all stakeholders will be protected. “The company’s business and all obligations will continue with the guidance of the IRP. The undersigned and the company secretary, Alok Kumar Samant, will continue to remain as key managerial personnel. Azam Monem will continue to guide the operations of the company,” Pradip Bhai, chief financial officer of MRIL, said in a statement. Monem is a director on the board of the company looking after tea operations. When contacted, Aditya Khaitan, chairman of the company, declined to comment. Sources said the promoters would explore options before them over the weekend, including appealing before the appellate tribunal. MRIL has around Rs 2,000 crore in debt as it borrowed heavily to support a group company McNally Bharat Engineering Co Ltd. After MBECL’s business floundered and it failed to pay back to McLeod, debt woes rocked the group, founded by Brij Mohan Khaitan, Aditya’s father. McLeod sold multiple gardens initially in Assam, Bengal and Africa to honour the loan commitments but the enormity of the challenge soon surpassed the resource. Khaitans hold just about 10.07 per cent in the company after lenders invoked shares pledged with them for defaulting on loan repayment. Even though the majority of the financial creditors were said to be inclined to restructure the company outside insolvency and appointed SBI Caps to prepare a roadmap, Techno was relentless in pursuing the matter in the NCLT and finally it succeeded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||RBI does not have specific target of yield curve, focus on its orderly evolution: Shaktikanta Das||The yield on the benchmark 10-year paper continued to rise even as the RBI on Friday announced a mish-mash of liquidity steps to facilitate what governor Shaktikanta Das said was an orderly evolution of the yield curve to ensure the Centre gets the funds for its borrowing programme at reasonable rates. As part of its yield management exercise, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said it will undertake a secondary market government securities acquisition programme or G-SAP 2.0 worth Rs 50,000 crore in two tranches. “Our recent G-SAP auctions that have focussed on securities across the maturity spectrum are intended to ensure that all segments of the yield curve remain liquid,” Das said while announcing the third bi-monthly monetary policy. But the moves to control yields have received a lukewarm response from investors. On Friday, the yield on the 10-year bond rose to 6.234 per cent which casts doubt on Das’s claim that G-SAP has been successful in “anchoring yield expectations”. There will be four 14-day variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auctions between August 13 and September 24 when the RBI will be soaking up Rs 13 lakh crore. Das said this should not be misconstrued as “a reversal of the accommodative policy stance”. Libor alert In order to ensure a smoother transition from Libor to alternative benchmarks by December, the RBI will amend the guidelines related to export credit in foreign currency and restructuring of derivative contracts. Banks will be permitted to extend export credit in foreign currency using any other widely accepted alternative reference rate in the currency concerned. Since the change in reference rate from Libor is a “force majeure” event, the exercise will not be considered as restructuring of loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India keeps interest rate unchanged but raises inflation forecast||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday kept interest rates unchanged at a record low as it chose to support economic revival despite raising its forecast for inflation. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted unanimously to retain the repurchase (repo) rate — the rate at which the central bank lends short-term funds to banks — at 4 per cent, but was split on continuing with its accommodative stance. “The MPC decided on a 5 to 1 majority to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. This was a departure from the past when they were unanimous on the need to support growth. An accommodative stance means a rate hike is unlikely. The RBI retained its GDP growth forecast for the current fiscal at 9.5 per cent, but revised its retail inflation forecast to 5.7 per cent, up from the earlier 5.1 per cent. The projected inflation being closer to the upper tolerance band implies price pressures are not likely to ease anytime soon. The central bank scaled down the growth projections for the next few quarters but raised the forecast for April-June to 21.4 per cent. This, analysts said, may reflect its concerns on the pace of consumption demand revival. Growth in Q1 of next fiscal was forecast at 17.2 per cent. The committee said current inflation — which is riding above the 6 per cent threshold — was a transitory phenomenon and driven by “supply side factors”. The committee also noted that high frequency data showed that consumption and investment were regaining traction. Das said pricing pressures were “exogenous and temporary”. Any move to curb inflation now would “kill the nascent and hesitant recovery that is trying to secure a foothold in extremely difficult conditions”. The RBI governor also said: “The outlook for aggregate demand is improving, but the underlying conditions are still weak.” “Aggregate supply is also lagging below pre-pandemic levels,” he added. The upside cues for  growth were improving capacity utilisation, rising steel consumption, higher capital goods imports, congenial monetary and financial conditions and the Centre’s economic packages. Downside risks are global commodity prices, financial market volatility and a new wave of infections. Debt recast The RBI relaxed by six months the deadline to meet four operational parameters under the one-time debt restructuring scheme announced in August 2020. The parameters include total debt-to-Ebitda ratio, current ratio, debt service coverage ratio and average debt service coverage ratio. The deadline has been extended to October 1, 2022 from March 31, 2022. “Recognising the adverse impact of the second wave of Covid-19, it has been decided to defer the target date for meeting the specified thresholds in respect of the above four parameters to October 1, 2022,” Das said. Industry upbeat Corporate India on Friday said the status quo on key interest rates and an accommodative monetary policy will boost the confidence of businesses and consumers. PHDCCI president Sanjay Aggarwal said, “We urge the banking sector to transmit all the cuts in the repo rate during the last financial year to trade, industry and consumers.” Uday Shankar, president, Ficci said: “The Central Bank has thoughtfully navigated the monetary policy through the pandemic... on the economic front despite the uptick, Ficci believes that it is important that a stimulus is provided by the government to give a thrust to consumption.” Assocham said the RBI’s “expectations that inflation should moderate from the third quarter of the current fiscal year are realistic as various supply-side issues would be resolved by then”. Stocks fall The Sensex nursed losses for the first time this week on Friday with the index closing down 215.12 points, or 0.39 per cent, at 54277.72. The NSE Nifty fell 56.40 points, or 0.35 per cent, to 16238.20. RIL was the top laggard among the Sensex pack, shedding 2.07 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||Bengal government to initiate process of recovering idle land||The Bengal government will initiate a process to take back allotted land lying unutilised in the industrial parks of the state as part of efforts to unlock idle assets. The West Bengal Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (WBIIDC) has identified 600 acres of land, some of them in prime locations, which are not being used by industries for various reasons. The government has decided to write to the allottees “with full sympathy and compassion”, asking them to provide a timeline to restart work, if any, or return the land. “We did a survey on lands lying vacant in the industrial parks. We found that close to 600 acres of land in the parks of WBIIDC are stuck. Fifty per cent of them are factories that have been set up but are now closed and in the other half the plants have not started because of financial problems or some other issues,” Rajiva Sinha, chairman of theWest Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, said. Interacting with the members of CII, Sinha said some of the plots are in the prime locations and could be in demand from industrialists. “We are writing to the entrepreneurs with full sympathy and compassion that if you can’t start the plant, return the land to us. We are expecting to reclaim a lot of idle land. We can give it back to industry afresh,” Sinha added. Sinha urged industry to share its feedback with the government. “We must bridge this trust deficit between the government and industry,” Sinha said. On the delay in releasing incentives promised previously but not paid by the government, Sinha cited severe resource crunch because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We simply do not have the resources to honour the commitment. As and when funds come, we will give it to you,” he said. The incentives were part of the Industrial Promotion Assistant Scheme that was in force from 2013 to 2018 but was not renewed. At present, there is a scheme for MSMEs but the incentive payments have become infrequent because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||Business||Supreme Court holds Singapore EA award against Reliance-Future merger enforceable||In a major victory for Amazon, the Supreme Court on Friday held that Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award, restraining the Rs 24,731-crore merger deal of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) with Reliance Retail, is valid and enforceable under Indian arbitration laws. The order means Future Retail and Reliance Retail cannot proceed with their amalgamation plans. The apex court also set aside the two orders of February 8 and March 22 of the division bench of the Delhi high court which lifted the single-judge’s orders staying the FRL-RRL merger. Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC and FRL have been embroiled in a bitter legal battle over the deal and the US-based firm has appealed to the apex court that the EA award was valid and enforceable. A bench of justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai decided two important questions in the judgment — whether an ‘award’ by an EA under the Arbitration Rules of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) can be said to be an award under India’s Arbitration and Conciliation Act. The second question was “whether an order passed under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration Act in enforcement of the award of an Emergency Arbitrator by a Single Judge of the high court is appealable”. The Supreme Court bench has answered both questions. Justice Nariman, in the 103-page judgment said: “We... answer the first question by declaring that full party autonomy is given by the Arbitration Act to have a dispute decided in accordance with institutional rules which can include Emergency Arbitrators delivering interim orders, described as ‘awards’”. “Such orders are an important step to help decongest the civil courts and afford expeditious interim relief to the parties. Such orders are referable to and are made under Section 17(1) of the Arbitration Act”. Answering the second question, the top court said no appeal lies against an order made by a court for ensuring the enforcement of the EA’s award as done by FRL in this case against the single-judge order restraining it from going ahead with the deal with RRL. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, Future Retail said it has been advised by its counsel that “it has remedies available in law, which it will exercise”. FRL intends to pursue all available avenues to conclude the deal to protect the interests of its stakeholders and staff. Regarding the Singapore arbitration process, it said: “The Arbitral Tribunal has concluded hearings on the questions (i) whether the interim award of the emergency arbitrator should continue and (ii) whether FRL is at all a party in the Arbitration proceedings. The decision of Arbitral Tribunal is awaited.” Legal eagles believe that Future Retail will challenge the EA order again before the Delhi high court. The judgment does not deal with the merits of the dispute between FRL and Amazon. It has dealt with the questions of law which are academic in nature, an expert said. The focus will now switch to Singapore where the arbitral tribunal is expected to pronounce its ruling on the dispute between Amazon and FRL. The ruling will also have a significant bearing on all arbitration cases being fought overseas; the ruling comes just a day after the Modi government decided to end the retrospective effect of the tax measure passed in 2012 that allowed the taxman to pursue claims against indirect transfer of Indian assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
07-08-2021||India||NBA board members meet I&B minister Anurag Thakur||Board members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) called on Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur on Saturday and discussed with him the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the industry. The association suggested that a strong policy roadmap should be drawn up for the recovery of the broadcasting sector. "The board members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) met with Anurag Thakur today, the newly appointed Minister for Information and Broadcasting, to felicitate him on his appointment," the association said in a statement after the meeting. "NBA discussed with him the impact of Covid-19 on the broadcast industry and apprised the minister about its concerns and suggested that a strong policy roadmap be drawn up for the recovery of the broadcasting sector," it added. The NBA delegation, led by its president Rajat Sharma, included Avinash Pandey, Kalli Purie Bhandel, Sudhir Chaudhry, Anuradha Prasad and Sonia Singh. "The NBA Board celebrated the historic occasion of Neeraj Chopra winning the gold medal at the Tokyo Olympic Games with Anurag Thakur and cheered with him as history was created at the Tokyo Olympic Games, 2021," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
07-08-2021||India||Maharashtra logs 6,061 Covid-19 cases, 128 deaths, 9,356 recoveries||Maharashtra reported 6,061 new coronavirus cases and 128 fatalities on Saturday which took the state's infection tally to 63,47,820 and death toll to 1,33,845, a health department official said.  As many as 9,356 patients were discharged from hospitals, pushing the number of recoveries to 61,39,493.  Maharashtra has 71,050 active coronavirus cases now.  As many as 4,31,539 people are in home quarantine and 2,761 are in institutional quarantine.  The state's case recovery rate is 96.72 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.1 per cent.  The number of coronavirus tests conducted in the state climbed to 4,93,72,212 with 1,99,681 samples being tested since Friday evening.  The Pune region reported the highest 2,304 new infections on Saturday, followed by 1,652 cases in the Kolhapur region.  The Mumbai region reported 851 new cases, Nashik region 905, Latur region 219, Aurangabad region 66, Akola 42 and the Nagpur region recorded 22 new infections.  Of 128 fatalities recorded during the day, the highest 45 deaths were reported from the Pune region, followed by 39 from the Kolhapur region and 21 from Nashik region. The Mumbai region reported 12 fatalities, Aurangabad four, Latur five while Nagpur region reported two deaths. The Akola region did not report any fresh fatality.  Mumbai city reported 851 new COVID-19 cases and 12 deaths during the day.  Coronavirus figures of Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 63,47,820; New cases 6,061; Total deaths 1,33,845; Total recoveries 61,39,493; Active cases 71,050; Tests conducted so far 4,93,72,212.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Over 50.62 crore jabs administered in India till date, says Health Ministry||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 50.62 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Over 50 lakh doses have been administered on Saturday, according to the 7 pm provisional report. The ministry said that on Saturday in the age group of 18-44 years, 27,55,447 vaccine doses were administered as the first jabs and 5,08,616 as the second one. Cumulatively, 17,54,73,103 people in the age group of 18-44 years across all states and Union Territories have received their first dose and 1,18,08,368 their second dose since the start of phase three of the vaccination drive. Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than over crore doses of COVID-19 Vaccine in the same age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have provided the first dose of vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years, the ministry said. As on day 204 of the vaccination drive, a total of 50,00,384 vaccine doses was given of which 36,88,660 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 13,11,724 received the second dose of vaccine according to the provisional report. The final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from COVID-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||All weekly markets in Delhi to reopen from August 9: Kejriwal||All weekly markets in the national capital will reopen from August 9, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday urging people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour there.  The weekly markets were closed after a lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19 due to a surge in cases during the second Covid wave.  Later, in mid June one weekly market in each municipal zone was allowed to open with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and official guidelines.  The chief minister said his government is concerned about the livelihoods of poor associated with these markets and urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.  "Weekly markets are being opened from Monday. These are poor people. Govt is quite concerned about their livelihoods. However, everyone's health and lives are also important. I urge everyone to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour after these markets are opened," he tweeted.  According to rough estimates, there are around 2,700 weekly markets that open on designated days in a week in 12 of the municipal zones, Delhi Cantonment and the New Delhi Municipal Council. Around four lakh people are associated with them for livelihood, vendors claim. A detailed order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) on reopening of weekly markets and guidelines to be followed by the stakeholders concerned is awaited. The existing prohibited and restricted activities and services in Delhi as per the DDMA are scheduled to continue till 5 am on Monday. Currently, only 50 per cent of the allowed vendors in a weekly market per zone are permitted to transact business there. Strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) and all instructions, guidelines issued by the government of India and the Delhi government are ensured by officials. No weekly market is allowed to function on roadsides. Officials have been instructed to permit any weekly market in neighbourhood or school grounds. Random Covid tests and enforcement activities are also conducted there. The decision to reopen all weekly markets in the city comes amid an improved Covid situation with positivity rate remaining below 0.12 per cent for the past many days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Rahul's Twitter account temporarily suspended: Congress||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account has been temporarily suspended and due process is being followed to restore it, the party said Saturday. This comes a day after Twitter removed a controversial post of Gandhi with a picture of him meeting the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who died here following an alleged sexual assault. A message from Twitter read that the tweet had violated its rules. "Shri @RahulGandhi's Twitter account has been temporarily suspended & due process is being followed for its restoration," the Congress tweeted from its official Twitter handle. "Until then, he will stay connected with you all through his other SM platforms & continue to raise his voice for our people & fight for their cause. Jai Hind!" the party said. Posting a picture of his meeting with the girl's family on Wednesday, Gandhi had tweeted in Hindi: "Parents' tears are saying only one thing -- their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice." The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had asked the Delhi Police and Twitter on Wednesday to take action over Gandhi posting the photo of the girl's family on the microblogging website, saying it violates the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Gandhi met the girl's family members on Wednesday and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||School closure weakened fundamental knowledge of students: parliamentary panel||The learning loss of more than one year due to prolonged school closure in wake of Covid-19 pandemic would necessarily have weakened the foundational knowledge of students, especially in the subjects of mathematics, sciences and languages, at school level, a Parliamentary panel has noted. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports in its report "Plans to bridge the learning gap caused due to school lockdown as well as review of online and offline instructions and exams and plans for reopening of schools" has noted that the learning loss is likely to impair cognitive capabilities of students. "The learning loss of more than one year would necessarily have weakened the foundational knowledge of the students especially in the subjects of mathematics, sciences and languages at school level. This learning loss is a big deficit and is likely to impair the cognitive capabilities of students," the panel said in its report tabled in Parliament on Friday. "This might have a debilitating effect on vulnerable sections of the society like poor and rural students, marginalized sections of society and young women who might have been unable to connect to any form of digital education during the pandemic. This needs to be addressed and immediate remedial steps required to be taken," the report said. The panel stated that school closures have put children's learning, nutrition, mental health, and overall development at risk and some students, particularly girls, are at risk of never returning to school. "In fact long closure of schools will lead to children not returning to schools and potential for children getting engaged in labour and early marriage. Therefore, the immediate need is to bring children back to school," the report said. The committee also recommended that since the digital and online mode of education is going to be the new normal even after the pandemic subsides, efforts to technologically empower every school and students across the country may be aggressively pursued and additional funds allocated for the purpose, as per requirement. "The committee recommends that a comprehensive assessment to collect data of the post-COVID situation leading to the learning loss due to school lockdown may be under taken by the Department of School Education and Literacy to cover the areas of concern," it said. The panel headed by Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe advocated that a credible, fair and transparent system of continuous assessment throughout the year may be developed and put in place even when normal functioning of schools re-commences, so as to meet any future emergent scenarios. "This system should be over and above the final board examinations and would aid in helping students and teachers get a correct perspective of their learning curve and course correct wherever required. "Guidelines for internal assessment, practicals, project work, particularly for classes 10 and 12, be formulated and circulated for strict implementation in every school at the Centre and in States and UTs, be it government, government-aided or private, in order to ensure objective and uniform standard of assessment across the country," the panel report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai allocates cabinet portfolios||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday allocated portfolios to Ministers in his new cabinet, with most of them retaining the Ministries they had in the previous B S Yediyurappa government. In a surprising move, debutant ministers have got plum portfolios like Araga Jnanendra- Home and V Sunil Kumar- Energy, along with Kannada and Culture. The Chief Minister, who had on Wednesday expanded his new cabinet by inducting 29 Ministers, had played it safe by and large retaining old faces, as 23 of them were Ministers in the previous Yediyurappa cabinet, while six were new. Seventeen Ministers have retained the portfolios that they had served in the previous government. Out of them, eight are those who had joined the BJP after quitting the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019, and helped the saffron party come to power. At least six Ministers, who are either long-time BJP loyalists or with RSS background, including Araga Jnanendra and Sunil Kumar, have got plum portfolios. Others are K S Eshwarappa- Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, R Ashoka-Revenue, Kota Srinivas Poojari- Social Welfare and Backward Classes, and B C Nagesh- Primary and Secondary education, Sakala department. The portfolio allocation has given rise to some amount of disgruntlement, with two Ministers- Anand Singh and M T B Nagaraj- openly expressing displeasure about their portfolios. Downplaying the disgruntlement among his cabinet colleagues, the Chief Minister said he will speak to them personally and sort out the issue, as every one can't get the portfolio they ask for. Bommai has retained the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DAPR), Finance, Intelligence, Cabinet Affairs, Bengaluru Development and all unallocated portfolios, with himself. With Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike elections round the corner, it was widely expected that Bengaluru Development would be allocated to a senior Minister from the city, but the CM has retained it with himself, keeping in view the number of aspirants for the plum portfolio. While most ministers have retained the portfolios held in the previous government, those with major changes include Govind Karjol- water resources, C C Patil- public works, B Sriramulu- transport and ST welfare, Murugesh Nirani- Industries. K Sudhakar has retained the all important health and medical education department, amid the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Lone woman minister in the Cabinet Shashikala Jolle has been made in-charge of Muzrai, Wakf & Haj. She was women & child development minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet and had faced corruption allegations. New face Halappa Achar is now the women & child development minister, along with the Mines and Geology portfolio. Other Ministers and their portfolios are- V Sommana - Housing; Umesh Katti- Forest, food and civil supplies; S Angara- Fisheries, ports and inland transport; J C Madhuswamy- Minor Irrigation, Law and Parliamentary Affairs; C N Ashwath Narayan Higher Education, IT, BT, Science and Technology and Skill Development; Anand Singh- Environment, Ecology and Tourism. Prabhu Chauhan- Animal Husbandry; Shivaram Hebbar- Labour; S T Somashekar- Cooperation, B C Patil- Agriculture; B A Basavaraj- Urban Development; K Gopalaiah- Excise; MTB Nagaraj- Municipal Administration and Small Scale Industries; Narayana Gowda- Sericulture, Youth Empowerment and Sports; Shankar Patil Munenakoppa-Handloom and Textiles; Munirathna- Horticulture and Planning departments. Ministers- MTB Nagaraj and Anand Singh, who openly expressed displeasure about their portfolios, had quit the Congress-JD(S) coalition and had joined the BJP in 2019. "Previous CM BSY (Yediyurappa) ji and present CM Basavaraj Bommai ji have not kept their word. I am not happy with allotted portfolio.Will take a call in this regard in 2 -3 days," Nagaraj tweeted. He has retained the Municipal Administration portfolio that he had in the previous government, and has been given the additional charge of Small Scale Industries and Public Sector Industries. Expressing dissatisfaction about the portfolio allocated to him, Anand Singh, who has been made in-charge of Environment, Ecology and Tourism departments, said he will meet the Chief Minister regarding the matter, but will not take any step that would cause embarrassment to the party. "I had not asked for this, I had requested the party leadership.I can only say that my request has not been considered, but cannot make any comments or criticism against it.I'm planning to meet the Chief Minister and make a request to him again," he said, but did not specify about the department he wants. Reacting to Singh's statement, Bommai said, "I will call and talk to him. He is my good friend." Later speaking to reporters in Hubballi, in response to a question on the portfolio Singh desired, the CM said, "naturally everyone will have desire (for certain Ministries), it cannot be made public...everyone can't get the portfolio they ask for.I will talk to him." Responding to a question on debutant ministers getting plum portfolios, Bommai said, it is with an intention to bring in new changes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Twitter explodes as Neeraj Chopra wins India its first Tokyo Olympics Gold||Congratulatory messages dropped in from everywhere as 23-year-old javelin star Neeraj Chopra scripted history by bringing India its first Gold medal in athletics to end India's 100-year wait for a track and field medal in the Olympics. A farmer's son from Khandra village near Panipat in Haryana, Neeraj produced a second round throw of 87.58m in the finals to stun the athletics world. Expressing happiness over the feat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, "History has been scripted at Tokyo! What  @Neeraj_chopra1 has achieved today will be remembered forever. The young Neeraj has done exceptionally well. He played with remarkable passion and showed unparalleled grit. Congratulations to him for winning the Gold." President Ram Nath Kovind also joined in to extend his greetings to the star javelin thrower. "Unprecedented win by Neeraj Chopra!Your javelin gold breaks barriers and creates history. You bring home first ever track and field medal to India in your first Olympics. Your feat will inspire our youth. India is elated!   Heartiest congratulations," he wrote on Twitter. "What an incredible achievement! @Neeraj_chopra1 scripted history & brought glory to India by winning the Gold medal in the Javelin throw at Tokyo Olympics," Vice President Venkaiah Naidu tweeted from his handle. "His outstanding feat has ended a long wait by India for an Olympic medal in track & field events," he added. Sports minister Anurag Thakur said the "Golden Boy's" feat deserves a billion cheers. "India’s Golden Boy! India’s Olympic History has been scripted! Your superbly soaring throw deserves a Billion Cheers! Your name will be etched in the history books with golden letters," he wrote on Twitter and posted a video of the Games.    Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, who earlier handled the sports portfolio, remembered late sprinter Milkha Singh. With his fifth career best throw, Chopra has done what the likes of late Milkha Singh and P T Usha could not do in 1960 and 1984 editions. "Today is truly a momentous day for Indian athletics and for the country. Nothing is bigger than an Olympic medal, that too a gold. We have waited for long but finally achieved our goal," Athletics Federation of India President Adille Sumariwalla. "I hope Neeraj's gold will change the landscape and profile of athletics in the country and our standing in the world." No Indian has won a medal in athletics since the country started taking part in the Games in 1920 in Antwerp, Belgium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Delhi Police erect makeshift wall at Red Fort ahead of Independence Day||Delhi Police have erected a wall of shipping containers at the main gate of Red Fort for security reasons ahead of Independence Day celebrations, officials said on Saturday. The containers have been placed in such a way that no one is able to see inside the premises of the Mughal-era fort, from where the Prime Minister addresses the nation on Independence Day, a senior police officer said. Nobody would be able to peek inside the fort from the Chandani Chowk area. This is the first time that police have put up such a high wall, officials said, adding the containers would be decorated with graffiti. On Republic Day this year, a large number of protesters demanding the repeal of the three farm laws had forced their way into Red Fort. They even hoisted flags from the ramparts of the fort where the PM unfurls the Tricolour on Independence Day. On January 26, the national capital witnessed clashes between protesters and police during the tractor parade by farmers. A total of 394 police personnel were injured while 30 police vehicles were damaged in the violence. In July, Balaji Srivastava, the then Delhi Police Commissioner, had issued orders, prohibiting the flying of aerial objects like drones, paragliders, and hot air balloons. The order shall remain in force in the national capital for a period of 32 days till August 16. The Delhi Police has seized a drone that was flying near Vijay Ghat, the backside of the Red Fort. The Jaguar highway patrolling team of north district was patrolling in the area on Monday when it saw a drone near Vijay Ghat. A web series was being shot in the area, police said, adding permission was granted to shoot the show but no sanction was given to fly a drone. A case was registered in this regard under relevant sections at Kotwali police station and the device seized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson single-dose vaccine gets India nod for emergency use||Johnson & Johnson's single-dose Covid-19 vaccine has been given Emergency Use approval in India, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. He said this will further boost the country's collective fight against the coronavirus infection. "India expands its vaccine basket! Johnson and Johnson's single-dose Covid-19 vaccine is given approval for Emergency Use in India. Now India has five EUA vaccines. This will further boost our nation's collective fight against #COVID19," the minister tweeted. "The US-based pharmaceutical company had applied for Emergency Use Authorisation for its jab on Friday and was granted the approval the same day by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI)," a senior official said. In a statement, Johnson & Johnson India said this was an important step forward in accelerating the availability of its Covid-19 vaccine to help end the pandemic. "We are pleased to announce that on 7th August 2021, the government of India issued Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 single-dose vaccine in India, to prevent Covid-19 in individuals 18 years of age and older," a company spokesperson said. "This decision was based on topline efficacy and safety data from the Phase 3 ENSEMBLE clinical trial, which demonstrated our single-shot vaccine was 85 per cent effective in preventing severe disease across all regions studied, and showed protection against Covid-19-related hospitalisation and death, beginning 28 days after vaccination," the spokesperson added. The five vaccines granted Emergency Use Authorisation in India are Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russia's Sputnik V, Moderna and now Johnson & Johnson (J&J). J&J earlier had sought approval to conduct phase-3 clinical trial of its vaccine on approximately 600 participants in two age groups---those aged 18 and below 60 years and those aged 60 years and above---to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the jab in healthy Indian adults. However, on July 29, the firm withdrew its proposal. A health ministry official at a recent press conference had clarified that J&J earlier applied for conducting phase-3 clinical trial of its vaccine. "The application was to undertake clinical trial and when we issued relaxed guidelines in which we said if you had approval from other regulatory bodies of other countries, then exemption would be given from clinical trials, and emergency use authorisation would be granted and trial could be continued later on, so now since they did not need it they withdrew that application," the official had said. Novavax, produced by the Pune-based vaccine maker Serum Institute, is next in line to get the approval. Health experts who had expressed doubts over whether India could access the expected 1,350 million doses needed to vaccinate an estimated 943 million adults across India by December say the Novavax and J&J applications promise additional sources. “But how many doses of these vaccines will actually be available for domestic use remains unclear,” a public health expert said. In a bid to fast-track emergency approvals for all foreign-produced coronavirus jabs, the central government had announced that Covid-19 vaccines which were approved for restricted use by regulators in the US, UK, Europe and Japan, or which were on the World Health Organisation's Emergency Use Listing, would not have to conduct bridging clinical trials in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Maharashtra likely to resume local train services, says Uddhav||The Maharashtra government is planning to relax more Covid-19 curbs in the coming days but with utmost caution and will also take a call regarding the local train travel, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. Speaking at a function organised by the BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) undertaking to induct more electric buses into its fleet, the chief minister also said he met with the representatives of hotels and restaurants, who demanded further relaxations in timings beyond 4 pm, and explained to them that the curbs will be eased step by step. "The Maharashtra government is going to grant more relaxations, but we are taking every step cautiously. A decision will be taken for local train passengers as well. We need to ensure that these relaxations do not trigger another wave of Covid-19," Thackeray said. The state government recently introduced several relaxations in 25 districts, which have reported a low Covid-19 positivity rate, by allowing all shops to remain open till 8 pm. The government also allowed the resumption of schools for certain classes in urban and rural areas from August 17 onwards. Currently, common people are not allowed to board Mumbai suburban trains which are being operated only for the people employed in essential sectors. Many quarters are demanding that common people, who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, be allowed to board the local trains, called the lifeline of Mumbai. Maharashtra on Friday reported 5,539 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 187 deaths, which took its tally of infections to 63,41,759 and the toll to 1,33,717. The state is now left with 74,483 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Death toll in Madhya Pradesh flood rises to 24||The fatality count in rain-related incidents in flood-ravaged Gwalior and Chambal divisions of Madhya Pradesh increased to 24, officials said on Saturday. The authorities said that the flood situation is slowly improving and at present "no life-threatening" scenario exists in the region, where rescue and relief work is currently on. The death toll in the rain-related incidents in the flood-hit parts of the state has risen to 24. These fatalities were recorded between August 1 and 7, Revenue Secretary Gyaneshwar Patil said. Till Friday, officials pegged the number of deceased at 12. The flood situation in north Madhya Pradesh had turned grim earlier this week, where more than 1,250 villages were affected by the deluge following heavy rains. Gwalior, Shivpuri, Sheopur, Datia, Ashok Nagar, Guna, Bhind and Morena districts were affected as the region was being pounded by rains since Sunday. However, from Thursday, the intensity of rainfall in the two divisions started going down. "No life threatening situation due to flooding exists in Gwalior and Chambal divisions at present, Divisional Commissioner Ashish Saxena said. Addressing 'Anna Utsav' programme earlier in the day, state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that 8,832 people were rescued from the flood-affected parts of the state, while 29,280 others have been shifted to safer places from these areas so far. Saxena said that around 50 people, who were stuck in flooded areas of Ashok Nagar district in Gwalior division, have been moved to safety. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Indian Air Force (IAF) have reached Ashok Nagar for the rescue operation, he said, adding that Army columns are also scheduled to reach the affected areas. "The rescue operation in the affected areas is almost over and relief work is gathering steam," the official said. Meanwhile, P K Saha, senior meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Bhopal office said that Ashok Nagar and Guna districts in Gwalior division received 32.0 mm and 164.1 mm rainfall, respectively, in 24 hours ending 8.30 am on Saturday. "The low pressure area is lying over northern parts of east Madhya Pradesh and its neighbourhood now. It was over central parts of north Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood on Friday," he said. With its shift to east MP, the flood situation in Gwalior and Chambal is likely to improve as rain activity is likely to lessen from Saturday. In a series of tweets in the morning, the chief minister said, I took a stock of the flood situation and the ongoing rescue operation this morning in Guna, Ashoknagar, Vidisha districts. Rescue operation of IAF resumed this morning. The teams of SDRF and NDRF are also working since night to rescue the people trapped in villages. He said that during the rescue operations carried out using helicopters, 15 persons each were rescued from Barri and Sirsora villages of flood hit Ashok Nagar district on Saturday morning. Six more persons were rescued from Vasunia Ghat village from the same district and shifted to a safer place. From Vidisha district, the teams rescued six persons, who were trapped on a tree at Riniya village of Vidisha district, he said. Meanwhile, state Congress chief Kamal Nath visited the flood-affected people in the region on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Akali Dal leader shot dead in broad daylight at Punjab's Mohali||Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera was shot dead in broad daylight in Punjab's Mohali on Saturday, police said. Two armed miscreants opened fire at Middukhera in a market area and fled the spot, Mohali Superintendent of Police (Headquarters) Akashdeep Singh Aulakh told PTI over phone. A case has been registered, and further investigations are underway, he said, adding that police are trying to identify the accused, four in total, and are hopeful of nabbing them soon. Footage from CCTV cameras in the area showed the miscreants open fire at Middukhera as he was getting into his parked car. The police said he had gone to meet a real estate dealer in the area. The miscreants, all wearing caps and face masks, can be seen chasing Middukhera and firing shots as he attempted to run for cover. The police said eight to nine rounds were fired, after which the miscreants escaped in a car. After the attack, Middukhera, who was a former president of the SAD's student wing, Student Organisation of India, was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead, the police added. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) senior leader and party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said the incident has once again exposed the state's deteriorating law and order situation . No one feels safe because the law and order situation in Punjab has broken down, he said. Cheema said the incident also raises questions as there is heightened security across the state ahead of the Independence Day celebrations. This shows there is no fear of law as the incident took place in broad daylight, he said, and demanded a high-level probe. Cheema described Middukhera as a bright and talented youth leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Covid vaccination rapidly increasing in India,  13.45 crore doses administered in July||The coronavirus vaccine administration is rapidly increasing in the country every month, with a total of 13.45 crore doses administered in July which also saw a remarkable daily average of 43.41 lakh doses, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 50 crore-mark on Friday. "India is going strong in the fight against #COVID19. Charting a path to #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, vaccine administration is rapidly increasing every month. July saw a remarkable daily average of 43.41 lakh doses and a total of 13.45 crore doses," Mandaviya tweeted. Meanwhile, Johnson & Johnson's single-dose Covid-19 vaccine got Emergency Use approval in India, Union Health Mandaviya said on the day. He said this will further boost the country's collective fight against the novel coronavirus infection. India now has five vaccines for emergency use. The five vaccines granted Emergency Use Authorisation in India are Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russia's Sputnik V, Moderna and now Johnson & Johnson. In India, a total of 50,10,09,609 vaccine doses have been administered through 58,08,344 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am on Saturday. According to the health ministry, 49,55,138 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Covaxin data under active review in Canada, says Ocugen||Ocugen, the US and Canada partner of Bharat Biotech for Covaxin, has said it has submitted all data to the Canadian government and it is under active review of the health regulator there. In June, Ocugen entered into an agreement with Bharat Biotech to develop, manufacture and commercialise the Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin in Canada in addition to the existing rights in the United States. Ocugen has already approached Health Canada and submitted the Phase 3 clinical trial data of Covaxin seeking authorization to sell the jab in that country. "We have submitted all the data, what is needed for the submission -- for Canadian submission. And again, on the specific timeline and the approval clock, we can't give you that at this stage,"Shankar Musunuri--Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ocugen said on Friday in an Earnings call. "All I can say is it's under active review by Health Canada. As we get questions, we're ready to respond to them very promptly and provide any information they need," he said. Replying to a query he said Bharat Biotech is capable of supplying required quantities of Covaxin to USA and Canada as the Indian vaccine maker is ramping up production, targeting to produce more than half a billion doses per year. Ocugen in a release said discussions with the US Food and Drug Administration are underway, and the company is still proceeding with a strategy focused on the agencys requested Biologics License Application pathway. In a move that could potentially delay the launch of Covaxin in the US market, the FDA had earlier "recommended" Ocugen, to go for Biologics LicenseApplication (BLA) route with additional data, nixing hopes of emergency Use Authorisation for the jab. "We have most of the data from Phase III clinical trial, including all the manufacturing. We are still discussing the regulatory path for the BLA, what is required, if any, additional studies," Musunuri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Over 2.29 crore Covid vaccines still available with states, UTs||More than 2.29 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and union territories and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Over 51.66 crore (51,66,13,680) vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through all sources and a further 55,52,070 doses are in the pipeline, it said. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 49,74,90,815 doses (as per data available at am on Saturday), the ministry said. More than 2.29 crore (2,29,36,394) balance and unutilised COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and private hospitals to be administered, it said. The Union government is committed to accelerate the pace and expand the scope of COVID-19 vaccination throughout the country, the ministry said. The new phase of universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination had commenced on June 21. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them COVID-19 vaccines free of cost, it said. In the new phase of the universalisation of the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 percent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs, according to the ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Modi: 80 crore Indians got free rations during pandemic||As many as 80 crore Indians got free ration during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. These include five crore people from Madhya Pradesh, Modi said, during a video interaction with Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana beneficiaries from the state. Describing the coronavirus pandemic as the biggest disaster faced by humanity in the last 100 years, Modi also said people should continue to wear masks, sanitize hands and maintain social distancing to check the spread of the virus. "India gave the first priority to the poor, in its strategy to combat the crisis due to coronavirus. Be it Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana or Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Yojana, we thought about food and employment of the poor from day one itself," he said. Stressing his government's vocal for local' initiative, Modi said Indians should buy handicraft items during the festival season to encourage those working in this sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Delhi receives rainfall, IMD predicts more over next few hours||Rains lashed parts of the national capital and adjoining states on Saturday morning, bringing the mercury down. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 27.3 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. It said thunderstorms with moderate to heavy intensity rainfall would occur over most places in Delhi, and Greater Noida, Noida, Ghaziabad, Khekra, Daurala, Barut, Meerut, Modinagar, Hapur, Khurza, Kasganj, Jattari, Narora, Raya, Nandgaon and Barsana of Uttar Pradesh during the next two hours. Taking to Twitter, the IMD predicted similar conditions for Bhiwani, Gurgaon, Manesar, Kosli, Gannaur, Gohana, Sonipat, Kaithal, Faridabad and Sohana of Haryana, and Bhiwari, Tizara, Nadbai, Nagar, Deeg and Laxmangarh of Rajasthan. Meanwhile, Delhi's relative humidity was recorded at 81 per cent, and the maximum temperature in the city is expected to settle around 35 degrees Celsius, it said. The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the "moderate" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 106 at 9.05 am, real-time data by the Central Pollution Control Board showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||HC rejects pleas filed by Raj Kundra, aide, challenging their arrest, remand ||The Bombay High Court on Saturday rejected the pleas filed by businessman Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe challenging their arrest and subsequent remand orders against them in a case of alleged production and streaming of pornographic content on apps. A single bench presided over by Justice A S Gadkari rejected their applications, saying that the duo's remand by a magistrate to police custody and the subsequent judicial custody was within the conformity of law and did not require interference. In their petitions, Kundra, husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, and Thorpe had termed their arrest as illegal as the mandatory provision of issuing notice under section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was not followed. The duo, in their plea, sought the high court to order for their immediate release and quash two orders passed by a magistrate after their arrest remanding them in police custody. While Kundra was arrested on July 19, Thorpe, who was employed as the IT head in Kundra's firm, was arrested on July 20. They are currently in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Man dies after his Bluetooth headphones explode in Rajasthan||A 28-year-old man died when his Bluetooth headphone device exploded here, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred in Udaipuria village of Chomu town in Jaipur district on Friday when Rakesh Kumar Nagar was preparing for a competitive examination at his residence, they said. He was using the Bluetooth headphone device while it was plugged into an electrical outlet, police said. The device exploded all of a sudden leaving Nagar unconscious. He was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed during treatment, they said, adding both his ears had suffered injuries. Dr L N Rundla of Siddhivinayak Hospital said the man was brought to the facility in an unconscious condition. He died during treatment at the hospital, Rundla said. The man probably died of cardiac arrest, he added. According to police, Rakesh was married in February this year and was the eldest of siblings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Bomb scare at 3 Mumbai railway stations, Amitabh Bachchan's bungalow||Three persons were arrested on Saturday after a hoax call claiming that bombs had been planted at three railway stations and actor Amitabh Bachchan's residence in the city led to hours-long futile searches, an official said. No suspicious material was found at any of the four locations, the police spokesperson said. Our main control room received the call around 9.45 pm on Friday. The caller claimed that bombs had been placed at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Byculla and Dadar railway stations and also at Amitabh Bachchan's bungalow in Juhu, the official said. "Teams of the Government Railway Police, Railway Protection Force, Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad, dog squads and local police personnel rushed to these locations and carried out searches," he said. Officials of the Anti Terrorism Squad and Quick Response Team were also involved in the searches, the official added. After several hours, it was confirmed that the call was a hoax. The police traced the caller from the mobile number to Shil Phata area in neighbouring Thane. The caller turned out to be a truck driver from the Marathwada region, the official said. Along with him, two other men, his drinking buddies, were also held. It is suspected that they were drinking together when the hoax call was made. A First Information Report was registered at the Azad Maidan police station under IPC sections 505(1) (circulating a rumor with an intent to cause alarm to public), 506(2) (criminal intimidation) and 182 (giving false information to public servant). Further investigation is going on, said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||India logs over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 617 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 38,628 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,18,95,385, while the death toll climbed to 4,27,371 with 617 fresh fatalities, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have declined to 4,12,153 and comprise 1.29 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.37 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 2,006 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,50,081 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 47,83,16,964, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.21 per cent . It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 12 days. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.39 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,10, 55,861, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 50.10 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. India recorded a single-day rise of 38,628 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,18,95,385, while the death toll climbed to 4,27,371 with 617 fresh fatalities, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. The active cases in the country have declined to 4,12,153 and comprises 1.29 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.37 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 2,006 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it said. The ministry also said that 17,50,081 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 to 47,83,16,964. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.21 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 12 days. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.39 per cent, according to the health ministry. Meanwhile, the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,10,55,861, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 50.10 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7 last, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23 this year. According to the ministry data, the 617 latest fatalities include 187 each from Maharashtra and Kerala. A total of 4,27,371 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,33,717 from Maharashtra, 36,741 from Karnataka, 34,260 from Tamil Nadu, 25,065 from Delhi, 22,771 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,202 from West Bengal and 17,515 from Kerala. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||India and China disengage troops in eastern Ladakh: Govt||Indian and Chinese troops have completed disengagement from one of the friction points known as Patrolling Point 17A, also called the Gogra Post, along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, the Indian defence ministry said in a statement on Friday. Sources said the latest disengagement agreement was completed after creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” within India-claimed territory similar to the ones at the Pangong Lake and the Galwan Valley. The defence ministry statement, however, does not mention any buffer zone. This is the third stated disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, after the Galwan Valley last year and Pangong Tso in February this year. The standoff at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continues. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains. On Friday, the defence ministry said in a media release: “As per the agreement, both sides have ceased forward deployments in this area in a phased, coordinated and verified manner.” The defence ministry said: “The disengagement process was carried out over two days i.e. 04 and 05 August 2021. The troops of both sides are now in their respective permanent bases. “All temporary structures and other allied infrastructure created in the area by both sides have been dismantled and mutually verified. The landform in the area has been restored by both sides to pre-stand off period.” The defence ministry’s statement said the two sides, during the military talks on July 31, had a candid and in-depth exchange of views. “As an outcome of the meeting, both sides agreed on disengagement in the area of Gogra. The troops in this area have been in a face-off situation since May last year,” it added. A joint statement released by the defence ministry on Monday almost 44 hours after the 12th round of corps-commander-level had talks ended, did not say anything on the disengagement agreement reached between the two sides on Gogra. Military veterans had earlier questioned the government’s purported concessions in agreeing to create a buffer zone within India-claimed territory as part of the agreement with China to disengage troops from the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks and the Galwan Valley. They said the creation of buffer zones within India-claimed lines meant territory loss for the Indian Army. Indian and Chinese armies had been locked in standoff at PP17A since May last year. In August last year, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army had agreed to disengage from Gogra and Hot Springs (PP-15) but they later went back on their word. “This agreement ensures that the LAC in this area will be strictly observed and respected by both sides, and that there is no unilateral change in status quo,” said the India media statement. “With this, one more sensitive area of face-off has been resolved. Both sides have expressed commitment to take the talks forward and resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in the Western Sector.” The sources in the security establishment said under the disengagement agreement, both sides would return to their permanent base at the Gogra post. Neither side will patrol the buffer zone till all the modalities are worked out at operational and diplomatic levels. “Disengagement is a long-drawn process. Creating a buffer zone is a temporary measure to prevent any flare-up between the two sides as troops were earlier eyeball to eyeball,” said a retired lieutenant general. A retired colonel said the Chinese had stepped back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines following partial disengagement from the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake and India retreated by the same distance and ceding more territory. “The government should come clean on the specifics of the disengagement agreement agreed upon by both sides,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi joins farmers’ protest at Jantar Mantar, iterates demand for repeal of three farm laws||An Opposition delegation led by Rahul Gandhi on Friday joined the farmers’ protest at Jantar Mantar in an expression of solidarity and iterated the demand for the repeal of the three controversial farm laws. This was the first time a joint Opposition team had visited the protesting farmers, who have through their eight-month-old agitation at Delhi’s borders scrupulously avoided seeking political support. Not allowed to speak from the protest platform, the Opposition members sat at the venue for some time, expressed support and returned. While the farmers are agitating at three places on Delhi’s borders, 200 of them are allowed to come to Jantar Mantar daily to hold a symbolic protest. “We came here to extend our support to the demand for the repeal of three black laws,” Rahul told the media after the visit. “You know what is happening in Parliament. We want to discuss Pegasus but the government is not allowing it. Modi has entered every Indian’s phone,” Rahul said. The Opposition has been demanding a debate in Parliament on the Pegasus snooping allegations, followed by a discussion on the farmers’ movement and issues such as the price rise. Rahul expressed his sentiments by tweeting a tweaked version of a Hindi poem. The tweeted version went: “Chulha mitti ka/ Mitti taalab ki/ Taalab hamare do ka/ Hal hamare do ka/ Hal ki mooth par hatheli kisan ki/ Fasal hamare do ki/ Kuaan hamare do ka/ Khet-khalihaan hamare do ke/ PM hamare do ke/ Phir kisan ka kya/ Kisan ke liye hum.” While the original poem portrayed how the farmer did all the work but the harvest, field, bullocks, plough, pond and well belonged to the “Thakur” or landowner, Rahul’s version replaced the Thakur with “hamare do”. Rahul has been taunting the government with the “hum do, hamare do” slogan, suggesting that the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duopoly is serving solely the interests of Adani and Ambani. The agitating farmers too have targeted Adani and Ambani, saying the new farm laws have been enacted to favour the two corporate groups. They have boycotted Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio telecom service and cited the construction of massive silos in Punjab and Haryana as evidence of Adani’s foray into the agricultural trade. Rahul has repeatedly accused the Modi government of conspiring to hand over agriculture trade worth Rs 25 lakh crore to Adani and Ambani. Friday’s Jantar Mantar visit was a follow-up to two recent events: one, Rahul calling a meeting of all Opposition MPs and two, the former Congress president driving a tractor to Parliament to draw attention to the almost forgotten farmers’ movement. Inside Parliament, some Opposition members have tried to raise the farmers’ agitation amid the din only to have their microphones switched off. The farmers too have adopted innovative measures to attract attention. They are holding a mock Parliament at Jantar Mantar, where Friday’s agenda was a no-confidence motion against the Modi government. While the farmers have taken a public stand not to allow politicians to hijack the agitation, they feel the Opposition could have done more to put pressure on the government through an independent action plan. The Congress has supported the farmers from the beginning, with Rahul holding a tractor rally in Punjab, party MPs from Punjab sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar in Delhi, and party workers demonstrating in every state capital. Friday’s programme, however, also flagged the strains and conflicts within the Opposition. At a meeting of all the Opposition parties, the Aam Aadmi Party had already expressed inability to accompany the Congress to the farmers’ protest, implicitly pointing to the electoral compulsions in Punjab. The AAP is the main challenger to the Congress in Punjab, which goes to the polls early next year. Even Trinamul didn’t accompany the Opposition delegation to Jantar Mantar, triggering a few murmurs of disapproval. However, Trinamul sources blamed a communication gap and asserted their party was fully with the Opposition in the struggle against the Modi government. A Trinamul leader said the party had as far back as Tuesday decided a programme to visit the farmers’ protest at Jantar Mantar. “So we went today at 10am. We came to know about the Congress plan to go there at noon only after our MPs had already gone there,” the source said. The members of the delegation were from the Congress, DMK, Nationalist Congress Party, Shiv Sena, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Samajwadi Party, CPM, CPI, Indian Union Muslim League, RSP, National Conference and the Loktantrik Janata Dal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award will be called Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award: Prime Minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced on Twitter that the country’s highest sporting honour, the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, “will hereby be called Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award” after the hockey legend. While many welcomed the renaming, several of them asked whether the Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad and the Arun Jaitley Stadium in Delhi would now be renamed after sportspersons too. Some questioned the way Modi’s image dominated a congratulatory graphic put out by the BJP with Dhyan Chand pushed to a corner. “Puzzle of the day: Find #MajorDhyanChand in the picture below,” a Twitter user posted. Social media influencer Dhruv Rathee, who lauded the renaming of the award, tweeted: “Now I hope they can rename Narendra Modi Stadium and Jaitley Stadium also. Remove all politician names.” While the renaming decision is in line with the Modi administration’s knack for erasing the names of Nehru-Gandhi family Prime Ministers from government showpieces, its timing appears to have been carefully chosen. The move comes a day after the Indian men’s hockey team won bronze at Tokyo — the country’s first Olympic hockey medal in 41 years — refocusing national spotlight on the game. Modi said the decision had come under public pressure. “I have been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. I thank them for their views,” he tweeted in the afternoon, without naming Rajiv Gandhi. “Respecting their sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award! Jai Hind!” Dhyan Chand (1905-79), known as the “wizard of hockey”, was part of India’s gold-winning teams at the 1928, 1932 and 1936 Olympics. Union ministers and BJP politicians rushed to laud the decision, with cricketer turned parliamentarian Gautam Gambhir telling reporters: “Awards for sportspersons should be named after sportspersons.” Fact-checking portal Boomlive reported that some ministers and news outlets shared the image of the Param Vir Chakra, the highest wartime gallantry award, as that of the Khel Ratna Award. Modi had come under fire when the world’s largest cricket stadium, in Gujarat, was renamed as the Narendra Modi Stadium last February after a refurbishment. The stadium was originally named after the country’s first home minister, Vallabhbhai Patel. The BJP had justified the renaming on the ground that the Modi stadium was only a part of the larger Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave. In 2019, Delhi’s Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium was renamed after the late Union minister Arun Jaitley, who had been Delhi cricket chief — a decision opposed by former sportspersons like Bishan Singh Bedi. With Friday’s government decision, the country now has two national sporting awards in Dhyan Chand’s name, the other being the Dhyan Chand Award for Lifetime Achievement in Sports and Games. The Khel Ratna is handed out for outstanding performance over the four years immediately preceding the award. The Congress said it welcomed any attempt to honour Dhyan Chand but advised the government not to use his name for petty “politicking” and suggested the renaming decision was a ploy to divert attention from the Pegasus snooping allegations and the farmers’ agitation. “Dhyan Chand was a magician of hockey.... We welcome any attempt to honour him, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi should not have used his name in politicking, to serve his petty political interests,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. In June 2017, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor had questioned the Modi’s administration’s systematic renaming — mostly after Sangh parivar icons — of government schemes that bore the names of former Congress Prime Ministers. Tharoor had in a tweet listed 23 of the Modi government’s schemes and contended they were merely renamed versions of programmes launched by previous Congress or Congress-led governments. “Why we in @INCIndia insist this is a name-changing government, not a game-changing one!” Tharoor had said. For instance, the Rajiv Gandhi Vidyutikaran Yojana was renamed as Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti Yojana and the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission as Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Centre denies RTI activist official records relating to O2 management by govt panel during pandemic||The Centre on Friday denied a Right to Information (RTI) activist the official records relating to the management of medical oxygen by a government panel during the pandemic, saying no such panel had been set up in April 2020. In June this year, the government had denied Saurav Das the information sought by mentioning another reason. It had then cited sections of the RTI Act that allow officials to withhold information that could adversely affect India’s national interests. Das, the transparency activist and investigative journalist, had sought from the Union commerce ministry’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) the dates, agendas, presentations and the minutes of the meetings of an empowered group of officials tasked with managing medical oxygen. Das had mentioned in his query that the committee was set up in April 2020. The Centre had in March last year constituted an inter-ministerial empowered group, chaired by the DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra and with officers from other ministries, to ensure the supply of essential medical equipment including medical oxygen to the states, according to the Union health ministry. “Whether it was set up in March or April 2020 is irrelevant. I’ve asked for its official records,” Das told The Telegraph. After the DPIIT denied Das the information in June, the Central Information Commission had on August 1 directed the Centre to release the information Das had sought within 10 days. The commission had said the DPIIT’s claims that information on Covid-19 preparations would threaten national security seemed “far-fetched” and “not justified”. Now the DPIIT has said the panel was not set up in April 2020. “No such committee was set up in the month of April 20, under the chairmanship of secretary DPIIT Guruprasad Mohapatra, to ensure adequate availability of medical oxygen in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the DPIIT said on Friday. Hence, it said, the information Das had sought “does not arise”. “This appears like mala-fide denial of information,” said the Puducherry-based Das who had earlier been denied official records relating to other aspects of the Centre’s Covid-19 responses. “What they had earlier claimed they could not share on grounds of national interest, they now claim does not exist at all.” The Union health ministry had on April 15 this year listed measures taken by the empowered group, saying the empowered group had over the past year continuously monitored and facilitated the smooth supply of essential medical equipment, including medical oxygen, to the states. The ministry had added that the empowered group’s activities had helped increase oxygen production, utilise surplus stocks, map the requirements of top states with oxygen sources, and organise oxygen movement across states. The empowered group is “monitoring the situation of demand and supply of medical oxygen” to take all steps to support “uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen”, the health ministry had said. “Was all of that done with no official records at all? This is unbelievable,” Das said, after posting a series of tweets on the latest reply from the DPIIT. CPM leader Sitaram Yechury, responding to Das on Twitter, wrote: “This is indeed a ‘new India’. Never seen a govt that lies with such impunity. No data govt. Outright deception. Shamelessly following the precept ‘lies, damned lies and statistics’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Two US Covid-19 vaccines seek India nod||India’s drug regulatory agency has received applications for emergency use authorisation for the Covid-19 vaccines from Novavax and Johnson & Johnson that are both licensed for domestic production and could bolster India’s chances of inoculating all adults by December 2021. Novavax and J&J, in independent announcements on Thursday and Friday, said they had sought emergency use authorisations (EUA) from India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). The Novavax vaccine will be produced by the Pune-based vaccine maker Serum Institute and the J&J vaccine by the Hyderabad-based Biological E. The single-dose J&J vaccine had earlier this year received EUAs from regulatory authorities in the US and the European Union and other countries, which would make it eligible for a rapid and near-automatic approval in India. The Novavax application is expected to be scrutinizsd in greater detail by a CDSCO expert panel. The Union health ministry had not included the J&J and Novavax vaccines among Covid-19 jabs it had listed in an affidavit to the Supreme Court earlier this year, outlining its expected inventory of 1,350 million doses between August and December. The list had included Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V, and two other candidate vaccines — one from Zydus Cadila and another from Biological E — that are yet to be approved by the CDSCO. Health experts who had expressed doubts over whether India could access the expected 1,350 million doses needed to vaccinate an estimated 943 million adults across India by December say the Novavax and J&J applications promise additional sources. “But how many doses of these vaccines will actually be available for domestic use remains unclear,” a public health expert said. J&J’s application to the CDSCO made on Thursday is “an important milestone that paves the way to bringing our single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to the people of India and the rest of the world” through the collaboration with Biological E, J&J said on Friday. The EUA submission is based on data from a clinical trial that demonstrated the single-shot vaccine as 85 per cent effective in preventing severe disease and showed protection against Covid-19-linked hospitalisation and death beginning 28 days after vaccination. J&J declined to specify timelines for production in India or the number of doses that would be available for use for the country up to December 2021. Biological E would need to apply for a manufacturing licence after the CDSCO approves the EUA. The Novavax statement said the Serum Institute was manufacturing and developing the vaccine in India and the two companies had cumulative commitments to provide more than 1.1 billion doses to Covax, an international facility to make available vaccines to low- and middle-income countries. Clinical trials of the Novavax vaccine have shown around 90 per cent efficacy against Covid-19 infection and 100 per cent efficacy against moderate and severe disease, the company had said in mid-June. The Serum Institute and Novavax have submitted all modules required by regulatory agencies in India, Indonesia and the Philippines for the review of the vaccine, including pre-clinical, clinical and chemistry, manufacturing and controls data, Novavax said. The CDSCO had successfully completed a good manufacturing practice site inspection of Serum Institute this May. India had by Friday administered over 500 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, with about 110 million people (11 per cent of the estimated 943 million eligible adults) having received the two doses required for full vaccination. The CDSCO had last month approved the Covid-19 vaccine from the US-based Moderna, but the company has not yet announced supplies in India yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Pandemic and school closure cause regression in learning, affect mental health of children||The pandemic and prolonged school closure have caused regression in learning, affected the mental health of children and hurt their social and communication skills, a parliamentary committee has said. The parliamentary standing committee on education in its report on “Plans for Bridging the Learning Gaps” presented in Parliament on Friday recommended prioritising vaccination for students, teachers and other employees to reopen schools. The committee headed by BJP parliamentarian Vinay Sahasrabuddhe also said that the pandemic has widened the learning chasm, affecting the weaker sections the most. Appearing before the committee, the school education department secretary said according to a survey by the Central Board of School Education (CBSE), 85 per cent children are studying online while the rest are being reached personally. These 15 per cent students are receiving study materials from their teachers and can contact the teachers if they face difficulties. The CBSE is the country’s largest school board. “The last-minute postponement of examinations coupled with the news appearing in newspapers and the media about the pandemic has affected the mental and physical well-being of the children,” the report said. Learning among peers not only addresses the academic needs of children but also helps develop their social abilities, it said. “The closure of schools has impacted the social fabric of the family in a negative manner, leading to early/child marriage and increased involvement of children in household chores,” the report said. The representative of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir told the committee that children in many places in the Valley were not being able to participate in online classes because of feeble Internet connectivity. Community classes with small groups of students are being held in some places. Learning loss The committee cited a January 2021 study by a research group of Azim Premji University in 44 districts of Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, covering 16,067 children of Classes II to VI at 1,137 schools. The study found that 92 per cent of the children had decreased prowess in at least one language and 82 per cent had forgotten at least one mathematical lesson from the previous class. It recorded a “widespread phenomenon of regression (forgetting) by students of learning from the previous class. This includes loss of foundational learning abilities such as reading with understanding and performing addition and multiplication, which they had learnt earlier and had become proficient in”. This regression will impact “conceptual understanding across subjects” and affect future learning in school and college, the report said. Another study by the department of school education at the Kendriya Vidyalayas found that 26.4 per cent students, 15.7 per cent teachers and 25 per cent parents considered distance learning difficult while 33.8 per cent students, 29.6 per cent teachers and 27.2 per cent parents found the experience joyful. The committee said non-availability of digital devices and technical infrastructure with students, teachers and schools, patchy Internet, power outages, limited awareness on online education and lack of adaptation had contributed to learning loss among students. Recommendations The committee recommended intensive bridge courses to make up for the learning loss when schools reopen. It also suggested a credible system of continuous assessment throughout the year. The committee recommended accentuated vaccine programmes for all students, teachers and allied staff so that schools may start functioning normally at the earliest. It suggested holding classes on alternate days or in two shifts to thin out students, besides thermal screening, maintaining physical distancing and compulsory wearing of face masks. The committee proposed that the government set up at least one school in every district and tehsil, and adopt a learning method that blends online and offline. Prof. Anita Rampal, former dean of the faculty of education of Delhi University, said girls had been badly affected, with many of them possibly dropping out of the education system. They will become more vulnerable to the regressive demands of patriarchy and often lose their ability to resist early marriage or other unjust burdens, she said. “When girls go to school, they get confidence. They get to understand the world outside, to feel inspired by others, to resist early marriage and even domestic violence. Their friends offer social support and reassurance in their resistance,” Rampal said. “Thus going to school enhances their agency against unjust treatment and expands their horizon to aspire for a purpose in life, which they are often denied. They will lose these aspirations when they drop out. Due to Covid and school closure, many children have suffered physically and emotionally. All such children should be identified with special care, given emotional support and brought back into formal education,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||I urge govt to talk to Opposition: Adhir Chowdhury||The Opposition on Friday warned the government in the Lok Sabha to shun the “intoxication of power” and demanded talks to break the parliamentary deadlock. The government replied by urging the Opposition to allow discussion in the House on Covid management, ignoring the demand for discussing the Pegasus snooping charges first. “I urge the government to talk to the Opposition,” Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury said during Zero Hour, when Lok Sabha members can raise issues they want to with the presiding officer’s permission. “I want to warn the government that intoxication of power is not good...” Adhir succeeded in adding over the din before his mike was muted. The senior and junior parliamentary affairs ministers, Pralhad Joshi and Arjun Ram Meghwal, had kept interrupting Adhir, accusing the Opposition of obstructing Parliament. Afterwards, the ministers reacted angrily to Adhir’s remarks. “The government is not preventing discussion. Covid management is listed for discussion as asked by the Opposition,” Joshi said. Through the three-week-old monsoon session, the Opposition has pressed relentlessly for a discussion on the Pegasus controversy first and then other important issues such as Covid, the new farm laws and the price rise. The government has rejected the proposal, calling Pegasus a “non-issue”. The Centre appears unperturbed by the stalemate because it has managed to pass the listed bills over the din by voice vote. On Friday too, the government passed two bills in the Lok Sabha: the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill and the Central Universities (Amendment) Bill. Using the opportunity to speak on the two bills, Adhir tried to flag the Opposition’s position but each time his mike was switched off after he had spoken a line or two. The presiding officer said Adhir should restrict himself to speaking on the bills. “With all humility, must say the NDA government has passed this bill at the behest of the Supreme Court and due to international case. The same Supreme Court has yesterday...” Adhir managed to say while the taxation bill was being passed before his mike was muted. Adhir was arguing that the Supreme Court’s observations on Thursday — that the Pegasus snooping allegations, if true, were “serious” and that the “truth has to come out” — should prompt the government to order a probe. He was also making the point that the bill amending the tax law was being passed because of an apex court verdict against retrospective tax. Adhir tried to speak a third time, when the varsities bill was being passed, saying the new farm laws should be repealed. He was muted again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Allahabad High Court slams UP police’s ‘falling standard’||Allahabad High Court has castigated Uttar Pradesh police for “falling standard” over a “careless” affidavit filed by a senior officer in a case relating to an FIR against a journalist. Freelance journalist Vineet Narain and two others had been booked under 14 penal code sections on June 20 after Narain wrote a social media post accusing a brother of a senior VHP leader of land-grabbing in Bijnore. The June 19 post said Sanjay Bansal, brother of VHP vice-president and Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai, had grabbed 20,000sqm from a cowshed run by social worker Alka Lahoti. Bansal complained to the police, dubbing the social media post a “conspiracy” and “a lie”. The police gave a clean chit to Bansal and booked Narain, Lahoti and Rajnish — a friend of the journalist who had allegedly visited the cowshed with him — for offences such as creating hatred on the basis of religion, cooking evidence, cheating and trespassing. While hearing Narain’s petition seeking quashing of the case on July 28, the bench of Justices Surya Prakash Kesarwani and Piyush Agrawal issued a notice to Bijnore SP Dharmveer Singh, asking him to file an affidavit saying whether the charges against Narain were justifiable. On reading the affidavit, the bench said on Thursday: “A notarised affidavit of superintendent of police, respondent No. 2, alleging it to be a counter affidavit, without disclosing even name of the deponent (SP) and without any swearing clause, in a most careless manner, has been filed today, which, prima facie, indicates falling standard in police department, particularly amongst its higher officers.” It added: “The conduct of respondent No. 2 is, prima facie, condemnable.” The observations were uploaded on the high court website on Friday. The hearing will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||CBI not helping targeted judges, says CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Friday expressed disapproval of a “new trend” of judges being attacked or threatened, regretted that the CBI and other law-enforcement agencies were “not helping the judiciary at all” and reminded the government of its responsibility of protecting judges. “It’s a new trend in this country, unfortunately. There’s no freedom for judges to complain. Even though judges complain to police or the CBI, they don’t respond. The IB, the CBI aren’t helping the judiciary at all. I’m making this statement with a sense of responsibility,” CJI Ramana, sitting in a bench with Justice Surya Kant, told the attorney-general, the highest law officer of the land. “It’s a new trend in this country. If an adverse order is passed, then the judiciary is maligned. Even though judges complain, the CBI, the IB and other officers don’t help the judiciary at all,” Justice Ramana added. The CJI told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal that the Centre and the states had the responsibility of providing security to judges, who have been facing constant threats from gangsters and influential persons for adverse orders passed against them. The Supreme Court was dealing with the suo motu case of the death of Jharkhand additional district judge Uttam Anand at Dhanbad on July 28. Judge Anand’s family has lodged a murder FIR after video footage showed an auto-rickshaw swerving sharply from the middle of the lane and hitting him while he was on a morning walk. The judge had denied bail to two gangsters days earlier. The Supreme Court last week took suo motu cognisance of the case as it “concerns the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. The CBI has taken over the probe into Judge Anand’s death. As soon as the proceedings began on Friday, CJI Ramana told attorney-general Venugopal: “We sought your assistance in the matter, the way incidents are happening in this country, attacks on judges of trial courts and high courts. “There are several cases in the country which involve gangsters and where high-profile people are accused. Some judges are threatened mentally also (through) messages on WhatsApp and SMSes. Complaints were made but the CBI has done nothing. No change in the CBI’s attitude, sorry to observe.” Venugopal agreed with Justice Ramana’s observation that judges were now among the most vulnerable of people and officials who were facing threats. Justice Ramana told Venugopal: “At one or two places, courts ordered CBI inquiries. It is sad to say the CBI has done nothing. We had expected some change in the CBI’s attitude (but) there has been no change. We are sorry to observe that.” Venugopal agreed with the court that there have been instances of judges hearing cases involving gangsters and high-profile people having received threat calls with the caller saying he knew which car the judge was in. CJI Ramana told the attorney-general that an application had been filed by some petitioners alleging that anti-social elements were entering courts in several states and seeking security measures to ensure that judges could work independently. The apex court asked the Centre, states and the Union Territories to file counter-affidavits on the steps being taken to protect judges from goons and criminals. The bench was not satisfied with the submission of Rajiv Ranjan, the advocate-general of Jharkhand, mentioning that the state had transfer the case of judge Anand to the CBI. “So you washed your hands off (the case)?” Justice Ramana said. The court directed the CBI to file a status report on the investigation. Vacancy rap The Supreme Court pulled up the Centre for failing to fill 241 vacancies in various tribunals and told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta that it would summon the officials concerned for not making appointments despite the names being cleared. “You want to continue the tribunals or close them down?” CJI Ramana, sitting on a bench with Justice Surya Kant, asked Mehta. The court was dealing with a petition seeking filling up vacant posts of chairpersons and members of various organisations such as the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal, Armed Forces Tribunal, National Company Law Tribunal, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, Income Tax Tribunal and the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. The names of chairpersons and members of these tribunals are recommended by the CJI or another senior judge of the Supreme Court. The court noted that recommendations for filling the posts had been made, some of them more than a year ago. “The impression we are getting is that the bureaucracy does not want the tribunals. You have also changed the qualifications and tenures. This is unending,” the bench told the solicitor-general. “You cannot in this manner make the tribunals defunct. If you don’t want the tribunals, we will restore the jurisdiction of the high courts. We cannot keep people without remedy. If you want it to continue, then fill the vacancies,” Justice Ramana told the Centre. There has been friction between the judiciary and the Centre since 2014, when the Narendra Modi government came to power. On April 20 this year, the Supreme Court issued directions to the Centre for expediting the appointment of judges, besides exercising its extraordinary powers to permit selection of retired judges as ad hoc judges of high courts to clear the massive backlog of 57 lakh cases. The apex court had taken suo motu cognisance of the 40 per cent vacancies in high courts across the country. Against the sanctioned strength of 1,080 high court judges, there are presently 664.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Karnataka builds mud wall as Kerala sees surge in Covid cases||The Karnataka government has barricaded all roads bordering Kerala by dumping mud in a repeat of what it did last year as part of its controversial effort to stop a spike in Covid cases. The decision to limit entry from Kerala to only those with recent RT-PCR negative certificates, has already witnessed protests on the Kerala side of the inter-state border. Kerala has reported a sharp rise in Covid cases, counting over 20,000 daily cases for a week and making up half the country’s caseload. On Thursday night, the Dakshina Kannada administration blocked with mud all roads, even those in villages, that serve as links with Kerala, replicating a preventive measure it had taken during the first wave in February 2020. More than 20 critically ill non-Covid patients from Kerala had died during that time since Karnataka refused entry to even ambulances ferrying them to Mangalore hospitals. Many north Kerala residents, especially from the sprawling Kasaragod district, travel to Mangalore for better medical treatment. People on both sides have close family connections too. The main trigger for the latest roadblocks in violation of court orders is the surge in Covid cases in Kerala. Karnataka, on the other hand, has been reporting less than 2,000 cases a day. All non-BJP political parties in Kerala have staged protests and taken retaliatory action by stopping vehicles from Karnataka trying to cross the border via the national highway in Thalapady, Dakshina Kannada, over the past few days. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday told the Assembly that the restrictions imposed by neighbouring Karnataka was in violation of the Union government’s guidelines that clearly say that inter-state movements should not be stopped. He made the statement in response to a submission by Kasaragod MLA A.K.M. Ashraf who highlighted how interconnected the two states were. “Half of the birth and death certificates of residents of my constituency are issued in Mangalore,” Ashraf said, highlighting the dependency of bordering regions of Kerala on Mangalore. Kasaragod district CPM committee member K.R. Jayananda, who has been spearheading a campaign against the roadblocks, termed the action by Karnataka a violation of court orders. “This is against a Kerala High Court directive and hence an act of contempt. We are going to file a fresh petition on Monday since Karnataka has either dumped mud or barricaded all the 24 roads that connect Kasaragod district to Dakshina Kannada,” Jayananda told The Telegraph on Friday. The Kerala government had moved the high court last year against Karnataka’s decision to block roads. The court had termed the roadblocks illegal. Jayananda also questioned the Karnataka government’s decision to restrict entry to only those with RT-PCR negative certificate not older than seven days. “Two doses of vaccines are enough to travel abroad. But Karnataka, which is a state in our country, requires an RT-PCR report. What kind of logic is this?” he asked. Jayananda noted that more than 90 per cent of the residents of Kasaragod villages depend on Mangalore for various needs. “We have families in Mangalore (the headquarters of Dakshina Kannada district) and our children pursue higher education there,” he said. A Dakshina Kannada district administration official justified the move to barricade roads. “We don’t want to take any chance by allowing people from Kerala since the test positivity rate is over 13 per cent there. But we have no issues in letting in people who meet the conditions,” said the official who declined to be named. According to him, a large number of people from Kasaragod have been entering Dakshina Kannada through mud roads, which is why even they have been blocked. “What else can we do? We have orders to ensure cases do not spike in our district,” the official said. Dakshina Kannada has been recording over 300 daily Covid cases over the past couple of weeks, up from around 100 prior to that. This is being seen as a failure to keep a tab on people entering from Kerala. The Karnataka government has officially not issued a clarification since it has been busy forming the council of ministers after Basavaraj Bommai took over as chief minister from B.S. Yediyurappa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
07-08-2021||India||Centre for Public Interest Litigation moves Supreme Court challenging appointment of Rakesh Asthana ||An NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation, on Friday moved the Supreme Court challenging the appointment of IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the police commissioner of Delhi just four days before his retirement in alleged violation of the apex court directions and various central government rules. In its petition filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, the NGO has sought quashing of the Centre’s July 27 order appointing Asthana, who was to retire on July 31, as the Delhi police commissioner by shifting him from the Gujarat to the AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territory) cadre. The NGO has further sought a directive to the Centre to initiate steps to appoint a new Delhi police commissioner, in accordance with the directions issued by the court in the Prakash Singh vs Union of India case, under which no officer with less than six months of service left can be appointed a director-general of police. The Delhi police commissioner’s rank is equivalent to that of a DGP. The NGO has submitted that the order is illegal for the following reasons: ⚫ Violation of the directions issued by the apex court in the Prakash Singh case. ⚫ Violation of Fundamental Rule 56(d), which stipulates that “no Government servant shall be granted extension in service beyond the age of retirement of sixty years”. ⚫ The Centre did not have the power under Rule 3 of All India Services (Conditions of Service-Residuary Matters) Rules, 1960, to relax Rule 16(1) of the All India Services (Death-Cum-Retirement Benefits) Rules, 1958, to give extension of service to Asthana. ⚫ Violation of policy on inter-cadre deputation of All India Services officers as prescribed under the department of personnel and training’s office memorandum dated 08.11.2004. ⚫ No UPSC panel was formed for appointment of the Delhi police commissioner; and the criteria of a minimum tenure of two years was ignored. This is the second petition challenging Asthana’s appointment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
07-08-2021||India||Bihar govt asks officials to respect MPs and MLAs||The Bihar government has instructed its officers to show respect towards public representatives after several legislators and even MPs complained that they were being allegedly treated badly by officials. Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan has written to all IAS and IPS officers pointing out that MPs, MLAs and MLCs bear an important place in the democratic system as representatives of the people and therefore, proper respect should be shown while dealing with them. Several legislators and even MPs, belonging to the Opposition and the ruling parties, have been complaining about the alleged lack of respect and proper behaviour shown by the government officers when they went to meet them for work related to their constituencies or voters. Many of them had claimed that they were either made to wait for a long time by the officers or were not even offered a chair to sit while visiting the offices. The applications and requests for various work were also not entertained. Sharan has referred to the various rules formulated by different departments and the Lok Sabha with regard to the procedure that needs to be adopted if the public representatives approach the officers with regard to government-related work. “Violation of the directives shall be taken seriously. Their implementation should be reviewed in a time-bound manner,” the chief secretary said. The chief secretary has also instructed the officers to show full respect to the public representatives, listen to them properly, receive and see them off during their visits, and invite them to government functions. The matter came to a head recently when animal husbandry and fisheries resources minister Madan Sahni threatened to resign after alleging that the officers in his department were not listening to him. Though Sahni, the  Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) chief, relented afterwards, several other legislators from the ruling NDA came out in his support. They too alleged disrespect by top administrative officials in their day-to-day dealings. The issue was raised at an NDA meeting last month. All these allegations left the Nitish Kumar-led government in an awkward situation. However, Rashtriya Janata Dal MLA and spokesperson Bhai Virendra termed the letter by the chief secretary an “eyewash”. “There is no democracy, just bureaucracy in the rule of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Officers are constantly insulting the legislators belonging to the ruling and Opposition parties because they have no fear of any reprimand or punishment. On the other hand, Nitish keeps getting such instructions issued from time to time without any impact on the situation. These are just eyewash,” Virendra told The Telegraph. Virendra said he also served as the chairman of the heritage committee of the Legislative Assembly, but principal secretaries of various departments would never come to the meetings when called and asked to attend. “The principal secretaries of different departments would always make excuse that they were in the high court. It needs to be checked that if they are always in the court then what work are they doing,” he said. A legislator belonging to Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU) said on the condition of anonymity that such a situation has happened because the chief minister reposed blind faith in the bureaucrats and neglected the public representatives belonging to even his own party. “Years ago public representatives kept tab on the actions of government officers and would report to the ministers or the chief minister. Nitish Kumar did away with this system and gave a free hand to the bureaucrats, who now behave in an unchecked and untamed manner. This has eroded our authority. If we cannot get genuine grievances of our voters resolved, why would they vote for us?” the JDU legislator told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Chhattisgarh receives 10 national awards for excellent performance in procurement of forest products ||Chhattisgarh on Friday received 10 national awards for excellent performance in procurement, processing and marketing of forest products and also for new products and innovations. The state topped in eight categories in procurement, processing and marketing of minor forest products and implementation of the Van Dhan Yojana and was conferred two awards for new products and innovations by the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Federation of India. Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda presented the awards to Chhattisgarh during a virtual function in New Delhi organised on the 34th foundation day of the federation. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel congratulated forest minister Mohammad Akbar and all the officials and employees of forest department as well as the self-help groups engaged in collection and processing of forest produces for the achievement. Baghel said that Chhattisgarh has set a new record by purchasing maximum forest produce in the country. “The procurement of minor forest produce from tribals at maximum support price has played an important role in providing employment to tribals and forest dwellers and improving their economic condition during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. The Chhattisgarh State Minor Forest Produce Association is engaged in collection of forest produces. Chhattisgarh bagged the first positions for inclusion of maximum number of forest products under the minimum support price scheme for minor forest produce in 2020-21, for procurement of minor forest produce at the highest price using state as well as central government funds, maximum utilisation of the funds sanctioned in 2020-21, completion of maximum survey under the Van Dhan Yojana, for maximum training for forest development centre clusters, for manufacturing maximum products through value addition and for maximum sale of products after value addition. Under the “new product and innovation” category, Chhattisgarh was awarded for the innovative manufacturing of sanitiser from mahua tree and for producing new products from tamarind. Fifty-two types of minor forest produces have been included under the MSP scheme of Chhattisgarh, followed by Maharashtra, which has 21 products included under its scheme. Chhattisgarh procured minor forest produce at maximum value worth Rs 180.51 crore utilising central funds, followed by Andhra Pradesh, which came second by procuring products worth Rs 4.51 crore. Similarly, for procurement of minor forest produce from central and state government funds, Chhattisgarh bagged top spot by buying products worth Rs 1,173 crore, while Odisha stood second by procuring produces worth Rs 30.32 crore. In the category of maximum utilisation of funds in 2020-21, Chhattisgarh had utilised Rs 127.09 crore and second place Odisha Rs 30.32 crore. For completing the maximum survey under the Van Dhan Yojana, Chhattisgarh bagged the first place followed by Nagaland. In the category of providing maximum training to Van Dhan Vikas Kendra clusters, Chhattisgarh got the first place, followed by Nagaland. In the category of manufacturing maximum products through value addition, Chhattisgarh got top spot for manufacturing 121 products while Maharashtra came second with 120 products. Similarly, under the category of maximum sale of products after value addition, Chhattisgarh got top spot for selling products worth Rs 4.24 crore and Manipur came second with sale of products worth Rs 1.98 crore. Under the category of new products and innovations, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra were jointly awarded for production of sanitisers from mahua. Besides, Chhattisgarh was awarded for the innovative product called Tamarind Chaska. Around 44 per cent of the area in Chhattisgarh is covered by forests and the major source of livelihood for the forest dwellers is the collection of forest produce. More than six lakh forest produce collectors have benefited from the minimum support price scheme of the state government which buys 52 minor forest produces instead of the earlier seven. For the last two years, Chhattisgarh has maintained the top rank among states in procurement of forest produce. The forest produces are being procured through 4,785 women self-help groups in the state. More than 13 lakh poor and tribal people engaged in minor forest produce collection are earning an additional income of Rs 501.70 crore per annum, sources said. As many as 139 Van Dhan Vikas Kendras have been established in the state for primary processing of minor forest produce and nearly 17,424 beneficiaries are getting the benefit, they said. Around 70 Van Dhan Vikas Kendra are engaged in processing minor forest produce as herbal products and these products are being sold under Chhattisgarh Herbals on e-commerce platforms like Amazon. Chhattisgarh Herbals, which was established as a nationwide brand in 2021-22, has set a target to sell products worth Rs 10 crore in 2021-22, officials said. The sale will benefit about 5,000 members of women self-help groups engaged in the processing work, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
07-08-2021||India||Tokyo Olympics: Naveen Patnaik congratulates women’s hockey team for putting up a good show ||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday talked to Indian women’s hockey team that lost to Great Britain putting an end to the country’s bronze medal hope in the event. A great lover and patron of the game Naveen praised the efforts of the team and congratulated it for putting up a good show. He said the team might have lost the game but it won hearts. He assured full support to the team in future. “Ladkeine apne bahut mehnat kiya…. Bahut accha khela tha. Apne game haare geya par hammara dil jeet liya. Appa sabko badhai hoo kyunki apne eekdam mehnat kiyee. Aap 17th ko a rahein hain, phir milenga. Badhai detaa hu. (Girls you worked really hard. You played well and lost. But you won our hearts. Congratulations to all of you as you worked hard. All of you are coming on August 17. We will meet then. Congratulation to all of you,” Naveen said while speaking to the team during a video-aided interaction from his residence in Bhubaneswar. Later Naveen tweeted, “Congratulation Indian Women’s Hockey Team for putting up a brave fight against Great Britain at Tokyo 2020 Olympics. Keep your fighting spirit up and keep inspiring. Wish you all the very best for future.” Speaking on behalf of the team its captain Rani Rampal said that the players were grateful to the chief minister and the Odisha government for their support to Indian hockey. “Odisha government has helped us a lot in this journey. Odisha has turned into a sports hub- so many international games you have hosted…. Odisha government is sponsoring our team… you have a great role in this journey of ours. You have encouraged and motivated the team,” said Rampal. Odisha is the official sponsor of both the men’s and women’s team, the five-year sponsorship contract having been signed in 2018. Odisha is planning a grand welcome for the women’s hockey team when the players arrive here on August 17, said official sources. Dilip Tirkey, former Indian hockey team captain, also turned emotional. “The women’s hockey team put up an excellent show in all the matches at the Tokyo Olympics. They also played well today. There was a lot of improvement in their game but we missed some open field goals today. It was heartbreak for the team as a yellow and a green card shown by the referee in the second half meant India played at least for seven minutes with only 10 players. That gave Great Britain an edge. The most heartbreaking was the sight of  women players breaking down on the ground with disappointment writ large on their faces,” said Dilip. The budding hockey players watching the game at the Kalinga Stadium here were also crestfallen and so were the coaches. Lucela Ekka, who had coached Deep Grace Ekka, the Odia player in the Indian team, appeared to be lost for words. “There is an emotional bonding between players and coaches. Deep Grace was under my tutelage for five years from 2007 to 2012. At that time, she was only 13. I considered her as my daughter. I haven’t had a sip of water after India women lost today’s game. Luck did not favour us,” said Ekka. Ekka, who played hockey at the national level in the 1990s, said: “I was unable before the match as everyone was tense. We desperately wanted India to win a medal but luck was not in our favour today. I can imagine the state of mind of the players. Such opportunities don’t come again and again. I am thinking of sending a WhatsApp message to Deep Grace advising her not to lose heart.” “We were almost certain that India will win. They played well in the first half but lost the momentum later on. It’s a game and it has to be decided within the allotted time. But we are proud that our team played well,” said one of the inmates of the Kalinga Stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt didn’t do enough to prevent recurring floods: Dilip Ghosh||Training his guns on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said her government has failed to take necessary steps to prevent recurring floods that leave lakhs of people in misery almost every year. The TMC, however, shot back, contending that floods have primarily occurred due to siltation at the surface of Damodar Valley Corporation dams, which forced the barrages to release water in an unplanned manner. Claiming that some TMC leaders have distributed central funds allocated for flood control and irrigation among themselves, Ghosh, on his part, told reporters that he will soon visit Ghatal in Paschim Medinipur, one of the worst-affected areas in the state. He accused the CM of "not sparing any serious thought" about fighting the crisis. "Mamata Banerjee had announced that she would be visiting Ghatal, Khanakul and Moina but confined herself to just one place (Howrah), did photo sessions there and returned," the Midnapore MP said. Banerjee, who had visited Udaynarayanpur in Howrah last week, called off her aerial survey of other affected regions owing to inclement weather. "Years ago, she did the same thing during her visit to flood-hit North Bengal... just had her pictures splashed all over in the media, made tall talks, blamed the Centre for the floods and returned. Nothing happened thereafter," Ghosh alleged. The saffron party leader further said that his party members and legislators had been carrying out relief work in the inundated areas. Responding to Ghosh's assertions, TMC MP Sougata Roy said the BJP state unit chief should gain knowledge about the cause of flood before making a remark. Floods in Bengal occurred mainly due to siltation at the surface of DVC dams, with no dredging undertaken for years by the central agency. We had placed demands for immediate dredging numerous times, but no action has been taken." Roy said the party may soon submit a memorandum to the Centre to address the issue. As for Ghatal, the Centre is yet to respond to the demand for putting in place a master plan to stop recurring floods. It has been pending for years," the MP maintained. Roy further said Irrigation Minister Soumen Mahapatra has already visited flood-hit Ghatal along with other leaders to lend support to the distressed. "Let Dilip babu go and take a look at the condition there," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata opposes passage of 'anti-people' Electricity Bill in Rajya Sabha||Protesting the Centre's move to place the "anti-people" Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in Parliament, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to refrain from proceeding with the legislation. She requested the PM "to ensure that a broad-based and transparent dialogue on the subject is opened up at the earliest". "I write this letter to re-lodge my protest against the Union Government's fresh move to place the much-criticised Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, in Parliament. It was proposed to be moved last year, but many of us had underlined the anti-people aspects of the draft legislation, and at least I had detailed out all the salient pitfalls of the Bill in a letter to you on June 12, 2020," she wrote. Mamata had written to Modi on June 12 last year, expressing outrage over the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, which, she, said, was an attempt by the Centre to "destroy" the country's federal structure. She claimed that the bill aims to make the entire state electricity grid an appendage of the National Grid. "I am stunned to hear that the Bill is coming back without any consideration for our reservations, and in fact with some graver anti-people features this time," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Tankers strike withdrawn after fuel pumps go dry in south Bengal ||The strike by fuel tankers was withdrawn on Saturday afternoon as the Indian Oil Corp put on hold the new transportation rates amid a crisis at hundreds of filling stations in south Bengal, their association said. Hundreds of fuel pumps in south Bengal, including Calcutta, ran dry due to the strike that began on Thursday evening, dealers said. The tankers' association at IOC's Mourigram depot in Howrah, which serves the region, was on strike over the reduction in fuel transportation rates as a new tender was floated. "IOC extended the existing rates so that more negotiations can take place and normal supply can be maintained," West Bengal Tankers' Association's Mourigram unit secretary Rajkumar Chatterjee told PTI. An IOC spokesperson confirmed that the strike was withdrawn but did not divulge the details of the deal struck with the fuel transporters. The strike affected around 900-1,000 fuel pumps in the region, impacting public transport, movement of essential supplies and private vehicles, the dealers said. The strike was withdrawn at a time the IOC was planning to rush fuel to a few pumps from its Haldia and other depots to meet the demand in Calcutta, South 24 Parganas, Nadia, Howrah, Hooghly and North 24 Parganas -- the urban agglomerate. IOC has fuel depots in Haldia, Durgapur, Mourigram, Malda and Siliguri in the state. The tankers' association was also protesting against the termination of services of 60 tankers. "When costs are spiralling, how can IOC slash the fuel transportation rates? They also terminated services of 60 tankers in their new tender," association secretary Chatterjee said. "The survival of many people is associated with these tankers," he added. The IOC spokesperson earlier said that similar tenders were floated even for Siliguri, Durgapur, Haldia and Malda terminals in the last one year. "Such a tender is floated every five years for the deployment of tank trucks and the last one was floated in 2014. The tender was due since April 2020, which was deferred due to requests from the transporters on account of the pandemic," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||‘Apolitical’ talks push before MP statement ||The National Gorkhaland Committee (NGC), an apolitical outfit which positions itself as a “think tank” of the Gorkha community in Darjeeling, claimed that a consensus was building in the hills that “a neutral non-political body” must lead the talks with the Centre on a “permanent political solution”. Lt Gen. (retd) Shakti Gurung, the chairman of the NGC, on Thursday wrote to Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista, claiming that political parties in the hills were now “unanimous” that “a neutral non-political body like the NGC must lead the talks with the Centre to remind the Central Government to fulfil its long pending promise of PPS to the Gorkha Community before the current Monsoon Session ends”. The BJP’s 2019 general election manifesto had said: “We are committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issue of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region.” While the NGC is bullish that it can lead discussions on the PPS, it is unlikely that the Centre will heed the demand. BJP MP Raju Bista, who led a delegation to call on Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Friday, claimed that the Centre would convene a tripartite meeting in the first week of September. The tripartite meeting will involve representatives of central and state governments and Gorkhas. The ongoing Parliament session will end on August 13 and the NGC’s hope to take forward the demand and seek a concrete assurance before the monsoon session ends has gone down the drain with Bista’s statement. In an earlier letter to Bista, Gurung had said: “It was also felt that if a Bill is to be passed in parliament for a separate home state/UT as PPS for the Gorkha community, it must be done in this session itself as the next Winter Session would be too close to the elections in UP because of which the BJP would be unlikely to take any major decision affecting any other part of the country.” Many feel that the moot question is whether current developments in the hills have put the BJP under pressure to start a dialogue on the PPS promise it had made in the Lok Sabha election manifesto. “Several factors like the hunger strike by S.P Sharma of ABGL (Bharati Tamang faction), the letter by an apolitical party (NGC) to take forward the issue and even Anit Thapa’s decision to float a new political party and also the open expression of grievances by the BJP’s allies in the hills, more particularly by the GNLF, are putting pressure on the BJP,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Brothers killed by kin over wall in Malda’s Kanainagar||Two brothers were hacked to death on Friday afternoon by their uncle and his son over a boundary wall between their houses in Malda’s Kanainagar village under Kaliachak police station area. The deceased have been identified as milkmen Sudam Ghosh, 30, and Bidhan Ghosh, 26. Their uncle and cousin, Nikhil and Bikram, have fled. Sources said Nikhil, who lived next to the brothers, did not want a boundary wall between his land and that of his nephews. When the brothers built the wall, allegedly Nikhil asked them to remove it or face dire consequences. On Friday, when the brothers went to a tea stall, allegedly Nikhil and his son Bikram  attacked them fatally with sharp weapons. Sudam’s wife Pinky said doctors at the local hospital pronounced the brothers dead on arrival. Bidhan’s wife Munmum said onlookers were too afraid to intervene as Nikhil and Bikram were in a fierce mood and threatened others too. “Our officers are in search of the duo. Policemen are patrolling in the village to keep the situation under control,” said Alok Rajoria, the Malda SP. Cannabis seizure’ Acting on a tip off, the police of Phansidewa police station in Darjeeling district seized an illegal consignment of 140kg cannabis from the driver’s cabin of a truck near Ghoshpukur, some 25km from Siliguri, on Thursday. Police sources said the truck was coming from Assam. Tripura residents S. Sharma and Afzal Hossain have been arrested. They had loaded the narcotic substance in the vehicle in Guwahati, police said. Additional reporting by our Siliguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Elephant herd enters village near Jalpaiguri||A herd of four wild elephants entered a village on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri on Friday, damaging hutments, trees and farms. Sources said around 5am, the elephant herd  from the Baikunthapur forest came to Natunbusty, the village under Patkata panchayat of Jalpaiguri Sadar block. “Some villagers raised an alarm and all residents (around 250 people) hurried out of their homes with their belongings,” said Pradhan Hembram, the chief of Patkata panchayat. He added that he went to the village with a megaphone to alert people to maintain a safe distance from the herd. Many people, including youths from nearby villages, crowded around the elephants to watch them trample on huts. As the news spread, foresters from Belakoba range and Baikunthapur division rushed to the spot. A team of Kotwali police went to the area to keep the situation under control. Till late afternoon, the herd had damaged some 10 hutments. “I have lost my home. Don’t know where we will stay at night,” said Pushpa Biswas, one of the villagers whose hutment was damaged. Foresters faced problems in controlling the growing crowd of people. “During daytime, we could not steer the herd back to the forest. We are waiting for sunset after which the herd will be driven back. The department will provide compensation to all those affected by the attack. We are also making necessary arrangements for their relief,” said Manjula Tirkey, assistant divisional forest officer of Baikunthapur forest division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Six new Covid hospitals for north Bengal in pipeline||The state health department has decided to open six hospitals exclusively for Covid 19 cases across north Bengal and has asked the state PWD to prepare estimates for their construction. “Each hospital will have at least 100 beds. We are scouting for locations for such hospitals. We will prefer sites near existing district hospitals or medical colleges for better healthcare management,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special deputy who has deputed by the state health department in north Bengal. On Thursday and Friday, Roy visited Cooch Behar and Alipurduar, respectively. In both the places, he visited some of the existing government health establishments and held talks with district health officials. “In Alipurduar, we are planning a new Covid hospital with around 140 beds,” he said. According to sources in the health department, along with Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, new hospitals would come up at Falakata, Raiganj, Kalimpong and Malda. The new Covid-19 hospitals, sources said, would be ready within one-and-a-half years. “Such separate facilities for Covid patients will help in reducing the load on district hospitals and medical colleges. Also, standalone hospitals built only for the patients who test Covid positive will reduce the risk of the infection spreading elsewhere,” said a district health official. The chief medical officer of health (CMOH) of Darjeeling has formed a two-member committee to look into allegations that some private labs in Siliguri are charging more for RT-PCR tests than the sum stipulated by the state. Recently, a lawyer of Calcutta High Court based in Siliguri, Atindra Chowdhury, filed a complaint with health officials, alleging a private lab charged him Rs 2,500 for the test instead of Rs 1,200, but issued him a receipt for Rs 1,200. “The panel of assistant CMOH and deputy CMOH-I will probe into the allegation and submit a report in 10 days. The panel will also keep tabs on private labs to prevent such anomalies,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Diamond Harbour jab feat ‘proves CM’s point’||Bengal health department is planning to showcase Diamond Harbour municipality as its success story in the Covid-19 vaccination programme as the civic body is soon set to become the first fully vaccinated urban body in the state. “All eligible people (over 18 years of age) of Diamond Harbour municipality have received the first dose of Covid vaccine. About 90 per cent of the population have been administered a second dose of vaccine, too. Soon, the civic body would be the first completely vaccinated municipality in the state,” said a senior government official. According to health officials, the success of Diamond Harbour municipality would be showcased as the civic body has proved that if vaccine doses are made available, the state authorities can administer them to all eligible residents in the state. Diamond Harbour’s achievement has strengthened the argument of chief minister Mamata Banerjee that if Bengal received the required number of vaccine doses from the Centre, the state would have administered the jab to most of the eligible people by now, sources said. Mamata has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for more vaccine doses. “So far, only over 3 crore people could be given the first dose of vaccine while we have to administer a vaccine to 7 crore people. It is clear that the picture would have been brighter had the Centre sent more vaccine doses,” said a Nabanna official. “The civic body that has 30,000-odd people over 18 years of age and could convince all eligible people to come forward and get vaccinated. This is the reason why it also could be the first civic body across the country to be completely vaccinated,” said a source. Sources said the civic body authorities and health workers worked hard.“Vaccination camps in all wards were open all day in the past two months...Health workers also reached the homes of those who could not come out of homes to vaccination centres. Continuous effort from all quarters helped us achieve success,” said a civic body source. “It is now clear that we can give vaccines to all those eligible if we get vaccine doses on time as our health workers are dedicated and hard-working,” agreed another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||CM Mamata Banerjee to visit Jhargram on Monday||Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit Jhargram on Monday to kick off the World Tribal Day celebrations following which she will hold a meeting with the local administration. This will be Mamata’s first district-level administrative meeting since assuming the office of the chief minister for the third time in a row. Sources at Nabanna said Mamata would fly to Jhargram in a chopper on Monday afternoon and inaugurate the programme of the World Tribal Day which her party celebrates every year. After holding the administrative meeting, she is scheduled to stay there on Monday and visit the flood-affected Ghatal before leaving for Calcutta the following day after, said a senior state government official. “We are eagerly waiting for the visit of our chief minister to listen to her guidance for the development of the people of Jhargram…. We are happy as she chose a date which is dedicated to tribal people,” said Birbaha Hansda, the minister of state in charge of forest and Trinamul MLA from Jhargram. World Tribal Day or International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples is observed every year on August 9. “We are really happy as the chief minister is starting her trips to districts with Jhargram from where the people had gifted her all four Assembly seats,” said minister Hansda. Sources said after Jhargram, Mamata would visit Bankura, Purulia and other districts of central and south Bengal. Jhargram is among the most tribal-dominated districts in Bengal with around 31 per cent adivasis. Sources said after the electoral victory, Mamata had earlier planned to visit north Bengal in June but it was cancelled because of bad weather conditions in the northern part of the state following heavy rains. Government officials said since coming back to power for the third term as chief minister, Mamata had been preoccupied with the handling of the Covid-19 situation and political issues of national importance like the Pegasus spyware allegation. As a result, she did not focus on her regular district trips amid her busy schedule, said a source. “Now that the Covid situation is under control, she is likely to start her district tours.… She may give special directions for development in the Jungle Mahal,” said a senior official in Jhargram. Trinamul leaders in the Jungle Mahal consider the visit of the chief minister to Jhargram politically significant as the party managed a turnaround there in the elections. Mamata herself gave special attention to the Jungle Mahal by reshuffling her party leadership by including the face of Lalgarh movement Chhatradhar Mahato in the state committee along with changing several district functionaries. Mahato, however, is now in jail after the NIA arrested him a day after the polls in Jhargram. “In the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, the BJP had led in three out of four Assembly segments in Jhargram. But we bagged all the four seats in the district, which was indeed a stellar show.... The chief minister was very impressed with the performance and we expect that the people of Jhargram will get the reward from her,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Jhargram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Centre to hold tripartite meeting on 'permanent political solution' for Darjeeling region ||The Centre has decided to hold an “official-level” tripartite meeting on a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling region in the first week of September and will invite the Bengal government to the talks, Darjeeling MP and BJP leader Raju Bista said on Friday. If the event is held as Bista said, it will be the first time the Narendra Modi government would be holding a meeting on a permanent political solution to the Darjeeling issue. On Friday, Bista called on Union home minister Amit Shah along with GNLF president Mann Ghisingh, former Darjeeling MP and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxist president R.B. Rai, BJP MLAs from Darjeeling and Kurseong Neeraj Zimba and B.P. Bajgain, respectively, and BJP hill president Kalyan Dewan. Bista said: “I am happy to state that the Union home minister has assured us that an invitation for an official meeting for a permanent political solution will be issued next week, around August 12… and the first official meeting will start in the first week of September.” The invitation, Bista said, would be issued to “Gorkha representatives, elected members of Parliament and MLAs, and the ministry will also invite the state government”. The Darjeeling hills have two MLAs from the BJP and one, Ruden Sada Lepcha, from the Anit Thapa faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Thapa’s party is in alliance with the Trinamul Congress, which is opposed to any bifurcation of Bengal. Bista’s statement was celebrated in Darjeeling. S.P. Sharma, general secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang faction), lifted his fast unto death on the basis of a media release on the meeting on a permanent political solution. Despite Bista’s statement, politicians in Darjeeling are waiting to see the content of the letter Shah is supposed to send around August 12. This is because last year the Centre had called a tripartite meeting to discuss “Gorkhaland”. But Roshan Giri of the Bimal Gurung faction, which was with the BJP then, claimed that the agenda for the meeting had been changed from “issues related to Gorkhaland” to those relating to the “Gorkhaland Territorial Administration” following pressure from the Bengal BJP. The meeting had been scheduled for August 7 last year but with BJP allies like the GNLF and even the Bimal Gurung faction protesting the change to the agenda, it had to be cancelled. On October 7 last year, the Bimal Gurung faction attended a meeting called by the home ministry, but representatives of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and the state government skipped that “tripartite meeting”. On October 23, the Gurung faction severed ties with the BJP and joined hands with Trinamul. “In this context, the most important issue is whether the state government will attend the proposed tripartite meeting in September first week,” an observer said. “The reality is simple: without the state’s participation, a permanent political solution cannot be worked out for the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Faster send-off for ambulances to Bangladesh||A consignment of 30 ambulances offered by India as a gift to Bangladesh to help fight Covid-19 has been cleared for movement on a priority basis. The vehicles will set out for Dhaka from the Petrapole international check post on Saturday morning. Bengal government on Thursday allowed the ambulances to move from Bongaon Municipality parking lot to Petrapole check post on an “out of turn” basis as special case, acting on a request from the High Commission of India in Bangladesh considering the urgent need of the vehicles in Bangladesh to fight Covid. The first lot of 30 vehicles is a part of the 109 ambulances that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had offered to donate the Bangladesh government to help in its fight against the pandemic when he visited the country on March 26-27 to attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh Independence and the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, its first Prime Minister. Modi had on March 27 in Dhaka handed over a symbolic key for the ambulances to Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, in addition to gifting 1.2 million doses of Covid vaccine as a mark of India’s support to Bangladesh. The SML ISUZU-make ambulances reached the municipality parking in Bongaon on July 29 for clearance to reach Petrapole. A senior official of North 24-Parganas district administration said it took around two weeks to get clearance, but the ambulances were cleared faster following a request from the High Commission of India in Bangladesh. Sources said the ambulances started to arrive at the ICP Petrapole from Thursday afternoon for Customs clearance. Superintendent of Customs (export) Avijit Mukherjee said: “We issued the clearance on top priority basis to make the vehicles ready to move on Thursday itself.” However, sources said movement to Dhaka was eventually deferred to Saturday as Friday is a weekly holiday in Bangladesh and obtaining car passes could not be possible. The remaining lot of ambulances is expected to reach Bangladesh in phases by the end of September this year, ministry of external affairs sources said. Kartick Chakraborty, secretary of the Petrapole Clearing Agents Staff Welfare Association, said: “This is a great gesture by our country. Such support in times of pandemic will further strengthen the bond to improve bilateral trade between the two neighboursing countries.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Lathicharge on Covid jab seekers prompts ASI’s suspension||A police officer of Ashok Nagar police station was suspended on Thursday night for allegedly wielding the stick on a group of people, including women, when they had staged a road blockade to protest the denial of vaccination despite having scheduled appointments through Cowin app. A departmental inquiry has also been ordered against the suspended assistant sub-inspector of police Madhusudan Tarafdar. Trouble broke out at a primary health centre run by the Ashoknagar-Kalyangarh civic authority in ward 18 on Thursday afternoon when people who had gathered to receive the jab after registering on the Cowin app were denied the jab. The health centre authorities claimed that Cowin-registered people wouldn’t be vaccinated since they didn’t have any data about them. The authorities in turn insisted that unregistered persons would be vaccinated using the stock available. “The health centre authorities expressed their inability to vaccinate us since they had no record of our registration. They apparently ignored the Cowin registration. This prompted the registered people to begin a demonstration by blocking the road in front of the health centre,” a person who had turned up for vaccination said. However, soon the protest turned violent and a truck was attacked. This prompted police to lathicharge the protesters to remove the blockade. “The police officer did not spare elderly women, girls and beat us up as if we were criminals,” said a local resident. As videos of the police assault on protesters went viral, an inquiry was ordered by SDO Barasat Soma Sau, apparently on direction from the state government. The local civic authority also held an immediate meeting and filed a report with the district administration. “After preliminary inquiry, the officer has been suspended by the Barasat police district and a probe ordered into the matter,” a senior police officer of Barasat police district said. An official of the civic administration acknowledged that the confusion was caused by a mistake committed by health centre officials. “They should have checked the Cowin registration list and arranged vaccination for the beneficiaries. There was a lack of coordination on their part. At the same time, the lathicharge was absolutely uncalled for,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Rising Ganga gobbles up at least 30 homes on its left bank in Malda district within 30 minutes||The rising Ganga on Friday afternoon gobbled up at least 30 homes on its left bank at Baishnabnagar of Malda district within 30 minutes. The district administration and the state irrigation department announced a red (secondary) alert along the banks of the Ganga and are keeping a close watch on the situation. Villagers have been asked to move to safer places. “The river suddenly started gobbling up large chunks of land in villages like Durgaramtola, Chinabazar, Bhimagram and Lalutola since afternoon. Within a span of 30 minutes, it swallowed 30 houses. Over 100 people became homeless and many others are moving to safer places as the river is moving fast and eroding land in a consistent manner,” said Rajiv Sheikh, a local Trinamul leader. Sources in the area said the anti-erosion measures in the area taken up by Farakka Barrage Authority proved inadequate as the river is swollen  during monsoon. Irrigation minister Sabina Yeasmin who also hails from Malda said: “The administration is taking necessary initiatives to rescue people in case there is sudden flood. However, what is bothering us now is the acute erosion in Baishnabnagar. The irrigation department has been asked to take up immediate measures and also speak with the Farakka Barrage Authority,” she said. Most people who lost their houses on Friday are migrant workers, jobless amid the pandemic, said Harun Al Rashid, a local panchayat member in Baishnabnagar. “The river now left them homeless too. Even my house got eroded away. We have urged the administration to see that the affected families get relief and rehabilitation,” he said. The rising Ganga has also made the administration put fishermen on alert.“The river is flowing above danger level. That is why we are apprehending a sudden flood in some low lying areas on the banks. Our officers are on alert as water levels of Mahananda and Fulhar (two other rivers which flow through Malda district) are also increasing steadily,” said Pranab Kumar Samanta, an executive engineer of the state irrigation department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Flood finger at missing funds in Bengal||The Narendra Modi government’s “refusal” to grant a promised sum to implement the Ghatal master plan — a full-fledged anti-flood plan drawn up by the state government — is a main reason for flooding in vast swathes of East and West Midnapores and parts of Hooghly, two Bengal ministers have alleged. The floods affect around 5 lakh people annually. “We would not have had to witness such a devastating situation in so many low-lying areas of the state if the Centre had kept its word by providing funds to implement the Ghatal master plan. The Modi government did not send a single penny till date, despite giving financial and administrative nods. It was the result of sheer negligence towards Bengal and our chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s requests, despite at least seven letters from her end,” said Manas Ranjan Bhuniya, Trinamul’s Sabang MLA and the current water resources investigation and development minister. Bhuniya had chalked out the plan as the irrigation and waterways minister in the first Mamata government. “Despite the state government agreeing to start the work at 50:50 ratio, the Modi government did not send even a paisa for the Ghatal master plan. Our chief minister has already given Rs 600 crore (50 per cent of the original project cost of Rs 1,200 crore), with which we dredged three major rivers, but we did not get the money promised by Delhi to finish the remaining work,” added Soumen Mahapatra, Bengal’s current irrigation and waterways minister. Bhuniya on Thursday visited flood-hit Ghatal and nearby areas, accompanied by minister Humayun Kabir, MLA Srikanta Mahato and others, on Mamata’s directive. Vast areas under the Ghatal master plan remain waterlogged since Saturday because of heavy rain, accelerated by the release of water from many barrages including those of the DVC. The Ghatal master plan is a cluster of projects that include the dredging and widening of riverbeds, strengthening of embankments, widening of confluences of at least 10 large rivers such as the Kansabati, and at least 40 channels and sub-channels passing through East and West Midnapore. In 2012, the state government sent Delhi a detailed project report of the plan estimated at around Rs 1,200 crore, which received administrative and financial approval by the Modi government in 2015. The Centre had approved to pitch in with 75 per cent of the project cost, but later reduced its share to 50 per cent. No money was sent. The state government dredged a large part of Durbachati, Khiraibaksi and New Koshi rivers with its own funds. Sources in the state irrigation and waterways department said the Ghatal master plan was approved by IIT-Kharagpur, and all its proposed work needed to be finished on a war-footing to save flood-prone areas in East and West Midnapore. “Without desiltation, rivers and channels are unable to carry water load. This year, rainfall was immense again, which accelerated the flood-like situation in pockets of Ghatal and adjoining areas. The prime work of the project is a thorough dredging of rivers and channels to let the water pass. But after around 10 years, cost-escalation and other factors have resulted in exceeding the budget, and now we can’t finish the plan without Rs 2,000 crore more,” said a senior state government official. Sources said had the Ghatal master plan been implemented properly, a large part of Khanakul in Hooghly could also be saved from floods. Sources said the Centre had refused to fund two other flood-protection measures, the Keleghai-Kapaleshwari project in West Midnapore, and the Kandi master plan in Murshidabad. “In those cases, the central government backed out without providing its due share, but our chief minister sanctioned money to finish the plans,” said Bhuniya. Officials said the state government had launched another master plan for Hooghly to desilt the lower Damodar basin. The state government dredged a large stretch that saved a part of Pursurah and Jangipara of Hooghly from floods. “It is a large project and we will continue it after the monsoon,” said Deepap Priya P., the Hooghly district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 717 new cases, 9 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Friday recorded 47 straight days of a drop in the total number of Covid-19 active cases, as the state reported 717 new infections, 787 recoveries and nine deaths. Active cases fell by 79 to 10,642 in the state. Bengal has 2.61 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is ninth among states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 71 new infections and no death. With North 24-Parganas logging 86 new cases, Friday was again a day when not a single Bengal district reported a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seventeen districts reported a two-digit figure and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.12 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.34. Sixteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Friday, while Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Nadia, Jhargram and Hooghly reported one each. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.5 per cent on Friday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.32 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.03 lakh recoveries and 18,202 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Plastic blow to Bengal jute industry||The Centre has written to states to consider expanding the use of plastic for packaging of wheat grains and the move has upset the Bengal government. Bengal’s food and supplies department has written back to the Centre informing it about the state government’s decision to ensure maximum use of jute bags, which is customarily used for packing food grains, to serve the interest of the jute industry. “The Centre had asked us to consider using plastic bags for packing 35 per cent of wheat produced in the state. However, that will serve as a major blow to the jute sector and hence, we have written to the Union government saying we will try to use as many jute bags as possible,” said Rathin Ghosh, the state’s minister for food and supplies. Ghosh added that talks had been initiated at the secretarial level to reach an amicable solution to the problem. According to the Jute Packaging Material Act of 1987, all food grains produced in India have to be mandatorily packed in jute bags. Under unusual circumstances, the central government can allow the use of plastic bags as replacement up to 30 per cent of the total food grains. Technically, the fate of the 60-odd jute mills in Bengal, which employ three lakh people directly and 40 lakh indirectly, including jute farmers, depends on the JPMA. Sources in the jute industry said the Centre wanted 45 per cent of wheat produced in the country to be packaged in plastic bags. “If the plastic packaging is of 45 per cent, the sector will incur losses close to Rs 7,000 crore,” said one of the sources. According to sources in the state government, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has expressed her discontent with the Centre’s decision and taken up the issue with her Punjab counterpart Captain Amarinder Singh. Punjab is one of the largest producers of wheat in the country. Punjab, along with Haryana and Chhattisgarh, is also the biggest purchaser of jute bags. Officers in the jute commissioner’s office, however, said the repeated failure of jute manufacturers to supply the required number of jute bags had forced the Centre to consider a dilution. While the total requirement of jute bags for the ongoing Kharif season — June to November — was 24 lakh bales in India, jute mill owners have committed to supplying only 15 lakh bales. “If there is already a backlog during the Kharif season, how can we expect that they will be able to supply the required number of bags in the next season?” a source at the jute commissioner’s office asked. The next lot of wheat crop will be harvested in March next year. However, the purchase of bags shall start in November. Sources in the Indian Jute Mills Association, which had already written to Mamata seeking help, said the Centre planned to scrap the JPMA completely and allowing the use of plastic to pack wheat was a step in that direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||North East||Assam and Meghalaya seek to resolve border dispute ||Assam and Meghalaya on Friday decided to resolve their border dispute in a phase-wise and time-bound manner by constituting three regional committees each to jointly visit six of the 12 friction areas and submit their recommendations within 30 days to their respective governments to work out a final solution. A decision to this effect was taken at the second chief ministerial-level meeting between Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma in Guwahati to resolve the dispute in 12 areas along the 884.9km inter-state border. The first meeting was held in Shillong on July 23 which decided to move beyond the status quo situation to resolve the dispute which started after Meghalaya became a state in 1972 after being carved out of Assam — just like Nagaland and Mizoram — which too are presently embroiled in border rows with Assam. While Meghalaya had made a presentation on the border issue in the Shillong meeting, Assam did the same in Guwahati by presenting its perspective and problems. However, both chief ministers stressed on finding an amicable solution through mutual respect with the three regional committees tasked to take into account “historical aspects, ethnicity, people’s perceptions, administrative convenience and contiguity as their terms of reference”. The six disputed areas affect three districts in each state. The Meghalaya districts are Ri Bhoi, West Khasi Hills and East Jaintia Hills and the affected districts in Assam are Kamrup, Kamrup (metro) and Cachar. Apart from Meghalaya, Assam has held meetings with Nagaland and Mizoram to find ways to ensure peace along its inter-state border. On Thursday, the Assam and Mizoram governments decided not to send their forest and police forces to any area along their inter-state border, which has witnessed “confrontation and conflict” recently, to ensure peace. On July 31, Assam and Nagaland signed a pact to de-escalate tension in the disputed Dessoi Valley reserved forest/Tsurangkong Valley due to a stand-off between the armed forces of both states. The Nagaland Assembly on Thursday adopted a resolution, among others, to find an amicable out of court solution to the dispute by involving the local people. Nagaland was carved out of Assam in 1963. Efforts to maintain peace and settle the boundary dispute gathered momentum after the border flare-up on July 26 with Mizoram, carved out of Assam in 1972, left six Assam policemen dead and over 45 injured, further straining ties. Though both states have signed a pact to restore peace and normality along the border, movement of essentials to Mizoram from Assam through National Highway 306 remains stalled because of an unofficial blockade imposed by local people and groups in Assam’s Barak Valley. The major decisions taken at the meeting between Sarma and Conrad on Friday included: ⚫ Concentrate on resolving the disputes in the six areas of differences between the two states — Tarabari, Gizang, Boklapara, Pillangkata, Hahim and Ratacherra. ⚫ Three regional committees headed by a cabinet minister from each state as co-chairmen and local MLAs, bureaucrats and civil society members as members will be constituted. The Assam ministers are Chandra Mohan Patowary, Atul Bora and Pijush Hazarika. ⚫ The committees consisting of 10 members, five each from both the states, will undertake joint visits to the disputed areas. The committees will submit their recommendations to find mutually agreeable solutions within 30 days. Conrad said after the meeting that a phase-wise solution will be worked out. “The dispute has carried on for far too long... but we stand united and committed to resolve our border issues with mutual respect, keeping our people first and by upholding the spirit of Northeast alive,” he said. Terming the border talks “very fruitful”, he said both sides exuded pragmatism and respect for each other for solving the outstanding border issues in a time-bound and phase-wise manner. “Assam and Meghalaya share a long historical bond... both the states should engage in talks to minimise the areas of differences,” Sarma said while advocating a new framework of pragmatism and an open mind to take the border talks to a logical conclusion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
07-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Mamata govt should sponsor India's football teams||Sir — Few knew that the Odisha government has been the sponsor for Indian men’s and women’s hockey teams. In his inimitable style, the chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, maintained a low profile on the subject. This noble venture resulted in the historic achievements by the Indian teams — the men won the bronze at the Tokyo Olympics while the women missed it by just a whisker. The government of West Bengal, under Mamata Banerjee, should carry forward Patnaik’s example. It should sponsor the Indian men’s and women’s football teams. This would be a fitting recognition of the intense love that Bengalis have for football. Gautam Choudhuri,Calcutta Sir — The Central government has taken a step towards doing away with the contentious retrospective tax law of 2012, which was used to raise large tax demands on foreign investors such as Vodafone and Cairn Energy and blamed for vitiating India’s investment climate (“Centre rolls back retro tax rule”, Aug 6). The Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, introduced the taxation laws (amendment) bill in the Lok Sabha to nullify the retrospective tax clauses that were introduced in 2012 to bring past indirect transfer of Indian assets under the ambit of taxation. The move comes less than a month after Cairn Energy secured an order from a French court to freeze India’s assets in Paris worth $23 million. According to the proposed amendments, any tax demand made on transactions that took place before May 2012 shall be dropped, and any taxes already collected shall be repaid, albeit without interest. However, in order to be eligible, the concerned taxpayers would have to drop all pending cases against the government and promise not to make any demands for damages or costs. All things considered, the change is a step in the right direction. K. Ramani, Tiruchirappalli Sir — The Central government, like a defaulting debtor, has shown that when push comes to shove, it can be forced to change — it has introduced amendments to the regressive retrospective tax. On this occasion, the push came from two threats: a court notice from France regarding the seizure of the Indian government’s assets in Paris upon an application by Cairn Energy, and the resignation of Kumar M. Birla as the non-executive chairman of Vodafone Idea. Bureaucrats may, of course, argue that these developments gave the government the handle it needed to roll back the ‘retro tax’, a move it had not made thus far out of fear that the Opposition would object to the perceived loss of revenue. Malay K. Dasgupta, Calcutta Sir — The president of Iran must meet with the approval of the country’s supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Khamenei. But for Ebrahim Raisi, who took oath as the eighth president of Iran, a period of challenge has started. Iran is facing a serious financial crisis; the problem is bigger than what transpired at the time of the Shah’s overthrow and the Islamic Revolution in 1978. Raisi has claimed that he will improve the standard of living of ordinary Iranians, but has not mentioned how he will achieve that. Raisi has a history of being a zealot; he also has to contend with Israel and other neighbours. If he shows even a little bit of aggression, the chances of American sanctions against Iran being lifted will diminish. Raisi has a battle ahead of him. Jang Bahadur Singh, Jamshedpur Sir — Dibrugarh has been experiencing the most irregular power supply since July, thus greatly affecting the functioning of households. Students taking online classes suffer, as do owners of small businesses — studios, internet cafes — who depend upon regular power supply for running their outlets. The power cuts during the evening and night result in the absence of street lights which contributes to an uptick in crime around the city. It is high time the authorities took steps to improve the situation. The town dwellers deserve some relief. Kaustav Dehingia, Dibrugarh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
07-08-2021||Opinion||Portrait honour for Cipla boss Yusuf Hamied||A portrait of Yusuf Hamied, the boss of the Indian pharma company, Cipla, has been put up in the Formal Hall of his alma mater, Christ’s College, Cambridge, where he did his undergraduate degree followed by a PhD. The oil painting by Tom Phillips, a well known British artist, will have company from such old boys as the poet, John Milton, and the author of The Origin of Species, Charles Darwin. Other than Amartya Sen, whose portrait hangs in Trinity because he was its Master, this is thought to be the first time in 800 years that an Indian has been honoured in this fashion. “The [college] governing body voted unanimously to commission this portrait to honour Yusuf as a truly global representative of humanitarianism at its best,” said Jane Stapleton, the first woman to be Master of Christ’s in 500 years. “His actions have saved probably millions of lives (of AIDs patients in Africa).” At the unveiling ceremony, I had a quick word with Professor Stephen Toope, vice-chancellor of Cambridge, who said he is determined to strengthen even further the university’s “historic” links with India. ‘You’ve got (the mathematical genius, Srinivasa) Ramanujan, you’ve got many historical figures of great importance who have Cambridge links. We now have more Indian students than ever and we will continue to welcome more and more people, I hope...” Cambridge has long recognized the brilliance of Indian students, added the VC. “There’s no question we feel Indian students are often extremely well prepared across a whole range of disciplines. Obviously, in mathematics and sciences, there’s a great tradition, but equally in the humanities and the vitality of English as a medium of expression in India plays out in the great Indian students we have in history and English.” It is the nature of British journalism that once-familiar bylines disappear only to make a farewell appearance in the obituary pages. Such is the case with Simon Dring, who has died, aged 76, during a routine surgery for hernia. In March 1971, Dring, then a 26-year-old reporter with The Daily Telegraph in London, filed an exclusive front page story from Dhaka, revealing the genocide carried out by the Pakistan army. Unlike 200 other foreign correspondents flown out by Pakistan, Dring hid and went around the city with AP photographer, Michel Laurent. Dring’s report — ‘Tanks Crush Revolt in Pakistan. 7,000 slaughtered’ — amounted to a first draft of history. Nine months later, following Pakistan’s defeat at the hands of India, Dring caught up with Major Siddiqui, a Pakistani intelligence officer who had liaised with the press. Now one of 93,000 PoWs, he told Dring that had he been caught, the Pakistani army would have killed him to prevent the story of mass killings getting out. “And it’s true, they could not have afforded to let us out,” Dring reflected later. “They could easily have found a way to have us killed, and our bodies left on the street. And they would have got away with it.” Simon Dring had moved on to the BBC by the time I joined The Daily Telegraph but Ann Morrow, who has died, aged 86, was an impossibly glamorous figure for us junior reporters. As the paper’s royal correspondent, she travelled the world with the Queen. But what impressed me most was Ann’s friendship with the former princes of India. To remember Ann, a lovely colleague, I have this week been reading her book, Highness: The Maharajahs of India. Her best contact was probably Fatehsinghrao Prataprao Gaekwad, “a wise friend and mentor”. During cricket tours by India, he did BBC Test match commentary alongside Brian Johnston, who called him ‘Prince’. But to Western friends, Ann reveals, he was known as ‘Jackie’. Arvind Singh of Mewar, the Maharajah of Jodhpur, the Nawab of Pataudi and Dr Karan Singh (“any moron can be a Maharajah but not everyone can be a doctor”) all grace her book. I recall that Ann and her friend, Trevor Turner, Air India’s PRO in London, raised money for the Mathieson Music School in Calcutta. When Kate Middleton married Prince William in 2011, the bride’s parents, Michael and Carole Middleton, invited their local Indian sub-postmaster, Hasmukh Shingadia, and his wife, Chandrika, to the wedding in Westminster. When I drove to their village — Upper Bucklebury in West Berkshire — Hasmukh said he did not know what to give as a gift. So I arranged for two outfits by Indian designers to be couriered to Hasmukh. One was a silver chain dress by Calcutta girl, Rishti Diwan, who now lives in California. “Kate’s father had picked them up,” Hasmukh had confirmed. I was shocked when Hasmukh was convicted of stealing £16,000 from the Post Office in 2011. He was spared jail but given a two-year suspended sentence — and humiliated. A few days ago, an appeals court ruled Hasmukh was innocent — it was the Post Office Horizon computer system which had been at fault. In all, 736 sub-postmasters across the country were wrongly convicted in similar fashion in what has been called “one of the biggest scandals in British legal history”. What is also a scandal is that under pressure from lawyers, Hasmukh was forced to plead guilty to a crime he hadn’t committed. Calcutta should avoid London’s mistake of allowing too many basement structures because there is nowhere for the water to escape after heavy rains. Last month, London had two flash floods which inundated large parts of the city. Climate change is here, and in a worst-case scenario, experts say the Palace of Westminster could end up 30 feet under water; they have even issued a picture to illustrate the nightmarish scenario.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
07-08-2021||Opinion||Up for grabs||India is up for grabs. A minister is accused of building illegally on tea garden land; the 21-acre sprawl of Calcutta’s prized Agri Horticultural Gardens may be the next target of criminal rapacity disguised as ‘development’, that much abused word that has sneaked into and corrupted all Indian languages; news reports bristle with imposters swindling the unsuspecting out of their life’s savings. Emails scream for help. A mother wails that her daughter will die unless treated at once, a father pleads he cannot afford to continue his son’s schooling. Banks warn of fraudsters. There is no concealing the threadbare social fabric of a country awaiting the 74th anniversary of Independence. What The Economist calls India’s “Billionaire Raj” sprouted 40 new billionaires during the pandemic while 230 million more workers and villagers grovelled in the dust of jobless penury. Narendra Modi accused the Opposition of “insulting” democracy as his government adopted 12 bills by voice vote without debate in less than seven minutes. A former MLA charged with arson was welcomed into the Bharatiya Janata Party; the BJP MP whose house he is charged with firing (both were then active in other parties) said she was “stunned”. Health and education remain the most neglected spheres of official responsibility, presumably because politicians cannot wring any dividend from them in the short run. Pictures of the dead and dying, of coronavirus patients gasping for breath outside hospitals too packed to admit them, jostling for oxygen cylinders, cremation fires smouldering night and day, and the Ganga heavy with bloated corpses competed with illustrations of the proposed Rs 1,000-crore Ram temple at Ayodhya and the Central Vista project estimated to cost Rs 20,000 crore. The veteran diplomat, Jagat Singh Mehta, foreign secretary from 1976 to 1979, thought Singapore was “the only former colony to make a success of independence.” Other countries also sometimes stumble in the first flush of self-government. Some, like Myanmar, squander their inheritance even more flamboyantly. But India’s progress is steadily downhill. Calcutta’s La Martinière, my old school founded in 1836, plagued by resignations, dismissals, pecuniary allegations, lawsuits and, now, even apparently by a replica school, seems to mirror the present-day plight of many hoary institutions that worked smoothly for some years after 1947. Unfashionable though he be, Winston Churchill’s prescience comes to mind each time I get less and less petrol for my 500-rupee note. “Power will go into the hands of rascals, rogues, and freebooters,” he warned. “Not a bottle of water or loaf of bread shall escape taxation; only the air will be free...” Some of his doubts were shared even by a well-wisher like Philip Mason who regretted after 19 years in the Indian Civil Service that Garhwalis imagined a motor road would solve all their problems “just as many people thought independence would solve the problems of India”. Those idealists expected selfless patriots to take over the reins of government and rule for the public good. They did not take into account the venality that exploded in the great ghee scandal of 1917 when Lord Ronaldshay, Bengal’s governor, noted the “electrifying” spectacle of nearly 5,000 Brahmins desperately cleansing themselves by the Hooghly because the pious Hindu traders who monopolized the ghee trade (and whose successors brandish the Hindutva flag today) did not scruple to adulterate ghee with tallow from forbidden meats. Nor did they anticipate the electoral numbers game throwing up a larger-than-life latter-day Ozymandias, king of kings, to dissipate public funds for posterity to “Look on my works ye Mighty, and despair!” Being an earthy politician with his ear to the ground, Churchill spotted “the crowd of rich Bombay merchants and millionaire millowners, millionaires on sweated labour” surrounding Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. “What are they doing there, these men, and what is he [Gandhi] doing in their houses?” Churchill wondered. He answered himself. “They are making arrangements that the greatest bluff, the greatest humbug and the greatest betrayal shall be followed by the greatest ramp” in a future scarred by “[n]epotism, back-scratching, graft and corruption in every form”. Churchill’s miscalculation was to equate post-British India with China, which he stupidly dismissed as a “barbaric nation”. But ever the pragmatist, he would probably have welcomed Britain’s current dependence on Chinese investment, trade and tourists as readily as he later hailed Jawaharlal Nehru as the “Light of Asia”. He might even have acknowledged that the thin veneer of parliamentary protocol that passes for Indian democracy has no bearing on political morality, administrative competence or economic growth. A shocking non-system of public schooling, neglected medical care, and stagnant employment opportunities explain the stampede to migrate to Britain, Australia and the United States of America. This constant exodus of talent is the most damning indictment of India’s failure as a modern nation state. Ostentatious statuary and reinventing perfectly serviceable existing wheels with grandiose civic architecture are shameful distractions like counting the same heads of expenditure over and over again in so-called relief packages. Snooping, over which the 15 Opposition parties are so exercised, is also obnoxious but as ancient as Statecraft even if the Pegasus spyware is more sophisticated than any previous apparatus. At one time, the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Spain's prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, and the Brazilian president, Dilma Rousseff, were among dozens of global leaders whose telephones and emails American intelligence agencies tapped when they were not listening in on the private conversations of their own president, Barack Obama. Nehru didn’t write a letter for posting in India for 25 years without realizing it would be read “by some secret service censor”. He knew, too, that all his telephone conversations were tapped. Ironically, a British historian later disclosed that Nehru’s own intelligence chief, B.N. Mullick, “remained remarkably close” to MI5 even after political relations between New Delhi and London became chilly. Official duplicity and secretiveness certainly deserve exposure but the lack of thrift, decency and objectivity in governance does more practical harm than breaches of notional democracy. The persecution of civil servants who may not toe the line, the favours showered on those who do, the studied avoidance of the media, and the scorn for legislative propriety evident in the refusal to answer the Opposition’s questions do not enhance respect for authority. Whether or not democracy is the worst form of government except for all the others, it is not an end in itself. It is the means of sharing authority, distributing wealth equitably, and achieving what Bhutan’s king, Jigme Singye Wangchuck, dubbed “Gross National Happiness”. It cannot coexist with the contempt for the multitude implicit in the comment by Narayan Prasad, a BJP legislator in Bihar, that since “common people mostly use buses” they are not affected by spiralling petrol prices and will “get used to it” if they are. Such episodes reveal an utter disrespect for the public, both individually and collectively. A similar disregard might explain rumours of the Life Insurance Corporation of India being privatized. Normally, private ownership means vigorous growth but dismembering the LIC would risk hundreds of crores of investment and threaten the savings of some 300 million policyholders. It would be like allowing avaricious businessmen to make money out of the garden that is the proud legacy in Calcutta of William Carey who founded India’s first degree-awarding university, translated the Ramayana into English, and the Bible into Bengali, Oriya, Assamese, Marathi, Hindi and Sanskrit. Politicians can afford to treat people with disdain by pandering to the most retrograde prejudices of the lowest denominator of majority opinion. They have the “Billionaire Raj” behind them: it shares the loot for India is up for grabs. There is little to celebrate this August 15 as the country trembles on the brink of a third wave complicated by the Delta variant and, possibly, other deadly mutations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
07-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Toy stories||For adults, play is a break from work. For children, play is life, and toys are the tools of early learning, often influencing their way of envisaging the future. A revealing study of more than 7,300 toys by the sociologist, Elizabeth Sweet, from the California State University discovered that gender-based toys from the 1920s onwards pushed the case for traditional labour roles: the “little homemaker” for girls and the “young man of industry” for boys. Ironically, Barbie — the original ‘influencer’ who set unrealistic standards of beauty for young girls long before Instagram filters came around — was conceived to challenge these stereotypes. An independent supermodel, Barbie was supposed to show girls that they could have a career other than home-making. Unfortunately, Barbie ended up conforming to damaging ideas of beauty, equating it with harmful body proportions and, tellingly, whiteness. But over the last few years, Mattel — the maker of Barbie — has shrewdly been giving its star doll a more inclusive, feminist makeover. From being the Malibu party girl she started her life as, Barbie is now a paleontologist, a computer engineer, a presidential candidate, an ace Japanese tennis player and, most recently, a vaccinologist. Sarah Gilbert, the scientist who designed the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid vaccine, was chosen as a model by Mattel to pay tribute to women in STEM fields. In spite of the problematic history of endorsing impossible beauty standards and sexist attitudes, Barbie may be just the doll for the job. She now comes in dizzyingly diverse and inclusive roles and avatars — wearing a hijab, with natural curly hair, in a wheelchair, and as a boxer, tractor driver and firefighter. Vaccinologist Barbie could indeed show girls everywhere that they can be whoever they want to be. But she will need help. This is because the heavy lifting in the battle against gender discrimination will also have to be done by governments and policymakers. The reasons are there for all to see. Barbie is still classified as a ‘girl toy’. A 2018 survey found that in more than half the toy stores around the world, Barbies could be found stocked on the ‘pink aisles’ meant for girls along with kitchen sets, while the ‘blue aisles’ meant for boys showcased action figures, superheroes, guns — the links with violence are unmistakable — and cars. Another study, conducted in 2017, found that while most parents thought it was a good idea for girls to play with toys “associated with the opposite gender”, few thought that this was a good idea when it came to boys. Reading between the lines would suggest that traits stereotypically associated with men — such as strength, courage and leadership — are seen as desirable and something girls should aspire to, whereas those tied to femininity — such as vulnerability, emotion and caring — are frowned upon. It is possible that Mattel brought out ‘gender-neutral’ toys in 2019 to remedy the malaise. But gender neutrality represents the absence of gender, not tolerance for a different gender expression. Emphasizing only the former devalues ‘femininity’ and those who express it. Breaking the silos that segregate gender can be a more potent lesson in inclusion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-55
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||CBI recreates Dhanbad judge crime scene ||The special team of CBI led by Additional Superintendent of police Vipin Kumar Shukla, investigating the Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand murder case on Saturday recreated the crime scene at the site of the incident near Golf Ground and also carried out the 3-D laser scanning to verify details like distances, lines of slight besides the suspect’s height and speed of vehicle. The CBI also took into custody the two arrested persons including the auto driver, Lakhan Verma and his accomplice, Rahul Verma at around 10am after visiting Dhanbad Divisional jail and commenced interrogation. The court of sub divisional judicial magistrate of Dhanbad, Shikha Agarwal had on Friday granted the duo five days remand to CBI. The CBI team, meanwhile, also continued questioning several persons as per the phone call details of the arrested duo ahead of the incident. The members of the CBI team engaged in recreation of the crime scene accompanied by personnel of its scientific department, central forensic science laboratory (CFSL) carried out their operation at the site of the incident for around three hours from 11.30am to 2.15pm. They also collected some samples including soil samples and some grass on which the blood stains of judge Uttam Anand had dropped after he fell down on the ground on being hit by the auto rickshaw on July 28. The 3-D laser scanning helps to create highly accurate models of crime scenes as the non intrusive technique helps the investigators prevent contamination of the scene which in turn helps the investigators, lawyers and judges to walk through the scene at any time and verify details like distances and lines of sight etc. 3-D scans when stitched with photos or video stills taken at the site helps to add points of interest to investigators and better understand what specificities of crime scene they are looking for. The stitching of the photos of video stills also helps to carry out the height analysis and speed analysis. Though, none of CBI team members present at the site refused to formally interact with the media but during informal interaction they hinted that the 3 D laser scanning of the crime scene recreation was carried out on Saturday in order to present the facts in the court during the hearing of the case. Notably, members of District level SIT under the leadership of Manoj Swargiyar the Additional Superintendent of Police of Dhanbad also recreated the crime scene on July 31 as part of the investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||MGM hospital introduces resuscitation trolley at emergency ward||The MGM medical college hospital will soon introduce a resuscitation trolley at the general emergency consisting of an ambu bag, life-saving drugs and other emergency medical equipment. The decision to keep the resuscitation trolley was taken by the new superintendent Arun Kumar on Saturday after he visited the hospital's emergency ward. The resuscitation trolley has already been brought in the emergency ward of the medical college hospital and is being set up with the necessary equipment and life-saving drugs. "There are a lot of negativities in this medical college hospital, which is visited mainly by poor patients. But we have to give a facelift to the hospital so that patients hailing from weaker sections of the society may come over here for a viable treatment. This is the reason we want to revive its overall standard by beginning with the hospital emergency ward," said Dr Kumar to The Telegraph Online. He said as the hospital emergency is the place where critical patients, including crime and accident victims are brought, they would try the best possible treatment as quickly as possible so that patients' lives can be saved. He stressed that a serious patient can be saved only if the necessary treatment is provided on time and for making this possible an arrangement like a resuscitation trolley is necessary. The superintendent said after reviving the general emergency, they would pay attention to the emergencies of the Gynaecology department and Paediatric department. He pointed out they would first rectify every small aspect relating to the treatment of patients and later focus on areas like cleanliness and security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand minister reaches out to students protesting over JAC grades ||The Jharkhand education minister asked students on Saturday not to resort to protests to express their displeasure over the marks they had obtained in the state board exams, his appeal coming a day after police were forced to lathicharge an unruly students' rally in Dhanbad. Talking to reporters at his home, Jagarnath Mahto asked unsuccessful candidates of exams conducted by Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) to refrain from being influenced by certain groups and write to the JAC grievance cell. “Protesting on streets isn't justified. If anyone isn’t satisfied with the results, he/she can apply for scrutiny with the JAC grievance cell. If any deserving student has failed, his/her results will certainly be rectified. Also, unsuccessful students always have the option of appearing for supplementary exams, ” he said. Mahto did not specifically mention the Dhanbad lathicharge. On Friday, a team of officials from the Dhanbad district administration and police resorted to lathicharge to disperse a group of plus-two examinees when they were trying to forcibly enter the district collectorate to meet health minister Banna Gupta who was holding a review meeting with senior officials. Some of the students were arrested for trying to break furniture. The incident led to an uproar on social media with many demanding that the officials responsible for the lathiharge be pulled up. The Opposition BJP also criticised chief minister Hemant Soren. On Saturday too several student groups protested against JAC, calling its evaluation process faulty. The JAC, however, defended its 80:20 evaluation pattern based on marks obtained in class 9, 11 school exams and practicals or interneal assesments. JAC secretary Mahip Kumar Singh said this year’s results were historic _ matric pass percentage 95.92, intermediate science 86.89, commerce 90.33, and arts 90.71. “This year’s results were the best ever for the state in both matric and intermediate. Of around 8 lakh students, only around 35,000 had failed. We request these students to enroll for supplementary exams,” he said. On Saturday, JAC began enrolment for supplementary exams. The last date for enrollment is August 19. “After the enrolment, we will announce the date. Even those have passed can appear in the supplementary exams to improve their grades. Most important, the final results will not mention supplementary,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Activists, BJP leaders call for action against lathicharge on protesting students||Student activists of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parshiad on Saturday carried out a massive protest against the Dhanbad police lathicharge on plus two examinees of Jharkhand Academic Council by staging dharna at several places across the district. The protesting student leaders who were joined by senior leaders of BJP including Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha and Sanjay Jha district vice president carried out slogan shouting against the district administration, state government and Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Kumar demanding immediate action against him. A group of protesters congregated at Randhir Verma Chowk marched to the district collectorate at around 1 pm and tried to enter the building when police carried out a lathicharge against them. Dhanbad SSP Sanjeev Kumar reached the site after Saturday’s police action and tried to pacify the agitated student leaders but they continued shouting slogans against the police. The students were adamant on their demand for action against the Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Kumar who led the lathicharge carried out against the students. Talking to the media at Randhir Verma Chowk of Dhanbad, Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha said, “The barbaric lathicharge carried out by Sub Divisional officer, Surendra Kumar against the students, including the girl students was a black day in the history of Dhanbad.” “Though, we will demand the government to solve the problems being faced by the plus two examinees of JAC but we are here today to demand immediate dismissal of the Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad who showed his might against the female students and carried out lathicharge himself against them,” said Sinha. District vice president of BJP, Sanjay Kumar Jha said, “We have congregated here to extend support of peaceful dharna organised by students and though the issue being raised by plus two examinees is between them and government but we demand action on the sub divisional officer of Dhanbad who has proved to be mentally unstable and not worthy of the post through his action against the students yesterday.” Shadab Ansari , a Dhanbad based young lawyer, has raised the issue of lathicharge against the girl students by the Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad before the National Human Rights Commission. “The barbaric action against the students is not at all justified and also illegal  and thus we have raised the issue before the National Human Rights Commission,” said Ansari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Class 9 -12 teachers to be vaccinated on priority by August 10 in Jharkhand||The state health department has directed the deputy commissioners of all 24 districts of Jharkhand to ensure that the second dose of the vaccine is administered to teachers of class 9 to 12 on priority by August 10 and ensure that no teacher starts visiting schools unless he/she is fully vaccinated. “It has come to light that some teachers of classes 9 to 12 have not received both doses of vaccine against Covid-19. In such circumstances, all the district education officers are hereby directed to ensure complete vaccination of such teachers on priority basis through special drives by August 10,” a letter from National Health Mission (NHM) Director Umashankar Singh, dated August 6, stated. The directive comes close on the heels of the state government’s decision of reopening in-person classes for students of class 9 to 12 in schools across Jharkhand. In a recent meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), a host of relaxations were announced according to whihc schools and coaching institutes were allowed to hold offline classes for senior students from August 2. “As per Covid protocol, only such teachers who have been completely vaccinated should be allowed to visit schools and take classes as a precautionary measure,” the letter further stated. Most of the teachers in government and private schools have received at least one dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 in Jharkhand, said health officials, claiming that special vaccination drives were run in different schools to ensure that teachers get vaccinated. A few teachers, mostly those below the age of 45 years, have only been partially-vaccinated and were waiting for their second jab, said an official, adding that such teachers would be vaccinated on priority so that they can take in-person classes in schools. The government’s decision of reopening schools for students of classes 9 to 12 has drawn a mixed response from parents and academicians amid the fear of a possible third wave of the pandemic. Experts have also warned that the third wave may mostly affect children and the state should take extra precautions to keep them safe. Schools have remained closed for regular classes since the pandemic first hit Jharkhand in March 2020. While in-person classes for some students were allowed after the first wave, the government had to again close schools as the second wave of the pandemic hit the state. As per government data, the state has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to at least 80 lakh residents and the second dose to around 20 lakh residents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh mega LPG plant to begin operations in April 2022||An LPG bottling plant in Hazaribagh will begin operations by April next year and will supply cylinders to Hazaribagh, Koderma, Giridih, Chatra, Palamu, Deoghar, Dumka, Godda, Sahibgunj, Pakur as well as districts of other states including Bihar and Odisha. The ambitious, Rs.161.5crore project of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited(HPCL), will be completed in a couple of months in Barhi spread across 26acres of land. Barhi is known for intersection of three national highways including GT road and Ranchi-Patna Highway(NH-33), 40km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. On November 1, 2019, the foundation laying for this project was done here with the aim to start the plant by April.2021. The then Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, former chief minister Raghubar Das, and former union minister of tribal affairs Arjun Munda were present during the online ceremony. But it got delayed due to covid but now officials said work is going on a warfooting to start this plant in next few months. Project engineer Kshitiz Gupta said this plant was made with advance security facililties and modern techniques. “Those working here will get insurance cover also,” he added. According to him, civil construction work has been completed and the final stage of mechanical and electrical work is in progress. “We will start this bottling plant by April.2022,” he said. The plant will have the capacity to refill 45,000 LPG cylinders daily and store 1050 metric ton of gas in the tanks constructed here.  Officials said at this plant, different types of LPG cylinders will get refilled including 5kg, 14kg, 19kg, 35kg and 45kg. The plant will also employ around 150 local youths. “We kept visiting the plant and have been told that only 30 per cent work is left for completion of project, “said one of the youths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Railways starts trial stoppage of special trains in Odisha||The South Eastern Railway on Saturday announced the stoppage of several special trains on an experimental basis at Bamra in Odisha. Railway officials at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway said such a decision was taken keeping in view the demand of passengers. It has been decided that Howrah-Ahmedabad Special  ( 02834/02833) and  Rourkela-Bhubaneswar Special ( 02861/02862)  will stop at Bamra while another train Rajendranagar-Durg Special (03288/03287) will stop at Bamra as well as Bagdehi, also in Odisha  on an experimental basis upto August 31. The decision will be implemented from Sunday. According to a schedule released by the office of chief passenger transportation manager ( ( CPTM),  the Howrah-Ahmedabad Special which runs via Tatanagar railway station will arrive at Bamra at 6.54 am and will depart at 6.55 am. In the opposite direction, the Ahmedabad-Howrah Special will arrive at Bamra at 5.54 am and will depart at 5.55 am. The Rourkela-Bhubaneswar Special will arrive at Bamra at 6.11 am and depart at 6.12 am. In the opposite direction, the Bhubaneswar-Rourkela Special will arrive at Bamra at 8.01pm and will depart at 8.02 pm. The Rajendranagar-Durg Special will arrive at Bamra at 12.09 pm and Bagdehi at 12.20 pm . In both the stations the train will have a stoppage of one minute. In the opposite direction, the Durg-Rajendranagar Special will arrive Bagdehi at 1.57 pm and Bamra at 2.08 pm. In the return direction too the train will have stoppages of one minute at both the stations. On getting a good response the stoppages would be made permanent, said a SER spokesman. SER registers remarkable growth in freight earning South Eastern Railway has loaded 64.96 million tonnes ( MT ) of freight in the first four months i.e. April to July of the current financial year ( 2021-22), registering a growth of 42.08 per cent in comparison with the corresponding period of last financial year. There is also a rise of 49.44 per cent in originating freight revenue in comparison to the first four months of the last fiscal. During April to July 2021, the revenue generation from originating freight loading was Rs 5327.54 crores against Rs. 3565.03 crores in the same period of the previous year. The main commodities of freight led during the first four months of 2021-22 comprised iron-ore, coal, pig iron, finished steel, cement, fertilizer and petroleum products. SER has loaded 37.14 million tonnes of iron-ore during this period, which is 31 more than the corresponding period of previous fiscal. Despite the pandemic situation especially during the first two months of the current financial year, SER has continued with freight transportation to keep the supply chain intact and has registered a steady growth both in loading and revenue generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants begin migratory journey to Bengal ||Elephants at Dalma wildlife sanctuary have begun their annual migratory journey to Bengal as around a dozen left for the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura on Thursday. Other jumbos would also follow them as the elephants usually migrate to the neighbouring state in August-September. "The elephants have started moving to Bengal even though there is abundance of food and water at the sanctuary. Most of the elephants are presently scattered inside the sanctuary while a few are at the foothills,” a forester said. He added that food would not be an issue as ample vegetation grows along the migratory corridor. "The trackers spotted around a dozen elephants, including calves on the migration route to Bengal," the forester said on condition of anonymity. Villagers living along the corridors have been asked to be vigilant and not tease the elephants. The elephants migrate to Bengal via two designated corridors – one from Jhunjka, leading to Nutandih, and the other from Burudih, passing through Narsingpur, Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said most of the elephants are expected to leave the sanctuary this month. "Some elephants remain anchored at the sanctuary throughout the year as they don't migrate. The elephants would be back to their Dalma home by February-March next year," he added. Jumbos, who thrive in peaceful environments, had migrated early to Bengal in 2018 as well, owing to an encounter between Maoists and paramilitary forces that affected their normal schedule. Herds had also migrated to Bengal early (July) last year. Dalma elephants may extend their stay in the neighbouring state if water and food is found in abundance. They also stay anchored to a place on the return journey for the same reason. But usually, the pachyderms return to their abode in February-March. Depending upon their mood, jumbos may also go back home in January.Elephants kill man in Seraikela A 52-year-old old man was trampled to death by a herd of elephants in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan on Friday morning. The deceased, Kalicharan Mardi, along with his three children, had gone to Kanki jungles under Kandra thana to pluck leaves for goats when he came across the herd. His children ran away but Mardi was trampled by the elephants. He died on the spot. The forest team is bursting crackers to drive away the herd which is anchored at Kanki jungles for around a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand announces Rs 50 lakh each for Salima, Nikki ||Impressed by the spirited  performance of the Indian women's hockey team in the Tokyo Olympics, chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday announced a reward of  Rs 50 lakh each to Salima Tete and Nikki Pradhan, two players from the state who were part of the squad. Announcing his appreciation on Twitter, he also said that the state government would also rebuild/ refurbish their houses  with concrete (pucca). "Even though our women hockey team missed out from winning bronze, they displayed an exceptional game during the Olympics. Our players (from Jharkhand) in the team also exhibited excellent performance. The state government has decided to give them Rs 50 lakh each and make their houses concrete (pucca) as a token of appreciation," Hemant's Hindi Tweet read in translation. Salima is from Simdega district, considered and the hockey nursery of Jharkhand. She is the third hockey player and the first woman from the district to have represented the country in the Olympics. In the past, the  legendary Michael Kindo and Sylvanus Dungung, both also from Simdega,  took part in the 1972 and 1980 Olympic Games respectively. For Nikki, Tokyo was her second consecutive participation in the Olympics. Despite a valiant comeback on Friday against Great Britan during the match for the Bronze, the  Indian women  lost the match 3-4.  However, the entire country hailed the team's efforts while putting up a spirited fight all through the tournament, especially after a poor start. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi hailed state government's announcement. "We welcome state government's announcement for the players. A few other states have also made similar announcements for their players. The entire nation, specially Jharkhand Hockey is waiting to welcome their players back home. Yes, we missed on the Bronze, but this team and its performance will be etched in history and act as an impetus for revival of  hockey among girls," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
