08-08-2021||Calcutta||Fuel supply restored to most filling stations in Calcutta||Fuel supply was restored to most filling stations in Calcutta by evening after oil transporters called off their flash strike. The strike was called by transporters who ferried fuel from Indian Oil Corporation’s depot at Mourigram in Howrah. Multiple pumps in Calcutta ran out of fuel by Friday afternoon. On Saturday, many of them got their supply of petrol and diesel. Some, however, were dry till at least afternoon on Saturday. A pump at Dhakuria was out of petrol till at least 1pm. Another at Maniktala had a ‘No Petrol’ poster around the same time. “Normality restored at Mourigram Terminal. Strike withdrawn by Transporter on request of IndianOil Management,” said an official of Indian Oil. Private transporters, who carry the fuel by oil tankers, resorted to flash strike on Wednesday, protesting a tender floated by the public sector oil company to pick truckers for the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||Schools plan to change question pattern for Classes X and XII||Several schools in the city are planning a change in the question pattern of the mid-term exams of Classes X and XII. The schools plan to include multiple choice questions (MCQs) in the exams that would test a student’s understanding of the texts and concepts of a subject. This comes after the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations on Friday announced two semesters and an exam at the end of each semester would be conducted by the council. The exam in November will be entirely an MCQ-based online examination, the council said. Several schools have mid-term exams scheduled in September. The teachers said they would have to work out the question paper in a way that would prepare the student to face the November exam. Even the teaching method has to be MCQ oriented, where at the end of each chapter students will have to be given as many questions as possible, said a teacher. Teachers said MCQs would mean more “thorough reading of the text” with no portion that can be classified as “less important” from the exam point of view. “MCQ means no one knows from where a question will be asked. The question paper in the school exam will also have to be such that there are ‘close options’ where the student has to work out, analyse, apply their knowledge and then answer,” said The Heritage School principal Seema Sapru. “While setting the question papers we have to ensure that there is at least one close but not the correct option which will make the student think and apply their knowledge,” said Joeeta Basu, economics teacher at St Xavier’s Collegiate School. Several principals said they would hold a meeting with departmental heads in the coming week to discuss how the question paper would be modified for the approaching school exam. “A new method of examination will have to be devised in keeping with the council's circular. We are planning to include MCQs for boys to get practice before November," said John Stephen, the acting principal of La Martiniere for Boys. “Usually, we have one section of short answers and another of subjective answers in the exam. We will have a meeting on Monday to decide on how much of MCQs have to be included,” he added. Schools like Loreto House, Calcutta Boys’ School, Sri Sri Academy, Loreto Convent Entally are some of the others which said on Saturday that they were planning a change in the question pattern. “MCQs involve a higher level of learning because answers can be similar at first glance,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent Entally. Many principals said the new method would mean more preparation for the teachers as well, both in terms of teaching and setting question papers. “Teachers will have to be more in-depth,” Gomes said. Basu said after the end of each chapter students would have to be given “lots of questions”. Sri Sri Academy that had already included short quiz and continuous assessment said these activities would become an integral part now. “At the end of each topic or chapter there are short quizzes or assessments to test the child’s understanding before moving to the next portion,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Teachers in some schools said a specimen question paper from a council before the school exams would help them understand the pattern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab buffer stock dilemma between CMC and State Health Dept||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation had asked the state’s health department for “a buffer stock of one lakh Covid vaccine doses”. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of corporation’s board of administrators, said on Saturday that this could help plan the CMC’s vaccination programme better and reduce chaos outside the vaccination centres. But the health department has never had a large enough stock itself to be able to provide the CMC the protection of any buffer stock, he added. Hakim’s statement on Saturday comes at a time when 152 Covid vaccination centres of the CMC had stopped vaccination from Friday owing to unavailability of Covishield vaccines. Forty other centres are administering Covaxin. Long queues of people outside CMC’s vaccination centres have been a common sight across the city. “I had asked the health secretary to give us (the CMC) a buffer stock of one lakh doses. But even he does not have that much stock of vaccine with the health department that he can give the CMC a buffer stock,” Hakim said. “We do not know the night before as to how many doses we can administer the next day. As a result, we are having problems in distributing the coupons to recipients.... We are having difficulty in managing the vaccination programme.” Officials managing Covid vaccination centres of the CMC said people standing in queues to take jabs could be informed early as to how many doses would be administered if the information was available with the officials in advance. At present, people get to know how many doses would be administered after standing in a queue for four-five hours. It is then that some of them realise doses would get exhausted before their turn came. “People are harassed as they have to wait in the queue without any knowledge whether they will get the vaccine or not. We could have displayed the number of doses to be administered the next day in a notice board if we ourselves had the clarity,” said one CMC doctor who is in charge of vaccination in a part of Calcutta. Hakim added that the CMC would require more vaccine doses as its centres did not vaccinate only Calcuttans but many from the neighbouring districts as well because their home districts did not have enough vaccination centres  compared to Calcutta. A CMC official said they had found that between 25 per  cent and 30 per cent of those who had taken the jabs from CMC’s centres were not residents of Calcutta. “The CMC will not turn away anyone who is not a resident of the city as it is bound to vaccinate anyone from the country,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||Man from Cossipore cheats dozen youths by promising govt jobs||A 30-year-old man from Cossipore allegedly cheated at least a dozen youths of several lakhs by claiming to be “very close” to Firhad Hakim, the transport and housing minister, and promising them government jobs. Ayan Barua’s name cropped up after one of those allegedly duped lodged a police complaint. The police are looking for him. “The accused has duped at least a dozen. The amounts varied between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 as first instalment,” said a senior officer of Cossipore police station. Hakim said: “I am not aware of who has cheated whom by taking my name or claiming to be close to me. But one must realise this is not the way the government offers jobs to aspirants.” A man has been arrested for allegedly making forged visas and selling them to people who were apparently unable to get visas from the respective embassies, police said. A Delhi police team jointly raided a Haridevpur apartment with Calcutta police on Friday and arrested Nand Kishore Prasad. Cops seized at least 83 passports and a document that resembles a Russian visa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||Reduced higher secondary syllabus to stay for next year||The Bengal higher secondary council has announced that it will continue with the reduced syllabus and changed question pattern for the higher secondary exams and Class XI annual exams next year. Since uncertainty looms over the reopening of schools amid the Covid pandemic, the council has decided to continue with the curtailed syllabus. A notice addressed to all the heads of institutions from the council’s secretary-in-charge Tapas Mukherjee on Friday said: “I am to inform you that the council has decided to continue with the reduced syllabus and changed question pattern for Class XI annual examination and higher secondary examination for 2022.” The school education department had in November last year announced that the syllabus would be slashed by 30 to 35 per cent because on-campus classes could not be held. An official of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education said it is still not clear when schools can reopen , which is a must for covering the whole syllabus, because the threat of the pandemic has not subsided. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that the state government will try to reopen schools on alternate days after the Puja vacation in November, subject to improvement in situation. Even if that were to happen, a substantial number of classes would be missed by then and it would not be sufficient for covering the syllabus. So, we are going ahead with the reduced syllabus,” he said. Based on the reduced syllabus, the council had in February released topic-wise division of marks for each subject for the HS 2021 exams. “This distribution would be continued in the hope that the exams would be held next year with the situation turning conducive,” the official said. In 2021, despite the council announcing the distribution of marks, the exams — scheduled for June — could not be conducted following a renewed surge in Covid cases. In the absence of on-campus exams, the council gave 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to Class XI annual exam marks and the combined weightage was added to 30-mark practical or 20-mark project to arrive at the final marks of an HS 2021 candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||CISCE: Students opt to write in-person improvement examinations||Students in many ICSE and ISC schools have opted to write in-person improvement examinations to better their scores because they felt the “imputed marks” did not do justice to their board results. In most schools, ISC-cleared students have opted for improvement tests and most of them are academically strong, principals said. The schools assessed the request of candidates for improvement exams before forwarding it to the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). The number of applications for improvement exams at the ISC level is seven in Don Bosco School, Park Circus, four each in La Martiniere for Boys, St Xavier’s Collegiate School, St James’ School, Sri Sri Academy, five in Delhi Public School New Town, two in Our Lady Queen of the Missions School in Salt Lake and one in Calcutta Girls’ High School. Two students opted for the improvement exam at the ICSE level in Assembly of God Church School, Park Street. “Some good students did not score as we expected them to but not all of them have opted for improvement,” said Sister Sherly Sebastian, the principal, Our Lady Queen of the Missions School in Salt Lake. School marking is “strict” and many students put in their best efforts after the pre boards. But they did not get an opportunity to write the exams this time, she said. The council had cancelled the ICSE and ISC exams this year because of the pandemic. “Some students are not satisfied with their imputed marks,” said John Stephen, the acting principal of La Martiniere for Boys. Schools, however, did not forward all the requests that came from students “When students came to us wanting to apply for an improvement exam we studied their results in the past two years (XI and XII). We noticed a huge deviation from the marks they have scored in school,”said Sri Sri Academy principal Suvina Shunglu. The council had extended the date to apply for improvement tests from August 1 to August 4. Candidates “who are not satisfied with the result awarded to them using the CISCE’s Scheme for ICSE & ISC Year 2021 Examinations, may get themselves registered” for the improvement exams, it said. On Friday, the council published the timetable for both improvement and compartment exams scheduled from August 16. Many ISC students of various schools have also applied for “dispute resolution” to check any calculation error in their marks. “Students have been enquiring as to when they will receive the marks because the college applications have started,” said Sonali Sen, the principal of Delhi Public School New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
08-08-2021||Calcutta||City markets coming back to life||Slowly but surely, the markets are coming back to life. Bolstered by vaccines and tired of staying home, several Calcuttans are returning to their favourite places. Finding a parking slot at malls is a tough task and a walk across Gariahat pavements is not as breezy as it was a couple of months ago. Retailers said business was on the rise and with the festive season two months away, footfall would only go up. Metro stations are busy even during the non-peak hours. Around 2 lakh people are taking the trains every day. Stations closer to markets, like Kalighat and Shyambazar, are back to being busy even during non-peak hours. People’s incomes have not gone up suddenly. But having stayed indoors for such a long time, people have some spare cash that they can spend. Retailers and mall staffers said purchase was need-based last year. But this time, people are visiting malls for an outing like they did before. Familiar feel Late afternoon on Friday, the pavements in Gariahat were busy. A handful of hawkers were still sitting idle, some of them fidgeting with their phones. But many were busy. A walk along the pavement from Traders’ Assembly to Ballygunge AC Market meant wriggling past buyers. Bargaining bouts, typical of the hawkers’ enclave that sells everything from trinkets to crockeries, were back at many stalls. A woman wanted a couple of doormats at a stall. The shopkeeper started by asking for Rs 400. The woman offered Rs 250. The deal was finally settled at Rs 310. At a stall right in front of Traders’ Assembly, three women were checking out bags. Two of them bought a bag each after around scouring nearly half of the stock. “Things are not as gloomy as they used to be. When I reopened in the middle of June, I would be busy swatting flies for most of the day. Making the first sale would often take three to four hours. That has changed. But the Puja rush has not started yet,” said Bappa Pal, who sells crockeries. A bulk of the customers at Gariahat comprised mothers of children at schools in and around the Gariahat-Ballygunge area and female college students. With schools and colleges shut, that clientele is largely absent. Swapan Saha, who sells earrings, trinkets and imitation jewellery, said he would sell stuff worth Rs 3,000 to 4,000 on an average day two months before the Puja till 2019. “Now, it is around Rs 1,000. But after reopening last year, or even a month ago, I would struggle to get two to three customers every day. So, I am not complaining,” he said. Malls Around 6pm on Friday, only a few slots were remaining at the parking area on the second floor of South City Mall. “You will not get any after half an hour,” said a security guard manning the entry point from the parking lot. Though not packed to the hilt, the mall was still busy. “Sale” posters adorned almost every store. People, young and old, kept moving in and out of the stores with bags in hand. Ditto at Quest Mall an hour later. “Things have been looking bright for the past few weeks. The festive season rush has just started. People are buying in bulk, after a long time,” said Krishnendu Tiwari, the manager of a premium menswear store. “Before the pandemic, our daily sales volume in July would be around Rs 1 lakh. Last month, it was around Rs 70,000, which is not bad at all, considering the circumstances,” he said. An employee of a kids apparel store in Quest Mall said people had started Puja shopping. “Last year, buying was low-volume. Even for kids, people bought only one or a pair of clothes. That seems to have changed. People are buying in bulk,” said the man. Many retailers said they noticed a change in the buying pattern. Purchase was entirely utility-driven in June and a better part of July. Now, retailers said they were getting flying customers as well. “Friday and Saturday are the best days for business. On Sundays, the mall footfall is huge but that does not translate into business. But it is a relief to see so many people,” said a repre¬ sentative of a chain of bags and accessories, with stores at South City and Mani Square.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-25
08-08-2021||Business||DGCA asks airlines to submit report on rising international airfare||Aviation regulator DGCA has asked the airlines to submit details about the airfares they have been charging for India-UK flights during August, a senior official said on Sunday. On Saturday, Sanjeev Gupta, Secretary, Inter-State Council Secretariat, Union Home Ministry, had complained on Twitter that an economy-class ticket on British Airways's Delhi-London flight for August 26 was priced Rs 3.95 lakh. He added that economy-class ticket on Delhi-London flights of Vistara and Air India for August 26 was also priced between Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 2.3 lakh amid the college admission time in the UK. Gupta said he has "alerted" Union Civil Aviation Secretary P S Kharola about this matter. A senior official of the Directorate General of Civl Aviation (DGCA) said on Sunday that the regulator has asked the airlines that operate India-UK flights currently to submit details about their fares. While there have been lower and upper limits on all domestic airfares in India since May 25 last year, no such limits have been imposed on international airfares. Vistara, which currently operates flights on Delhi-London as wells Mumbai-London route, said on Sunday: "Pricing is always a function of supply and demand. "There are only 15 flights a week allowed currently on India - UK route for Indian carriers and when there is relaxation and more capacity allowed, it will automatically bring down prices." Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 last year amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, limited special international passenger flights have been operating since July 2020 under the air bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries, including the UK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
08-08-2021||Business||Bank of Baroda reports post-tax Q1 profit of Rs 1,209 crore||State-run Bank of Baroda on Saturday reported a standalone profit after tax of Rs 1,209 crore in the quarter ended June 2021 on higher growth in net interest income (NII) and lower provisioning for bad loans. The lender had reported a net loss of Rs 864 crore on a standalone basis in the corresponding previous quarter. The bank’s managing director and CEO Sanjiv Chadha said the lender has ensured some core profitability by keeping a discipline on the liability and asset sides. On the liability side, the bank has ensured that deposit growth does not run too far ahead of the loan growth and it is composed majorly of low-cost Casa deposits. On the asset side, it has been careful that the liquidity which had impacted corporate yield does not impact its margins, and, therefore, the focus for growth was on the retail side, he said. “This tight discipline, both on the liability and asset sides, has meant that the bank has been able to report a significant improvement in its margins. Our net interest margin (global) is now more than 3 per cent and for the domestic side it is at 3.12 per cent,” he said, adding that this lays the foundation for a strong operating performance. “Consequently, the operating profit has shown a very sharp uptick with a growth of 41 per cent, and with the provisioning also contained, the net profit has moved up to more than Rs 1,200 crore,” he added. Global net interest margin (NIM) increased to 3.04 per cent from 2.52 per cent in the first quarter of FY21 led by domestic margins, which improved to 3.12 per cent from 2.59 per cent. “There would be a significant upside (in NIM in FY22) compared with last year. Last year, it was in the 2.7 per cent range and we would expect 15-20 basis points increase y-o-y in this year,” he said. NII rose 15.8 per cent to Rs 7,892 crore compared with Rs 6,816 crore. Gross non-performing assets (GNPA) ratio declined to 8.86 per cent from 9.39 per cent. Net NPA increased to 3.03 per cent from 2.83 per cent as of June 30, 2020. Fresh slippages during the quarter stood at Rs 5,129 crore. Of that, slippages in the MSME sector consisted of Rs 2,180 crore and in retail was Rs 1,245 crore. “We have been of the view from the past few quarters that there would be stress in the MSME and retail segments. It transpired little more than what we had anticipated because of the second wave, but this would be offset by corporate credit cycle improving,” Chadha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
08-08-2021||Business||Piyush Goyal calls for increasing handloom exports to Rs 10,000 crore in 3 years||Textiles minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday set an ambitious goal of increasing handloom exports four-fold to Rs 10,000 crore and of doubling production to Rs 1.25 lakh crore in the next three years. At present, handloom exports are worth Rs 2,500 crore and production is about Rs 60,000 crore. “We will go for a Rs 10,000-crore target for the export of handloom products and increase our production to Rs 1.25 lakh crore in the next three years,” he said during the celebrations for National Handloom Day. He suggested that a team be formed under the chairmanship of Sunil Sethi of the Fashion Design Council of India consisting of weavers, trainers, equipment makers, marketing experts and other stakeholders to recommend ways to promote the sector. The minister expressed the need to take handloom to the next level of growth where the sector will be able to prosper without depending much on state support. Handloom craft villages will be set up at Kanihama in J&K, Kovalam in Kerala, and Mohpara in Assam. “We have to look for new ways to boost handloom production and explore new markets,” he added. Textiles secretary U.P. Singh said the ministry is working on ways to ensure weavers get the right price for their products. “We are trying to onboard more players on GeM (government e-marketplace). Over 1.5 lakh weavers are there on GeM,” he said. FDI inflow into the textile sector fell to $298.67 million in 2020-21 from $323.52 million in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
08-08-2021||Business||Nalco net profit soars to Rs 348 crore in first quarter||National Aluminium Company Ltd (Nalco) has reported a massive jump in net profit for the first quarter ended June 2021 at Rs 347.73 crore compared with Rs 16.63 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Revenue from operations was up 79.2 per cent at Rs 2,474.55 crore against Rs 1,380.63 crore in the year-ago period. The impressive numbers were propelled by strong demand, higher volumes, better realisation and effective capacity utilisation of its operational units, Nalco said. During the quarter, the production of bauxite came in at 17.61 lakh tonnes (17.10 lakh tonnes), alumina at 5.21 lakh tonnes (4.65 lakh tonnes) and aluminium 1.14 lakh tonnes (0.98 lakh tonnes). Sridhar Patra, chairman and managing director of Nalco, said, “Despite the challenges imposed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Nalco through strategic planning of raw materials, manpower and marketing initiatives has been able to steer towards organisational success.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
08-08-2021||Business||US Securities and Exchange Commission approves Nasdaq proposal of diversity in boards||The US Securities and Exchange Commission approved a proposal from stock exchange operator Nasdaq Inc that requires its listed companies to have diverse boards, or explain why they do not. The proposal requires that companies have two diverse directors, including one who identifies as female and another as an underrepresented minority or LGBTQ+, or explain why they do not. Companies also have to publicly disclose the diversity of their boards. “These rules will allow investors to gain a better understanding of Nasdaq-listed companies’ approach to board diversity,” said SEC Chair Gary Gensler in a prepared statement. Nasdaq said it is looking “forward to working with our companies to implement this new listing rule and set a new standard for corporate governance”. Women and minorities have been underrepresented in the top ranks of companies, leading to a recent reckoning on racial and gender diversity in Corporate America. According to data from Equilar, boards in the Russell 3000 are halfway to gender parity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
08-08-2021||India||Delhi implements Covid curbs and relaxations under GRAP stipulation||Restrictions or relaxations for any activity in Delhi in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic will from now on be implemented as stipulated by the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), said the Delhi Disaster Management Authority in an order on Sunday.  It directed all district administrations that GRAP recommendations shall be implemented with immediate effect. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will send daily alerts to all districts under a colour-coded system mentioned in the GRAP to help them take decisions.  GRAP was approved by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on July 9.  The Graded Response Action Plan takes into account three parameters -- positivity rate, cumulative new positive cases and average oxygenated bed occupancy in Delhi. Following a detailed analysis of these parameters, four colour-coded levels of alert -- yellow, amber, orange and red -- and their criteria have been recommended in the plan.  "Permitted/prohibited/restricted activities shall be as per the level of alerts specified in the Graded Response Action Plan with immediate effect and till further orders.  "As soon as any parameter (out of three) reaches the specified level of alert, 'the order of alert' shall be issued and permitted/prohibited/restricted activities prescribed at such level shall become operational automatically," the DDMA order said.  Once GRAP is activated, the additional chief secretary (health) will issue daily morning and evening bulletin regarding the level of alert. Appropriate orders would be issued separately as and when the situation warrants for imposing restrictions in respect of inter-state travel, it added.  The 'yellow' (level-1) alert will be sounded when the positivity rate crosses 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days or daily new cases increase to 1,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 500.  The next level of alert coded with amber colour (level-2) will come into force if the positivity rate rises above one per cent or new cases number 3,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaching 700.  The 'Orange' or level-3 alert will be the next stage which will kick in if the positivity rate crosses two per cent or new cases number 9,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy becomes 1,000.  While the 'red' alert, which is of the highest level will come into force if the positivity rate crosses five per cent or new cases rise to 16,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 3,000.  The DDMA directed all district magistrates, civic officials, DCPs and other authorities to "extensively disseminate" information regarding alerts for proper compliance and execution of the GRAP.  "All district magistrates shall interact and have a dialogue with resident welfare associations, market associations, mall associations, bar associations and other such bodies in their districts to circulate information in this regard.  "Principal secretary (education) and secretary (higher education) shall ensure that the guidelines regarding level of alerts are disseminated among students," the order stated.  It said all authorities concerned such as district magistrates, DCPs, zonal deputy commissioners of municipalities among others shall take necessary actions to ensure compliance of the GRAP in their areas.  The DDMA said it may make modifications in respect of GRAP or any other activities according to the situation assessed from time to time to meet exigencies in the interest of management of the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
08-08-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 45 cases of delta plus variant so far: Govt||A total of 45 cases of the Delta plus variant of coronavirus have been reported in Maharashtra during genome sequencing, the state health department said on Sunday, adding one patient had died.  At 13, the maximum number of these patients hailed from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra followed by Ratnagiri (11) in the coastal Konkan region.  "80 per cent of the samples sent for genome sequencing had tested positive for the Delta Plus variant (of coronavirus). The 45 patients are from Jalgaon (13), Ratnagiri (11), Mumbai (6), Thane (5), Pune (3), and one each from Palghar, Sindhudurg, Sangli. Nandurbar, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, and Beed," the department said in a statement.  Of these 45 samples, information about 35 patients have been taken by the health department. One death was reported while the rest of the patients reported mild to medium type symptoms, it said.  The exact number of samples sent for genome sequencing and the period during which they were analysed is not mentioned.  Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pawar informed Lok Sabha in a written reply on Friday that analysis of the genomic data is a continuous and ongoing process. Periodic updates are shared with experts and states and are also regularly made available in the public domain through the media bulletin of INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium). States are regularly advised to send samples for genome sequencing and provide clinical data of positive persons to enable greater epidemiological insights to identify the link between the surge in cases at various places to the variants, the minister stated.  Elaborating on the steps being taken to check the spread of the Delta variant, Pawar had said to monitor the variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus, initially, genomic sequencing was conducted through the National Institute of Virology, Pune.  Subsequently, the Union government established the INSACOG in December 2020 as a consortium of 10 laboratories of the Ministry of Health, Department of Biotechnology, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). The network of INSACOG laboratories has since been increased to 28, Pawar stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
08-08-2021||India||Mumbai local trains open from August 15 for fully vaccinated citizens, announces Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced that fully vaccinated citizens of Mumbai can travel in local trains from August 15.  Speaking in a live webcast, he said that those who have completed 14 days after their second dose of COVID-19 vaccine, can apply on a specially-created app for the railway pass and they can collect the same from their respective local ward offices.  "As of now 19 lakh people in Mumbai are fully vaccinated," Thackeray said, adding that those who do not have smartphones, can obtain the pass offline.  Currently, common people are not allowed to board Mumbai suburban trains, which are being operated only for the people employed in essential sectors and government services.  The chief minister also said that his government was considering to grant relaxations to shops, malls, restaurants and places of religious worship and a decision would be taken after a meeting of the task force on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Delhi Police intensifies patrolling, anti-sabotage checks||Ahead of Independence Day, the Delhi Police has tightened security across the capital by intensifying patrolling, conducting anti-sabotage checks and deploying extra pickets at the border areas to thwart any untoward incident, officials said on Sunday. As part of the anti-terror measures, enhanced police presence, intensive checking at vulnerable points, checking of hotels and guest houses, SIM card and second hand car dealers, sensitisation of cyber cafe owners and verification of tenant and servant drives are being intensively carried out by all the police stations, they said. At his first crime review meeting held on Saturday ahead of Independence Day, Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana directed officials to draft the cooperation of street vendors, small shop keepers and auto drivers in a "big way" for them to act as "eyes and ears" against terrorist or criminal designs. "These common people on ground can be vigilant to act as our 'force multipliers' and form a part of our community policing to keep the city safe and secure with greater public cooperation and participation," he had said. Officials said police said legal action have been initiated against those house owners who did not get the verification of their tenant or servant done. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "Security at malls and vital installations have been increased. There is constant foot and motorcycle patrolling being done by senior officers. "Network of CCTV cameras are being strengthened. Those CCTVs which are found non-operational are being repaired and new CCTV cameras are also being installed in vital areas. Anti-sabotage checks are being carried out in malls and markets." The police said vehicles are being thoroughly checked and strict vigil is being maintained while meetings are also being conducted with members of MWAs and RWAs. In the southeast district, around 500 police personnel have been deployed to carry out verification drives and anti-sabotage checks at vital locations and heavy footfall areas, including market areas of Nehru Place and Lajpat Nagar, officials said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said, "Along with PCR vans, extra staffs are also being deployed at iconic places, including places of worship. "Patrolling has been intensified in heavy footfall areas where dog squad as well as bomb disposal squads are being used to conduct anti-sabotage checks." In north district alone, 3,060 guest houses cum hotels have been checked, 2,224 parking lots checked, 13,198 tenant verifications done, 26,986 servant and 3,356 private security guards verified so far as part of its verification drive, the police said. According to data, in north district, 302 cases have been registered against parking lots for their lapses in maintaining records, 323 cases have been filed against owners for not conducting verification of their tenants, 473 cases have been filed against owners for not carrying out verification of servants. In outer Delhi, about 6,80 cases have been registered so far against landlords for not conducting verification of their tenants and around 50 cases have been filed against those for not conducting verification of their servants, according to police. Security has also been tightened at the border areas in coordination with our counterparts as thousands of farmers are on a sit-in for over six months demanding to repeal the Centre's three agri laws, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said, "At border areas, we have deployed 24X7 pickets who are conducting thorough checking of cars, two-wheelers and trucks. The by-lanes inside the villages adjoining the borders are also being checked. "Armed police personnel are also being deployed at market areas as part of anti-terror measures besides carrying out an extensive verification drive across the district."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Assam milkmen donate part of income to help fund-starved school||In a noble gesture, nearly 2,000 milkmen of a cooperative society in Assam have decided to donate 15 paise per litre of milk sold to run the higher secondary section of a school, which has not received any government funding so far. With the funds collected through this initiative, the Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society, one of the oldest and largest dairy cooperatives of the state located in Morigaon district, two days ago handed over a cheque of Rs 1 lakh to Sitajakhala Higher Secondary School to run classes 11 and 12. "Children of our milkmen are students of this school. The lower level of the school was provincialised (taken over by the government) in 1986. "However, the higher secondary level is still operating in venture mode, facing acute financial hardship. The condition of the school moved the parents, who are engaged with us as milkmen, to donate a portion of their income," Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society chairman Ranjib Sarma told PTI. After some discussions, more than 2,000 milkmen agreed to donate 15 paise per litre of milk sold to the school to fund their children's education, he added. "With the support of the milkmen, the Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society has declared a financial aid of Rs 1 lakh every year to the higher secondary section of the school till it is pprovincialised by the government," Sarma said. He also said that guardians of the students are urging the government to open vocational courses on basic agriculture in the school. Headmaster of the educational institute Uttam Deka appealed to the government to come forward and support it in its endeavour to impart quality education to children of the Gobha tribal belt in Morigaon. "We are thankful to Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society for helping us with the financial aid. This initiative will go a long way in sustaining the school," he added. Talking about the dairy business, Sarma said the society faced tremendous hardship during the pandemic, but the situation is gradually improving now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Get Covid jab certificate on WhatsApp ‘within seconds’||Covid-19 jab seekers will no longer need to log on to CoWin portal to download their vaccination certificate. Thanks to the Union Health Ministry’s move Covid vaccination certificate can now be obtained using WhatsApp within seconds. The significant move comes at a time many states have been demanding for a jab certificate for inter-state travel. Similar proof for vaccination is also sought as by people hosting events. The move will thereby make it easier for individuals to get certificates from CoWIN vaccination portal, which often suffers from technical glitches. According to a NDTV report, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, maintained that those keen on downloading the certificate would need to send a WhatsApp message to a number, following which it would receive it. “Revolutionising common man's life using technology! Now get #COVID19 vaccination certificate through MyGov Corona Helpdesk in 3 easy steps. Save contact number: +91 9013151515. Type & send ‘covid certificate’ on WhatsApp. Enter OTP. Get your certificate in seconds,” the Health Minister’s office tweeted. According to the report, many who have tried using the procedure got incorrect results. Few complained that the date mentioned for both the doses were the same. While a few were informed that they were yet to be vaccinated despite having received both doses. The ministry’s latest move as been appreciated by all, across the political aisle. Thiruvananthapuram MP and senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor described the process as ‘simple and fast’ mentioned the report. “I've always acknowledged & praised the Government when it merits it. As a critic of #Cowin, let me say they've done something terrific. Send a @WhatsApp message "download certificate" to 90131 51515, receive OTP & get your vaccination certificate back by @WhatsApp. Simple&fast!,” tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi to chair UNSC meeting on maritime security tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a high-level open debate on "Enhancing Maritime Security A Case for International Cooperation" on Monday via video conferencing. His office said on Sunday the meeting is expected to be attended by several heads of state and government of member states of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), and high-level briefers from the UN system and key regional organisations. "Modi would be the first Indian prime minister to preside over a UN Security Council Open Debate," the Prime Minister's Office said. The open debate will focus on ways to effectively counter maritime crime and insecurity, and strengthen coordination in the maritime domain. The UN Security Council has discussed and passed resolutions on different aspects of maritime security and maritime crime, the PMO noted. However, this will be the first time that maritime security will be discussed in a holistic manner as an exclusive agenda item in such a high level open debate, it added. "Given that no country alone can address the diverse aspects of maritime security, it is important to consider this subject in a holistic manner in the United Nations Security Council. A comprehensive approach to maritime security should protect and support legitimate maritime activities, while countering traditional and non-traditional threats in the maritime domain," it said. The oceans have played an important part in India's history right from the time of the Indus Valley civilisation, it noted, adding that based on the country's civilisational ethos that see the seas as an enabler of shared peace and prosperity, Modi had put forward the vision of SAGAR - an acronym for "Security and Growth for all in the Region" in 2015. This vision focuses on cooperative measures for sustainable use of the oceans, and provides a framework for a safe, secure, and stable maritime domain in the region. In 2019, at the East Asia Summit, this initiative was further elaborated through the Indo-Pacific Oceans' Initiative (IPOI) with a focus on seven pillars of maritime security including Maritime Ecology; Maritime Resources; Capacity Building and Resource Sharing; Disaster Risk Reduction and Management; Science, Technology and Academic Cooperation; and Trade Connectivity and Maritime Transport, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||MHA asks states to stop usage of plastic tricolour for I-Day Celebration||Ahead of the Independence Day celebration, the Centre has asked states to ensure people don't use plastic national flags as ensuring appropriate disposal of the tricolour made of non-biodegradable item is a practical problem. In a communication to all states and union territories, the Union Home Ministry said the national flag represents hopes and aspirations of the people of the country and hence should occupy a position of honour. “There is universal affection and respect for, and loyalty to, the national flag. Yet, a perceptible lack of awareness is often noticed amongst people as well as organisations/agencies of the government, in regard to laws, practices and conventions that apply to display of the national flag,” it said. It told the states and UTs that on the occasions of important national, cultural and sports events, the national flags made of plastic are also being used in place of national flags made of paper. Since, plastic flags are not biodegradable like paper flags, these do not get decomposed for a long time and ensuring appropriate disposal of national flags made of plastic commensurate with the dignity of the flag is a practical problem, it said. "You are, therefore, requested to ensure that on the occasions of important national, cultural and sports events, flags made of paper only are used by the public in terms of the provisions of the 'Flag Code of India, 2002' and such paper flags are not discarded or thrown on the ground after the event," the Home Ministry said. Such flags are to be disposed of, in private, consistent with the dignity of the flag, it said. A copy each of 'The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971' and the 'Flag Code of India, 2002', which govern the display of national flag, was also enclosed along with the home ministry letter. Such communications were issued previously also.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India|| Indo-Tibetan Border Police inducts first women officers in combat||The India-China LAC guarding the Indo-Tibetan Border Police force on Sunday commissioned its first two women officers in combat after they completed their training in Mussourie. A total of 53 officers graduated from the ITBP officers' training academy located in Mussoorie after a passing out parade was held, with Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami officiating as the chief guest. A first-ever 'History of ITBP' book with 680-pages containing many unknown facts and photographs of the border guarding force was also released by Dhami along with ITBP director general S S Deswal. Dhami and Deswal put the ranks of Assistant Commandant, the entry-level officer rank in the paramilitary, on the shoulders of the two women officers--Prakriti and Diksha--after the passing out parade and attestation ceremony where they took oath to serve the country. While Prakriti's father has retired from the Indian Air Force (IAF), Deeksha's father Kamlesh Kumar is an Inspector in the ITBP. Kumar, in his Khaki uniform, saluted his daughter after the parade and got a crisp salute in return following which they hugged each other. "My father is my role model. He never considered me lesser than anyone," Deeksha said. Prakriti, who holds a bachelors degree in electrical engineering, said the life in the force is "very tough but it is also challenging and exciting". The ITBP started recruiting women combat officers in its cadre from 2016 through an all-India examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Before this, it only had combat women in the constabulary ranks. Out of the total 53 officers, 42 officers are in the general duty combat cadre, while 11 are in the engineering cadre of the about 90,000 personnel strong mountain warfare trained force. These officers will now be posted across ITBP formations in the country, including the LAC with China and the anti-Naxal operations theatre in Chhattisgarh. The force was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Chinese aggression and its primary role is to guard the 3,488 km long India-China Line of Actual Control (LAC) apart from rendering a variety of roles in the internal security domain. Addressing the young officers who trained for 50 weeks (general duty cadre) and 11 weeks (engineering cadre) in various subjects of combat and strategy, Dhami said the commanders should "give their best" while performing their duties. He said the country was safe due to the valour of its armed forces and the sacrifices made by the personnel in uniform. "I am the son of a soldier and I have seen the Army closely. I have seen the struggles of their families," he said while congratulating the young officers who he said were taking their "first step for serving the nation". The CM also lauded the force for bringing out its first-ever history book, that has some 1,000 unseen operational photographs starting from the period when the Union government was planning to raise it. "The book has been published in view of making a reference volume for factual history and knowledge of the force to the officers and jawans. It will also be useful for the administrative and training purposes and for gaining in-depth details and is the official history of the force," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said. Pandey has himself been instrumental in bringing out the book after years of research and talking to serving and retired officers and others who were closely involved with the creation of the force that specialises in mountain warfare. "There was no such book on the ITBP available till this publication. It contains historical achievements of the force since its inception," Pandey, a second-in-command rank officer, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Increase Covid vaccine quota for Bengal: Adhir writes to PM||Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention to increase the quota of Covid-19 vaccine for West Bengal. He also said there is a lurking danger of Covid explosion in the state given its dense population. “I am given to understand that up to August 2, approximately 3,00,65,845 persons have been vaccinated (in the state),” Chowdhury said in the letter. The state Congress president mentioned that seventy per cent of West Bengal's 10 crore population is ‘still waiting for protection from the virus’. Chowdhury requested the prime minister to ‘do the needful to increase the quota of Covid vaccine’ for the state. The Mamata Banerjee government has repeatedly accused the central government of providing an inadequate number of Covid vaccines to West Bengal than some BJP-ruled states with comparatively less population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Cabinet Secretary warns officers of action if they fail to attend I-Day event at Red Fort||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba has warned officers invited for the Independence Day function at the Red Fort that a "serious view" will be taken if they fail to attend the event. In a communication to the secretaries of all Union ministries and departments, Gauba said the Independence Day flag hoisting ceremony at the Red Fort, from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also address the nation, has its own significance and the officers invited for the function are expected to attend. "It has been observed that some of the invited officers fail to attend the ceremony. This is inappropriate considering that the occasion is of great national importance. There is clearly a need to remind the officers that it is their duty to attend the Independence Day ceremony," he said. In his letter, Gauba also said that in view of social distancing requirements due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officers of only joint secretary level and above have been invited for the ceremony this year. "You may suitably advice all officers of your ministry/department, who are invited to the independence day ceremony, to attend the function. You may also like to caution them that a serious view can be taken of their absence on this occasion," Gauba told the secretaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Delhi: Weekly markets set to reopen amid confusion among traders||Confusion and uncertainty prevail among trade associations in Delhi as they prepare to reopen weekly markets from Monday. The weekly markets were closed after a lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19 due to a surge in cases during the second Covid wave. Later, in mid-June one weekly market in each municipal zone was allowed to open within government school grounds or other such open areas. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Saturday that the weekly markets have been allowed to reopen from August 9. Even though the decision was welcomed, vendors and market associations were still uncertain about the location of the weekly markets for the lack of clear guidelines from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). No weekly market is allowed to function on roadsides, according to the current guidelines. Sanjay Sachdeva, secretary of Delhi State Weekly Market Association, said they have not received any guidelines from the DDMA so far, however, they will prepare to reopen according to the guidelines in effect. "We only know what we have read in news today about reopening, we don't even know where we are going to set up the market. In any case, we have asked shopkeepers to put sanitiser bottles and extra masks at their stalls for customers," Sachdeva, who represents Moti Nagar weekly market zone, told PTI. According to rough estimates, there are around 2,700 weekly markets that open on designated days in a week in 12 of the municipal zones, Delhi Cantonment and the New Delhi Municipal Council. Around four lakh people are associated with them for livelihood, vendors claim. A detailed order by the DDMA on reopening of weekly markets and guidelines to be followed by the stakeholders is awaited. Currently, only 50 per cent of the allowed vendors in a weekly market per zone are permitted to transact business there. Strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) and all instructions, guidelines issued by the Government of India and the Delhi government are ensured by officials. Rajkumar Kataria, general secretary of South Delhi Weekly Bazaar Association, said the vendors have been asked to maintain social distancing among themselves and the customers. "Since the tables are 6-ft wide, there's enough distance between two vendors. And customers are anyway on the other side. Additionally, we will hang banners for social distancing, deploy our volunteer in the crowd who will distribute masks to those not wearing," Kataria said. A senior police officer said with the weekly markets set to reopen, a team led by an inspector rank officer will be deployed to ensure shopkeepers, as well as buyers, follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The security at the markets has also been tightened in view of upcoming Independence Day. "We will also be using a public address system requesting the public to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. Foot patrolling will also be intensified in the market areas and strict action will be taken against those found violating Covid-19 guidelines," the officer said. Sandeep Bhardwaj, vice chairman of Chamber of Trade and Industry, said, "The Delhi government should deploy civil defence volunteers and the civic bodies should come up with a plan for crowd control and monitoring at the markets".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Custodial torture still prevails, says Chief Justice of India N V Ramana||Custodial torture and other police atrocities still prevail in India and even the "privileged are not spared third-degree treatment", Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Sunday and asked the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) to carry out nationwide sensitisation of police officers. Terming the project Access to Justice as an unending mission, the CJI also said that for becoming a society governed by the rule of law, it was necessary to bridge the gap of accessibility to justice between the highly privileged and the most vulnerable. If, as an institution, the judiciary wants to garner the faith of the citizens, we have to make everyone feel assured that we exist for them. For the longest time, the vulnerable population has lived outside the system of justice, he said. The past should not determine the future and all should work to bring equality, Justice Ramana stressed at the launch of a legal service mobile application and the vision and mission statement of NALSA at Vigyan Bhawan here. The mobile App will help poor and needy people in applying for legal aid and seek victim compensation. NALSA was constituted under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 to provide free legal services to the weaker sections of the society and to organise Lok Adalats for amicable settlement of disputes. The threat to human rights and bodily integrity are the highest in police stations. Custodial torture and other police atrocities are problems that still prevail in our society. In spite of constitutional declarations and guarantees, the lack of effective legal representation at the police stations is a huge detriment to arrested/detained persons. The decisions taken in these early hours will later determine the ability of the accused to defend himself. Going by the recent reports even the privileged are not spared third-degree treatment, the CJI said. The CJI, who is also the Patron-in-Chief of NALSA, said that to keep police excesses in check dissemination of information about the constitutional right to legal aid and availability of free legal aid services is necessary. The installation of display boards and outdoor hoardings in every police station/prison is a step in this direction, he said, adding that the NALSA must also actively carry out nationwide sensitisation of police officers. Stressing the need for bridging the gap of accessibility to justice between the highly privileged and the most vulnerable, the CJI said for all times to come, we must remember that, the realities of socio-economic diversity which prevail in our nation, cannot ever be a reason for denial of rights". Let our past not determine our future. Let us dream of a future based on legal mobility, a future where equality is a reality. That is why the project 'Access to Justice' is an unending mission, he said. Furthermore, he stated that dissemination of information about the constitutional right to legal aid and availability of free legal aid services is necessary to keep police excesses in check. Besides this, he said that the prevailing obstacles like internet connectivity and lengthy, painstaking and expensive justice processes add to the woes of realising the goals of access to justice in India. Majority of those who do not have access to justice are from rural and remote areas which suffer from lack of connectivity. I have already written to the government emphasising the need to bridge the digital divide on a priority basis, the CJI said, referring to the digital divide between the rural and the urban populace. He suggested that the postal network can be utilised to spread awareness regarding the availability of free legal aid services and to increase the outreach of legal services to persons residing in far-flung areas of the country. The CJI asked lawyers, especially seniors, to help those needing legal assistance and urged the media to use its unparalleled capacity to spread the message of service of NALSA. Concurring with Ramana, Justice U U Lalit said that besides spreading awareness about legal services through post offices and police stations, Bar Councils and law colleges can also be roped in. We are impressing upon Bar Councils and law colleges and they must adopt one or two talukas around them so that students can be given practical training to be part of a large contingent of para-volunteers, Justice Lalit added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Tharoor hopeful of IT panel taking up Pegasus issue||Chairman of the parliamentary panel on information technology Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said members "disrupted" the committee's meeting on July 28 as they did not want the Pegasus allegations to be discussed and the officials who were to testify "appear to have been instructed not to attend", but expressed hope the snooping issue would be taken up by the panel going forward. Tharoor, who has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to take action over ministry officials not attending the panel meet, also asserted that the actions of the three officials making "last-minute excuses" to skip the meeting were a "grievous assault" on such panels' prerogatives to summon witnesses. In an interview with PTI, the Congress leader hit back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his remarks that the Opposition was insulting Parliament, saying the government's refusal to be answerable in any way, shape, or form on an issue of national and international importance, has made a "mockery of democracy and of the ordinary Indians the government claims to represent". Avoiding discussion and accountability is the real insult to Parliament, the former Union minister and Thiruvananthapuram MP asserted. Asked if going forward the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology will be able to take up the Pegasus snooping issue, Tharoor said for two years now the IT committee has been conducting discussions on "Citizens' data privacy and security and "cyber security, topics that also featured in its agenda under the previous chairman, Anurag Thakur. The Pegasus issue therefore clearly falls under the purview of the IT committee and so it is only expected that its members will ask questions about it when these topics arise, he said. "It is no secret that the Committee's meeting on its established agenda was disrupted by members who did not want Pegasus to be discussed. It was unprecedented for 10 members to attend and to refuse to sign the register in order to deny the Committee a quorum," Tharoor said. The panel was to hold a meeting on July 28 during which several issues including the Pegasus snooping allegations were expected to be discussed. It had also summoned officials from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Communications (Department of Telecommunications) on the subject ''Citizens data security and privacy''. However, the meeting could not take place as the members of the panel did not sign the attendance register, even though they were present in the meeting room, leading to a lack of quorum. E-mail communications were received by the committee branch of the secretariat on July 28 afternoon from the three ministries/department that their representatives would not be able to appear before the committee due to Parliament-related work. "For good measure the three officials who were to testify that day appear to have been instructed not to attend, making last-minute excuses, which is a grievous assault on the prerogatives of parliamentary committees to summon witnesses," Tharoor said. Asserting that accountability to Parliament is a cornerstone of democracy, Tharoor alleged that it is increasingly being tossed aside in the current regime's "headlong rush to autocracy". "Despite this disappointing approach, I am hopeful that we will be able to take up the question going forward, he said. Asked if a joint parliamentary committee would be more suited to take up the Pegasus matter, Tharoor said, "I am not sure what a JPC can do that the IT Committee cannot. Nonetheless, I proposed from the start that what we really need is a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry headed by a serving or recently-retired judge to conduct a fair, impartial, and thorough investigation of the Pegasus issue." The judiciary has powers, and a degree of immunity from politics, that would make it better suited than a committee of MPs to explore all aspects of the Pegasus question, Tharoor argued. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. On comparisons of the Pegasus snooping row with the Watergate scandal that rocked Richard Nixon's US presidency in the 1970s, Tharoor said though the parallels between the two episodes are many, the significant difference is precisely in the consequences it has had for the respective regimes that were in power when these events unfolded. "Whereas the US Congress' investigation of Watergate led to the resignation of President Nixon himself, our Parliament has been denied even a discussion of the issue, barring the tepid statement by the new IT Minister who was himself on the list of those who were potentially targeted using Pegasus on the floor of the House," Tharoor said. He said Pegasus is an issue that, given its grave implications for the country's internal security and individual liberties, should have been addressed by either the Home Minister or the PM himself. Tharoor said the Opposition's hopes rest with the Supreme Court, which is to hear the matter on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha asks Narendra Modi to intervene to extend Parliament session||Accusing the government of "closing the door" on negotiations to break the logjam over the Pegasus issue in Parliament, RJD leader Manoj Kumar Jha on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must intervene to end the impasse, and called for extending the Monsoon session to make up for the lost time. The Rajya Sabha member, who is an influential voice of the Opposition, also slammed the government for repeatedly stressing that it was "reaching out" to the Opposition parties, saying the phrase does not mean that "with hands in your pockets and a stiff face, you say 'this is what I have to offer, nothing else'". "Under the garb of reaching out they have been closing the door on negotiations. Many times I have noted that the so-called people entrusted with the idea of reaching out, probably lack the mandate in offering anything tangible to the Opposition," Jha told PTI in an interview. Since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19, parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by Opposition parties and a logjam has persisted over their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. Asked about the Opposition's demand for a discussion on the Pegasus issue and the logjam in Parliament over it, Jha said the government says in the media that it is reaching out but such efforts should mean "listening and not just hearing". Jha alleged that the government was using the "language of enmity" which had taken away the possibility of "breaking the ice". "But if Mr. Prime Minister himself intervenes and tells his people to break the ice and say 'we are ready to discuss everything', it is still possible to discuss. If possible, extend the session to make up for the time we have lost. We can sit after August 15," the senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader said. Asked if extension of the Monsoon session, which is scheduled to end on August 13, was the way forward, Jha answered in the affirmative and pointed to his speech in Rajya Sabha on Covid, which has been widely appreciated and has gone viral on social media, to stress the importance of discussing critical issues in Parliament. On Parliament being unable to discuss the devastating second wave of Covid at length, he accused the government of being in "brazen denial" of facts. "The day I made that speech, a response from the government said that nobody died on account of unavailability of oxygen. When you fight a pandemic, you should be able to acknowledge failures as well as take credit for the success," he asserted. "I don't only blame the central government, many state governments were also in a brazen denial mode," Jha said. Asked if the Opposition could have focused more on issues such as price rise, farmers' protest and unemployment in the Monsoon session than Pegasus, he said all those issues were crucial and the Opposition was continuously raising them but the Pegasus matter had acquired an important dimension due to the level of snooping being reported by the media. "I won't say Pegasus was No.1 for us but it acquired an important dimension due to the level of snooping which is being reported in the media with several countries in the world ordering probes, but in our case, there is not even acceptance (for debate)," Jha said. Slamming the government for saying that the snooping allegations were a non-issue, he said if after a detailed discussion it is proved so, the opposition will accept it, but denying discussion goes against the very idea of parliamentary democracy. "Have we forgotten that there was a discussion after Bofors (came to light). Same was with the Mundhra case during the Jawaharlal Nehru government but discussion was allowed even though the opposition was practically non-existent at the time," he said. Jha also hit out at the government for passing the bills amid din, saying the legislations were being passed in roughly eight minutes and warned that if it becomes the new normal even future governments may take this route, making debate and discussion a thing of the past. On Opposition unity being witnessed during the current Parliament session and if seeds of a grand alliance had been sown for the 2024 general elections, Jha said when floor leaders are coordinating in Parliament, 2024 is not on their minds and the major concern is issues such as repeal of farm laws, inflation and unemployment. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Delhi launches food programme for homeless living in shelter homes||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday launched a food distribution programme for the homeless living in government shelter homes across the city. The programme to distribute free food was launched from a shelter home complex at Sarai Kale Khan in association with the Akshaya Patra Foundation a non-government organisation. Under the programme, the Delhi government along with Akshaya Patra Foundation will distribute free cooked meals to the homeless at all of its shelter homes across the city. Addressing the gathering, Kejriwal said the Delhi government runs 209 night shelters across the city and free cooked meals will be provided to nearly 6,000 people here. This number will go up to 12,000 as more people live in shelter homes during winters. "The poorest of the poor live in these shelters homes. They are not the vote bank of any party so no government paid attention to them. This is the first work of any responsible government to pay attention towards the poor. "The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government is a responsible government and we have worked a lot for the poor. I am happy to start this initiative (free food distribution), Kejriwal said. He added that earlier governments used to get scolded from the High Court for dismal condition of shelter homes but the AAP government worked a lot on this front to improve the situation of these homes. "In the last six years, we have improved the condition of shelter homes. I personally conducted inspections to improve the situation of toilets and potable water in shelter homes. And today, the condition is good," he said. The CM said Akshaya Patra will provide cooked meals to the poor living in such shelter homes. "The real dharma is feeding the poor which Akshay Patra is doing. We are happy that free cooked meals will be distributed permanently at all Delhi shelter homes in association with Akshay Patra Foundation," Kejriwal said. The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) runs 209 shelter homes across the city that caters to nearly 12,000 people. The government has been providing free food to the homeless since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. The event was presided by Madhu Pandit Dasa, Chairman, The Akshaya Patra Foundation, and Chanchalapathi Dasa, Vice-Chairman of the organisation. Delhi Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain was also present on the occasion. Dasa said, Akshaya Patra is conscious of its responsibility towards society. We have always strived to assist the government's efforts to bring relief to people during emergencies. We will continue with this as long as we can. The event was followed by a ceremonial serving of meals to poor children at the shelter home complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||CBI arrests five people for posting  defamatory content against judges||The CBI has arrested five people for allegedly posting defamatory content against judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court and the Supreme Court on social media, officials said on Sunday. The role of a Lok Sabha member, Nandigam Suresh, and Amanchi Krishna Mohan, both of the YSR Congress, are under scanner in the case, and both have been examined by the agency in its effort to unearth a larger conspiracy, they said. "To investigate the larger conspiracy, the CBI has also examined certain persons, including an MP and an ex-MLA, and also continued investigation into the role of other persons who were not mentioned in the FIR," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. The agency had on Saturday arrested two people -- Pattapu Aadarsh and Lavanuru Samba Siva Reddy -- from Andhra Pradesh. Earlier, the CBI had arrested Dhami Reddy Konda Reddy and Pamula Sudheer on July 28, while Lingareddy Rajasekhar Reddy, who was residing in Kuwait, was arrested on July 9 when he landed in India, the officials said. "The agency was monitoring his movements. The moment he landed in India, the officers took him into their custody", an official said. The arrests were made by the CBI in the case in which it had booked 16 individuals for allegedly posting defamatory content against the judges. The Andhra Pradesh High Court had directed the agency to probe the case and submit a report to it in a sealed cover. "It was alleged that the accused, by intentionally targeting the judiciary, made derogatory posts on social media platforms against judges and judiciary, following some court verdicts delivered by the judges of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh," Joshi said. After registration of the case, the CBI traced 13 of the 16 accused named in the FIR on various digital platforms, he said. "Three out of them were found to be abroad. The CBI has so far examined 11 out of the above 13 accused persons and arrested five out of them. Evidence against the remaining six accused persons is being evaluated for further necessary legal action. CBI is pursuing to secure the presence of two other accused said to be abroad for their examination," Joshi said. The agency carried out searches at the premises of the accused persons that led to the information that one of them was allegedly using a passport in a different name, he said. During the searches, incriminating documents were found, the CBI spokesperson added. "Action was also initiated by CBI, after it had registered this case to get objectionable posts removed from the social media platforms, public domains and a lot of such posts or accounts were removed from the internet," Joshi said. The investigation is underway, including through the channels of MLAT and Interpol, to collect evidence from abroad, he said. Taking cognisance of the alleged defamatory posts, the high court had directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the role of prominent persons in the southern state who were intentionally targeting Supreme Court and high court judges. "...the postings were made to bring hatred, contempt, incite disaffection and ill-will against the high court and honourable judges," the court had noted. The arrests came two days after Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana expressed disapproval of a “new trend” of judges being attacked or threatened, regretted that the CBI and other law-enforcement agencies were “not helping the judiciary at all” and reminded the government of its responsibility of protecting judges. “It’s a new trend in this country, unfortunately. There’s no freedom for judges to complain. Even though judges complain to police or the CBI, they don’t respond. The IB, the CBI aren’t helping the judiciary at all. I’m making this statement with a sense of responsibility,” CJI Ramana, sitting in a bench with Justice Surya Kant, told the attorney-general, the highest law officer of the land. “It’s a new trend in this country. If an adverse order is passed, then the judiciary is maligned. Even though judges complain, the CBI, the IB and other officers don’t help the judiciary at all,” Justice Ramana added. The Supreme Court was dealing with the suo motu case of the death of Jharkhand additional district judge Uttam Anand at Dhanbad on July 28. The judge had denied bail to two gangsters days earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Covishield, Covaxin mix produces better immunogenicity than two doses of same jab, says study||A study by ICMR involving 98 people, 18 of whom had inadvertently received Covishield as first dose and Covaxin as the second in Uttar Pradesh, showed that combining these two Covid-19 vaccines elicited better immunogenicity than two doses of the same vaccine. The study also found that immunisation with a combination of Covishield and Covaxin was safe and the adverse effects were also found to be similar when compared to the same dose regimen. The study titled Serendipitous Covid-19 Vaccine-Mix in Uttar Pradesh, India: Safety and Immunogenicity Assessment of a Heterologous Regime' has been uploaded on medRxiv, a preprint server and is yet to be peer-reviewed. "To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study which reports the effects of heterologous prime-boost vaccination with an adenovirus vectored vaccine followed by an inactivated whole virus vaccine," the researchers said. The immunisation program against Covid-19 in India started with two vaccines--adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine Covishield and inactivated whole virion BBV152 -Covaxin--and homologous prime-boost approach was followed. However, 18 individuals, under the national program, in Siddarthnagar, Uttar Pradesh inadvertently received Covishield as the first jab and Covaxin as the second. The nationwide vaccination program at this time had entered in its fourth month of its existence and the event of mixed dosing raised considerable anxiety in public domain with a potential to contributing to vaccine hesitancy. The study was conducted against this backdrop. So, including these 18 individuals who had received one dose of Covishield and second dose of Covaxin, 40 recipients of two doses of Covishield and 40 recipients of two doses of Covaxin, were recruited in the study. The study duration was from May to June 2021. "We compared the safety and immunogenicity profile of them (18 individuals) against that of those receiving either Covishield or Covaxin. Lower and similar adverse events following immunisation in all three groups underlined the safety of the combination vaccine-regime. "Immunogenicity profile against Alpha, Beta and Delta variants in the heterologous group was superior and IgG antibody and neutralising antibody response of the participants was also significantly higher compared to that in the homologous groups," the study stated. "The findings suggest that immunisation with a combination of an adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine followed by an inactivated whole virus vaccine was not only safe but also elicited better immunogenicity," it said. The reactogenicity analysis was carried out based on solicited local and systemic AEFIs reported in the three groups within seven days of immunisation. None of the participants enrolled in the study had any serious AEFI within 30 minutes of immunisation with the first or second dose. The most common local AEFI reported after first and second dose was pain at injection site. No other local AEFI such as erythema, induration, pruritis or pustule formation was recorded by any of the participants. The most commonly reported systemic AEFI were pyrexia and malaise. No other systemic AEFIs like urticaria, nausea, vomiting, arthralgia or cough was reported. The pyrexia was of low to moderate grade and was managed by administration of paracetamol and subsided in all participants within three to four days post-vaccination, according to the study. "Despite the high median age of the participants of the heterologous group (62 years) in our study, the reactogenicity profile demonstrated that mixing of the two vaccines based on different platforms is safe," the study said. The study demonstrates that immunisation with a heterologous combination of an adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine followed by an inactivated whole virus vaccine is safe and elicits better immunogenicity than two doses of homologous vaccination, using the same vaccines. These findings have an important implication for the Covid-19 vaccination program wherein heterologous immunisation will pave the way for induction of improved and better protection against the variant strains of SARS-CoV-2. "Such mixed regimens will also help to overcome the challenges of shortfall of particular vaccines and remove hesitancy around vaccines in people's mind that could have genesis in programmatic 'errors' especially in settings where multiple Covid-19 vaccines are being used," the study highlighted. However, to conclusively prove these findings a multicentre RCT needs to be carried out, the study underlined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi, come listen to us, says Opposition as Monsoon Session nears end||The Opposition's strategy of speaking on the Pegasus snooping row and farm laws during discussions of bills in the Rajya Sabha has now been compiled in a three-minute video in an attempt to make the government listen to their demands, leaders said on Sunday. The video, released by the TMC on Sunday morning from RS MP Derek O'Brien's handle, urges, "Mr Modi come listen to us". Opposition party sources indicated that over the last few weeks, leaders have realised that the disruptions by them in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha are not enough. It was important to say the words, "farmers", "Pegasus" and spyware on the floor of the Houses. Asked about the Opposition MPs' strategy of raising such issues while seeking to speak on bills in Parliament, O'Brien said that their "strategy was deliberate". "When the official channels are being denied, this is a new way to reach the masses," said O'Brien who is also the leader of the TMC in the Rajya Sabha. "PM @narendramodi seems to have lost his nerves. Why is he not keen on answering questions in Parliament? The Opposition parties are ready for discussions in Parliament, but @BJP4India govt is stalling the proceedings so that the truth doesn't get to the people," Congress's Mallikarjun Kharge said in a tweet posting the video. The video, which has been compiled using clips from RSTV, comprises statements made by the Opposition MPs in the Upper House, with the words "farmer" and "Pegasus" in the opening lines. "You are not allowing the discussion we have been asking for the past 14 days and the discussions we can do later. You are passing that bill now. If you have courage, begin the discussions on Pegasus now," Kharge is heard saying in the video on the floor of the House. The compilation includes Opposition speakers like Vandana Chavan of the NCP who raised the Pegasus issue, accusing the government of "not listening to the people". RJD's Manoj Jha too is seen speaking on the spyware issue. "Pegasus has reached everyone's house. We have to discuss this," says Jha. Congress's Deepinder Hooda raised the issue of farmers stating that he would talk about the matter if his "microphone is not switched off". The CPI(M) accused the government of "stealing" parliamentary democracy, while TMC's Sukhendu Shekar Roy raised the issue of "freedom of speech in Parliament". The other parties which have representation in the video include Samajwadi Party, TRS, DMK and AAP. One of the leaders in the video, Shiv Sena MP in Rajya Sabha Priyanka Chaturvedi said in a democracy if the government of the day has a responsibility, so does the Opposition. "Whether it is about farmers, about the economy, safety and security of women, just the word mentioned by the Opposition makes them silence our voices, makes them adjourn Parliament, makes them mute our microphones. "Our inability to be heard by a government which is so brazen has made us realise that the only way we can speak and make our point heard is when such bills are being discussed and passed in such a hurry," Chaturvedi said. CPI(M) leader and RS MP Elamaram Kareem said that speaking during the discussion on bills was the only way to make the government listen. "This tactic is going to be continued the coming week as well. There is no other option as the government is not admitting our motions. Everyone is seeing how the chairperson is behaving, switching off microphones even as the Pegasus word is being uttered. The entire Opposition is one on this and we will stick by it till the government relents," said Kareem, who is the leader of his party in the Upper House. Chaturvedi also hit out at the government over the alleged switching off of microphones when Opposition leaders raise certain issues, saying it shows the intolerance of the government. "By muting our mics, by trying to suppress our voices, they think they can silence us then they should be rest assured that we will raise our voice further and our voices will get louder," the Shiv Sena MP said. Senior Congress leader and party spokesperson Manish Tewari said that what is happening in the House is a "complete murder of democracy". "The institution of Parliament is being trifled with by the NDA-BJP government," said Tewari, slamming the government for getting bills passed when the House is not in order. "There is a time honoured convention that a legislation is never passed in din and it is not even discussed when the House is not in order," he said. Since the start of the Monsoon Session on July 19, parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by Opposition parties and a logjam has persisted over their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row. The Opposition has also been strongly protesting against the price rise issue and demanding the repeal of the farm laws. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||NIA conducts raids against Jamaat-e-Islami-linked members across Jammu and Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency on Sunday carried out multiple raids against Jamaat-e-Islami-linked members across Jammu and Kashmir, over two years after the religious group was banned by the Centre under anti-terror laws, officials said. The early morning raids were conducted at over 45 places on the houses and offices of Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) activists in almost all districts of Kashmir and a few districts in Jammu region, including Ramban, Kishtwar, Doda and Rajouri, they said. In February 2019, the Centre banned JeI for five years under anti-terror laws on the ground that it was "in close touch" with militant outfits and was expected to "escalate secessionist movement" in the erstwhile state. A notification, banning the group under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, was issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs after a high-level meeting on security chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Hundreds of JeI activists were arrested in a major crackdown across Jammu and Kashmir following the ban which came just months ahead of the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and its bifurcation into two Union territories in August 2019. The officials said the latest raids by National Investigation Agency (NIA) sleuths assisted by police and CRPF were conducted in connection with an ongoing investigation into a case related to terror activities of the group. The searches at multiple locations are still going on and further details are awaited, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh government withdraws re-inquiry against Kafeel Khan||The order for a departmental re-inquiry against suspended paediatrician Dr Kafeel Khan has been withdrawn, the Uttar Pradesh government has informed the Allahabad High Court. The order of a departmental re-inquiry was given on February 24 last year. Additional Advocate General Manish Goyal told the court on Friday, "The order of 24 February, 2020 impugned in this petition has been withdrawn subject to liberty being reserved for the respondents to proceed in the matter afresh and in light of what was noted by the court in its order of July 29, 2021". It was further submitted before the court of Justice Yashwant Varma that all endeavours shall be made to conclude the disciplinary proceedings within a period of three months. The court has listed the case for hearing on August 10 (Tuesday). In the writ petition, it was disclosed that seven persons out of nine who were suspended along with the petitioner have been reinstated pending conclusion of disciplinary proceedings. The order for suspension against Dr Khan was passed on August 22, 2017. Earlier on July 29 this year, the court noticed that although the petitioner had been suspended back in 2017, the inquiry proceedings had not yet been concluded till the filing of the petition. By an order of March 7, 2019, the petition was disposed of with a direction to the respondents (the state government) to conclude the inquiry within three months. In pursuance to that direction, the court was informed that the Enquiry Officer submitted his report on April 15, 2019. The disciplinary authority, however, chose to pass the impugned order after nearly 11 months. It is to be recalled that Dr Khan had challenged his suspension in connection with the death of several children due to alleged shortage of oxygen at a government hospital in Gorakhpur district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Parliamentary panel asks labour ministry to depict real picture of job loss due to Covid-19||A Parliamentary panel has asked the Ministry of Labour and Employment to use and reconcile the data and studies conducted by credible agencies with that of retirement fund body EPFO for depicting real picture of job loss in the country especially in the situation like Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic had an impact on employment in the country as the economic activities slowed down due to lockdown restrictions imposed by central as well as states to contain the spread of deadly virus from March in 2020. "...data and studies conducted by other reputed and credible agencies be taken into consideration by the Ministry and reconciled with the data collected/maintained by EPFO so as to depict an authentic and real picture of the rate of unemployment/loss of jobs in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic for initiating requisite corrective measures as and when warranted," stated Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour in its 25th report tabled in Parliament last week. It observed that despite Covid-19 pandemic, net EPFO payroll addition for 2020-21 was 77.08 lakh which is almost at par with 2019-20 net payroll addition of 78.58 lakh. It also noted that there is addition in net payroll in each month of financial year 2020-21, except for the months of April and May 2020 as most of the economic activities during these two months of 2020 were at halt due to complete lockdown measures put in place. "However, the Committee's attention has been drawn to a study conducted by the Azim Premji University according to which nearly half of the formal salaried workers moved into informal work either as self-employed (30 per cent), casual wage (10 per cent), informal salaried jobs (9 per cent) between late 2019 and late 2020." It also stated that the EPFO needs to play a more innovative and proactive role, especially with a huge corpus fund at its disposal in mitigating the emergent needs of not only the members registered with it but workers in the Unorganised sectors too across the Country during unprecedented crisis like Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Moderate thundershower likely in Delhi on Sunday||The national capital witnessed a clear sky on Sunday morning with the minimum temperature settling at 26.8 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) The minimum temperature at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for Delhi, settled at 26.8 degrees Celsius while the relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 83 per cent. The city received seven mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, according to IMD. The weather department has predicted generally cloudy sky with moderate rain or thundershowers later in the day with the maximum temperature likely to settle around 33 degrees Celsius. According to the MeT, Delhi is likely to receive normal rainfall -- 95 to 106 per cent of the long-period average -- in August. The national capital had witnessed uncharacteristically heavy rainfall and an irregular weather pattern in July. On Saturday, the national capital recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's normal while the minimum temperature stood at 27.3 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||India records 39,070 Covid-19 cases, 491 deaths||With 39,070 people testing positive for coronavirus infection, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,19,34,455, while the death toll climbed to 4,27,862 with 491 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 4,06,822 and comprise 1.27 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 5,331 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,10, 99,771, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. As many as 17,22,221 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 48,00,39,185. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.27 per cent . It has been less than three per cent for the last 13 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.38 per cent. Cumulatively 50.68 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Sunday morning. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 491 new fatalities include 139 from Kerala and 128 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,27,862 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,33,845 from Maharashtra, 36,773 from Karnataka, 34,289 from Tamil Nadu, 25,066 from Delhi, 22,773 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,217 from Bengal and 17,654 from Kerala. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Worker killed in factory wall collapse in Palghar||A worker was killed after the wall of a factory collapsed following a boiler blast in an adjoining unit at Palghar in Maharashtra, police said on Sunday. The incident took place in Waliv area of Palghar on Saturday, an official at the Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar police control room said. The powerful explosion in a boiler at an engineering unit rocked the area and caused the wall of an adjoining factory to crash, he said. A worker, identified as Mehmood Mohammad Khan (18), died on the spot, he said. Local firemen and police rushed to the spot for rescue and relief work. The body was sent for postmortem, the police said. The Waliv police have registered a case under various Indian Penal Code sections, including 304A (causing death by negligence), they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Planting trees to be part of Delhi University curriculum from upcoming academic session||Planting a tree will be part of the Delhi University curriculum from the upcoming academic session and the students will be the varsity’s “climate warriors”, acting vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi announced on Saturday. This will be applicable at the undergraduate, postgraduate and M.Phil/PhD levels, DU officials said. The programme will be scientifically monitored and evaluated by the respective colleges, centres and departments, they said. “Planting millions of suitable trees and creating a natural ecosystem… can be achieved faster through massive student participation. Every year, DU admits lakhs of students from different parts of the country and they will be our climate warriors,” Joshi said. Plants absorb many harmful pollutants, prevent soil erosion and landslides, said botanist and professor Dinabandhu Sahoo, Director of the Centre for Himalayan Studies and the brain behind the proposal. “Today, we are facing a major biosphere crisis and there are only 28 trees per person available in India while the global average is 422 trees per person,” he said. According to a DU notification, each student should plant at least one native tree species in their place of stay. “The student should submit GPS coordinates… along with the picture of plant to the respective college /department/centre. The picture should have a placard containing details such as name of the tree, name and course of the student, location and date of plantation,” the notification said. It said the student needs to take care of the tree through periodic monitoring. “Six-monthly monitoring report and photograph with some description of growth need to be submitted by the student,” the notification said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Resident doctors of six medical colleges observe 'Black Day' in Gujarat  ||Resident doctors of six medical colleges in Gujarat observed “Black Day” on Saturday after the state government dismissed their strike as “illegal” and threatened to invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act against them, while two colleges in Vadodara and Jamnagar ordered striking resident doctors to immediately vacate their hostels. At least 2,000 resident doctors in the state have been on strike since Wednesday protesting over the service bond period and implementation of the 7th Pay Commission recommendations. Medical students in government colleges in Gujarat sign a bond that requires them to serve in a rural area for one year after graduation. During the Covid surge in April, the government had announced that a day of Covid duty would be considered equivalent to two days of bond duty. This meant that doctors on Covid duty would be able to serve out their bond period in six months instead of one year. But in July, by when cases had dropped, the government rolled this back. “We are the same corona warriors who continued to go on duty without worrying about food. We ensured that Covid-19 patients were treated well. The same government, which showered petals on us for being corona warriors, is now treating us like this,” a striking resident doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Out of 1,080 sanctioned posts of high court judges, 416 are vacant: Chidambaram||Congress veteran P. Chidambaram has attributed the delay in filling up judicial posts to the Narendra Modi government’s desire to pick only sympathisers of its “retrograde philosophy and ideology”. Chidambaram, a senior lawyer, tweeted on Saturday: “Out of 1,080 sanctioned posts of High Court judges, 416 are vacant. There is a huge number of vacancies in Tribunals. Posts of Chairperson of several Tribunals are vacant! They include DRT, NCLAT, TDSAT, etc. Why is Modi Government that is ensconced in office for seven years not able or willing to fill these vacancies? The country is not short of lawyers and judges qualified to fill these vacancies. The real reason is the Government is looking for persons who will sympathise with its retrograde philosophy and ideology.” The Supreme Court has time and again prodded the government to fill the large number of vacant posts in the judiciary, accusing the Centre of sitting on collegium recommendations. Former Chief Justices of India have periodically flagged the issue. On Friday, the Supreme Court had pulled up the government for the vacancies at the tribunals. The government too has acknowledged the massive vacancies in the judiciary. The Congress has often accused the RSS-BJP of packing institutions and academia with people who are close to them ideologically. However, this is the first time someone has tied judicial appointments to the government’s ideological leanings. There have been no judicial appointments to the Supreme Court and several high courts since 2020. A Supreme Court bench headed by then Chief Justice S.A. Bobde had remarked earlier this year that high courts across the country were in a “state of crisis” due to vacancies. Former Supreme Court judge Madan V. Lokur recently wrote an article expressing the fear that it could be too late to fix the problems in the judiciary if appointments were not made immediately. According to the Union law ministry website, there are eight vacant judges’ posts in the Supreme Court at the moment. Two judges are to retire soon. The sanctioned strength of the Supreme Court is 34 while the working strength is 26 now. There are 455 vacancies in the high courts, according to the ministry. The sanctioned strength of the high courts is 1,098, but there are presently 643 judges, the website says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Covid: Protests at Kerala govt’s vaccine dose or test rule||The Kerala government’s revised unlock guidelines that make at least one Covid vaccine dose or a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours mandatory to enter shops and other commercial establishments has been skewered from all quarters. Opposition parties, traders and common people have pointed out that more than 58 per cent of the state’s residents are yet to receive a dose of vaccine. Moreover, the cost of an RT-PCR test at private establishments ranges from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,700, not to mention the hassles and risks involved in standing in queues amid sharply increasing Covid cases to get it done frequently. While the government yielded to sustained pressure from the Opposition and a powerful traders’ body to allow commercial establishments to open six days a week from a maximum of three, critics say the conditions laid down for shoppers have effectively negated the benefits. Anyone wanting to enter a shop, bank or other commercial establishments would now need to have taken at least one shot of vaccine or produce an RT-PCR certificate not older than 72 hours. In municipal and panchayat wards reporting at least 100 cases per 1,000 population, only emergency services are being allowed. The latest set of restrictions came in the wake of the Supreme Court pulling up the Kerala government for allowing all commercial establishments to open from June 18 to 20. The new set of Covid rules has received flak from the Congress-led United Democratic Front that walked out of the Assembly on three successive days from Wednesday seeking immediate relaxation of the norms. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan accused the Left government of failing to understand the woes of the people. “As much as 57.86 per cent of the state’s population haven’t even receive the first shot of vaccine,” he told the Assembly on Friday before staging a walkout. According to the state health department’s website, 41.72 per cent of Kerala’s three crore population have received at least one vaccine dose. Kerala has become the country’s Covid epicentre, reporting more than 20,000 daily cases for over a week and making up half of India’s caseload. Health minister Veena George justified the restrictions, saying they were required to fend off the highly contagious Delta variant of the coronavirus. “These restrictions have been suggested by the expert committee (of the state government) and we cannot offer any more relaxations at the moment,” she said. The Metropolitan of the Niranam Diocese of the Malankara Orthodox Church, Geevarghese Coorilos, questioned the “common sense” of the expert committee in a Facebook post. “Haven’t any of these expert committee members taken vaccines for common sense?” he wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Covid: India’s drug regulatory authority approves Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose vaccine ||India’s drug regulatory authority on Saturday approved Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose Covid-19 vaccine, raising the count in the country’s basket to five, but the quantum of doses to be available for India remains unspecified. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has issued emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the J&J vaccine that qualified for rapid approval under new rules crafted earlier this year for vaccines already approved by regulatory authorities in Europe, the UK and the US. The J&J vaccine will be domestically produced by the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Biological E under a pact signed last year with J&J. However, J&J indicated on Saturday it is too early to specify timelines or doses for India. “While we look forward to meeting our delivery commitments, it is premature for us to speculate on the timing of our vaccine deliveries,” a J&J India spokesperson told The Telegraph. The J&J product is the fifth Covid-19 vaccine to receive EUA in India, after approvals to AstraZeneca-Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in January, Russia’s Sputnik-V in April, and Moderna’s vaccine in June. But India’s vaccination campaign is currently relying almost entirely on Covishield and Covaxin with limited stocks of Sputnik V. Covishield made up around 442 million, Covaxin around 62 million, and Sputnik V less than 600,000 among the 505 million doses administered until Saturday morning. Health experts tracking Covid-19 vaccine supplies worldwide had predicted earlier this year that India was unlikely to receive large volumes of doses from foreign vaccine manufacturers during much of 2021 because it had not invested in advance purchases as many other countries had done last year. The health ministry has said it expects India to have access to 1,350 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines between August and December this year with which it will be able to vaccinate all adults -- an estimated 943 million people by year-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Odisha needs additional 55,000 Plus-II level seats||As many as 55,000 additional seats will be required at the Plus Two level in Odisha this year after a record number of students passed the matriculation examination. Nearly 6.07 lakh students have passed the matriculation examination this year surpassing the number of seats available in government and private Plus Two colleges, Industrial Training Institutes and other polytechnic institutions in the state. The pass percentage touched 97.89 per cent in the Class X examination conducted by the Board of Secondary Education, Odisha. The students were evaluated on the basis of their performance in Class IX and the pre-board examination conducted by their respective schools because physical exams could not be held owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Some students who were not satisfied with their marks were allowed to sit for the offline examination. Their results would be declared this week. Similarly, 99.62 per cent students from Odisha passed the Class X exam of the CBSE and 99.98 per cent cleared the ICSE exam. Odisha school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash told The Telegraph: “Both the government, private and residential colleges across the state have applied for increasing their seats by 55,000 this year. We will consider the proposal after thoroughly scrutinising each college’s demand. Our inspection teams will visit the colleges and give us a detailed report.” While the state government will face less hurdles to increase seats in the arts and commerce streams, its tough to increase seats in the science stream without adequate infrastructure support, sources said. “We have to consider all aspects, including creating adequate infrastructure like laboratory facilities which are needed for science stream students. We will examine the infrastructure available in the private colleges and self-financing institutes before allowing them to increase the number of seats,” Dash said. A teachers’ association leader Pabitra Mahala said: “The colleges at the Plus Two level are functioning with an acute shortage of staff. At this time, increasing the number of seats to accommodate students will mean adding to the burden of teachers. The quality of education will be compromised.” He added: “Plus Two and Plus Three colleges are functioning on a single campus with limited infrastructure. With the number of seats increasing overnight, many issues will crop up. It would now be a major challenge for the college authorities to provide necessary facilities to the students.” Social activist Basudev Bhatt, who works in the field of education, said: “We have no problem if the government colleges increase the number of seats. But we will certainly raise the issue if the state allows private colleges to increase seats. The government needs to thoroughly examine the infrastructure to be provided by them to students. No underhand transaction should be encouraged to increase seats.” The state government on Saturday said the admission process for the Plus Two level is likely to begin from the third week of August. “Last year, it commenced on August 21. But this year we are likely to start it on August 16. The exact date of admission will be notified very soon,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Binay hush-hush meeting in Siliguri  signals ‘third chapter’ ||Hill leader Binay Tamang, who last month resigned as the president of one of the two factions of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, organised a “secret meeting” in Siliguri on Thursday to kickstart the “third chapter” of his political journey. Sources said the invitees to the meeting were asked to switch off electronic devices to maintain the secrecy of the gathering. Tamang had resigned from the faction on July 15 and had been lying low since then. His former deputy, Anit Thapa, is now heading the faction. While resigning from the Morcha faction he headed since 2017, Tamang, who has been in politics for 33 years, first with the GNLF till 1999, and then with the Morcha from 2007 onwards, had stated that he would start the “third chapter” of his political journey. Asked, the veteran leader said he organised the meeting at Hotel Sinclairs in Siliguri on Thursday. “Yes, a secret meeting was organised with various intellectuals from the hills and party leaders in Siliguri on Thursday,” Tamang told this paper. Following the Siliguri meeting, Tamang’s supporters organised a meeting in Darjeeling on Saturday. Sources said that more than 50 Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leaders were present at the meeting held at Sterling Resort in Ghoom, some 8km from Darjeeling town. Tamang, however, was not present at the Ghoom meeting. “I am told that my supporters will be organising similar meetings in Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik soon,” said Tamang. Asked if he was planning to float a new political outfit, Tamang said that he was presently focussing on taking forward three major demands but added that he would make a major announcement within the next 15 days. These demands are revision of the Indo-Nepal Friendship Treaty of 1950, inclusion of Darjeeling-Dooars and Terai regions in the ministry of development of north eastern region, and setting up of an All India Gorkha Assembly. “At the moment I am focussing on certain demands. I will make an announcement within the next 15 days about the platform from which these demands will be raised,” said Tamang. Tamang wants the Centre to set up a Gorkha Assembly which will not be restricted by any geographic boundaries but whose members should be constituted through adult franchise in Gorkha dominated areas across the country. A couple of days ago, it came to the fore that Anit Thapa, currently heading the faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, has decided to float a new political party. The new entity is expected to be floated in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Aged couple dead in Purulia flat||Police on Saturday morning recovered the bodies of a 76-year-old retired employee of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) and his 70-year-old wife from their flat in one of the oldest housing complexes in Purulia town. Both the bodies bore injuries made with a sharp-edged weapon. While Kshirod Sindhu Roy was found dead on his bed, the body of his wife Krishna was lying on the floor. The police have started a murder case. A sniffer dog from West Burdwan’s Asansol unit has also been brought in. “The investigation is on. We are inquiring about persons known to the couple and verifying the CCTV footage of the housing complex. No one has been arrested so far,” said S. Selvamurugan, Purulia SP, who led the on-site probe on Saturday. Roy, the owner of the flat, used to teach at a private technology college after his retirement. Sources said the couple had been residing in Pragati conclave for seven years. The daughter and son-in-law of the couple also live in Purulia. On Saturday morning, their house help Anjali Bauri reportedly discovered the bodies. “The husband’s body was on the bed and the wife’s body was on the floor in a pool of blood. I entered the house as the main door was open. The showers and taps of the bathroom were on and there was sound of water,” said Anjali. The couple’s daughter Pampa Sarkar, who lives at a different locality, reached the spot and claimed that everything was fine during her last visit on Friday evening. “My parents can’t commit suicide. I am in shock and dependent on the police for further leads,” said Pampa. The gates of the housing complex are under the ambit of CCTV cameras. “We are verifying the CCTV footage to identify those who entered the apartment. We suspect the culprit was known to the couple as the door was open from inside and not broken from outside,” said a police source. Prabir Adhikari, the secretary of the housing complex, said it was the first time such an incident had occurred. “The maid informed me about the incident. We have CCTV cameras to record people entering the complex. However, there are no cameras inside buildings. We are really shocked as we are not used to encountering such crimes here in Purulia,” said Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Student files police complaint against Visva-Bharati VC||A suspended Visva-Bharati student on Saturday lodged a police complaint against vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty, accusing him of harassing her by linking her to a “fictitious”  protest as she had “dared” to oppose his “illegal” activities. A member of the CPM’s student wing SFI, Rupa Chakrabortty was one of the faces of the campus protest against the pro-Citizenship Amendment Act lecture that the varsity had held in January 2020. In her complaint to the police, Rupa urged the force to “take appropriate action against Prof. Bidyut Chakrabarty for his criminal intimidation and selective harassment”. The final-year student of Hindustani classical music said she was tagged in a fictitious student protest and suspended since January 2021. Rupa said she went to the police as the varsity administration “on the VC’s behest” extended her suspension by three months. Birbhum police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi said the police would look into the complaint, a copy of which Rupa has sent to varsity Chancellor and PM Narendra Modi, the state and national women’s commissions. Visva-Bharati’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a text of this paper. “The VC had also tagged us as Maoists during an online meeting and I had to other option but to take recourse to law and appeal to people and institutions that matter,” Rupa added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Postal department files police complaint against ‘fake’ job applicants in Malda||Malda postal department has filed a police complaint against 15 applicants for furnishing fake documents with their application for recruitment in the department. Sources said recently, a notification was issued for recruitment of “Gramin Daksebak” (rural postman) for over 100 vacant posts in Malda. In due course, the department received hundreds of applications and as a part of the process, those were sent for perusal. “During verification, some educational credentials were found to be fake and officials of the department wrote to the concerned examination boards to verify the authenticity of those testimonials,” said a source. Jagdish Singh, the superintendent of posts, Malda postal division, said the boards informed that at least 15 such testimonials were not issued by them. “It was evident that the applicants had forged those documents and applied for a government job. This is a serious offence and we have lodged a complaint with the police,” Singh added. Alok Rajoria, the district police chief, said the complaint has been registered and a probe was on. In the past three weeks, this is the third such instance when the attempts of getting government jobs by forging signatures or furnishing fake documents have come to the fore. Last month, the minister of state of irrigation and waterways department Sabina Yeasmin had alleged that her official letterhead and signature was forged by a youth who used those to draft a recommendation letter with the name of the minister for a job in the state public health engineering department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Rs 4 crore fraud charge on Diamond Harbour Trinamul leaders ||Police on Saturday arrested two prominent Trinamul leaders from Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas for allegedly siphoning off Rs 4 crore meant to be paid as wages in the 100-day job scheme. Hasanuzzaman Mollah,senior party leader and deputy chief of party ruled Patra gram panchayat, and local youth Trinamul block president Mansur Daftary allegedly replaced bank account numbers of actual beneficiaries with those of their kin and aides and directed cash into those. The duo have been charged with criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||CM Mamata to PM Modi: Electricity (Amendment) Bill is ‘anti-people’||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing her displeasure over the Centre’s move to table the Electricity (Amendment) Bill in Parliament, describing it as anti-people and the result of a unilateral decision. Mamata in her letter expressed her reservations against “the sweeping abdication of the State’s pre-eminent role in the power sector in favour of unregulated and de-licensed private players”. “I write this letter to re-lodge my protest against the Union Government’s fresh move to place the much criticised Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2000 in the Parliament. It was proposed to be moved last year, but many of us had underlined the anti-people aspects… and at least I had detailed out all the salient pitfalls of the Bill in a letter to you on 12 June, 2020,” she wrote. She added that when the bill was not moved last year, she thought the Centre would consult all stakeholders, but now she was “stunned” to hear that the bill was coming back without any dialogue and “some graver anti-people features this time”. “Such a laissez faire approach would result in concentration of private profit-focussed utility players in the lucrative urban-industrial segments, while poor and rural consumers would be left to be tended by public sector DISCOMs,” she wrote. The chief minister wrote that the bill would leave state PSUs sick and ailing and yet forced to serve areas where no corporate entity would focus. “Allowing cherrypicking to select private entities cannot be the goal of public policies, particularly in a strategic sector like power,” she wrote. Mamata added that the reduction of the role of state PSUs, the unchecked enhancement of private players and curtailment of the authority of the states in this particular sector imply a sinister design. “The dilution of the role of the State Electricity Regulatory Commission and the state distribution companies implies a political design to demolish state bodies and domestic industries. Direct interference by the Central government in activities involving distribution will not at all be helpful to take care of the interest of the common people and the states,” she added. This is not the first time Mamata has written to Modi to oppose the bill. Last year she had taken up the issue with Modi over the draft bill, and to mobilise the Opposition had also written to chief ministers of non-BJP states. Even then she had argued that the draft Bill was a violation of the “spirit of co-operative federalism”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal jab shortage fuels Jharkhand trips ||Shortage in supply of Covid-19 vaccines from the Centre to Bengal has forced hundreds from three blocks of West Burdwan to travel to neighbouring Jharkhand for jabs. Bengal has received 2.68 crore doses from Centre so far, far short of the state’s requirement of nearly 14 crore vaccines to administer two doses to seven crore residents who are above 18 years and eligible for the jabs. In comparison, Jharkhand with a population of 3.29 crore has received over 1.01 crore doses. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has written to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to supply adequate vaccines to the state at the earliest. According to central government guidelines, an Indian national can take vaccine doses anywhere in the country after registering via proper online procedures using his or her Aadhaar card number. However, the journey to get vaccinated across the border has not been smooth for West Burdwan residents. Many have complained of harassment and arguments with people in Jharkhand’s Jamtara, where the residents of West Burdwan’s Kulti, Salanpur and Barabani blocks have been travelling to get the jab. Many Bengal residents who took the jab in Jamtara said they were called “outsiders” by people there and asked why they were here and why they did not  get vaccinated “in their own state”. Pradip Dutta, 57, a grocer from Sitarampur in Kulti, said he had gone to Jamtara district hospital with wife Putul by train for their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine but their experience was “unpleasant”. “We were in the queue at Jamtara district hospital. Some local people in the queue suddenly lost patience and accused us (Bengal residents) of taking a share of their vaccines,” said Dutta. At one point, local youths allegedly chased people from Bengal with bamboo sticks but were later pacified by police, he said. Taxi operators in Kulti said they are getting a good number of passengers for Jamtara and charging anywhere between Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,000 for a trip to Jamtara. Sources in the Jamtara administration in Jharkhand said they had arranged a separate queue for the people coming from Bengal. “Many people from Bengal are coming here for vaccinations and we are trying our best to give all of them the vaccines,” said Asha Ekka, medical officer at Jamtara district hospital. However, sources at hospital in Jamtara admitted to giving priority to local people to avoid chaos and arguments. “Local people become angry as many from Bengal come here regularly for vaccinations. We have set up a separate queue for people from Bengal and we give priority to our local residents,” said an official at the Jamtara hospital. A health official in Jamtara said the district with a population of around nine lakh had received 2.5 lakh doses so far from the Centre. Amarnath Chatterjee, administrator of Asansol Municipal Corporation, said they were running 17 Covid-19 vaccination centres in the municipal area. “We are vaccinating at least 5,000 people a day in the civic body area. There is a crisis of doses. Our chief minister has taken up the issue with the Centre,” he said. Additional reporting by Animesh Bisoee in Jharkhand||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 749 new cases, 15 deaths||Bengal on Saturday recorded 48 straight days of a fall in active cases, as the state reported 749 new infections, 791 recoveries and 15 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 57 to 10,585. Bengal currently has 2.63 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.12 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.36. Calcutta logged 66 new infections and two deaths. No Bengal district reported a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||North East||Truck resumes movement over Assam-Mizoram’s disputed border||Trucks from the rest of the country rumbled into Mizoram across a disputed border with neighbouring Assam late Saturday night, some 12 days after a bloody clash between police forces of the two states. Truckers who had parked their trucks at Dholai near the tense border and refused to move even after an informal blockade enforced by locals had been lifted, started moving essential supplies including medicines, diesel and cooking gas after two Assam Ministers Ashok Singhal and Parimal Suklabaidya on Saturday convinced them it was safe to travel across the border to Mizoram. Kolasib Superintendent of Police (SP), Vanlalfaka Ralte said more than 50 vehicles have entered Mizoram since Saturday night till Sunday morning. Traffic movement between the two neighbouring states as of now is quite smooth. However, we are still on alert as untoward incident can happen at any time, Ralte, who is camping at Vairengte, told PTI over the phone. Cachar Superintendent of Police Ramandeep Kaur also confirmed to PTI that vehicles have been moving under heavy police escorts. Though initially there was some resistance from locals, after the two ministers held negotiations, the vehicles started moving." Silchar's Mizoram House Liaison Officer (LO) Kaptluanga said that before trucking began in earnest, some 9 Mizoram-bound vehicles were attacked and vandalised by miscreants at Lailapur on Saturday evening. The development happened after Assam and Mizoram ministers met last week to thrash out differences and agreed to maintain calm along the border and resolve their differences amicably. Some drivers however remained reluctant to move their vehicles across the border. Rahul Hussain, a stranded driver, said they "were willing to enter Mizoram" but demanded a written assurance for protection to be given. Despite an attempt by Home Minister Amit Shah to resolve a raft of long-standing border disuptes between Assam and its neighbours earlier last month, at least six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed and more than 50 people injured in a fire-fight between the police of the two states on July 26, which broke on Assam's Cachar border with Mizoram. The two states share a 164.6-km border between Assam's Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts, and Mizoram's Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl districts. Both states have differing interpretations of their territorial border. While Mizoram believes that its border lies along an inner line' drawn up in 1875 to protect tribals from outside influence, Assam goes by a district demarcation done in the 1930s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
08-08-2021||North East||Alliance under leadership of Mamata Banerjee will oust the BJP, says Akhil Gogoi||Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi on Sunday said that an alliance of regional parties under the leadership of Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is in the making to oust the BJP from power at the Centre in 2024. The Independent MLA from Assam also claimed that Mamata has extended an invitation to him to merge Raijor Dal with the Trinamul Congress (TMC). "We aim to form a confederation of regional forces and project Mamata Banerjee as its leader to remove the Narendra Modi government from power in 2024," he told reporters. Gogoi claimed that Mamata has assured him of the TMC Assam unit president's post if Raijor Dal is merged with the ruling party in West Bengal. A decision in this regard is likely to be taken in our party's executive body meeting during the day, he said. Gogoi said that three rounds of talks between the TMC and Raijor Dal over the issue have already taken place. Earlier this week, Gogoi had said, “After I came out of the jail, Mamata Banerjee invited me to meet her. I visited Calcutta twice recently and met her too. Trinamul wants me to join their party and lead the party as state president in Assam. We have not yet told her anything but my party Raijor Dal is trying hard to unit the opposition parties against BJP.” Gogoi is opposed to both BJP and RSS, saying both are trying to divide people on religious lines to win elections. He has been vocal against the BJP-led government in Assam and its policies including the CAA. Gogoi, who was arrested during the anti-CAA agitation in December 2019, came out of jail on July 1 this year, after a special National Investigate Agency court's order. The Assam police had charged him for sedition, while the NIA had charged him of having links with Maoists but the court cleared him of all charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
08-08-2021||North East||12 Trinamul Congress activists arrested in Tripura for violating Covid norms||At least 12 leaders and workers of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP workers on the previous day, were arrested in Tripura's Khowai district on Sunday for "violating Covid norms", police said. TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, who is Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and the de facto number 2 in the party, reached Agartala and left for Khowai to meet the arrested party workers, who will be produced before a court amid tight security arrangements. Police said that the 12 TMC members were arrested for violating Covid restrictions by travelling after the imposition of night curfew at 7 pm. Tripura TMC spokesperson Ashish Lal Singh said that party leaders including himself, Debangshu Bhattacharya, Tania Poddar, Sudip Raha and Jaya Dutta have been arrested. Raha and Dutta had sustained injuries when their vehicle was allegedly attacked by BJP workers at Ambassa in Dhalai district on Saturday. "After the attack, we were returning to Agartala through National Highway 8 when the police stopped our vehicles at Khowai and took us into custody stating that there could be more attacks on us by 'miscreants'. Indeed, BJP activists had gathered at several places on NH 8 to attack us," Singh said. However, early in the morning, police said that the TMC members were arrested for violating Covid restrictions. Meanwhile, three senior TMC leaders, including Abhishek Banerjee, West Bengal Education Minister Bratya Basu and Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen, reached Agartala and left for Khowai to meet the arrested members. Banerjee had earlier visited Tripura on August 2, when his convoy was also allegedly attacked by BJP workers. Strongly criticising Saturday's attack, TMC leaders alleged that the incident proved that there "goonda raj" (lawlessness) in Tripura, and the BJP has sensed its defeat in the 2023 assembly elections in the state. Denying the involvement of its activists in the attack, the BJP claimed that the TMC is a non-factor in Tripura, and Bengal's ruling party is spreading the "virus of political violence" in the northeastern state, where "outsiders" are fomenting trouble. Shortly after the incident, BJP and TMC supporters had faced off and staged road blockades 500 m apart on NH 8, forcing Chief Minister Biplab Deb to take a detour to return to Agartala after attending some programmes in Dharmanagar. TMC workers led by Subal Bhowmik, a former vice-president of Tripura BJP who recently switched sides, were protesting the alleged ransacking of a TMC party office by saffron party workers in Batarasi area of Dharmanagar on Friday night. The Bengal CPI(M) has also criticised the attack, but also took a dig at the TMC alleging that it had kept mum when Left workers were earlier attacked in BJP-ruled Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
08-08-2021||North East||Two Assam ministers visit border area to pacify locals to allow movement of essentials to Mizoram||Two Assam ministers visited a border area on Saturday to “pacify and convince locals” to allow the movement of essentials to Mizoram, raising hopes of an end to the unofficial economic blockade imposed by residents on the neighbouring state at a time when the two states are looking to bury the hatchet. Assam and Mizoram have been on tenterhooks since the July 26 flare-up on their disputed border in which six Assam policemen died in firing from the Mizoram side. Although trucks laden with essentials and medicines reached the Lailapur inter-state border in Cachar district of Assam’s Barak Valley around 6.30pm, locals stopped them from proceeding to the Variengete check gate in Mizoram. “Assam ministers Ashok Singhal and Parimal Suklabaidya are trying to resolve the issue. We are hopeful of a breakthrough,” a source said. Supply of essentials to Mizoram was stopped at the Barak Valley soon after the border clashes on July 26. Mizoram police had accused Assam cops of forcibly entering the disputed area and firing first. Although the two governments signed a pact on August 5 to end the tension in the border area, the unofficial economic blockade continued, becoming a source of concern and resentment. While Mizoram is staring at a crisis of essential food items and Covid medicines, Assam’s Barak Valley too is feeling the heat because they are as dependent on Mizoram for jobs and business as Mizoram is on them for essentials. Mizoram information and publicity minister Lalruatkima said after his discussion with Assam minister Singhal that all vehicles stranded on NH-306 would cross the inter-state border by Saturday evening. A few hours earlier Lalruatkima had tweeted: “It is unfortunate that supply of testing kits, reagents and other life-saving drugs are still stranded at the Assam-Mizoram border due to continued blockade of NH-306.… ZMC RT-PCR lab is now facing acute shortage of essential testing reagents, and therefore, sample testing in Mizoram is getting capped based on the available stock.” A leading Guwahati-based citizens’ group, the Axom Nagarik Samaj, on Saturday accused the Centre of inefficiency. It said the situation taking such an “ugly turn is also a reflection on the government of India and its inefficiency and indifference”. “It is a failure on the part of the Centre that it couldn’t stop the escalation of violence at the border between the security forces of two neighbouring states,” it said. The Samaj also raised the economic blockade, pointing out that supplies of “life-saving drugs and even Covid vaccines to Mizoram are being stopped”. “The government of Assam and the government of India haven’t done anything to remove the blockade. This is a matter of grave concern for all of us,” it said. The Nagarik Samaj said the Assam-Mizoram border dispute must be resolved through a process of negotiations, taking all the stakeholders into confidence. “Economic blockade is no solution. We appeal to all concerned that the economic blockade should be withdrawn immediately and free flow of supplies ensured so that common people in Mizoram don’t suffer. Each state in the Northeast has its distinctive culture. We have differences, but we also have common cultural threads and a shared past,” the Samaj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
08-08-2021||North East||Two Trinamul Congress leaders hurt in Tripura||Two Trinamul leaders from Bengal were injured in Tripura’s Dolubari, some 96km from Agartala, in an attack by suspected workers of the ruling BJP on Saturday. A Tripura Trinamul leader, Ashish Lal Singh, said BJP workers hurled brickbats at a vehicle, injuring his party colleagues Sudip Raha and Jaya Dutta. Tripura BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya dismissed the charges. Trinamul leader Abhishek Banerjee tweeted he would visit Tripura on Sunday. Singh alleged the attack occurred around 3pm. Raha suffered injuries when a piece of brick landed on his head, while Jaya had cuts on her ear. “We have lodged a case with Dhalai police,” Singh said, and added that the incident proved that the BJP was scared of Trinamul in Tripura. Trinamul staged a two-hour roadblock at Dolubari to protest the attack. Singh accused the cops of being mute spectators. “The police could not even arrange an ambulance for those injured. Two of our vehicles had been damaged in the attack. About 20 metres from our roadblock, BJP workers were raising cries of Jai Shri Ram with the police looking on.” Police refuted allegations of inaction and added that two persons had been injured in the attack by two unidentified persons. The BJP spokesperson in Tripura also alleged that the Trinamul and CPM were “hand-in-glove” in Tripura, which the Trinamul leader denied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
08-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: How CPM lost the plot in Bengal||Sir — During the Bengal assembly polls the Communist Party of India (Marxist) supporters and even some leaders flooded social media with the term, “BJmool”, a combination of the Bharatiya Janata Party and Trinamul Congress. What the CPI(M) wanted to convey was that the two parties were essentially the same and that both were the enemy. They even said that the TMC and the BJP were locked in a pseudo battle. After failing to win even a single seat in the assembly, the party mandarins are now saying that party workers should desist from using the term “BJmool” because it creates confusion (“Light dawns”, Aug 6). The CPI(M) has now realized that the BJP is not similar to any other political party because it is run by the fascist Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Here, some points need to be cleared: should the TMC really not be bracketed with the BJP in so far as ‘competitive communalism’ is concerned? Is there no trace of fascism in the TMC’s style of working? Most important, can there be any better definition of the likes of Mukul Roy than “BJmool”? The CPI(M) is barking up the wrong tree. The party needs a great deal of introspection in order to find the root causes of its rout in the assembly elections. The confusion created by coining “BJmool” is not it. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur, South 24 Parganas Sir — It is clear that the CPI(M) in Bengal lost the plot in the assembly elections by going after Mamata Banerjee instead of focusing on the BJP. Both the CPI(M) and the Congress leaderships were convinced that there was reasonable political space for them to dislodge the TMC from power and relegate the BJP to a distant third position. To this end, they coined the term “BJmool” to project the idea that the BJP and the Trinamul Congress were two sides of the same coin. The CPI(M) leadership blamed the voters for the party’s failures instead of poor decision-making. This arrogance of the leadership — that it could not do anything wrong — was also exhibited in its alliance with Abbas Siddiqui, a religious preacher well-known for his illiberal and misogynistic views. Surprisingly, the CPI(M) leadership overlooked major differences between the BJP and the TMC. The CPI(M) kept projecting the two parties as the same even when a large number of TMC leaders were leaving the party to join the BJP. The adversarial nature of relations between the two parties was clear to everyone but the CPI(M). The Left in India has to retune its stance according to the aspirations of the new generation; instead it remains stuck in the 1960s and 1970s. It has learnt no lessons from China. The Left in West Bengal, because of its incapacity to reinvent itself, is becoming increasingly irrelevant. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is heartening to see that the CPI(M) has realized the error of its ways in not uniting against a common enemy when it was most important to do so. This mistake proved costly as the Left had to cede its position as principal Opposition to the BJP in West Bengal. Unfortunately, the inroads that the BJP has made in Bengal will affect the common people and the brotherhood in the state more than it will the CPI(M). Amends must be made now to keep the BJP away from making further progress in Bengal in the future. Indrajit Dey,Calcutta Sir — Bizarre food combinations are all the rage on the internet. People are competing to dish out the weirdest combinations — be it eggs fried with Fanta in India or liquid chocolate poured over biryani in Pakistan — that will raise a storm on the internet. While some of these fusions can be delicious, there are often dangers to mixing disparate ingredients. Street stalls that come up with such dishes might not have the wherewithal to comprehend the dangers of mixing ingredients that can cause adverse reactions once consumed. People should be careful about what they eat. Srikanta Bhattacharjee, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Glimmer and darkness||The value of perspective cannot be overstated, especially when the odds that have to be battled are formidable. Indian athletes, in particular, are regularly expected to perform in situations where the odds are heavily stacked against them; that they are often able to give the nation the honour of a podium finish in spite of innumerable roadblocks is a testament to their grit and excellence. India’s medal tally at the London Olympics was impressive — it had won six medals, of which two were silver and four were bronze. At the Tokyo Games, which conclude today, India has surpassed all expectations by putting up its best-ever performance at the Olympics — it has won a gold, two silver and four bronze medals. For this, the nation’s Olympians must be lauded, not least because their achievements come at a time when training for sportspersons has run into immense challenges owing to the global pandemic. There are other, equally pressing, reasons for acknowledging the athletes’ achievements. Their success seems to be falling prey to the oldest trick in the book of the political fraternity — politicians claiming credit for the achievements of sportspersons. Not only did the prime minister say that the Indian women’s hockey team embodies the ‘spirit of New India’ — a phrase synonymous with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political ascendance — but posters praising the bronze-winning boxer, Lovlina Borgohain, featured photographs of the Assam chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, and the state’s sports minister, Bimal Borah; Ms Borgohain’s image, interestingly, has gone missing from the posters. The self-congratulatory stance adopted by Indian leaders is only made worse by the irony of their actions — in an Olympic year, the Union government slashed the sports budget by Rs 230.78 crore. This would have a direct impact on resources related to training, infrastructure and sponsorship, all of which play a key role in a sportsperson’s ability to win medals. In stark contrast, China, India’s regional competitor, plans to make sports a $773 billion industry by 2025, a 70 per cent increase from 2019. An Olympic gold in a track-and-field event is inspiring, but India’s total kitty of medals remains modest, especially in view of its population and the fact that it sent its biggest-ever contingent of athletes to Tokyo. The absence of institutional support is one part of the problem; Indian sportspersons also have to contend with the lack of a thriving sporting culture that prioritizes excellence. This makes the model adopted by Odisha for bolstering hockey talent worth emulating: it has, in recent years, been the principal sponsor for the men’s and women’s hockey teams, both of which made history by reaching the semi-finals, with the men’s team clinching the bronze. The template of providing funds, building modern training facilities and hosting quality competitions along with the creation of a robust sporting network at the grass roots seems to be yielding dividends in sharp contrast to the limited success of Central programmes like ‘Khelo India’. The government and citizens must perceive sport as a potential driver of the economy that can generate employment and attract investment. What Odisha has thought today, the rest of India must do tomorrow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Opinion||Changing track||A second could be an eternity in sports. But on that sultry August evening in 1984 in Los Angeles, one-hundredth of a second was enough to stand between glory and despair for more than a billion Indians. It was truly a run into history. A tall and lanky 20-year-old, with a tongue-twister name, Pilavullakandi Thekkeparambil Usha, missed her tryst with destiny to become India’s first woman Olympic medallist by the narrowest of margins in the country’s sport history. After crossing the finishing line together, a determined lunge at the photo finish helped Romania’s Cristieana Cojocaru beat Usha by 0.01 seconds to win the bronze in the 400 metres hurdles. Years later, Usha rued how she had run out of energy in the last 35 metres. The villain was her non-nutritional diet at the Olympic camp consisting of just kanji and kadumanga (rice porridge and her home-made mango pickle) for more than a week. She was forced to depend on this as no Indian food was available at the camp and she couldn’t stand the American baked potatoes and boiled chicken. She had no clue about nutrition issues and there was none to advise her either. Compare this with India’s Tokyo Olympic medallist weightlifter, Mirabai Chanu, who received such support for five years as the services of a famed conditioning coach and physio in the United States of America for which she was flown out a day before that country imposed restrictions on Indians. A daily fruit-and-fish diet comprising salmon, tuna and pork belly — all imported from Norway — was also ensured for her. The LA Olympics turned out to be the moment of her greatest disappointment; but it also made Usha India’s greatest woman athlete. For no Indian woman athlete has come nearer to her record in a track-and-field event even today although the weightlifter, Karnam Malleswari, became the country’s first woman Olympic medallist at Sydney 16 years later. India’s sprint queen reigned on Asian tracks for two decades, harvesting records and medals aplenty. The ‘Payyoli Express’s’ was much more than a personal achievement. She set a trend. Hundreds of Kerala girls from similar humble backgrounds were inspired to flock to sports to not only compete but also fight their own wretched living conditions. Consequently, India’s athletic world came to be dominated by Malayali girls from then. From Usha making Malayali women’s Olympic debut at Moscow in 1980 to that of her protégé, Jisna Mathew, at Rio 2016, as many as 19 Kerala women have worn India colours in the past 11 Games. Usha participated in three Olympics; her famous contemporary, Shiny Wilson, made it to four. Their successors, K.M. Beenamol, made it to three while the long-jumper, Anju Bobby George (the only Indian gold medallist at the IAAF World Athletics), the middle-distance runner, Chitra Soman, and Usha’s trainee, Tintu Luka, attended two each. Tokyo Olympics 2020 would go down in history for various reasons, including its being held in 2021 due to Covid-19. But for Kerala, it would be historic as the first Olympics in four decades without a single woman competitor from the state. That too when the 127-member Indian squad boasted of a record 56 women. The 18-member athletic team included nine women. In a reversal of tradition, the Indian squad this time had a record nine men, including seven athletes from Kerala, where sports has long been dominated by women with 14 of them figuring in the state’s total of 16 Arjuna award winners. Three Kerala women who were expected to make it to Tokyo failed in the trials held in Patiala, mainly on account of their injuries and the lack of sufficient preparations. While Jisna Mathew (4 x 400 m gold, Asian Athletics, 2017) finished fourth in the trials for mixed relay, V.K. Vismaya (4 x 400 m gold in the 2018 Asian Games) ended up last in the trials and the middle-distance runner, P.U. Chitra (1500 m gold winner at Asian Athletics, Doha, 2019), narrowly missed out. The Rio Olympics had four Malayali women: O.P. Jaisha (marathon), Anilda Thomas (4 x 400 m relay), Tintu Luka and Jisna Mathew. Usha’s trainees and national-record holders, Mayookha Johny (triple jump) and Tintu Luka (800 m), had also attended the London Olympics in 2012. Why? Most athletes, coaches and officials in Kerala blame it on the pandemic and the lockdown that deprived them of sufficient training, workout, competitions and travel. Tournaments were cancelled and there were restrictions on mobility. The postponement of the Tokyo Olympics by a year was welcomed by the sporting community as it was expected to provide it with more time for preparations. But the persistence of the pandemic perpetuated the restrictions. Since there were no competitions, Usha conducted meets at her school of athletics in Kozhikode from last September for her 20-odd wards. With her school and its synthetic track securely surrounded by hills, Usha’s trainees were India’s first athletes to resume training after the lockdown. Yet, it did not go as expected as the unrelenting virus caused further lockdowns. Usha says that the pandemic completely truncated her wards’ practice schedules as social distancing and the wearing of masks killed training protocols. This, however, begs a question. Why then the record rise in the number of men who made it? Surely in Kerala too, every hurdle happens to be far more challenging for women than men on account of entrenched inequities. In spite of the better performance on the conventional indicators of health and education, the high incidence of domestic violence, a high suicide rate among women, low employment rate et al expose Kerala’s patriarchal underbelly. According to a research paper on the relationship between patriarchy and sports in Kerala, “gendered practice of sports marginalizes women in multiple ways.” Besides the pandemic, many detect a falling interest among Kerala’s girls to join sports compared to the past. With economic prosperity and lower number of children in families, parents’ priority is studies over sports. The primary reason for the waning interest appears to be the rise in Kerala’s general economic status since the 1990s. For long, sports was one of the attractive professions for Kerala’s youngsters dogged by poverty and high unemployment. It offered a passport to jobs and livelihood for Kerala’s youth, much like it did for the young footballers of South America. Most of Kerala’s famed sportspersons have come from poor families who live in hilly regions; they are thus physically stronger, making them suitable for endurance sports. The routine run to and from school through rough terrain makes them potential athletes. Kerala women’s advancement in sports also has to do with the generally better indicators like sex ratio, female literacy, life expectancy, higher age of marriage and lower infant and maternal mortality rates, notwithstanding the state’s patriarchal trappings. Most women athletes happen to come from lower middle-class Christian farming families settled in the high ranges. Socially progressive than others, Christian families and churches have always encouraged girls to acquire education, take up sports or jobs like nursing to which Hindus and Muslims were indifferent due to caste and religious prejudices. Kerala’s women — mostly Christians — have traditionally excelled across the country and abroad as nurses. Kerala’s Christian community has provided the country with the largest number of nuns. Since the 1970s, with the state setting up a string of sports schools and organizing more competitions, they began to look at sports as a livelihood option. But with rising economic prosperity, physically demanding and less-paying professions are becoming unattractive in Kerala in spite of high unemployment. This and Kerala’s high wages have led to a huge inflow of migrant labourers from other states to take up manual jobs. According to a report, there has been a 40 per cent drop in the number of nuns and priests from Kerala. Ditto with the number of nurses getting registered or migrating abroad, according to a study by the World Health Organization. Once among India’s poorest states, Kerala has gone up economically since the 1990s and is now one of the five most prosperous states, thanks to the flow of remittances from the Malayali diaspora in the Gulf. Kerala’s per capita income in 2019 was 1.5 times higher than that of the national average with annual remittances crossing Rs 1 lakh crore that formed 30 per cent of the state’s GDP. Girls being encouraged to take up sports would be the least priority for most middle-class families. Pursuing sports for survival must have been affected by other factors, such as the fall in population (Kerala had the lowest decadal growth rate in the 2011 census) and the rise of the nuclear family. There is another new trend: the declining sex ratio at birth in contrast to the state’s overall picture of females outnumbering males. Kerala saw the sharpest fall among major states in the last five years, according to the latest National Family Health Survey report. It fell to 951 in 2019-20 from 1,047 in 2015-16, while Kerala had the highest overall sex ratio — 1,121 — among the major states, up from 1,049 during NFHS-4. The author, a senior journalist based in Trivandrum, has worked with various print and electronic media organizations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Opinion||Naveen Patnaik strikes gold with his love for hockey||Hockey seems to have regained at least some of its lost glory in India with the spectacular performances of the men’s and women’s teams at the Tokyo Olympics. Hockey lovers across the country are singing paeans to the Odisha chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, for having given India’s national game a new lease of life by sponsoring both teams at a critical juncture in 2018 when Sahara decided to withdraw its sponsorship. Patnaik, who used to be the goalkeeper of his school hockey team, came to the rescue of the game immediately by signing a five-year deal said to be worth over Rs 100 crore. For a cash-strapped state like Odisha, this was a big sacrifice to make but Patnaik had no hesitation making the decision as the future of hockey was in jeopardy. Odisha, thus, became the first state of the country to officially sponsor the two teams. As the men’s team clinched bronze at Tokyo, ending a 41-year medal drought at the Olympics, the team was as much in focus as the CM of Odisha with social media being flooded with praises for Patnaik. Even the Opposition leaders have been forced to admit Patnaik’s contribution to the game. The CM, thus, seems to have killed two birds with one stone. While he has successfully restored hockey’s lost glory in India, he has also made himself politically unassailable with his popularity at an all-time high. The euphoria about Priyanka Gandhi Vadra transforming the Congress in Uttar Pradesh has finally disappeared and there is a strong yearning for an alliance for the upcoming assembly elections. While Congress leaders had dreamt of a dramatic revival, even talking of forming the government with Priyanka being projected as the CM candidate, their dreams have now been punctured. Many leaders privately concede that the situation is not good even though an organizational machinery has been put in place across the state. While critics and dissenters predict doom, even those supposed to be playing an important role in the Priyanka regime admit that Covid-19 derailed revival efforts and the party is not in a position to win in most constituencies in spite of having gained in strength. The Congress hopes an alliance with the Samajwadi Party will be beneficial for both and the Bharatiya Janata Party can then easily be kicked out of power. Even Priyanka does not rule out the possibility of an alliance. The SP leader, Akhilesh Yadav, has expressed willingness to tie up with smaller parties, particularly the Rashtriya Lok Dal of Jayant Chaudhary, but avoided mentioning the Congress. He has even talked of winning 400 out of the 403 seats, demonstrating confidence of a comeback. The Congress can hope the collective pressure of all Opposition parties will compel Yadav to go for an alliance. The show of unity during the ongoing parliamentary session is bound to bring all the parties under pressure to form a coalition. Floods are ravaging large swathes of Bihar this year too, but there is a difference. The state government is not sharing data related to flood-affected areas, population, and relief works. Once or twice a month some half-baked figures are released, which do not give a clear picture of the devastation brought by the deluge. Asked about this change, a senior official shared that “some vested interests don’t want to put the data in the public domain because it may lead to questions on relief works. There is another possibility that the state coffers are empty and the government has decided to downplay everything.” Incidentally, the CM, Nitish Kumar, is yet to announce elaborate relief measures and compensation for flood victims this year. But Kumar is busy handling the pandemic. He wanted to see firsthand how well the people in Patna, Vaishali and a few other districts were following Covid-19 protocols. He set out with his entourage and saw no crowds, clean streets, and a thin presence of people, many of whom were masked. He returned satisfied and lifted most of the restrictions imposed. Unnerved by this development, the intelligentsia probed into what had happened and found out that whenever Kumar wants to inspect anything, all the officers concerned are duly informed about his impending visit. They smoothen and refurbish everything to the satisfaction of the CM. It happens with all welfare and development schemes too. Ignorance is bliss? A recent function to mark the change of guard in the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee left party members with mixed emotions. While they were happy that a new team under Bhupen Kumar Borah was finally taking charge, the former state unit president and sitting Rajya Sabha MP, Ripun Bora, left most people zapped when he spoke about the intense power struggle to oust him. He wished his successor would be able to concentrate on checking the BJP effectively instead of protecting his chair like he did for most of his tenure. Most felt this was unwarranted; leaving many hurt and embarrassed. Bora’s remark was lapped up by the media, leaving most wondering whether the rise of the BJP is responsible for the Congress’s fall or if it is the latter’s self-destructive streak. The socialist moorings of the Karnataka CM, Basavaraj Bommai, has not gone down well with his hard-core Hindutvavadi party colleagues. Son of the former CM, SR Bommai, of Janata Party, Bommai Jr was part of the Janata ‘parivar’ before joining the BJP in 2008. But the “socialist” label has stuck. If the “socialist” foundation of Bommai Jr is already an issue, the BJP government is in for some turbulence in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Opinion||Love And Tokyo||India’s hockey players have achieved the impossible off-field with their performance in the Tokyo Olympics. They have managed to make a lot of disparate and some sparring entities happy at the same time. The feminists are happy and the chauvinists are happy. The real coaches --- Graham Reid and Sjoerd Marijne --- are happy and reel coach, Kabir Khan, is also happy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is happy; after all he motivated them. Aditya Chak De Chopra must be happy for the Olympian replug of a nearly 15-year-old film. Akshay Kumar is also happy; he tweeted his congratulations to the men’s team for “rewriting history”. And it is perhaps safe to assume that after he is done filming Prithviraj Chauhan, Rakhsha Bandhan and Ram Setu, Akki will start rewriting Love in Tokyo into Bronze in Tokyo. Let’s see who else is happy? The cribbers are happy. It would all have been too hearty and saccharine and bhaichara but then Farhan Akhtar congratulated the women’s team for the medal haul and gave them (cribbers) something to beat someone up about. Jharkhand is happy. First, chief minister Hemant Soren had a smart TV installed at defender Salima Tete’s parents’ home in Simdega district so they could watch their daughter play. And after the win, they have one more reason to cheer — Soren has promised every team member Rs 50 lakh. Haryana is happy, in Punjab Captain has reason to smile, MP is happy, Manipur is happy, and even the presently troubled Mizoram is happy. Cash awards after the Games, backslapping after the Games, photo sessions and attention after the Games --- if one can straightaway reap an Olympian harvest without dwelling on the sowing, who will not be happy. Odisha and Naveen Patnaik, of course, have good reason to be euphoric — the state sponsored the women’s and men’s teams after Sahara backed out in 2018. What about the spirit of Dhyan Chand did you ask? Is The Wizard smiling down from the heavens at one of the most prestigious sporting awards of the country being renamed after him? Maybe, maybe not. Major Chand, who won gold in three Olympic Games wrote in his autobiography, “You are doubtless aware that I am a common man, and then a soldier. It has been my training from my very childhood to avoid limelight and publicity. I have chosen a profession where I have been taught to be a soldier, and nothing beyond that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Opinion||Cover me, my darling cloud||That time. Remember? Clouds? Baadal? Remember baadal? Oh you must, what sort of a subscriber are you to essential isms? Think again. It is that time of the year too. Look up. Or look down. There must be baadal up there. Or there must be dregs of what the baadal dropped down there. Baadals drop. And not just raindrops. You fool, don’t you remember? You must. It’s your duty. And duty is why we are here, rights be damned. We shall see after rights, duty first. Bend. Salute. Remember. Rejoice in the remembrance. Then we shall see what rights you may be granted. They are there, your rights. Guaranteed. But that cannot mean they are yours to be had as and when you wish. Deserve them. Deserve me, and you will have deserved them. Where my nose begins, your right to swing your arm must cease. But my nose, mind you, not your nose. Your nose and its rights, well, as they say often and you don’t care to pay heed, CONDITIONS APPLY. Please apply them, never forget. As ever, and fatally prone to the fallacy called habit, I digress. I was on clouds, baadal. I am on one. As we speak. Can you hear me? I am speaking from the clouds. I am on my way. This is a good time to be on the way. You know, you remember, you must. Clouds. And cover. CloudCover. Things happen when there are clouds. I mean Kalidasa gets to write Meghdootam. Things like that. Or a game of cricket gets stalled, drat. Or Bambaiyya directors start going dhak-dhak, or gaapuchi-gaapuchi, or tip-tip barsa paani and consequent pyrotechnics, or aaj rapat jaayen to hamen naa bataaiyo type of things. You know. You don’t? Never mind, you don’t deserve to. When clouds happen. Things happen. Things that nobody can tell are happening or have happened. Cloud. Cover. Things happened. Nobody knew. Nobody even felt what happened. But they happened. Clouds are proof. But those clouds have shed and floated away and vapourised and they are no longer in a position to tell what they concealed in their cover and what indeed happened while they were the instruments of concealment. Things struck other things. There was lightning. And there were crackers. The clouds saw. Who cares if you did not. Ride the cloud some day, and peep out of the covers, and you’ll see what it is your duty to see. Even if you are not able to see it. Deewana hua baadal Saawan ki ghata chhaayi Yeh dekh ke dil jhooma Lo, ho hee jaaye ladaayi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: CBI team recreates crime scene of judge's death again ||The 20-member CBI team investigating judge Uttam Anand murder case of July 28 on Sunday recreated the crime scene for the second consecutive day. The focus of the investigation of the crime scene recreation and 3D laser scanning was on the auto speed measurement, the angle on which the auto took a truck while it hit the judge to ascertain whether it was an intention diversion to hit the judge or natural diversion. The CBI team which reached the crime spot near the golf ground in the early morning along with arrested auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice, Rahul Verma at around 5 am recreated the crime scene this time almost at the same with the same auto rickshaw through which the judge was hit on July 28. The 3D laser scanning of the entire scene recreation was also carried out for the second time on Sunday with 3D laser cameras. Earlier, the seized auto rickshaw lying at Dhanbad police station was brought to the crime spot. The CBI team also carried out the design study of the road using the 3D AutoCAD software with which the state SIT team also carried out the road design, slap and slant analysis on July 31 while carrying out investigation with the help of the road construction department team. The CBI team members however evaded media interaction during the crime scene recreation. The district police team accompanying the CBI team however removed all the vehicles lying near the crime scene to facilitate the better recreation of the incident almost in similar fashion in which the incident took place on July 28. A one way traffic arrangement was also enforced by the police during the crime scene recreation by CBI to ensure hassle free completion of the entire process. Notably, the CBI team led by Additional Superintendent of Police Vipin Kumar Shukla which reached Dhanbad on August 5 earlier questioned the several persons including the doctors and other medical staff of SNMMCH where the judge was admitted after being hit by the auto rickshaw. The team also took on remand the two arrested persons, including Auto driver, Lakhan Verma and his accomplice, Rahul Verma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Environmentalist Jamuna Tudu to tie rakhis to over 100 trees on Raksha Bandhan ||Environmentalist Jamuna Tudu and her team will tie rakhis to over 100 trees at Sunsunia jungles in Chalulia block of East Singhbhum on Raksha Bandhan. The members of Van Suraksha Samiti (VSS), which is led by Jamuna, will shortly make rakhis at their homes while some would be bought from the market in Chakulia, around 90m km from Jamshedpur. "We tie rakhi to trees every year. But this Raksha Bandhan we have a target to cross the 100 mark. We tie rakhis to the trees for their well being. It also sends a message about the importance of protecting the environment,"Jamuna, a Padma Shri awardee said over phone from her village Maturkham. She added they would adopt the required Covid-19 protocols while celebrating Raksha Bandhan. All members will wear masks and maintain social distancing. "Long strings will be used for tying rakhis to trees. Generally we tie rakhis to around 65-70 trees but this time it is going to be different," the feisty tribal promised. According to her, they will also invite guests on the occasion and take pledge to continue protecting the jungles with more vigour and determination. "Some of VSS members would also speak about the environment and the need to protect it. Raksha Bandhan is an occasion we look forward to," the green crusader said. Formed in 1998, the Samiti is currently limited to East Singhbhum. It has over 300 women members in the district, including Bahragora, Ghatshila, Potka, Patamda and Dhalbhumgarh. VSS committees have also been formed in Dumka, Giridih, Godda and Pakur. Known as Lady Tarzan for the ferocity with which she fights the timber mafia, Jamuna added she feels immensely happy to see tree felling come down. "However, we would not sit down and continue to fight the timber mafia. Laxity on our part would not help the cause for which we are fighting," she pointed out. Born in Odisha, Jamuna settled in Muturkham after marriage. Surrounded by 50 hectares of forest land, Muturkham was plagued by the forest mafia and poachers before she decided to take the matter in her hands. The Samiti has intensified daily patrolling in  Beladih, Madhupur, Laubera, Dhalukdingha, Baraghat and Muhulbera forests. The members patrol the forest on rotation from early morning to late evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Breastfeeding saves lives, it is the best gift to your child||Breastfeeding, within the first hour of life, is recognised as the most important intervention for infant survival. The first week of August every year is celebrated as the World Breastfeeding Week. These seven days aim to highlight the huge benefits that breastfeeding can bring to the health, survival, and wellbeing of babies, and for mother’s health. The Lancet Journal in 2016 provided evidence that breastfeeding can raise Intelligent Quotient (IQ) by 3 points in all children and is associated with higher income in adult life. Optimal breastfeeding means that all newborns are initiated breastfeeding within one hour of the birth and are exclusively breastfed for the first six months (even water or honey or anything except mothers’ breastmilk should not be given). Further, after 6 months along with introduction of semi-solid foods; breastfeeding should be continued for two years or beyond. Global Scientists indicate that undernutrition is a predominant risk factor for 62 percent of all under- 5 year deaths in India. WHO 2021 suggests that over 820 000 children's lives could be saved every year among children under 5 years, if all children 0–23 months were optimally breastfed. Jharkhand envisages a state, where the breastfeeding should be optimally high to ensure survival, growth, and care for children to effectively combat the high rate of malnutrition, mortality and morbidity among children and also remain protective to Covid-19 pandemic. Overall, there has been little improvement in nutrition outcomes in Jharkhand between 2006 and 2016. While the initiation of breastfeeding indicators shows substantial improvement since past 10 years, many infants are still deprived of the highly nutritious first milk (colostrum) and the antibodies it contains, still all children are not initiated breastfeeding within 1 hour, many are fed water, animal milk, honey etc. which is not good for the health of the newborns. Breastfeeding practices in Jharkhand need further improvement to save more lives and extend benefits to the children and breastfeeding is not the sole responsibility of the mother. The only ideal food for a child below 6 months is mother’s breast milk. It is safe, clean and contains antibodies which help protect against many common childhood illnesses. Breastmilk not only provides all the energy and nutrients that the babies need for the first months of life, but also provides up to half or more of a child’s nutritional needs during the first year, and up to one third during the second year of life. Current evidences suggests that breastmilk is not likely to give vertical transmission of viral infection in new-born and infants. Rather, high prevalence of antibodies in breastmilk might lead to passive immunity in many breastfed infants and may serve as protection against Covid-19. This means that continuing to breastfeed is the best way to fight the virus and protect your baby. Exclusively Breastfed children also more intelligent and are less likely to be overweight and less prone to have diabetes later in life. Women who breastfeed also have a reduced risk of breast and ovarian cancers. Right now, in COVID-19 pandemic, many mothers and parents are confused whether they should breastfeed their children or not. Let me tell you a few things that you can do if you are worried: Ensure good hygiene So far, the virus has not been found in breastmilk and all mothers are advised to continue breastfeeding, while practicing good hygiene during feeding. Breastfeeding should be promoted irrespective of the mother’s or baby’s Covid status. In case, mother is Covid positive, she must continue breastfeeding following the 3 Ws mantra- wear a mask during feeding; wash hands with soap before and after touching the baby; and wipe and disinfect surfaces regularly. Mother and the baby should never be separated and skin to skin contact should be encouraged. If the mother is critically ill, is hospitalized or is critical with Covid, she can express the breastmilk (in a bowl) after washing hands for at least 40 seconds and while wearing a mask. Expressed breast milk can be fed to her own baby without pasteurization at room temperature for up to 4 hours. Expressed milk should be fed using a clean bowl and spoon. Father or any other elder in the family can help in breastmilk feeding. Mothers should be encouraged to breastfeed and here, the family support and encouragement is very important. If a mother does fall ill with symptoms of fever, cough or difficulty in breathing, medical care should be sought and follow instructions from a health care provider. Further as the infants grow, their nutrient and diet need also increases. After the first 6 months of life, an infant’s nutrient demands start to exceed what breastmilk alone can provide. To keep up with these growing demands, it is recommended to begin giving semi solid food to children and continue breastfeeding upto 2 years at least. The right to adequate nutrition is a fundamental right for every child. I further appeal to all officials, decision makers, hospital staff, health workers must protect, promote, and support breastfeeding and not promote baby foods which is a violation of the Government of India Infant Milk Substitute Act, 2003. Breast Milk indeed is the best milk for your babies. As nothing can be more safer and nutritious than that. Important days like the first week of August marks as World Breastfeeding week however, we need 52 breastfeeding weeks for promotion of breast-feeding round the year. (The writer is women, child development and social security minister of Jharkhand)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders in a fix over trade licence norm||The state government rule with regard to the holding tax receipt being mandatory for issuing trade licenses is weighing heavy on a large number of traders of the district and particularly those who are operating their businesses from rented outlets. Lack of a holding tax receipt from landlords is deterring the traders from applying for trade licenses. Due to lack of trade license the traders are unable to open the commercial accounts in banks since a trade license is mandatory for opening of such accounts. The agitated Dhanbad traders are also holding the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) responsible for the situation as a large number of them who have already submitted the fees for the trade license during the camps organized by DMC from February 12 to February 23 in different branch office of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry are yet to get their trade license till date. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Md Sohrab, former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce who sent a tweet to Chief Minister Hemant Soren requesting him to intervene in issue and make changes in norms said, “Traders of the district have been assured by the Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar earlier this year that there will no requirement of holding tax receipt for those operating  their business from rented outlets and convinced us to apply for trade license in camps.” “Believing his promise, traders under the banner of Federation of Dhanbad Zila chamber of commerce provided the space at its different offices for organising trade license camps,” claimed Sohrab. “Six months after the camps, now we are feeling cheated as when we are demanding a trade license from DMC they have completely changed their earlier stand and claim that as per rule only those who can submit their holding receipt can be provided a trade license,” said Soharab. Echoing sentiments, Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce said, “many of the landlords of the shop owners despite having the holding tax or allotted holding numbers are not willing to share the same with the tenant shop keepers due to ignorance or other issues while the landlords of many shopkeepers have are not in possession of holding numbers at all so how can the shopkeepers be deprived of their due trade license due to fault of their land lords” Amit Sahu, president of Jharia Chamber of Commerce said “The private agency hired by DMC for issuance of trade license is now making phone calls to traders who have submitted the trade license fee during the DMC camps of February but could not submit the holding tax due to their landlords fault,” and added that how can the traders submit the same holding receipt to the DMC when their landlords do not have the receipt as tenants can’t have their own holding receipt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||New Adityapur industry outfit chief promises better times||Santosh Khaitan, the newly elected president of Adityapur Small Industries Association ( ASIA ), the state's largest and oldest industry outfit promised development of Adityapur industrial area, a hub of around 1,200-odd micro, small and medium enterprises ( MSME ) in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Soon after winning the keenly contested biennial polls of the industry outfit on Saturday, Khaitan told The Telegraph Online that all his actions would be focussed on development of industries and infrastructure at Adityapur, the state's largest industry hope. Much emphasis would also be laid on exploring opportunities for exporting industrial products manufactured in Adityapur-based industries to other countries. "Currently, a couple of industries have been exporting their products to other countries. We will focus and promote foreign tie-ups for technology transfer and product sale. We will also get in touch with various export promotion councils which function under the Union commerce ministry for export promotion," said Khaitan adding that several industrial units operating at Adityapur industrial area have potential for exporting their products but they lack necessary knowledge and know- how. According to Khaitan, the Covid-19 induced pandemic and the series of lockdowns has posed several challenges for industries. But, he hoped that things will change for the better in the days to come. In an interesting contest, Khaitan, who served the previous committee as a vice-president defeated his rival Rajiv Ranjan, also a vice-president in the previous committee, by a margin of 128 votes. The results of the biennial polls, held through a secret ballot, were declared late on Saturday evening. For the first time the ASIA biennial polls took place for electing the president only. Those in the other 10 posts of office-bearers of the industry outfit were earlier elected unopposed. Rajiv Ranjan got 133 votes while Santosh Khaitan polled 261 votes. Four votes were rejected as they were found invalid. Khaitan said that he would also ensure that the industrialists and entrepreneurs in Adityapur industrial area get the best facilities. The new ASIA team is headed by Santosh Khaitan as president. Dasrath Upadhyay was elected as the general secretary while Ratan Lal Gupta was elected as the treasurer, unopposed. The office bearers of the executive body of ASIA also comprises four vice-presidents and four secretaries - all elected unopposed. The four elected vice- presidents included Deepak Dokania, Sudhir Kumar Singh,  Santokh Singh and K Murlidharan. The four new secretaries included Mandeep Singh, Ashok Gupta, Divyanshu Sinha and Tapas Kumar Sahu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city truckers call for indefinite strike ||The Jamshedpur Truck and Trailer Owners Association have called for a 'Chakka Jam' from August 10, in support of their various demands. Movement of around 3000 heavy vehicles including trucks, trailers and dumpers will come to a grinding halt. Members of the association met here on Sunday to chalk out a strategy of the indefinite stir. "The rise in diesel prices has led to a huge business loss for us. Diesel prices have crossed Rs 95 in Jamshedpur while in several other states including neighbouring Bihar diesel prices have touched around Rs 100. The hike in prices of diesel coupled with no increase in freight and transportation charges by our vendors has taken a heavy toll on our business," explained Hassan Khan, vice- president of Jamshedpur Truck and Trailer Owners Association. He went on to say that if such a situation continues many truck owners would be compelled to withdraw from the business. There are about 2,000 operators who run their heavy vehicles for transporting steel metal, billets and TMT bars from Tata Steel and other companies to different parts of the country. The transporters outfit had earlier on Friday approached the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar and had submitted a memorandum with the latter's office highlighting their demands. The association through a memorandum also apprised the state transport minister Champai Soren, about their difficulties. The association asked all the truck and trailer owners to park their vehicles at Transport Nagar in Mango and participate in the indefinite agitation. Transport department sources said the agitation would affect movement of raw-materials as well as finished products from the companies here to various parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: CRPF jawan dies during training||Hazaribagh: A 25-year-old CRPF jawan, Simranjeet Singh, who was resident of Kedli Bazar area under Huntergunj block in Chatra died after falling sick during training. According to sources, four jawans including Singh fell unconscious during training in Jaipur and were immediately shifted to hospital. The three other jawans regained their consciousness but Singh's condition kept deteriorating. On Saturday evening, his death sparked grief in his hometown. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: More than 350 people including rickshaw pullers, beggars, street dwellers and daily earners enjoyed a wide variety of delicacies, including puri, potato and pointed gourd vegetable, etc during a grand feast organised by a group of over 300 social workers, under the banner of Rising Charitable Trust at Rajendra Park of Dhanbad on Sunday. The occasion was the 100th day of the monthly feast programme being organised by the group for the last nine years for the street dwellers of Dhanbad. The organisers also decided to extend the monthly feast programme to twice in a month. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: Two groups engaged in war of words took an ugly turn on Sunday morning when one of the youths fired on another which missed the target hitting the shutter of a closed shop at the heart of the town in Jhanda Chowk, only 50m away from Sadar police station. Subdivsional police officer Mahesh Prajapati reached the site immediately with a team of police officers and started a raid to nab the youths. Later by the evening, five youths were rounded up on suspicion and their interrogation had begun. Ranchi: Taking cognizance of the lathicharge on JAC examinees in Dhanbad on Friday by a team led by SDM Surendra Kumar, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Saturday shot a letter to deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh seeking detailed report of the incident and administrative probe within three days. Upping its ante against the state government and Dhanbad district administration, Opposition BJP on the other hand announced to send a three member delegation to Dhanbad for fact-finding mission and demanded FIR against SDM Kumar. “Through social media, we have come to know about the lathicharge on minor students during their peaceful and silent protest in Dhanbad yesterday. The SDM has lathicharged many students to stop their protest as per the videos which had gone viral on social media and it was clearly evident that many juveniles sustained injuries. Hence, it is directed to inform the Commission with detailed report of the administrative probe and action taken as per the provisions of the law along with the disposition/submissions of the protesting students and other relevant documents within 3 days,” read the letter. (Our correspondent) Jamshedpur: The police and paramilitary forces have begun de-mining operation in the Dalma hills from Sunday morning after unearthing over a dozen landmines on Saturday. The police felt the de-mining operation as an urgent need because such subversive act like planting landmines is not only dangerous for the police and paramilitary forces, but also risky for the wild elephants as well as the forest department staff as Dalma is also an elephant sanctuary. "It was for the first time that serial landmines were detected in the Dalma hills. We suspect that a CPI-Maoist's squad led by the outfit's Purulia commander Akaash might have planted so many landmines in the hills. We have begun a de-mining operation on Sunday as we assume that the outlawed naxal outfit must have planted more such serial landmines in other spots in the hills,” said Subhash Chandra Jat, superintendent of police (City) who is doubling up as SP (Rural) while talking to The Telegraph Online. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi to have direct  flights to Pune by end of this month||After direct flights to Lucknow and Bhubaneshwar, Ranchi is set to get a new flight connecting the state capital to Pune, a city which has a sizeable population of students and working professionals from Jharkhand but did not have direct air connectivity with the state, officials from the Birsa Munda Airport said on Sunday. Two private airlines – Indigo and Spicejet – have offered to start direct flights between Ranchi and Pune by the end of August, airport director Vinod Sharma said. While the exact dates and schedule of the flights are not final yet, it is confirmed that Ranchi will get direct air connectivity with Pune this month itself, Sharma added. “We have received proposals from Indigo Airlines and Spicejet for direct flights to Pune. Passenger flight services from here to Pune are likely to start in the last week of August,” said Sharma. Several students and working professionals, especially those employed  with IT firms, travel regularly from their hometowns in Jharkhand to Pune. So far, these frequent travellers had to either travel by trains or take connecting flights either via Mumbai, Bangalore or New Delhi, airport officials said. Connecting flights, officials said, were not only more time consuming, but also more expensive than direct flights. Tickets may cost around Rs 5,000 for direct flights to Pune from Ranchi, sources said, claiming that the first Indigo Airline’s flight from Ranchi to Pune was likely to take off on August 21, departing  around 2pm and reaching  Pune around 4pm. Indigo Airlines has already started direct flights to Lucknow, while Alliance Air has launched flight services connecting Kolkata, Ranchi and Bhubaneshwar. Earlier this year, Ranchi also got new flights to Ahmedabad and Chennai. The Airport Advisory Committee (AAI) in Ranchi and trade bodies have been pressing for new flights to tier- two cities across India with the hope that it may grow business prospects. At a meeting of the transport department, it was decided that the government will focus on connecting Ranchi to Trivandrum, Patna, Guwahati, Chandigarh and other tier two cities. At present, at least 20 flights connect Ranchi to New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) last year, at present has a 75 meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The State capital was likely to get more flights earlier this year, but the second wave of Covid-19 caused a delay in the process, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.15 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated more than 1.15 lakh residents against Covid-19 as over 1,086 session sites remained operational across the state, inoculating at least 100 residents each on average, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 92,071 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine on Saturday, while at least 24,999 received their second jab. Almost 85,000 beneficiaries were  in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. More than 20,000 residents were vaccinated at 83 session sites across Ranchi, while 85 session sites inoculated over 18,000 residents in East Singhbhum, as per the Co-Win portal. At least 68 session sites opened their doors for beneficiaries in Dhanbad on Saturday and more than 11,000 residents got vaccinated. Vaccine figures shared by the NHM on Saturday evening highlighted that the state had more than 4 lakh doses in stock, enough to last about four days. Jharkhand has so far received 1,01,66,910 Covishield and Covaxin doses from the Centre and inoculated 1,00,99,082 residents by utilizing the vaccines sent from the Centre and additional Sputnik V doses purchased separately by private hospitals. Jharkhand on Saturday reported another confirmed case of Covid-induced mucormycosis, which took the total count of confirmed black fungus cases to 105, data released by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted. The fresh case was reported in Ranchi, the worst-affected district which has reported 41 confirmed cases of black fungus and at least 11 fatalities caused by the fungal infection. According to IDSP, Jharkhand has also reported 59 suspected cases of this fungal infection, while at least 31 patients suffering from black fungus have died in the state so far. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 221 in Jharkhand on Saturday as the state reported at least 42 Covid recoveries against 37 fresh cases of infection, the daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. However, the active caseload witnessed a spike in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Bokaro. The count of active cases increased in Ranchi for the second day in a row as at least nine fresh cases were reported in the district against only five recoveries. As many as 61 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Saturday, stated the NHM bulletin. The active caseload also rose to 8 in Bokaro as seven fresh cases were reported there against five recoveries, while four cases against one recovery took the active caseload in Dhanbad to 22. At least 14 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh Covid cases on the day. As per government data, East Singhbhum reported three cases against the same number of recoveries and the active caseload there remained 15. No Covid casualties were reported in the state on Saturday and the toll remained 5130, the NHM bulletin further stated. Jharkhand on Saturday tested swab samples of 52,947 residents and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the virus in the state and 98.45 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Police recover 14 landmines from Dalma hills ||Jamshedpur: In a significant breakthrough against rebels, the police and paramilitary forces recovered 14 landmines from Dalma hills on Saturday evening. The landmines were detected during a special anti-insurgency operation carried out by East Singhbhum district police and paramilitary forces in the Bodam thana area of Dalma about 30km away from the heart of the city. Superintendent of police (City) Subhash Chandra Jat, who is also in-charge as SP (Rural) confirmed about the recovery of the landmines from Dalma hills. "During a special operation in Dalma hills, the police and paramilitary forces detected landmines Bodam thana area of the hills. There were in all 14 landmines, weighing six kgs each, suspected to have been planted by the outlawed naxal outfit CPI (Maoist) targetting the paramilitary forces, "said Jat, adding that all those IEDs have been defused. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh: A truck overloaded with iron met an accident on GT road in Danua Ghati of Chouparan killing the driver and cleaner on the spot. Police officials said the truck was travelling at a high speed while crossing Danua Ghati known for accidents. Due to high speed, driver Umesh Kumar, a resident of Champaran in Bihar lost control of the vehicle hitting the divider. Due to collision and overload, the truck got dismantled. Driver Umesh and cleaner Chandrashekhar Kumar died on the spot. Police took the dead bodies and sent it for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Problems of para-teachers will be addressed soon: Jagarnath Mahato ||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahato on Saturday assured para-teachers that their demands for regularisation of service and proper payscale will be addressed soon. After holding a meeting with a delegation of para-teachers at his official residence in Ranchi on Saturday, Mahato told the media: “It has been decided in today’s meeting that the problems of para-teachers would be addressed and solved in the same manner as it was done in Bihar.” During the meeting, the para-teachers demanded that their service be regularised in the same way the Bihar government did it for their Siksha Mitras and Mahato agreed. “Once that is done and our services are regularised, we shall get a monthly salary beginning from about Rs 25,000,” said Hrishikesh Pathak, a para-teacher leader who attended the meeting. “It was a fruitful meeting held in a friendly atmosphere and we have made significant progress,” the minister said, adding that the final decision on pay scale would be taken in another meeting on August 18. “The norms have now been decided and we will finalise the payscale on August 18,” Mahato further said, adding that he would work out the details with senior departmental officials. “In Bihar, these teachers were asked to clear an evaluation test in three chances,” said Santu Singh, a para-teacher who was present at the meeting, adding that the Bihar teachers were also given payscales according to their qualifications. The meeting was also attended by school education secretary Rajesh Sharma and primary education director Shailesh Chourasia. The government had engaged the para-teachers in 2000 for schools that faced an acute shortage of teachers by paying a fixed monthly remuneration. At present, around 65,000 para-teachers are working on a monthly remuneration ranging between Rs 12,000 and Rs 15,000, depending on their qualifications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
08-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Academic Council rules out demand for reassessment of unsuccessful students||The Jharkhand Academic Council on Friday ruled out the demand for reassessment of unsuccessful Class X and intermediate students. The council conducts matriculation and intermediate examinations of institutions affiliated to the Jharkhand state board. Council chairperson Arbind Prasad Singh told The Telegraph that since there has been no physical examination this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it is not possible to carry out reassessment. “There has been no examination due to the Covid pandemic. Hence carrying out reassessment is not possible and the demand raised by students who failed is not justified. It is not possible to pass everybody and the results this year have been the best in the history of the state. The only option left for the unsuccessful students is to appear for the supplementary examination. It is the responsibility of all to guide the students in the right manner,” said Singh. He said any unsuccessful student can apply for the supplementary examination between August 7 (Saturday) and 16. “We have to seek permission from the state government for dates of the supplementary examinations. We are hopeful of conducting the examination in the first week of September,” said Singh. In the Class X exam, the pass percentage was 95.92, while 89.31 per cent passed the Intermediate examination. The average pass rate in the science stream was 86.89 per cent, arts had a pass percentage of 90.71, while in commerce it was 90.33 per cent. Singh said the results in matric and intermediate exams were the best in the history of the state. A senior council official said on the condition of anonymity that information about the supplementary examinations has been sent to all the high schools and intermediate colleges well in advance. “Students know about the supplementary examination. However, a handful of unsuccessful students are being incited by vested persons for their own political agenda. In fact, we will be announcing on Tuesday that students passing the supplementary examinations will not have it mentioned in their marksheet under special circumstances,” the  official said. Members of the RSS-affiliated Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad staged demonstrations in different parts of the state and burned effigies of chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday in protest against the alleged lathicharge on students in Dhanbad on Thursday. Police had to resort to lathicharge to disperse a section of ABVP protesters who had blocked the road near Randhi Verma Chowk in Dhanbad. Dhanbad sub-divisional magistrate Surendra Kumar reportedly ordered the lathicharge on Thursday and wielded the baton on nearly 100 unsuccessful intermediate students who were trying to forcibly enter the conference room at the district collectorate to meet health minister Banna Gupta, who is in-charge minister of the district, while he was holding a review meeting with senior officials. The police also detained some of the agitating students who allegedly tried to break furniture at the collectorate. They were released later in the evening. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) registrar Anu Choudhary on Saturday sent a letter to Dhanbad deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh to submit a detailed investigation report on the lathicharge incident within three days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
