09-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid chokes cash for poor students||A number of students whose education depends on donations as their parents are too poor to afford their studies have quit school or are on the verge of doing so as many sponsors have withdrawn support during the Covid pandemic. Some of the schools have extended a helping hand by offering concessions but are not sure how long they can do so. The heads of two schools said they had approached other sponsors but the response had not been encouraging. About 50 students from Nursery to Class X at a private school in the city were dependent on sponsors. “With contributions drying up, some had dropped out,” a school official said. At another school, of the 25 students who were being supported, the donations for 15 have remained uninterrupted. The school had to offer concessions to the other 10, an official said. In most cases, sponsors help by paying tuition fees and for books, exercise books, stationery and data recharge. “Some of the sponsors have withdrawn support and so naturally the education of children has been impacted. Some of the students have gone back to their native place and have no contact with the school. There are some who still show some drive. The school lets them continue regardless of whether they have paid their fees or not,” said Sadaf Hashmi, school coordinator at St Stephen's School in central Calcutta. “We had a strength of 700 students before the pandemic. That has come down to 400…,” she said. At Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, in South 24-Parganas, about 70 children were studying with help from sponsors before the pandemic. A section of them has since dropped out as help has been withdrawn, said headmaster Chandan Maity. “Individuals as well as organisations used to contribute. Thanks to their support, the students could buy books and stay in the hostel,” Maity said. The headmistress of a madarsa in Murshidabad said tuition became more necessary during the pandemic, which has shut down classrooms, for her students because there is none at home to help them with studies. “A few of my students got Rs 500 to Rs 600 a month to pay for the tuition and to buy books. We tried to arrange funds for them, but several times of late they did not get any help,” said Murshida Khatun, the headmistress of Debkunda Sk. Abdur Razzak Memorial Girls High Madarsah. “The parents of the girls are masons or daily wage earners. They are not in a position to provide an extra Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 for their daughters’ education. But we cannot keep approaching the supporters because we understand many of them have their own limitations now,” said Khatun. Just before the lockdown was announced last year, she said, a sponsor in Bangalore had asked for a list of 25 girls whom they would like to support. “They never got back,” she said. “The number of supporters has reduced. At the beginning of the session, we wrote to all our supporters but most of them did not respond. We cannot keep asking because we understand the strained condition everyone is in,” said Harshita Dasani, principal, Chowringhee High School. Dasani said three parents had wanted to withdraw their children, one of whom is in Class X, from school. “We retained them by giving them a 50 per cent concession on fees and convinced the parents to pay the rest. But it is a strain on the school funds because there are many other parents who do not pay the fees,” said Dasani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
09-08-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College to start first-year UG classes on September 10||St Xavier’s College will start first-year undergraduate classes on September 10, an official of the Park Street institution said, well ahead of the state-aided colleges where classes are to start on October 1. St Xavier’s College started receiving application forms for undergraduate courses on June 22. At the state-aided colleges, submission of filled-in forms started on August 2. “First-year classes must start early for the syllabus to be completed on time,” said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College. “Considering that the state higher secondary council, CBSE and the ICSE council published their Class XII board results in July on respective dates, August 10 happens to be the last date of applying. Once we are through with the publication of the merit list, classes will start latest by September 10,” Father Savio told Metro. “An early start of the first-year classes is a must to cover the syllabus and conduct the semester exams on time.” The decision as of now is that classes will be held online, as a precaution against Covid. The college, while drawing up the merit list for the undergraduate courses, is giving 75 per cent weightage to the Class XII board result aggregate and 25 per cent to the board marks in the subject in which an aspirant wants to study honours. St Xavier’s University, New Town, will start its undergraduate classes on digital platforms on August 9. The Park Street college is waiting for an advisory from the state government about the resumption of in-person classes. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said on Thursday that the government would consider reopening schools and colleges after Puja if the Covid situation remained under control. “As the state government is exploring the possibility of reopening colleges in November (Diwali is in early November), we will soon start sending circulars to the students to get themselves vaccinated. Vaccination with two doses will be mandatory in the event of resumption of on-campus classes,” said Father Dominic Savio. If students face constraints in getting vaccinated, he said, the college will arrange for their inoculation. The college had in June arranged for free vaccination of the students who were in the intermediate semester in the second and third year. “If the state government allows reopening of college in late October, it will not be possible to get all students fully vaccinated by then. We have to keep in mind that there is an acute shortage of vaccines all over because of erratic supply. If we don’t start alerting students now, they won’t be able to take the jabs in time,” said an official of St Xavier’s College. The National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, and IIM Calcutta have announced that the research scholars and students who are being allowed to return to the campus will have to be fully vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
09-08-2021||Calcutta||Prices of several vegetables rise in Calcutta over the past 10 days||The prices of several vegetables have shot up in Calcutta over the past 10 days because of a supply crunch that traders said was a result of heavy rain that damaged crops in south Bengal. The prices of onions, cucumber, brinjal, green chilly, cabbage, pumpkin and ladies finger have increased between Rs 10 and Rs 15 per kg during the period. Heavy rain in south Bengal has destroyed crops in the fields and pushed prices up, vegetable sellers in the city said. The Alipore Met office said Bengal had received more than usual rain in July. In the first week of August, too, the downpour was more than usual. A member of the state government’s task force on prices of essential commodities said the vegetable prices would remain high for at least another fortnight. Not just the rain, the member said, the rising diesel price, too, is responsible for pushing up vegetable prices. A resident of Behala’s Bakultala, who buys vegetables from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation-run market near his home, recounted his experience: “I purchased pointed gourds for Rs 35 a kg just 10 days back. Today, the price was Rs 45 a kg. Brinjal sold for Rs 45 a kg 10 days ago. Today, the price was Rs 60.” Soumen Das, a retailer at a CMC market in Kasba’s Jadavgarh, echoed the Behala resident. “The price of onion has risen by Rs 5 a kilo. Cabbage costs Rs 50 a kg, up from Rs 40,” Das said. Heavy rain lashed large parts of Howrah, Hooghly, East and West Midnapore, and North and South 24-Parganas over the past few days. A large chunk of the vegetables consumed in Calcutta are sourced from these districts. “The heavy rain and the floods caused by it across south Bengal have destroyed enormous quantities of crops. The fields have been flooded. Supply has been hit though there is no shortage yet,” said Rabindranath Koley, a member of the state government’s task force on essential commodities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
09-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Too few Covishield doses for us, says CMC ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation may have to pause administering Covishield on Tuesday because it has received a small number of doses. The health department has given 27,000 doses of Covishield to the CMC, out of a little above 3.5 lakhs doses it received from the Centre for the entire state. CMC officials said 27,000 doses were too few for a populous city like Calcutta, where a large number of people are awaiting their second dose. Following a meeting on Sunday, the civic body decided that Covishield would be administered to around 150-200 recipients in each of its vaccination centres, CMC officials said. “Officials of the CMC health department will take stock of the situation at the end of the day’s vaccination and decide whether the drive would continue on Tuesday,” the official said. “It is unlikely we will be able to administer Covishield from Tuesday. The number of doses given to us is way too little,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators in charge of health. Officials of the health department said they were expecting another consignment to reach on August 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
09-08-2021||Calcutta||Video calls ‘morphed  to extort’ doctor, two arrested||A doctor in Calcutta had received WhatsApp video calls from unknown numbers and screenshots of such calls were allegedly morphed and used to extort money from him, police said on Sunday. Two men — identified as Fakruddin and Aslam Deen Khan — were arrested in Alwar district of Rajasthan on Saturday in connection with the case. The 61-year-old doctor, attached to a private hospital, had lodged a complaint with Phoolbagan police station around a month ago saying he had received multiple video calls on WhatsApp on a particular day, following which he was being blackmailed. He mentioned in the complaint that screenshots of the video calls with his photograph morphed with obscene pictures were used to blackmail him. The racket allegedly threatened to circulate the morphed screenshots on social media if he did not cough up money. “The doctor was forced to pay the extortion money, which he transferred to a bank account. We found that the money from that account was transferred to two more accounts in Alwar. We could zero in on the accused through details of the bank accounts,” said an officer. Four mobile phones and three ATM cards of different banks were seized from the accused, who have been brought to Calcutta. The driver-cum-caretaker of a former member of Parliament who stays in Salt Lake has been arrested for allegedly siphoning off Rs 7 lakh from his employer’s account. Amarnath Singh, 53, was arrested based on a complaint by Lalita Bandhyopadhyay, the daughter of Debabrata Bandyopadhyay, a former Trinamul MP. Bandhyopadhyay and his wife would send Singh regularly to the bank to withdraw money, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
09-08-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta recalls the students of one-year MBA programme||IIM Calcutta has called all 80 students of the one-year MBA executive programme back to the campus for attending online classes from hostels. As for the two-year MBA programme, 25 per cent of the students have been recalled from both first and second year because of connectivity constraints faced by them. It was initially decided that 25 per cent of the students from the executive programme would be called back to the campus so they could overcome connectivity woes. But the institute later decided to recall all. An official said many of those pursuing the executive programme were staying in rented accommodations on the outskirts of the city and appealed to be recalled because of connectivity issues. “They were allowed entry last month. All are fully vaccinated,” said Manish Thakur, dean (new initiatives and external relations) and a member of the Covid committee of the IIM. Twenty-five per cent of the students of the executive programme batch from small towns and tier-III cities were recalled from July 4 and the remaining 75 per cent from July 21. Even as the academic session for the executive programme started in April, classes are being held on online platforms. A student pays Rs 27 lakh for pursuing the programme, considered to be a revenue earner. Explaining what prompted a 100 per cent recall, Thakur told Metro: “Their academic year started in April. So we wanted to give them some time to experience the campus.” The institute will soon conduct a survey on the status of vaccination among those from the two-year MBA programme who have been recalled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
09-08-2021||Calcutta||Social call, yoga tips for students||Rammohan Mission School A team of academicians from Rammohan Mission School visited the Yaas-hit Mousuni island in South 24 Parganas to interact with the villagers and encourage the children in continuing their studies. The principal, four teachers and some officials spent a day in the area and distributed relief materials such as tarpaulin, drinking water packets, bleaching powder, ORS and medicines. Jnan Ranjan Chakraborty, a retired academician of St Xavier’s College, also accompanied them. “The school is closed and the children there have almost lost the habit of studying. When asked, many were not sure if they would go back to school at all. So we decided to offer schoolbags as a reward to those who don’t give up. Two teachers from our school will visit the island later to check which children indeed return. Those will get the promised goodies. The children were also given stationary items this time,” said principal Sujoy Biswas. Primary and senior sections of Birla High School, Moira Street, celebrated International Yoga Day separately on a virtual platform, spreading awareness on the physical and mental health benefits of the practice. Nursery kids engaged in an activity to make stick figure yoga images besides doing yoga postures and breathing exercises, while Kindergarten children performed simple yoga postures such as triangle pose and chair pose. Students of classes I, II, III, IV and V observed the day by performing breathing exercises, meditation and various asanas under the guidance of individual yoga instructors. Students of classes VI to XI performed different asanas at home and shared the videos that were posted as a compilation from the school’s social media handle. “In a year full of stress and anxiety, yoga comes as a solution for our mental and physical fitness. We must make it a part of our daily routine to recognise its benefits. Even during the online classes we have been conducting regular yoga classes,” said principal Loveleen Saigal. Headmistress Farida Singh said: “Yoga has always been an integral part of our curriculum. Keeping the mental and physical well-being of our students in mind, yoga classes continue even today through the online mode. The experience was an enriching one both for our students and teachers.” Calcutta Business School, a unit of Shikshayatan Foundation, recently organised a webinar on women empowerment. A panel of five speakers — Rupali Basu, managing director of Woodlands Hospital; actor Richa Sharma; Swati Gautam, founder and CEO of Necessity; Ruchika Gupta, executive director of Sanmarg; and Nilanjana Chakraborty, entrepreneur — shared their journeys and discussed the strength and difficulties that cropped up along the way to empowerment. Oindrilla Dutt, founder-entrepreneur of Open Doors, moderated the session. This was an open webinar, streamed live on Facebook and YouTube from the school’s social media handles. “In this webinar women speakers from different walks of life and work fields came together and talked about everything that one woman can face and experiences while empowering themselves,” said the foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-24
09-08-2021||Business||Amazon and NR Narayana Murthy's Catamaran to end their joint venture next year||E-commerce major Amazon and NR Narayana Murthy's Catamaran on Monday said they will not continue their joint venture - Prione Business Services - beyond May 2022.  The announcement came on a day when the Supreme Court ruled that Amazon and rival Flipkart will have to face a probe by the Competition Commission of India into allegations of violations of the competition laws.  Prione Business Services - the joint venture between Amazon and Catamaran - was formed in 2014 and is coming up for renewal on May 19, 2022.  "The two partners today announced they have mutually decided to not continue their joint venture beyond the end of its current term," a joint statement said on Monday.  The JV has enabled over three lakh sellers and entrepreneurs to go online, and helped 4 million merchants with digital payment capabilities, it added.  Amazon and Catamaran, however, did not disclose the reason behind the decision. The companies also did not comment on the fate of Cloudtail India - a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prione Business Services and one of the biggest sellers on Amazon.in.  Prione did not comment on a detailed questionnaire seeking a response on the future of Cloudtail's operations in India and its impact on employees.  Cloudtail India had clocked a 27.6 per cent rise in revenue to Rs 11,412.75 crore in FY20 from Rs 8,944.71 crore in FY19, as per regulatory documents. Its net profit more than doubled to Rs 67.54 crore in FY20 as against Rs 29.38 crore in FY19, according to the documents.  Amazon and Catamaran have announced the decision to part ways at a time when there is a greater scrutiny on the operations of e-commerce marketplaces in India that have foreign investments.  In 2020, fair trade regulator CCI ordered a probe against Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart for alleged malpractices, including deep discounting and tie-ups with preferred sellers on their platforms.  Trader bodies like CAIT have also contended that such practices by these companies have severely impacted the business of offline retailers.  Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal on Monday said it is unlikely that the Amazon-Catamaran JV is being ended as part of a strategy to avoid an investigation that may take place when Amazon is probed.  Certain questions are bound to arise for Cloudtail that will have to be answered when CCI investigates Amazon's business module, he added.  CAIT had previously written to Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal to conduct an investigation into the role of Cloudtail India.  In 2018, the government had introduced stricter norms for e-commerce marketplaces with foreign investments.  Following this, Prione Business Services was restructured. While the companies did not divulge details, sources had said Amazon's holding came down from 49 per cent to 24 per cent stake post the restructuring.  In the joint statement on Monday, Catamaran President MD Ranganath said: "As our JV with Amazon reaches the end of its tenure, I reflect on this successful partnership that introduced the power of digitisation and empowered hundreds of thousands of SMBs across big and small towns. We would like to thank Amazon for the partnership that leaves behind a strong legacy of shaping e-commerce in India".  Amit Agarwal, Global Senior VP and Country Head - Amazon India, said the companies had entered into a JV in the early days of e-commerce in India with a shared vision of transforming hundreds of thousands of small businesses in a fast-changing digital world by providing online capabilities, enabling them to access customers both in India and globally.  "We are humbled by how the JV exceeded its vision, helping online commerce evolve through the unrelenting efforts of hundreds of its employees, positively impacting over 4.3 million small businesses, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs, and contributing to India's digital economy," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||IOC launches app-based doorstep diesel delivery services||State-owned Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), in collaboration with app-based doorstep diesel delivery services provider Humsafar India and Okara Fuelogics, has started providing such services in Mumbai and adjoining areas, a statement said on Monday. IOC has joined hands with Humsafar, which had earlier announced its partnership with transport and logistics firm Okara to offer these services in Maharashtra, it stated. Together, the two companies aim to launch doorstep diesel delivery services in various cities, including Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Navi Mumbai, Solapur, and many other cities of the state. "The main aim of launching this service in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, JNPT, Panvel and Bhiwandi is to ease the lives of the end-consumers without the hassles of diesel procurement," said Rajesh Singh, chief general manager (Maharashtra office) of Indian Oil Corporation, at the launch of the service. He added that this government-approved doorstep diesel delivery system is the new-age concept of effective distribution of diesel. "It allows fuel start-ups to maintain quality and create the availability of fuel for the consumers." Earlier, the bulk consumers of the diesel had to procure it from retail outlets in barrels which used to cause a lot of spillages and dead mileage in every procurement, he said. Singh added, "The introduction of doorstep diesel delivery will solve many such problems, and it will provide diesel to bulk consumers in the most legal manner." The system will hugely benefit the agricultural sector, hospitals, housing societies, heavy machinery facilities, mobile towers and much more, he stated. Both Humsafar and Okara are exploring more areas of cooperation, including diversifying into the recently opened 'CNG Door Delivery' and other innovative solutions to help bring fuel to various market segments, said Okara Group Director Ramandeep Singh. "We plan to expand our diesel at doorstep services to Goa, Karnataka and Gujarat," he said. Humsafar Director and co-founder Sanya Goel said, "Our alliance with Okara Group aims to provide doorstep diesel delivery services in Maharashtra and help entities like housing societies, industries as well as malls, with a regular supply of diesel." Goel added that it saves customers the hassle of transporting large amounts of diesel from petrol stations to their desired location. "This would also cut down the unsafe practices of transporting fuel and will help ensure a highly secure mode of transport by Humsafar dependable delivery dispensers."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises 125 points to close at 54,402||Equity benchmark Sensex rose 125 points on Monday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank amid a largely positive trend in Asian markets. The 30-share index ended 125.13 points or 0.23 per cent higher at 54,402.85, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 20.05 points or 0.12 per cent to 16,258.25. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank, Titan and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel, L&T, NTPC and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. Domestic equities traded sideways, and profit-booking was seen at tops, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, financials and IT supported market and arrested fall, while most key sectoral indices traded in red. "Visible economic recovery indicating strong credit growth in subsequent months and likely opening of complete economy eased concerns with regards to asset quality of banks, which essentially aided financials today," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Stock markets in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 3.95 per cent to USD 67.91 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, ITC and HUL amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 219.52 points or 0.40 per cent higher at 54,497.24, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 65.05 points or 0.40 per cent to 16,303.25. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Titan, Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank and Asian Paints. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Reliance Industries, Dr Reddy's and HDFC Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 215.12 points or 0.39 per cent lower at 54,277.72, and Nifty fell 56.40 points or 0.35 per cent to 16,238.20. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 69.37 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. "RBI's continued soft monetary policy stance to support ongoing economic recovery augurs well for domestic equities," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, faster vaccination process in the country and absence of sharp spike in daily caseload despite opening-up economy bode well, he noted. Also, sharp improvement in key economic indicators like GST collection, auto sales volume and other high- frequency indicators like e-way bills in July suggests sustainable rebound in corporate earnings in subsequent quarters. This should aid the market to sustain premium valuations, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.82 per cent to USD 69.41 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Department of telecommunications engages with banks to find solution to stress in telecom sector||The department of telecommunications (DoT) has initiated discussions with banks to address financial stress in the telecom sector, particularly Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) which urgently requires fund infusion to stay afloat. There was a meeting of the DoT officials and senior bankers on Friday on the issue of Vodafone, sources said, adding that banks have been asked to look for a solution within the prudential guidelines. According to sources, senior officials from the country’s biggest lenders State Bank of India and Bank of Baroda were also present among others in the meeting. More such meetings are expected to take place in the coming days, they said. Meanwhile, the finance ministry has asked public sector banks to collate and submit data related to their debt exposure to the telecom sector in general and VIL in particular. Lenders, both public and private, stare at a loss of Rs 1.8 lakh crore in case VIL collapses. A large part of the loans to the lender is in the form of guarantees with public sector banks having a lion’s share of the debt. Among the private sector lenders, Yes Bank and IDFC First Bank may be impacted the most. As a precursor, some private lenders with a funded exposure have already started making provisions. IDFC First Bank has marked the account of VIL as stressed and has made provisions of 15 per cent (Rs 487 crore) against the outstanding exposure of Rs 3,244 crore (funded and non-funded). “This provision translates to 24 per cent of the funded exposure on this account. The said account is current and has no overdues as of June 30, 2021,” the lender said in its Q1 FY’22 investor presentation, referring to the account as “one large telecom account”. According to official data, VIL had an adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 58,254 crore out of which the company has paid Rs 7,854.37 crore and Rs 50,399.63 crore is outstanding. ViL’s gross debt, excluding lease liabilities, stood at Rs 1,80,310 crore as of March 31, 2021. The amount included deferred spectrum payment obligations of Rs 96,270 crore and debt from banks and financial institutions of Rs 23,080 crore apart from the AGR liability. In a backdrop of such a large liabilities, both the promoter Vodafone Plc (45 per cent stake) and Aditya Birla Group (27 per cent stake) expressed their inability to bring in additional capital. Writing a letter to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba in June, Aditya Birla group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said investors are not willing to invest in the company in the absence of clarity on AGR liability, adequate moratorium on spectrum payments and most importantly floor pricing regime being above the cost of service. Giving relief to Vodafone, the government has proposed to withdraw all back tax demands on companies with passage of The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The 2012 legislation, commonly referred to as the retrospective tax law, was enacted after the Supreme Court in January that year rejected proceedings brought by tax authorities against Vodafone International Holdings BV for its failure to deduct withholding tax from $11.1 billion paid to Hutchison Telecommunications in 2007 for buying out its 67 per cent stake in a wholly-owned Cayman Island incorporated subsidiary that indirectly held interests in Vodafone Idea. Global telecom gear makers are keeping a close watch on how things evolve for Vodafone Idea, but maintain that it is business-as-usual when it comes to on-ground network-related work. A senior official of one of the European vendors said that things are not as yet “alarming” at this stage, while another player said it is too early to draw specific conclusions on outcomes, since the overall situation remains “fluid”. The telecom equipment makers are closely monitoring the situation to see the next move by cash-strapped Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL). The next course of action will be determined by how the situation evolves, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Tata Motors bet on rural markets with launch of new Tiago NRG||Tata Motors has been riding high on the back of the success of its Forever Range of cars launched in January 2020. The market share of the company rose to 8.2 per cent in 2020-21 from 4.8 per cent in 2019-20. The market share stands at 10.3 per cent as of July this year. The company is now at No. 3 in the pecking order. Tata Motors is now betting on the rural market to sell its new crossover vehicle, the Tiago NRG. Based on the Tiago platform, the Tiago NRG comes with a higher ground clearance than its hatchback counterpart. While crossover traditionally with their plastic claddings and elevated ground clearance has not seen much sales success, Tata Motors is banking on rural India for sales given the good monsoons and higher productivity. “Tiago is the entry-level hatchback and the Tiago NRG will upgrade our portfolio with a crossover that will be an ideal vehicle for the rough roads in rural India. Traditionally, hatchbacks have been preferred for their fuel efficiency combined with their flexibility and accessibility. The Tiago NRG will offer all of this together with a bit offroading capacity that will help rural commuters to negotiate the roads of suburban and rural India,” said Vivek Srivatsa, marketing head, passenger PVBU, Tata Motors. The Tiago has a 4-star safety rating by GNCAP and will retail at a starting price of Rs 6,57,400, ex-showroom Delhi. Semi-conductor crisis The semi-conductor shortage continues to plague Tata Motors as well as other car maklers and the company is working on strategies on this issue. “The shortage of semi-conductors is impacting us and is likely to continue for some time. We are having to do better planning and manage with what is available,” said Srivatsa. Meanwhile, Volvo Car India has rescheduled the launch of Volvo XC40 Recharge because of the “global shortage of semi-conductors”. The bookings and launch of the EV has been deferred to early next year. “The company believes in giving a committed delivery date to customers once they book,” said Malhotra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Seven firms in race for transaction advisor for IDBI Bank strategic sale||As many as seven firms, including JM Financial, Ernst and Young and Deloitte, have bid for managing the strategic sale of IDBI Bank. These firms would make a virtual presentation before the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam), which is handling the sale process, on August 10, according to a notice by Dipam. The firms that have bid for acting as transaction adviser are Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP, Ernst & Young LLP, ICICI Securities, JM Financial Ltd, KPMG, RBSA Capital Advisors LLP and SBI Capital Markets. Dipam would appoint one transaction adviser for the strategic sale of IDBI Bank, in which the central government and LIC together own more than 94 per cent. At present, LIC has management control with a 49.24 per cent stake, while the government holds 45.48 per cent in the bank. Non-promoter shareholding stands at 5.29 per cent. The exact quantum of stake dilution would be decided later. The government in June invited bids from professional consulting firms/investment bankers/merchant bankers/financial institutions/banks, for facilitating/assisting Dipam in the process of strategic disinvestment of IDBI Bank Ltd along with the transfer of management control, till the completion of the transaction. The last date for bid submission was July 13, which was later extended till July 22. The transaction adviser would be required to advise and assist the government on the modalities of disinvestment and the timing; recommend the need for other intermediaries required for the process of sale/disinvestment and also help in the identification and selection of the same with proper terms of reference; preparation of all documents such as the preliminary information memorandum (PIM), organise roadshows, suggest measures to fetch optimum value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||DGCA asks airlines to submit report about rising fares on international flights||Aviation regulator DGCA has asked airlines to submit details about the fares they have been charging for India-UK flights during August, a senior official said on Sunday. On Saturday, Sanjeev Gupta, secretary, inter-state council secretariat, Union home ministry, had complained on Twitter that an economy-class ticket on British Airways’s Delhi-London flight for August 26 was priced Rs 3.95 lakh. He added that economy-class ticket on Delhi-London flights of Vistara and Air India for August 26 was also priced between Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 2.3 lakh amid the college admission time in the UK.  Gupta said he has “alerted” Union civil aviation secretary P. S. Kharola about this matter. A senior official of the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) said on Sunday that the regulator has asked the airlines that operate India-aviation companies with UK flights to submit details about their fares. While there have been lower and upper limits on all domestic airfares in India since May 25 last year, no such limits have been imposed on international airfares. Vistara, which at present operates flights on the Delhi-London as wells Mumbai-London route, said on Sunday: “Pricing is always a function of supply and demand. “There are only 15 flights a week allowed currently on India-UK route for Indian carriers and when there is relaxation and more capacity allowed, it will automatically bring down prices.” Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 last year amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, limited special international passenger flights have been operating since July 2020 under the air bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries, including the UK. High demand Average economy-class fares on international flights operating on key routes connecting India have risen significantly during the last one month due to high demand, according to data from EaseMyTrip.com. “Recently, a large number of countries have eased their travel restrictions for Indian citizens, which has steadily increased demand for travel as there is a huge pent-up travel demand,” said Nishant Pitti, CEO and co-founder of EaseMyTrip.com.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
09-08-2021||Business||Ready-to-cook idli, dosa, porridge mix to attract 18 per cent GST: AAR||Taste-bud ticklers dosa and idli may turn out a tad sour on the palate after a recent Tamil Nadu tax ruling. The authority for advance rulings (AAR) in the state has said that henceforth branded ready-to-cook dosa, idli and porridge mixes will attract 18 per cent GST. The AAR said the products in question were all food preparations in the form of powder. “The dosa and idli mixes are packed and sold as mixes which are to be mixed with water/boiled water/curd to make them as batter and the product sold is a powder and not batter,” the AAR said while making it clear that these will attract GST at the rate of 18 per cent and not 5 per cent. “The AAR ruled that branded ready-to-cook products such as  dosa mixes, idli mix would be taxable at 18 per cent GST, instead of 5 per cent that is chargeable on batter used to cook dosa and idli. The ruling would lead to a legal anomaly wherein an intermediate product would become dearer than other available alternatives to cook dosa and  idli,” Rajat Mohan, senior partner with AMRG, said “The authority has created a divide between ready-to-cook mixes and the wet batter. The rulings have a solid persuasive value for the entire industry, making branded ready-to-cook products dearer compared to other alternatives,” he said. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, says “Such rulings may create an ambiguous situation in the taxing system where the same product when sold in the form of flour attracts higher tax rate in comparison to when it is sold as batter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||Business||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank plans to approach Reserve Bank of India with reverse merger proposal||Bangalore-based Ujjivan Small Finance Bank plans to approach the Reserve Bank of India in November with its proposal of reverse merger of the holding company with the bank and comply with the regulatory guidelines on promoter shareholding. “We would apply with the RBI in early November, just three months before the end of the fifth year and go through the process of procedural approvals that are required. We expect the whole process of the reverse merger to take up to 12 months to get completed,” Nitin Chugh, MD & CEO, Ujjivan Small Finance Bank, told analysts at the earnings call for the April-June quarter of 2021-22. For the quarter ended June 2021, Ujjivan Financial Services Limited, the promoter of the small finance bank, held 83.32 per cent of the total equity share capital of the bank. The promoter holding has to be diluted to 40 per cent within five years of the start of business. The bank will complete five years on January 31, 2022. In June, the RBI had informed the Association of Small Finance Banks of India that it has decided to permit small finance banks and the respective holding companies to apply for the amalgamation of the holding company with the small finance banks three months prior to completing five years from the date of commencement of business. This has set the ball rolling for small finance banks to bring down their promoter stake through the collapse of the holding company structure and give the shareholders of the holding company direct ownership in banks. The board of Chennai-based Equitas Small Finance Bank approved a scheme of amalgamation on July 26, 2021, between promoter Equitas Holdings Limited and Equitas Small Finance Bank. The holding company had a 81.75 per cent stake in the bank as on June 30, 2021. Bank officials informed analysts at the first quarter earnings call that the amalgamation process could take at least 12 months with approval needed from the RBI, Sebi, stock exchanges and NCLT. The board has approved a swap ratio of 226 shares of the small finance bank for every 100 shares of the holding company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||Business||Reduction in tariffs on alcoholic beverages needed to facilitate import: Report||A joint report of the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) and law firm PLR Chambers has suggested a reduction in the tariffs on alcoholic beverages to facilitate import and the adoption of clear and predictable excise policies that encourage businesses to expand. According to data compiled in the report, in 2019, India’s total share in global exports of alcoholic beverages was only 0.27 per cent. The share in global imports was 0.75 per cent. A major reason for the low share in global trade is the high tariff rates. The customs duty was 150 per cent in 2019 for products such as scotch whisky bottled in the country of origin and bulk scotch whisky imported for bottling in India. The Centre also has a tariff of 150 per cent on intermediate products, namely ‘‘un-denatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80 per cent or higher”. The budget had brought down the basic customs duty to 50 per cent but introduced an Agriculture Infrastructure Development Cess of 100 per cent, which maintained the combined levy at the previous 150-per-cent level. Aditya Prakash Rao, partner at PLR Chamber and a co-author to the report, told The Telegraph that a reduction in import duty can encourage local manufacturing in India. “If played out correctly, tariffs can also play a role in making India a manufacturing hub. That’s an area that has not been explored,” he said. Ex-distillery price A key concern presented in the report is the variation in pricing models of alcoholic beverages across states. Most states tend to fix their ex distillery price (EDP) for spirits/whisky based on lowest EDP among neighbouring states. Since this pricing mechanism does not take into account differences in production costs, producer’s margins get severely affected. Consequently, manufacturers may opt for low quality inputs, leading to poor quality. “Even though the formula for calculation is lowest EDP, the excise duty has been hiked and this issue needs to be studied taking into account how consumers react to price changes,” said Deepak Mishra, director & chief executive, Icrier. “The last financial year has seen a significant loss of revenue in the state with regard to the alcobev sector. While part of this may be because of the lockdown, this issue needs further research and investigation,” Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||Business||Saudi Aramco reports four-fold rise in Q2 net profit ||Saudi Arabian state oil producer Aramco has reported a near four-fold rise in second-quarter net profit on Sunday, beating expectations and boosted by higher oil prices and a recovery in oil demand. Aramco said its results were supported by the global easing of Covid-19 restrictions, vaccination campaigns, stimulus measures and accelerating economic activity in key markets. Aramco joins other oil majors who have reported strong results in recent weeks. Exxon Mobil last month said its net income for the second quarter came in at $4.69 billion, or $1.10 per share, compared with a loss of $1.08 billion, or 26 cents per share, a year ago. Royal Dutch Shell reported its highest quarterly profit in more than two years, with adjusted earnings at $5.53 billion, compared with earnings of $638 million a year earlier. Oil prices, boosted by output cuts made by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and their allies, a group known as Opec+, closed at $70.70 a barrel on Friday and has gained over 35% since the start of the year. “Our second quarter results reflect a strong rebound in worldwide energy demand and we are heading into the second half of 2021 more resilient and more flexible, as the global recovery gains momentum,” Aramco CEO Amin Nasser said in a statement. Aramco’s net profit rose to 95.47 billion riyals ($25.46 billion) for the quarter to June 30 from 24.62 billion riyals a year earlier. Analysts had expected a net profit of $23.2 billion, according to the mean estimate from five analysts. Nasser said global oil demand was expected to hit 99 million barrels a day by the end of the year and 100 million barrels next year. Aramco is still working to increase its own capacity to 13 million barrels day, Nasser said, reiterating a plan announced last year. It declared a dividend of $18.8 billion in the second quarter, in line with its own target, which will be paid in the third quarter. Credit Suisse analysts said late last month they expected Aramco to declare a special dividend because of higher oil prices that had helped boost its free cash flow. Yousef Husseini, equity research analyst at EFG Hermes, said Aramco may be keeping the extra cash for taking part in the new state-backed Shareek (Partner) initiative, to partner with private sector investments. "I think the reason they maintained [the dividend] and our rationale was that they are retaining money to invest in future projects and particularly the "Shareek" programme," he said. Aramco's capital expenditure was $7.5 billion in the second quarter, an increase of 20% from a year earlier. A consortium including Washington DC-based EIG Global Energy Partners in June closed a deal to buy 49% of Aramco's pipelines business for $12.4 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||Business||Tractor sales continue to be robust for second year in a row||Tractor sales continued to be robust for the second year in a row amid the pandemic. Two leading players in the farm equipment sector reported growth in the domestic and export markets. Sales prospects are further buoyed by the good monsoons. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd’s farm equipment sector reported a 5 per cent rise in domestic sales at 25,769 units in July 2021. Exports for the month stood at 1,460 units. Sonalika Tractors sold 10,756 units in total, a growth of 5.2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||Business||Move with caution about financial intermediaries||The arsonist and the fireman can never be the best of friends; one unleashes chaos while the other restores order. Theirs is a relationship based on mutual distrust. The analogy seems far-stretched and forced when we examine the association between the intermediary and the investor. The former supports, and often counsels the latter; the latter, however, needs constant assurance that the former goes about conducting his business in a transparent, methodical and ethical manner. Today’s story, beginning with the kind of caveat that you have just read, is necessitated by what we are all witnessing these days: a runaway market, marked by copious quantities of liquidity, advancing asset prices, superior gains. Also, like night follows day, we have aggressive practices prompted by a section of intermediaries determined to play musical chair. And keep playing till the music stops. The scenario is best explained in the context of mutual funds, especially with so many NFOs (new fund offers) entering the investors’ mind-space. The latter, already jammed with competing funds — a number of me-too products included — must lead the investor to the right choices. Selecting the most appropriate fund is a challenging task, which must be undertaken on the basis of one’s risk profile and other critical factors. Helping an investor choose well is a job designed specifically for the intermediary. The latter’s role is different from that of a mere service provider. He is an entity who must execute a special function: help his client identify the most suitable products, and in turn, reject the ones that do not fit the bill. Ask and task An ideal intermediary has a lot to deliver to his clients. His deliverables (in terms of counselling) can range from a simple list of do’s to a more complex list of don’ts. Investors are by and large familiar with these points, but for the sake of repetition, here are some of the common ones. A counsellor at all times needs to remind clients that the past performance of a product is not indicative of its future performance. This is an evergreen classic; however, it rarely goes out of fashion. Not when market conditions are so very bullish and hordes of buoyant investors are tempted to allocate more. Here, I am exclusively referring to equities, and specifically to mutual funds. Clients should also be given a number of add-on messages. For instance, they should be told that an NFO with the issue price of Rs 10 is not always a smarter choice than an existing fund. A fund with a lower NAV (net asset value) need not compulsorily be a better acquisition than one with a higher NAV. Naturally, even an otherwise staid NAV can fluctuate violently in changing market conditions. There are no guarantees in the real world of securities; market-driven asset classes do not assure any sort of performance. However, irrational promises are constantly made by unlawful and malefic quarters and ordinary investors tend to get influenced by their assurances. These days a constant barrage of unauthentic news impacts the market, and some sections of the media tend to get carried away by “market rumours”. A responsible counsellor always guides his clients and helps him overcome such challenges. A discerning client should be aware that an intermediary who suggests a product should disclose his interest (or position) in it. In the case of a typical mutual fund distributor, a client can well seek a list of fees or charges. Ditto, for an insurance marketer who “pushes” a product. A participant should also ensure that transactions are all done properly (with an account payee cheque or a draft, perhaps). Exit loads or similar charges, if any, should be charged in line with the terms outlined in the offer documents. Well-conceived grievance redressal mechanisms have been put in place by regulatory agencies. So, an investor who has grievances and doubts is free to contact the compliance official or the investor relations functionary who carries a specific mandate. In the contemporary online space, it is quite easy for an investor to contact the authorities too. Investor complaints against fund houses, insurers, securities brokers, portfolio managers and the like, if any, can be taken up within the confines of prescribed mechanisms. An investor who is familiar with online tools can keep an eye on the websites of asset managers and the other outfits; he may also make himself conversant with organisations like the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi), the industry body formed by asset management companies. Some don’ts In a market as robust as this, it is important that investors retain their composure and act rationally. In this context, do remember the following: The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar hints at state-specific plan for caste census if left with no alternatives||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday asserted that his strong pitch for a caste-based census was driven by social, and not political, concerns. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of his weekly public interaction programme here, Kumar, who is the de facto leader of the Janata Dal (United), also disclosed that his letter seeking an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been dispatched last week and a response to the same was awaited. I have learnt that my letter had reached the Prime Minister's Office on August 4. I am looking forward to a response, said Kumar. He had expressed agreement to suggestions that he should meet Modi heading a delegation comprising leaders of all parties in the state. It is not a political issue. It is a social issue. A reason why the demand (for caste census) has found resonance in many states. The reason why we have agreed to an all-party delegation is that in Bihar there is unanimity on the issue. Resolutions to the effect have been passed in the legislature unanimously twice, he said. He also reiterated that if left with no alternatives, his government could consider holding a state-specific survey of castes through a census, the terms of which could be decided only by the Centre, would be the most preferable option. Fresh demands for caste census have been triggered by a statement by the Centre in Parliament recently that an exercise to ascertain the population of only SCs and STs was under consideration. This has led to a churn in the politics of Bihar where most prominent political leaders, including Kumar and his arch-rival Lalu Prasad, belong to the numerically powerful OBCs. Prasad's RJD is, predictably, as much in favour of the census making a headcount of castes other than SCs and STs as Kumar. The BJP, which has, on the state level, in the past seconded the demand, now seems to be equivocal in view of a different stance adopted by its top leadership. Kumar, nonetheless, insisted, We must state before the Centre what we think and feel on the issue. It is for the Centre to decide whether to accept our contention or not. The last time a caste census was held was way back in 1931. A fresh exercise will help in bringing the fruits of good governance to the deprived sections in a more effective manner. Observing that implementation of reservations for OBCs in accordance with recommendations of the Mandal Commission has been profound in its implications, Kumar pointed out that his government has tried to follow it up with efforts to reduce gender disparity through quotas for women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||Ashwani Upadhyay to be interrogated over anti-Muslim slogans raised at Jantar Mantar||Supreme Court lawyer and former Delhi BJP spokesperson Ashwani Upadhyay is likely to be questioned over the anti-Muslim slogans raised at a protest he allegedly organised at Delhi's Jantar Mantar today, sources in Delhi Police have said. He is one of the four suspects identified in the case.  Sources said the Delhi Police have summoned Upadhyay. The lawyer, who was in Ghaziabad, will have to appear before the police at the Connaught Place station tonight. Sources said raids are currently on in the city to zero in on the other suspects. According to NDTV report, the videos of a group shouting violent anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar -- the landmark 18th Century observatory at the heart of the city which is now a protest site -- surfaced today. But despite their being widely circulated no social media, no arrest was made till late evening. In the clips circulating on social media, "Ram, Ram" chants are heard along with slogans threatening Muslims. "Hindustan mein rehna hoga jai shri ram kehna hoga (To stay in India, must say Jai Shri Ram)," shout people at the rally held barely a km from parliament. No policemen were present at the site. The police claim they had denied permission for the protest in view of Covid but a crowd had turned up. The slogans were shouted in the presence of Narsinghanand Saraswati, a priest notorious for communal hate speeches. TV actor and BJP leader Gajendra Chauhan was also reportedly a part of the protest. Upadhyay -- who allegedly organised the protest against colonial laws -- said he had no idea who the people shouting slogans were and that he was ready to appear before the police any time tomorrow. In a statement, Upadhyay said the program was organised by Save India Foundation. "I don't have any relation with Save India Foundation Trust. I was a guest like RVS Mani, Firoz Bakht Ahmed, Gajendra Chauhan. We reached at around 11:00 and left at 12:00. I never met these miscreants. I wish to meet you tomorrow morning to give my written statement," his statement read. Earlier Upadhyay said he was not aware of the videos.  "Neither was I there when this happened, nor am I aware nor did I invite these people. This must have happened after I left. Strict action must be taken against those we can see in the videos," he told reporters. Only five or six people were shouting slogans and that too while dispersing after the march, he said, adding that such slogans should not have been raised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||BJP earned Rs 2,555 crore or 76% of total electoral bonds in 2019-20||The BJP has gathered a whopping 76 per cent of the electoral bonds sold in the financial year 2019-20, shows data accessed by NDTV from the Election Commission. Altogether electoral bonds worth Rs 3,355 crore were sold in 2019-20, of which the BJP income was Rs 2,555 crore. This was a 75 per cent per cent jump on the Rs 1,450 crore it received through the electoral bonds the previous year. In an NDTV exclusive it was revealed that, in the same period, the collections of the Congress dropped by 17 per cent. In 2018-19, the Congress had received Rs 383 crore from electoral bonds. In 2019-10, it received Rs 318 crore - 9 per cent of the total electoral bonds. Of the rest of the opposition, Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress collected Rs 100.46 crore, Sharad Pawar's Nationalist Congress Party Rs 29.25 crore, Shiv Sena Rs 41 crore, the DMK Rs 45 crore, Lalu Yadav's Rashtriya Janata Dal Rs 2.5 crore and Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party Rs 18 crore. In the financial year ending in March 2019, the BJP's income was more than twice that of its five major rivals put together. The BJP alone has received 68 per cent of the electoral bonds sold since inception till March 2020. The party, though, consistently had the highest income among all political parties long before the bonds came in. Electoral bonds, which were introduced by the government in 2017-2018 in face of major political opposition, allows individuals as well as corporations -- including those partly owned by foreign entities -- to fund political parties anonymously. Altogether, political parties showed a sharp rise in income after the introduction of the anonymous donation system was introduced. Before its introduction, the Congress had argued that though the bonds, the government was making "corruption official". The government had argued that it would improve transparency as they were banking instruments and every political party will have to disclose how much money they received.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||Saurav Soni, a verified social media influencer across many apps, talks about staying unique and upping the social media game||It is a competitive space with many rising influencers; hence, it is essential to always think out of the box as influencers, says the youngster. Amongst the many things that have turned people's heads and attracted their attention, the rise of many social media influencers and content creators have made the most headlines. Understanding the immense opportunities, the digital platforms could provide and optimizing and utilizing the same, a few youngsters have thrilled people with their successes by becoming social media influencers. The pandemic did disrupt many industries; however, on a positive side, it also helped grow many other industries and businesses by giving opportunities to them digitally. The social media craze has also doubled, especially after the pandemic, which has given birth to many talented beings in the form of content creators and influencers. One such name is Saurav Soni, a Delhi-based youngster who has given his all to achieve the staggering success he enjoys today across various short-video apps with having a verified profile. The competition was always rising in these platforms, according to Saurav Soni, but he points out that now things have become more competitive, as more and more people have realized that social media platforms are not just social platforms, but could also help them build their careers. Talking about the same, Saurav Soni says, "Budding talents must up their game in social media as influencers and content creators to create their unique space amongst much saturation." Saurav Soni, an MBA in event management and the owner of his event management agency, wants to explain to people that getting into untouched niches and consistently honing one's skills helps influencers to stand apart from others. He emphasizes that thinking out of the box, adding more innovativeness in content and being consistent with the same will help influencers achieve success. He also says that he dived deep into multiple niches like fitness, food, lifestyle and fashion, and always kept the entertainment quotient high on all the content he created across apps, which helped him create his unique niche as a social media influencer. Acing so many niches across so many short-video apps has what garnered him a massive over 17 million followers. After becoming a TikTok star, Saurav Soni (sauravsoniofficial07) created his name across apps like Roposo, Zili, Likee, Gaana Hotshots, Helo etc. and has even become a verified social media influencer on Facebook. Sourav's link: https://instagram.com/sauravsoniofficial?utm_medium=copy_link||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||Health department employee nabbed for selling Covid-19 doses illegally in Maharashtra||A person attached to the Maharashtra health department was detained on Monday for allegedly selling Covid-19 vaccine doses illegally in Sajapur area of Aurangabad, police said. Later in the evening, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope ordered a probe. "I had received complaints that vaccines of a government centre in Aurangabad were being sold in the market. I have ordered Aurangabad district health officer to conduct an inquiry and submit a report. Strict action will be taken against those responsible," Tope told reporters in Jalna. The man was selling these doses in a room some 20-25 kilometres away from Waluj primary health centre in the Aurangabad district and he was held following a tip-off, an official said. "We have seized an empty bottle of Covishield vaccine as well as fresh and used syringes. We have found a list of 10 people to who he gave doses to. Our probe has found he would contact labour contractors in the industrial area here promising to get their people vaccinated for a sum of Rs 300 each," Inspector Madhukar Sawant of MIDC Waluj police station told PTI. The man has been detained and the process of registering a case was underway, while the probe had begun to find out from where he sourced these vials, Sawant added. Meanwhile, Tope said cases of Delta Plus variant were found in Aurangabad and Beed districts, part of the Marathwada region, besides in some other cities. "145 samples were checked in which 30 cases of Delta Plus variants were detected at one time in Maharashtra," he added. A total of 45 cases of the Delta plus variant of coronavirus were reported in the state during genome sequencing, the health department said on Sunday. One patient had died. At 13, the maximum number of these patients hailed from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra followed by Ratnagiri (11) in the coastal Konkan region. The 45 patients are from Jalgaon (13), Ratnagiri (11), Mumbai (6), Thane (5), Pune (3), and one each from Palghar, Sindhudurg, Sangli. Nandurbar, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, and Beed, the department had said in a statement. "So far 45 cases of Delta Plus variant have been reported from across Maharashtra. But there is no need to worry. Immediate measures such as taking the travel history of infected persons and the vaccination status are being taken. Contact tracing and testing are being done," Tope added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||Foreigners are eligible for Covid vaccination in India, says govt||To ensure safety from COVID-19, the Union Health Ministry has taken a decision to allow foreign nationals residing in India to register on CoWin portal and get vaccinated against the disease. They can use their passport as identity document for the purpose of registration on CoWIN portal, the health ministry said in a statement. Once they are registered on this portal, they will get a slot for vaccination. According to the statement, a significant number of foreign nationals are living in India, especially in large metropolitan areas. In these areas, the potential of spread of COVID-19 is high due to higher population density. To counter any possibility of such occurrence, it is important to vaccinate all eligible persons. "In a landmark initiative to ensure safety from COVID-19, the Ministry of Health has taken a decision to allow foreign nationals residing in India to get registered on CoWin portal to take COVID-19 vaccine. "This initiative will ensure the safety of foreign nationals residing in India. It will also bring down the possibilities of further transfer of infection from unvaccinated persons residing in India. It will also ensure overall safety from further transmission of coronavirus," the ministry said in the statement. The national COVID-19 vaccination programme is being implemented across all states and union territories since January 16, 2021. The vaccination programme in its current phase covers all citizens aged 18 years and above. As on August 9, 2021, India has administered more than 51 crore vaccine doses across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||Devendra Fadnavis meets Amit Shah over OBC Bill||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday to urge him for the passage of a Constitution amendment Bill, which seeks to restore the states' power to identify backward classes, in the ongoing session of Parliament. Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar later introduced the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the Lok Sabha and the government is expected to push for its passage in the House on Tuesday amid expressions of support to it from most parties, including the opposition. Fadnavis also faulted the Maharashtra government's handling of the legal challenge to the state's move to provide reservation to the Marathas, saying it was found wanting in defending the decision in the Supreme Court which had quashed the quota order for the politically and socially powerful caste in the state. "I requested (Shah) that the bill should be passed in this session. I will urge all political parties, including those who have caused the logjam in Parliament, to support this measure for the OBC welfare and pass the bill unanimously," the BJP leader told reporters in the Parliament complex. Asked about Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's reported call that the current 50 per cent ceiling on quota be removed so that Marathas can be given reservation, Fadnavis accused the Shiv Sena leader of shying away from his responsibility and said his demand and the bill are two completely unrelated issues. Once passed by Parliament, the Bill will give states the power to identify a backward community so that it can be provided with reservation benefits, he noted. The bill was necessitated after the Supreme Court had dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' power to notify socially and educationally backward classes for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions. On May 5, a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, had unanimously set aside a Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas and refused to refer the 1992 Mandal verdict that put a 50-per cent cap on reservation to a larger bench. The Centre has insisted that it never meant to take away the power of states amid the opposition parties' charge that it had targeted the federal structure by taking away the power of the states to identify and list the OBCs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||SC prods Centre on finalising date of counselling for NEET-MDS admissions||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to apprise it by August 11 when it will conduct counselling for the NEET-MDS admissions for which exams were held on December 16, 2020. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said that now that the Centre has approved OBC reservation in medical seats when it will conduct the counselling. Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj, appearing for the Centre, said that it will need two weeks to work out the modalities and issue a notification in this regard. "What is this. We have read last week that the Centre has approved the OBC quota. Now again you will take it to October or November. We will not allow this. You please tell us by Wednesday when you are going to conduct the counselling. We are listing the matter as the first item. You apprise us," the bench said. On July 29, the Centre has approved announced a 27-per cent quota for OBCs and 10 per cent reservation for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category in the All-India Quota (AIQ) scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses from the current academic year, 2021-22. On July 12, the top court had taken strong note of delay in holding the counselling; saying the Centre and others have been dilly-dallying for a year now. It had said that these are qualified BDS students and why has Centre not held the counselling since last year. The doctors, having Bachelor in Dental Surgery (BDS) degree, had appeared in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET)-MDS conducted on December 16 last year by the National Board of Examination (NBE) for admission to the Master in Dental Surgery (MDS) course. Besides the Centre and MCC, the bench had earlier also issued the notices to the Dental Council of India and the National Board of Examination (NBE). The plea, filed through lawyer Tanvi Dubey, said that these doctors are challenging the unjust and infinite delay caused by the MCC in announcing the counselling schedule for NEET-MDS, 2021. The plea also sought a direction to the MCC to conduct a separate counselling for the NEET-MDS 2021. The results for admissions in PG courses for BDS candidates were also declared on the scheduled date, that is on December 31, 2020. However, after the declaration of the result, i.e., on 31.12.2020 until today i.e. 23.06.2021, there is no update regarding the counselling. It is most respectfully submitted that umpteen efforts were made by the Petitioners to get in touch with the Respondents in order to get an idea about the schedule of the counselling. However, there has been no update about the date of the commencement of the counselling, the plea said. It said the dentists, who are also registered with state Dental Council, have obtained provisional or permanent registration and have also undergone compulsory rotatory internship of a year in an approved or recognised dental college. That around 30,000 BDS (dental) graduates appeared for the NEET-MDS conducted for admission to over 6,500 seats in the country and till date there has been no update for admissions in PG courses, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India|| At UN, Modi highlights roadmap for maritime security  ||Chairing a high-level United Nations Security Council open debate, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday put forward five principles, including removing barriers for maritime trade and peaceful settlement of disputes, on the basis of which a global roadmap for maritime security cooperation can be prepared. In his statement while chairing the debate on "Enhancing Maritime Security - A Case for International Cooperation" via video conferencing, Modi highlighted that maritime routes were being misused for terrorism and piracy. He stressed that the oceans are the world's common heritage and sea routes the lifeline of international trade. Underlining that the countries' shared maritime heritage is facing many challenges, the prime minister put forward five principles on the basis of which, he said, a global roadmap for maritime security cooperation can be prepared. "We should remove barriers for legitimate maritime trade. Global prosperity depends on the active flow of maritime trade. Any hindrance in maritime trade can threaten the global economy," Modi said elaborating the first principle. The second principle, he said, was that the settlement of maritime disputes should be peaceful and on the basis of international law. "This is very important for mutual trust and confidence. This is the only way we can ensure global peace and stability," he said. Modi said the third key principle was that the global community should together face natural disasters and maritime threats created by non-State actors. India has taken several steps to enhance regional cooperation on this subject, he added. Preserving the maritime environment and maritime resources, and encouraging responsible maritime connectivity were the fourth and fifth principles enunciated by the prime minister. Modi is the first Indian prime minister to preside over a UN Security Council Open Debate, according to the Prime Minister's Office. The meeting was being attended by several heads of state and government of member states of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), and high-level briefers from the UN system and key regional organisations. The open debate was focussed on ways to effectively counter maritime crime and insecurity, and strengthen coordination in the maritime domain. The UN Security Council has discussed and passed resolutions on different aspects of maritime security and maritime crime in the past. However, this is the first time that maritime security was discussed in a holistic manner as an exclusive agenda item in such a high-level open debate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||No transaction with Pegasus maker, says Ministry of Defence to Parliament||No transaction has been made with Israeli firm NSO group Technologies stated the defence ministry while responding to a question raised by CPM MP Dr V Sivadasan at the Rajya Sabha. The Left leader had asked if any transaction had been made by the government with the Pegasus software maker and if so then he had asked for the details The written response issued by the ministry, according to an NDTV report, read. ‘has not had any transaction with NSO Group Technologies’. The statement was made by junior defence minister Ajay Bhat. The government till date has maintained that no illegal surveillance has been done. However, the Opposition has not been satisfied by this answer. They have been protesting against the Pegasus snooping issue since the news broke. They have been asking if the government had got into a contract with Israeli firm and had snooped on certain citizens. Significantly, as per Indian law, for issues related to surveillance, it is the Union Home Ministry and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology that is involved and not the defence ministry. The Opposition has been building pressure, seeking an answer since the media reported a number of politicians, journalists, activists and other individuals being targets of Pegasus surveillance. The report mentioned about the Pegasus row reaching the Supreme Court. A number of petitions calling for independent probe into the snooping issue and the alleged contract with the firm. According to the report 14 opposition parties have demanded for a discussion in the parliament on the Pegasus issue. Stressing that the matter concerns national security they have demanded for the Home Minister Amit Shah respond on the issue. They have also demanded for PM Narendra Modi to address the issue at the parliament’s Monsoon session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Ashok Gehlot opposes the Sabarmati Ashram redevelopment project||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday opposed the Sabarmati Ashram redevelopment project, saying the Gujarat government's decision to construct a museum by "demolishing" the ashram is shocking and uncalled for. Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad is associated with Mahatma Gandhi, who had spent 13 years of his life at the facility from 1917 to 1930. The Gujarat government has proposed to redevelop Sabarmati Ashram under the Rs 1,200 crore Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project'. Gehlot said people visit the holy site to see how Mahatma Gandhi lived a simple life and yet orchestrated an enormous freedom movement by taking along every section of society. "The decision of the Gujarat government to make a museum by demolishing Sabarmati Ashram is shocking and uncalled for," Gehlot said in a statement shared on Twitter in which he urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the project. Prime Minister Narendra Modi must intervene and reconsider the decision and protect the historical ashram, Gehlot said. Gehlot said the ashram is known for its harmony and ideas of fraternity and people from within the country and abroad don't wish to see any world class buildings over there. "Visitors admire the simplicity and the ideals of the place - that's why it is called an ashram - not a place to be called a museum," he said. The chief minister further said, "Destroying the sanity and dignity of the ashram is a disrespect to the father of the nation. It seems that the decision is driven by a political motive to change everything that is related to Gandhi ji." Gehlot said the future generations will not forgive those who try to destroy the country's rich heritage, culture, and traditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Singh questions Mamata's intention in opposing Electricity Bill||Power Minister R K Singh on Monday raised doubts over the intention of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in opposing the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, asking why she wants to protect monopoly in electricity distribution. Last week, Banerjee had reportedly wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, protesting against the government's plan to introduce the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in Parliament in the ongoing monsoon session despite reservations raised by the states. She had called the new amendments anti-people . When asked about the letter, Singh told reporters, Why does she (Banerjee) want to protect monopoly in the power distribution sector especially when Kolkata has one of the highest electricity tariffs in country?" Singh also said the Bill is intended to end private as well as government monopoly in the power distribution sector by de-licensing the segment. The Union minister would soon write a letter to address the concerns raised by Banerjee. He has planned to write such letter to West Bengal as well as Kerala governments to explain about the salient features of the Bill and its benefits for ordinary consumers. Once the Bill becomes a law, the power distribution would be de-licensed and consumers will have an option to choose power supply service providers just like they have in the telecom sector. The telecom consumers can port their mobile numbers with different services providers. But, such facility is not available in the power supply service, and consumers are subject to expensive and inefficient monopolies. The minister will also explain other provisions like cross-subsidies and renewable purchase obligation in his letter to the two states. Singh has also said, Licence Raj has to go, so that investors can come in this sector. If no investment comes then we are in darkness." He also assured that the fixed cost for power distribution companies would be protected, and said there would be a ceiling tariff to protect the interest of consumers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Opposition stages walkout as Rajya Sabha takes up taxation amendment bill||Rajya Sabha Monday took up The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, with Opposition Congress, DMK and TMC staging a walkout, saying adequate time was not given to them to prepare for a discussion on the proposed legislation. The bill was listed in the supplementary agenda for the day. When the House assembled at 3.30 pm after a brief adjournment, Leader of Opposition and Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge protested against the taking up of the bill, saying the supplementary agenda was circulated at 2.15 pm. He said the members of the House cannot do justice during the debate on bill which gets circulate only a few hours before being taken up. "We cannot support such wrong practice. We are walking out, Kharge said. Responding to this, Leader of the House and Union Minister Piyush Goyal said it was not the first time that a supplementary agenda was circulated. He also said the Taxation Amendment Bill as well as The Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021 (listed in supplementary agenda) were in national interest. Sukhendu Sekhar Ray of the TMC and Tiruchi Siva of the DMK too joined the issue with Kharge, and their parties staged a walkout. In the meanwhile, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman moved The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill for consideration and return. The money bill was passed by Lok Sabha last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Congress accuses Twitter of violating freedom of expression||After Rahul Gandhi's account was temporarily suspended and a tweet deleted, the Congress on Monday accused Twitter of adopting "double standards" and violating the freedom of expression "under the diktat of the Modi Government". The action by Twitter was condemned at a meeting of party general secretaries on Sunday evening, where the leaders decided to take up this matter at all levels. Congress general secretary, Organisation, K C Venugopal said the issue of temporary suspension of Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account was discussed at the meeting of general secretaries, in-charges and PCC presidents. The party also claimed that the Twitter handle of INC-TV was also suspended this morning. "The atrocious stance is nothing but another instance of anti-SC and anti-women mindset and inherent prejudice of the Modi Government as also a violation of freedom of expression by the Twitter India under the diktat of Modi Government. All present universally condemned this prejudicial mindset of BJP and decided to take up this matter at all levels," he said in a statement later. The opposition party had on Sunday alleged that Twitter acted in haste due to "pressure" from the Indian government and was "selective" in removing Rahul Gandhi's tweet and "suspending" his account for putting up pictures of the nine-year-old Dalit rape victim's family after he met them in Delhi as no action was taken against some other handles which carried the similar pictures. "The double standard of Twitter is too obvious as statutory commissions, BJP leaders and those holding statutory offices had put up similar pictures on Twitter on 2nd and 3rd August, two days before Rahulji's visit," Venugopal said on Monday. The Congress leader said it was resolved that we will continue the fight undeterred until securing justice for the family. "Instead of curtailing atrocities against Dalits across the country, the prime minister and the government are up to suppress the voice of leaders like Rahul Gandhi who are in the forefront to fight for justice," he said. The Indian Youth Congress also staged a protest in the national capital against Twitter India for blocking Rahul Gandhi's account. "The double standards of Twitter India continue. Even as accounts raising a voice for justice continue getting blocked, Twitter handles related to the govt like @NCSC_GoI & @anjubalabjp face no action for posting the same images," the Congress said on its official Twitter handle. Remember, truth and justice always prevail," the party said while showing a picture of the blocked account of INC-TV. "To Twitter India, we say, 'Daro Mat'," the Congress tweeted on Sunday with an image alleging that the Modi government is "intimidating" Twitter to lock Rahul Gandhi's account "for demanding justice for Delhi rape victim".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Go out only when necessary till case is over, says Delhi court to Unnao rape survivor||A Delhi court on Monday directed the Unnao rape survivor, who has been provided security by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), to step out only when necessary until the case is over and inform her personal security officers before going out. District and Sessions Judge Dharmesh Sharma issued the directions on an application filed by the rape survivor in which she alleged harassment by the personal security officers. She also told the court that they were curtailing her movements and not allowing her to enjoy her liberties. Taking note of her submissions, the judge said "inform them [security officers] before going out. They are deputed for your security. You must plan in a way that you don't have to venture out every day. Go out only when necessary. You must take precautions until the case is over." The court also noted that the survivor and her personal security officers have agreed to amicably resolve the issue. The judge added, “For now, the prosecutrix is impressed upon to ensure that whenever she or family members wish to go outside Delhi in connection with any pending case, they would communicate it to CRPF Assistant Commandant so that proper security arrangements and escorts could be made.” The court further said likewise, in case she or family members wish to meet their counsel for the pending cases, they would make sincere efforts to inform the schedule a day before. The woman was kidnapped and raped by expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in 2017 when she was a minor. On December 20, 2019, Sengar was sentenced to jail for the "remainder of his natural biological life in the rape case. In 2019, the apex court had directed that the survivor, her mother, and other members of the family be provided security by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||UK HC grants Nirav Modi permission to appeal on depression, suicide risk grounds||A High Court judge in London on Monday granted fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi permission to appeal against a magistrates' court order in favour of extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering before the Indian courts on mental health and human rights grounds. Justice Martin Chamberlain delivered his verdict remotely under COVID-19 rules to conclude that the arguments presented by the 50-year-old diamond merchant's legal team concerning his severe depression and high risk of suicide were arguable at a substantial hearing. He also noted that the adequacy of the measures capable of preventing successful suicide attempts at Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where Nirav Modi is to be detained upon extradition, also fall within the arguable ambit. "At this stage, the question for me is simply whether the appellant's case on these grounds is reasonably arguable. In my judgment, it is. I will grant permission to appeal on Grounds 3 and 4," Justice Chamberlain's ruling notes. Grounds 3 and 4 relate to Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR), or the right to life, liberty and security, and Section 91 of the UK's Criminal Justice Act 2003 related to fitness to plead. The judge noted that the arguments made under both grounds overlap in this case as they both rely principally on the appellant, Nirav Modi's mental ill health. "I will not restrict the basis on which those grounds can be argued, though it seems to me that there should be a particular focus on whether the judge was wrong to reach the conclusion he did, given the evidence as to the severity of the appellant's [Nirav Modi's] depression, the high risk of suicide and the adequacy of any measures capable of preventing successful suicide attempts in Arthur Road prison," the ruling notes. Permission to appeal on all other grounds was declined and the case will now proceed for a substantive hearing before the High Court in London under Grounds 3 and 4. The diamond merchant, wanted in India to face charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, meanwhile remains at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London. Nirav Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or criminal intimidation to cause death , which were added to the CBI case. India is a designated Part 2 country by virtue of the Extradition Act 2003, which means it is the UK Cabinet minister who has the authority to order a requested person's extradition after all legal issues are dealt with in the courts. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Farmers' Jantar Mantar protest to end on Monday evening||The anti-farm law protesters will culminate their demonstration at the Jantar Mantar on Monday evening after passing a 'no confidence motion' against the Centre and not seek permission from Delhi Police to extend the stir here any further, an office bearer of a participant peasants' union said. The 'Kisan Sansad' called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' unions, at Jantar Mantar near Parliament will also call for the resignation of the Narendra Modi government over not repealing the contentious farm laws. However, the protests against the BJP-led Centre, which started nearly nine months ago, shall continue at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, an office-bearer of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a part of the SKM, said The farmers' unions through their 'Kisan Sansad' will pass a 'no confidence motion' for the government, demanding resignation of the BJP-led dispensation. This government no longer deserves the trust of the people, including the farmers, and has no right to continue in power, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told PTI. The Delhi Police had granted permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar from July 22 till August 9 with a maximum of 200 protesters at the site. A senior police officer said, "Today is the last day of the protest by farmers at Jantar Mantar here. As per permission given, they held their protest peacefully for all these days and will leave Jantar Mantar after their protest this (Monday) evening." The protestors, otherwise, have been camping at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November 2020 with a demand that the Centre repeal the three farm laws introduced last year. On this very day (August 9) several years ago, Indians had called for the British to quit India, today we are calling for the BJP to leave (the seat of) power, Malik said, referring to the landmark 1942 episode of the national freedom movement. We are not going to seek any further permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar because the government is just not concerned. We will pass the 'no confidence motion' against it and return to the (Delhi) borders where protest will continue until our demands are met, he added. In parliamentary parlance, a government can be in power only as long as it commands a mandate in Lok Sabha. In the event of a no-confidence motion against it, the government has to prove its majority in the directly-elected house. The 'Kisan Sansad', a symbolic body created by the demonstrators at the Jantar Mantar under the banner of the SKM, was held to protest against the Centre over the contentious laws amid the ongoing monsoon session of parliament. Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for crops. However, the government, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Constitution amendment bill tabled in Lok Sabha to restore states' rights on OBC list||Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar introduced the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The bill seeks to restore the states' power to make their own OBC lists. In the statement of objects and reasons, Kumar said in order to adequately clarify that the states and Union territories are empowered to prepare and maintain their own list of SEBCs (Socially and Educationally Backward Classes) and with a view to maintain the federal structure of this country, there is a need to amend Article 342A and make consequential amendments in articles 338B and 366 of the Constitution. The 102nd Constitution Amendment Act of 2018 inserted articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Classes, and 342A that deals with the powers of the president to notify a particular caste as an SEBC and the power of Parliament to change the list. Article 366 (26C) defines SEBCs. The Supreme Court has dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' power to notify SEBCs for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions. Opposition parties had accused the Centre of assaulting the federal structure by taking away the power of the states to identify and list the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). However, Kumar told the Rajya Sabha last month that the government is in consultation with legal experts and the Ministry of Law and examining ways to protect the power of the states in determining the state lists of OBCs. On May 5, a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, had unanimously set aside a Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas and refused to refer the 1992 Mandal verdict that put a 50-per cent cap on reservation to a larger bench.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||PM transfers about Rs 19,500 crore to over 9.75 crore farmers under PM-KISAN ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually transferred about Rs 19,500 crore to over 9.75 crore beneficiaries farmers under the government's PM-KISAN scheme. With this, the government has so far transferred nine installments amounting around Rs 1.57 lakh crore to farmer families under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. After the release of the amount, the Prime Minister interacted with beneficiaries of this scheme from across the country. An annual financial benefit of Rs 6,000 is provided to eligible beneficiary farmer families, payable in three equal four-monthly installments of Rs 2,000 each, under the PM-KISAN scheme. The scheme was announced in February 2019 in the Budget. The first installment was for December 2018-March 2019 period. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. Addressing the virtual event in the presence of the Prime Minister, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that before the ninth installment, the central government had disbursed about Rs 1.37 lakh crore to around 11 crore beneficiaries under the scheme. The government has linked 2.28 crore PM-KISAN beneficiaries with Kisan Credit Card scheme, under which they have been able to avail loan up to 2.32 lakh crore so far. He also said the farmers have worked hard despite challenges of COVID-19 and ensured bumper production last year. Better output is expected in the coming days due to continued farmers' efforts. Expressing concern over shortage of edible oils and pulses, Tomar said the government is focusing on boosting the domestic production through several schemes so that the country's dependence on imports. Union Ministers of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary and Shobha Karandlaje, as well as Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal were among state ministers and officials present in the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||SC refuses to entertain pleas of Amazon, Flipkart against CCI probe||The Supreme Court Monday refused to entertain pleas of e-commerce firms, Amazon and Flipkart, challenging an order permitting the Competition Commission of India to carry out a preliminary investigation into the alleged violation of the competition law. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said that challenging the enquiry is like wanting a notice before the registration of an FIR under the criminal law and asked the e-commerce giants to submit themselves to the probe by the CCI. "We expect big organisations like Amazon and Flipkart to offer themselves for the inquiry and you do not want that. You have to submit and enquiry has to be permitted," said the bench which also comprised justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant. On being told by senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for Flipkart, that the time to respond to the CCI was expiring on August 9 itself, the bench extended the time by four more weeks which was objected to by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the CCI. Mehta said that a week should be given to these firms as in COVID times people mostly shop online through these companies. The Karnataka High Court had on July 23 junked the plea of Amazon-Flipkart against the CCI probe for alleged violations of the competition law. The high court had said that the e-commerce firms had no need to shy away from an inquiry if they were not involved in violations. "The inquiry cannot be crushed at this stage. If the appellants aren't involved in violations of any provisions of the competition law, they should not feel shy in facing an inquiry by the Competition Commission of India," the bench had observed. It had added that the appeals were devoid of merits and substance and deserved to be dismissed. The CCI's January 2020 probe order had followed a complaint by Delhi Vyapar Mahasangh, whose members comprise many traders dealing in smart phones and related accessories. Challenging the order, the two e-commerce giants had approached the Karnataka High Court but a single judge bench of Justice P S Dinesh Kumar had dismissed it saying that it would be unwise to prejudge the issues raised by the petitioners in these writ petitions at this stage and scuttle the investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Jharkhand HC to monitor probe in judge's death in Dhanbad, says SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said the Jharkhand High Court Chief Justice will monitor weekly the progress made in the CBI probe into the alleged mowing down of a judge by a vehicle on July 28 in Dhanbad, and observed that the sealed cover report of the central agency did not contain much details. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant asked the CBI to file its report weekly with the high court where the bench headed by the Chief Justice would monitor it. The Supreme Court on July 30 took suo motu cognisance of the alleged murder of Jharkhand judge Uttam Anand and said the case “concerns the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. The top court had noted that it had come across several instances of attacks on judicial officers and lawyers inside and outside court premises in different parts of the country. The CJI had said the court might issue notices to all states and Union Territories for framing appropriate guidelines for the safety of judicial officers. Additional district judge Anand, who had denied bail to two alleged gangsters last week, was jogging around 5am on a two-lane road near Dhanbad city’s Magistrate Colony when an auto-rickshaw hit him from behind. He died in hospital. Initially it was thought to be a hit-and-run incident but Anand’s family lodged an FIR for murder after the police showed them the CCTV footage. A video clip on social media, which officials have confirmed as leaked CCTV footage, shows a man jogging by the roadside when an auto swerves sharply from the middle of the lane, knocks him down and speeds away. The Supreme Court had said it was deeply concerned over the rising instances of assault on judicial officers and advocates. The independence of the judiciary can be maintained only when judges and lawyers function fearlessly. “An unfortunate incident happened on Wednesday where an ADJ was hit by an autorickshaw. This gruesome incident was rightly reported in newspapers and on social media, the same was taken into cognisance by the chief justice of (Jharkhand) HC,” Justice Ramana said. “Taking into consideration similar incidents all over the places for judges and some places against lawyers as well”, CJI Ramana said “the matter involves the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. “So we have decided to take up the matter suo motu and issue directions. We are aware that Jharkhand High Court has already taken suo motu cognisance of the incident,” Justice Ramana added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||SC notice to Centre, others on plea seeking disclosure of data on Covid vaccine trials||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from the Centre and others on a plea seeking directions for disclosure of data regarding clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines. A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice on the plea, and asked the Centre and others to respond to it within four weeks. While hearing the plea, the bench referred to the problem of vaccine hesitancy in the country and asked advocate Prashant Bhushan, who was appearing for the petitioner, as to whether entertaining the petition would not create doubt in the minds of the citizens over vaccines. While making it clear that neither it is an anti-vaccine petition nor the petitioner is seeking to stop Covid vaccination in the country, Bhushan said transparency on the issue was needed and disclosure of data would rather clear all the doubts. The bench was hearing a plea seeking directions for disclosure of data on clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines and also on post vaccination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Opposition lends helping hand to Centre on key OBC bill amid clash||A constitution amendment bill that gives states the right to make their own list of Other Backward Classes, got the support of the Opposition that continues to target the centre over a range of issues, including the farmers' protest and the alleged Pegasus spyware scandal. While a constitution amendment bill requires two-thirds majority to get passage in Parliament, but with the Opposition coming on board it will be not be an issue. "This is a big issue, we are going to support the centre on it. And we will also push for caste-based census," said RJD's Manoj Sinha, as reported by NDTV.com "Running Parliament is centre's responsibility. This bill will allow states the right to make their own Other Backward Classes (OBC) list," Sinha added. The cabinet decided to take up the issue after the Supreme Court, during a hearing on the Maratha quota issue in May, categorically said only the central government can prepare a single list of Other Backward Classes. A law passed in 2018, the court said, had given power only to the centre to draw up the OBC list. The states, the court said, could only ask for inclusion in the list. Once the bill becomes law, every state and Union Territory will have the power to draw up their own OBC list, which can be distinct from the central list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||India logs over 35,000 fresh Covid cases, 447 casualties in a day||With 35,499 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's infection tally now stands at 3,19,69,954, while the death toll climbed to 4,28,309 with 447 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry on Monday. The number of active cases has declined to 4,02,188 which comprise 1.27 per cent of the total infections, and the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. A decrease of 4,634 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,11,39,457, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. As many as 13,71,871 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the country on Sunday, taking the total number of such examinations so far to 48,17,67,232. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.59 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 14 days, the ministry said, adding that the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.35 per cent. Cumulatively, 50.86 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Monday morning. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 447 new fatalities include 151 from Maharashtra and 93 from Kerala. A total of 4,28,309 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,33,996 from Maharashtra, 36,793 from Karnataka, 34,317 from Tamil Nadu, 25,066 from Delhi, 22,773 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,229 from West Bengal and 17,747 from Kerala. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Eight killed, two injured as truck rams into hut in Gujarat's Amreli||Eight people were killed and two others seriously injured when a truck rammed into a hut in which they were sleeping in a village in Gujarat's Amreli district on Monday, police said. The deceased included two children aged 8 and 13 and two elderly persons, the police said, adding two other children were seriously injured in the accident that took place around 2.30 am in Badhada village under Savarkundla rural police limits. The driver of the truck, which was modified to include a crane, lost control after dozing off while driving and ploughed into the roadside hut in which 10 people were sleeping, said Amreli Superintendent of Police Nirlipt Rai. The truck was going from Rajkot to Jafrabad in Amreli district when the accident took place, he said. The two injured children, aged 3 and 7, were rushed to Amreli civil hospital for treatment. The bodies were also sent to the hospital for postmortem, the official said. The deceased were identified as Pujaben Solanki (8), Lakshmiben Solanki (30), Shukanben Solanki (13), Hemrajbhai Solanki (37), Narshibhai Sankhla (60), Navdhanbhai Sankhla (65), Virambhai Rathod (35), and Lalabhai Rathod (20), the police added. PTI COR KA PD VT GK RCJ||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Light to moderate rain likely in Delhi today||The national capital is likely to witness thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain on Monday, the India Meteorological Department said. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 25.1 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, and the maximum temperature is expected to reach up to 34 degrees Celsius. Delhi received a total of 15.4 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours till 8.30 am at the IMD's Safdarjung station. Ayanagar and Ridge stations recorded heavier rainfall of about 27 mm and 30 mm, respectively. The relative humidity was 92 per cent at 8.30 am. The city recorded a maximum of 33.4 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 26.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Covid: India needs 1,900 million doses to vaccinate all above age of 18 twice, says professor ||India needs to administer more than 9.5 million doses of the Covid-vaccine daily to fully vaccinate its around 943 million adults by December 31. But limited supplies of doses have restricted the daily jabs to less than 5 million over the past month. Health officials have blamed production constraints. But many experts believe India’s vaccination campaign is suffering from self-inflicted blows. One of them is R. Ramakumar, professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. Ramakumar tells G.S. Mudur in this interview that India’s vaccination policy makers chased self-reliance without the critical investments required to achieve it and placed politics and spectacle ahead of science. Q: You have for several weeks expressed doubts whether India will be able to vaccinate all its adults by December 31. Why? RR: To vaccinate everybody above the age of 18 twice, India needs a total of about 1,900 million doses. We have completed a little more than 500 million doses. That would mean we would need nearly 1,400 million doses between August and December, administering over 9 million doses daily to meet the target. This looks impossible because we are currently at less than 5 million per day. As we go ahead, we may also face vaccine hesitancy from some quarters and that could further slow things down. I’m unconvinced that we will be able to vaccinate all adults in India twice by the end of the year. Q: Could things have been different? Could India have had access to more doses by now? RR: Things could have been different if we had planned for vaccines and their production over the past year. In his Independence Day speech (last year), Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said we had two to three vaccines under testing in India and once they were approved, they would be produced. This was said in August 2020. We are now in August 2021. We still produce only two vaccines in India. India could have revived its public-sector vaccine-producing units for mass production of Covaxin. We have seven public-sector vaccine-making units in India. But there is a history and it tells us how we drained the capacities of our public-sector units. In 2008, we cancelled the production licences of vaccine labs in Guindy, Kunoor and Kausauli. We made no effort to revive them. We also have a vaccine complex in Tamil Nadu. The facility has been ready for production since 2016, but this too was never made use of for Covid-19 vaccines. We could have done a lot. We simply failed to make the necessary interventions to mass produce the vaccines in our country. Q: Yes, the Prime Minister had announced a universal vaccination campaign in June 2020 and again in August 2020, but India didn’t actually order doses until January 2021. Do you see a disconnect between stated intent and actions? RR: Look at what other countries did. They made huge down payments to vaccine companies to finance research and expand their production capacities. The Pfizer, AstraZeneca, BioNTech and Moderna vaccines have all received grants from governments. Across the world, governments invested in companies over the past year to ensure doses were available when the vaccines were ready. India did not make any such investment, whether in private or public companies. It was only after the April shortages that India woke up and decided to provide some assistance to three public-sector units. This was an unpardonable error. Q: What could India have done to avert the situation it is in today? RR: India even today produces only two vaccines. No company other than the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech delivers vaccines produced in India. This is a very narrow policy framework to follow in a pandemic. We did not diversify our vaccine basket from day one. India gave permission to Covishield and Covaxin in January 2021. But in February 2021, when Sputnik V came for approval, India refused approval, citing lack of immunogenicity data. Strangely, Covishield had been approved a month earlier based on data from other countries such as the UK and Brazil. Similarly, Pfizer withdrew its application after the government insisted that a local clinical trial would be necessary. But when Covaxin was approved in January, its phase 3 protective efficacy data was not available. Why were the same yardsticks not applied to Sputnik or Pfizer? It is perplexing. Science was subordinated to politics. And the short-term gains of showcasing spectacles were given more importance. Q: Many countries secured doses between July and December 2020 through advance purchase pacts and investments in at-risk production by vaccine makers. But India appeared to focus at the time on “made in India” vaccines. Is the campaign currently suffering because of the focus on self-reliance or atma-nirbhar? RR: India’s decisions on the vaccine front were made initially on assumptions that made-in-India vaccines will be adequate to vaccinate its own population and to supply vaccines to other countries. This was a highly erroneous assumption as we realise to our great peril today. Most countries placed advanced purchase orders last year. Even Bangladesh placed an advanced order with the Serum Institute in November 2020. India placed its first order only in January. India did not make sure that advanced purchase orders were placed in time. This was a major mistake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||Covid: Calcutta scientists offer clue to severe infections||Calcutta scientists have discovered that immune system cells calibrate their responses to inflammation by chemically “talking” to each other. Their work provides fresh insights into the possible mechanisms underlying potentially life-threatening hyperinflammation in severe Covid-19. The researchers from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Calcutta, have detected a biological phenomenon called “quorum sensing” in macrophages, a type of immune cells that make up the body’s first line of defence against infections. Quorum sensing is a process in which cells change their behaviour in some way in response to their population density. While scientists have observed quorum sensing in bacteria for decades, the IISER-led study is the first to demonstrate it in macrophages. Quorum sensing is the outcome of a complex interplay of the so-called signalling chemicals secreted by cells and genetic mechanisms that allow the cells to calibrate — decrease or increase — their own activity depending on their population density. Macrophages respond to microbial threats by producing inflammatory molecules that kill microbes and promote tissue repair. But excess and uncontrolled macrophage activity can trigger a condition called hyperinflammation or cytokine storm, observed in many patients with severe Covid-19. “Our findings suggest that the failure of quorum sensing and the resulting uncontrolled activity of macrophages likely contributes to severe Covid-19,” said Partho Sarothi Ray, associate professor of biological sciences at the IISER who led the study. The findings have been accepted for publication in the Journal of Immunology, a peer-reviewed research publication of the American Association of Immunologists. Ray and his colleagues have shown through studies on mice macrophages that quorum sensing by macrophages depends on a secreted protein called gelsolin. When gelsolin levels are depleted, quorum sensing cannot take place efficiently. But quorum sensing can be restored by adding the human gelsolin protein, prepared in the laboratory. Independent studies by multiple research groups have over the past year found that patients with severe Covid-19 have dysregulated macrophage activity and show low levels of gelsolin in their blood samples. “What this tells us is that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) has a way of decreasing the production of gelsolin in the body, as a result of which macrophages are unable to understand that they are present in large numbers at the site of infection,” Ray said. Under these circumstances, macrophages continue to produce inflammatory molecules leading to the cytokine storm, he said. The study’s co-authors are Reshma Sharma, Binita Goswami, Sukhen Das Mandal and Abhishek Guha from the IISER and Belinda Willard from the Cleveland Clinic in the US. “This is a landmark study that provides a mechanistic foundation to explore novel therapeutic approaches against hyperinflammatory disorders, including severe Covid-19,” said Esaki Muthu Shankar, a microbiologist and professor of life sciences at the Central University of Tamil Nadu, Thiruvarur, who was not associated with the IISER study. Amid mounting evidence linking severe Covid-19 to low levels of gelsolin, a company called BioAegis Therapeutics in the US has initiated clinical trials to evaluate gelsolin as a possible adjunct treatment, added to the standard care, for severe Covid-19. The benefit of gelsolin as a possible treatment of Covid-19 is that it does not cause immunosuppression like other anti-inflammatory drugs, such as steroids. US researchers had discovered quorum sensing in bioluminescent (light-producing) bacteria in 1970 and the phenomenon has since been recorded in multiple bacterial species. “Quorum sensing had remained unknown in mammalian systems, although mechanisms similar to quorum sensing have been described in the mammalian immune system,” Shankar said. “We now have strong evidence for the phenomenon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi cowardice on display, says Supriya Shrinate||The Congress on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cowardice was on display as his government forced Twitter to remove the tweets of Rahul Gandhi in which he had vowed to fight for justice for the nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered. Addressing a news conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “The Prime Minister is frightened by a young man who is capable of showing compassion. The entire government gets angry, ministers and the troll army starts attacking Rahul Gandhi because he stands by the victim’s family.” “The photograph of Rahul Gandhi embracing a distraught mother who was given barely half-burnt legs of her daughter leaves the RSS-BJP enraged. The government mounts pressure on Twitter through its police to take down those tweets,” she said. Shrinate added: “Modi’s cowardice is on display. A gruesome rape and murder has taken place in the national capital. Why are you silent? Why is the home minister silent? Your silence has ripped apart your hollow slogans (about women’s safety). We as women of this country are ashamed of our Prime Minister’s helplessness and insensitivity. We are proud of our leader Rahul Gandhi who spoke for Hathras, Unnao and now Delhi. It is shameful that the entire system wakes up to fight him, to derail the fight for justice.” While the photographs and tweets of Rahul meeting the parents of the girl posted by him were taken down, the Congress on Sunday argued that the action was unjust as several Twitter accounts still had the photographs and similar texts. The party produced tweets of Delhi BJP leaders and members of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes that posted four photographs of their meeting with the family. Congress leaders pointed out that the mother’s photograph was available on Twitter since August 2, a day after the incident, and Rahul posted the same on August 4. The family was protesting on the streets for justice and there was no need to hide the face as their identity was widely known and reported. Rahul’s posts were removed and account locked because identity of a rape victim is not supposed to be revealed. Vowing not to be cowed down by such tactics, the Congress launched a massive campaign on Twitter under the hashtag “Main_bhi_Rahul.” The party posted Rahul’s tweet on Sunday again, daring Twitter to take action and recalled how the young leader always stood by the oppressed and downtrodden. One message said: “I will fight against injustice. I will fight against lies. I will fight against hate. I will fight against tyranny #Main_bhi_Rahul.” Another said: “I stand with women. I stand with farmers. I stand with youth. I stand for India.” The party fielded its four  leaders — Supriya Shrinate, Ragini Nayak, Alka Lamba and Amrita Dhawan — to argue how casual and irresponsible the government has been about women’s safety. Ragini Nayak said: “People see the government as guardian, believe that the agencies will act in their defence. But the government is attacking those who extend a helping hand. The police tried to stop Rahul and Priyanka when they tried to reach Hathras where the rape victim’s body was burnt without family’s consent.” Giving details of several heinous crimes against women in the national capital in the recent past, Alka Lamba said: “We thought the 11 women ministers of the Modi government will demand a discussion in Parliament on the horrendous Delhi incident in which the rapists burnt the child’s body. But they have the time to go to Dilli Haat for shopping on Handloom Day, not to offer even a word of sympathy for the victim. Why is it that the criminals have no fear of law? Why is action invariably delayed? Amrita Dhawan said: “It is a curse to be a daughter in Modi’s India, it is a bigger curse to be a Dalit’s daughter. What is shocking is that the victim and her family tried to be maligned in most cases. Pressure is mounted on the family to hush up the case. The police tried to pass the Delhi incident as death by negligence. When the government should stand with the victim’s family, they become active in deleting tweets. We are Rahul’s army, we will fight for justice. We are not Modi’s army who will go shopping and remain silent on crimes against women.” “It is difficult to guess what is illegal in this tweet, apart from the photograph, which has now been pulled out. The tears of mother and father are saying just one thing — their daughter, the nation’s daughter, deserves justice. And in the quest for justice, I am with them. Stop distractions, give justice,” Dhawan said. The party explained the problem in another tweet: “Their problem with Rahul Gandhi is simple:  his humanity, empathy & compassion stands in stark contrast to their cruelty, ignorance & apathy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||Covishield, Covaxin mix produces better immune responses than two doses of same jab: Govt researchers||A Covid-19 vaccination regimen with Covishield as the first dose and Covaxin as the second appears superior to the current prescription of two doses of the same vaccine, government researchers said on Sunday after probing an accidental mix-up. The researchers with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said their findings suggested that immunisation with Covishield as the first dose and Covaxin as the second after six weeks was “safe and elicits better” immune responses than two doses of either vaccine. The ICMR team analysed post-vaccination immune responses in 11 men and 7 women in Audai Kalan, a village in eastern Uttar Pradesh, who had inadvertently been administered Covaxin six weeks after they had received Covishield. But the researchers have also cautioned that the findings from their analysis of a “serendipitous Covid-19 vaccine mix-up” need to be validated through a larger, randomised trial from sites across the country. The two vaccines use different immunisation strategies. Covishield contains a harmless adenovirus genetically engineered to produce the spike proteins of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Covaxin contains inactivated (or killed) SARS-CoV-2 particles. The ICMR study, described as the world’s first to probe a combined dosage of the adenovirus vaccine and an inactivated virus vaccine, noted significantly higher levels of neutralising antibodies in recipients of the combination. These antibodies were able to neutralise the highly contagious Alpha, Beta and Delta coronavirus variants, Pragya Yadav, a scientist at the ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune, and her colleagues said in their study. If the findings are validated, the researchers said, such mixed regimens could “help overcome the challenges of shortfall of particular vaccines” and generate improved immune responses against variants. India’s currently limited vaccine supplies can translate into shortages whenever the demand for vaccination increases at any site. Health experts say that if a combination proves as good as or superior to a same-vaccine, two-dose regimen, it could help alleviate the temporary shortages of specific vaccines. Scientists in other countries are already exploring options to combine Covid-19 vaccines based on different immunisation strategies as a possible way of enhancing the immune responses. German researchers had earlier this year compared immune responses in healthcare workers who had received either two doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine or the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine as the initial dose and the AstraZeneca vaccine after 10-12 weeks. The overall antibody responses were strong and comparable in both the regimens. The researchers had also said the combination regimen might help optimise logistics, improve immune responses and mitigate the intermittent supply shortages of individual vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||School bars Class XII student from pre-board exam and practical tests as father fails to pay tuition fees||Diya Divya has failed the CBSE Class XII boards after her school barred her from the pre-board exam and practical tests because her father had not paid her tuition fees. With the pandemic forcing the CBSE to cancel this year’s Class XII board exams, students’ marks from the internal pre-board exam received 40 per cent weightage during the calculation of their theory scores. Divya, who studied at the North-Ex Public School in Rohini, said she would now take the equivalent test of the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) next year. She is not eligible to sit the CBSE compartment exam —expected in a few weeks — because she has failed in more than one subject. “My career has been pushed back by a year. I wanted to do Delhi University’s journalism course,” she said. Her father Sanjay Pandey said he had failed to pay the school fees since April last year after losing his job in the administration of a private hospital at the beginning of the lockdown. An email and calls to the school principal, Upma Saxena, went unanswered. The principal of another school and a schoolteacher, however, alleged that many parents deliberately default on tuition fees, which are crucial to paying teacher salaries. Divya said she had written to her school, where she had studied since 2012, to let her take the pre-board exam — held online and offline in two legs late last year — and the practical assessments held around the same time. “But they did not consider (the request),” she said. Pandey said he had also failed to pay the school fees of his son Parth Pranjal — who was a Class IX student at North-Ex last year — since losing his job. “I had never before defaulted on school fees. I told the school I would pay the dues when I get a job,” he said. Pandey said the school first issued notices seeking the payment of fees and then barred his children from the online classes. Later, it stopped both from taking exams. “My son was not allowed to take the Class IX exam. Now I shall register both the children with the NIOS,” Pandey said. He said he had written to the Delhi government seeking its intervention but got no relief. The principal of another school said: “Private schools survive on the tuition fees alone. It’s an unwritten understanding that the parents will pay the fees on time.” A schoolteacher said many schools cannot pay their teachers’ salaries because of defaulting parents. “Many parents have used the plea of Covid to not pay their dues. They should try to pay in instalments or after a few months,” he said. Ashok Agrawal, president of the All India Parents’ Association, said that when parents are genuinely unable to pay school fees, the government must step in and pay the dues. “This will ensure the students are not disturbed,” he said. Agrawal said he knew about many students who had faced the same fate as Divya but could not cite statistics because no data on such students was sought by the CBSE or provided by the schools. The CBSE announced this year’s results based on students’ performances in past written exams — their Class X boards, Class XI exam and the pre-board Class XII exam — as well as the Class XII practical tests and internal assessment. After the results of 13.7 lakh students were announced on July 30, those of the remaining 65,000 students were declared on Thursday. When Divya downloaded her results on Thursday, they said: “Essential Repeat.” A CBSE official said the results of 65,000 students were delayed mainly because their schools were late in sending their marks to the board. The official said that students unhappy with the computation of their results might apply to the CBSE, which would refer their grievances to an expert committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||A principal’s task: sell empty jute bags at Rs 10 a piece||Every morning since late July, Muhammad Tamizuddin has been setting out for the local marketplace with a stack of empty gunny sacks on his head, trying to sell them. Tamizuddin is the principal of a government primary school in Kadwa block of Bihar’s Katihar district. In a powerful voice, strengthened by years of teaching students, he calls out to people at Kadwa Bazar to buy the jute bags at Rs 10 apiece, pleading that he would otherwise not receive his salary. But there are no takers because the sacks are either torn or have gaping holes made by rats. Tamizuddin has not sold a single jute bag yet. Onlookers at the market find it strange that a school principal would be selling jute bags. But Tamizuddin and thousands of other principals and teachers from Bihar’s 80,000 primary (Classes I-V) and middle (Classes VI-VIII) schools say they are merely following a state government diktat. It’s a point Tamizuddin advertises through a placard that hangs from his neck. “I’m a teacher at a government school in Bihar,” it says. “I’m selling empty sacks on the government’s orders.” The Nitish Kumar government has asked all district programme officers (DPOs) of the school midday meal scheme to ensure that the schools in their areas sell the jute bags in which food grains (rice and dal) had been supplied to them. Satish Chandra Jha, director of the midday meal scheme, issued the letter on July 22, saying the accountant-general’s office in Patna had noticed that the empty food grain sacks were not being sold, costing the state in revenues. The letter also asked the DPOs to ensure that all the empty sacks were sold at Rs 10 a piece and the money entered into the midday meal scheme ledger. Attached with the letter were lists of the total allotment of food grains and the number of sacks in which they were sent to each of the state’s 38 districts for the midday meal scheme during financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16. The total number of sacks comes to over 1.27 crore, and the government wants Rs 12.7 crore from them. After receiving the letter, the DPOs wrote to the officers in charge of the midday meal scheme at the block level, who wrote to the principals of all government primary and middle schools. The principals were told they would be charged with embezzlement and punished if they failed to sell the jute bags and deposit the money. Many principals and teachers across Bihar are therefore out on the streets, hawking the sacks. Some have invited shopkeepers to come to their school and buy the sacks in bulk, but with little success. The market price for jute bags of comparable size is Rs 20 apiece. But these bags, lying in the school storeroom since the March 2020 lockdown, have been damaged by floods, rats and the passage of time. Teachers said the schools never sold these bags before. “Most government primary and middle schools have no benches or desks. Our students have been using these sacks to sit on the floor during classes,” Manoj Kumar, acting president of the state primary teachers’ association, told The Telegraph. He described the state government order as “objectionable and illogical”. “Rats have nibbled through a large number of the sacks. The rodent attacks have increased because the schools have remained mostly closed during the pandemic. Nobody will buy these sacks,” Kumar said. At a large number of schools in flood-prone areas, the sacks have rotted after being submerged in floodwaters, as in every monsoon. Kumar said the state government should have either sold the empty sacks itself or taken them away at the end of every financial year. Various associations of Bihar’s 4 lakh primary and middle school teachers are considering a state-wide agitation if the government fails to withdraw its directive on the jute bags. Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary with the Bihar education department, told this newspaper he had ordered “departmental action against the teachers (including Tamizuddin) for indiscipline and behaving against the service code”. “You cannot make a mockery of government rules. There have been audit objections about the lakhs of jute bags sent to the schools. They are an economic commodity and have to be accounted for,” he said. Told of the claims about sacks getting destroyed by rats and floods or worn out by children sitting on them in classrooms, the official said: “We shall write them off if the teachers inform us about bags having got destroyed. But all the bags in the schools cannot have been destroyed.” Under the midday meal scheme, children from Classes I to VIII were served a cooked meal at school every school day. The menu in Bihar was rice, dal, vegetables and, on certain days, eggs. With the schools closed because of the pandemic, the government has been sending 2.2kg rice to every child’s parents once a month and depositing a sum — at the rate of Rs 4.95 a day for 22 days a month — with the families’ bank accounts towards oil and fuel. The schools had opened for a few days late last year during a fall in Covid infections. In-person higher secondary classes have now resumed since August 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||Why Kashmir remains indifferent to Neeraj’s javelin gold?||At the time all of India was cavorting in jubilation over Neeraj Chopra’s golden scripting of history with a fling of the javelin, this part of it — once its fabled crown — remained eerily indifferent. Kashmir couldn’t care that the Tokyo Olympics were closing and the valedictory crescendo was all India’s. They’d have sooner turned to celebrate if Fiji had beaten the Springboks at rugby. Such is the degree of integration with the Indian union that lies achieved two years after the stunning rites of reduction and dismemberment announced in Delhi and effected with elaborate pre-design on August 5, 2019. Jammu and Kashmir lost its signature, though also mostly symbolic, constitutional guarantees with the blue-pencilling of Articles 370 and 35A; it was sliced into separate regions of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and Kargil; most of all, the state of Jammu and Kashmir remained a state no more. Satyapal Malik, then governor, found himself reduced, in the course of one spoken sentence by Amit Shah in the Rajya Sabha, from grand regent of one of India’s largest states to lieutenant governor of a truncated Union Territory. “Your government claims from high rostrums that Kashmir has never been so closely assimilated into India,” a retired bureaucrat and a high servant of successive elected state governments tells me. “The truth is we have never ever felt so removed from India and all things Indian. Your Olympic gold and young Chopra’s singular achievement is a thing to cherish and celebrate, no doubt, but we don’t feel it; it just doesn’t come. Don’t blame us for our indifference; you threw us away with that blow.” Chopra and India’s first Olympic track-and-field gold did not make the front pages of Valley newspapers on Sunday; it is unlikely anybody manning a newsroom got pulled up by the editor for missing the story of the day. In Kashmir, it is the kind of story they’d rather miss. “This is our imposed anniversary of mourning the excesses at the hands of New Delhi,” a widely respected doctor at the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) says. “Frankly, I would have been surprised if Kashmiris even took note of what happened with that gold medal, much less chatter about it; that sort of thing evaporated a long time ago. This is not the place that New Delhi projects it to be. Yes, over the last couple of years there is more of India in Kashmir than ever before, but that is inversely proportional to how much India is in the Kashmiri today.” August has never been a favoured month for Kashmiris; it’s when they usually begin to tire of the summer’s churn of heat and the cloying scourge it becomes when it alloys with caravans of low wafting cloud. It leaves them harried, and yearning for the onset of autumn. Two Augusts ago, an additional blight descended on them, a blight that had no doors opening onto autumn. Kashmir became a confinement whose severity of scope had no parallels in our memories. It did not stop at being a curfew. It did not stop at the wrenching of barbed wire fences. It did not stop at the escalated import of men and machines, jackboots on the ground, barrels at the ready. It did not stop at a shuttering so colossal and so complete that the Valley turned into the largest prison on earth. It did not stop at imprisoning everything other than stray dogs and pigeons. It did not stop at dismantling all communication — Internet, mobile telephony, landlines. It cauterised Kashmir from the world, it cauterised Kashmiri from Kashmiri. And yet it did not stop. It went on for days, then weeks, then months. Autumn came, and then winter, but there was no relief from the blight that was August 2019. Recalling or remembering the events of August 2019 does not come easy to most Kashmiris; but forgetting them comes harder. “How is it possible to forget?” asks a senior politician who wouldn’t be named, probably for fear of being heckled behind bars yet again. “You took away our rights, our dignity; you reduced us, you deputed handpicked pawns from elsewhere to lord over us and tell us what can be done and what cannot, you are constantly changing the essential conduct of our lives and our futures, we are a principality, run like a department of the Government of India. Even the fig leaf of what we called democracy, you snatched away. How do you believe we must feel? You probably shouldn’t even come asking.” Neeraj Chopra’s javelin travelled a triumphal distance, scoring an arch of cheer across India; it fell well short of Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||Odisha govt ropes in Tata Coffee to promote Koraput brew ||Odisha’s own coffee brand “Koraput Coffee” is all set to woo lovers of the brew around the world. The state government has roped in Tata Coffee to promote the indigenously grown beans, the bulk of it coming from tribal-dominated Koraput. “Tata Coffee is buying coffee from Odisha, thereby promoting the beans which are exclusive, solid and rich in taste allowing to experience local flavours of Koraput,” said a press release issued by the chief minister’s office on Sunday. The 100 per cent arabica coffee is indigenous to Odisha as everything about the beans is sourced from the state itself. Across Koraput, coffee is grown in Laxmipur, Kashipur, Dasmantpur, Nandpur, Lamtaput, Koraput, Potangi and Nandpur blocks. In 2020-21, around 28,790kg of coffee cherry was procured by the Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation  of Odisha Limited (TDCCOL) with the help of  193 tribal farmers. Naveen on Sunday talked to one of the coffee cultivators, Sulochana Khar, who hails from Koraput. “Sulochana turned out to be a role model and an inspiration for others by selling more than 2000kg of coffee cherry to TDCC. In order to cater to the demands of Koraput coffee, the commitment of farmers like Sulochana is commendable,” said the chief minister. He said: “The Tata Coffee’s aid to the Odisha government would certainly help in enhancing the socio-economic condition of the coffee cultivators in the state. During this Covid-crisis, it will help immensely in safeguarding the livelihood of tribals.” In order to process the coffee, the TDCC with the support of the Coffee Board of Government of India, has opened up coffee curing units for roasting, grinding, packaging and branding this unique flavor. Managing director TDCCOL Mansi Nimbhal said: “We have sent the samples of Koraput coffee to Tata coffee, they found its quality to be very good and it has a premium taste”. Koraput coffee’s flavour has its own uniqueness. The Koraput coffee is produced at 2500 to 4200 feet above the sea level. “As the coffee beans are fatty, its flavour is aromatic, smooth and light acidic. It has a long lasting effect,” officials said. Coffee in Koraput has its own history. Coffee plantation was done in 1954 to arrest the problems caused by siltation near the Macchkund dam in Koraput district. But no one then had thought of its economic value till 1990s. Later people bordering Andhra Pradesh showed some interest and coffee plantations have now grown. Tribal people were engaged to collect the beans and sell them to the local traders. Even traders from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu buy them. “With our initiative, the economy of the tribal people can get a boost. They will be immensely benefited. There will be no distress sale of coffee. Coffee producers will get a good price,” said an official. TDCCOL started selling Koraput coffee in 2019 through their retail outlet in Odisha. Over 1,000 tribal coffee growers are dependent on the coffee plantations for their livelihood. Market linkage with state tribal corporations has encouraged them to take care of their plantations. “This year, we can expect the produce to be more than last year as the training and capacity building of the coffee growers was started early with pre-harvest management. So far six farmer producer groups have been set up in the Coffee growing panchayats, with one all women producer group,” officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee conducts aerial survey of flood-hit areas in Howrah ||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit areas of Udaynarayanpur in Howrah district on her way to Jhargram, an official said at the state secretariat. Banerjee, the official said, is “very much unhappy” over Damodar Valley Corporation releasing “excessive water” leading to the flood situation. She is likely to conduct an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas of Ghatal in Paschim Medinipur district on Tuesday, they said. At least 23 persons have lost their lives and several lakh people have been displaced in seven districts of Bengal in the flood which Banerjee has described as “man-made”. She has held DVC responsible for releasing “excessive water” from its dams leading to the situation. Several south Bengal districts like Howrah and Hoogly had witnessed heavy monsoon rainfall last week. She visited flood-affected Amta and her plan to go to nearby Udaynarayanpur had to be dropped due to heavy rains. She had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging “man-made flood” by Damodar Valley Corporation. The prime minister had assured her central help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||IPS officer with BJP ties likely to take over as Bengal's DGP ||Bengal’s senior-most IPS Manoj Malviya has emerged as the front-runner to head the state police after much-delay from the Mamata Banerjee government in announcing the successor to the incumbent Director General of Police (DGP) Virendra. According to sources in the state administrative headquarters, the 1986 batch officer is most likely to get the coveted post, despite chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s reservations about Malviya. Earlier in June, the Mamata Banerjee government had suggested to three senior-most IPS officers of the state to opt for voluntary retirement to clear its own mess in appointing the next DGP and get a man of its choice at the top spot. The offer was made to P Nirajnayan, Sumanbala Sahoo and Adhir Sharma, all three 1987 batch officers who  were considered next in line to succeed the incumbent DGP and Mamata favourite, who is due to retire on August 31. “All three turned down the government’s request leaving it with no other option but to send their names,” said a senior IPS officer. The Bengal government clearly flouted the Supreme Court’s instructions to send names of contenders to the UPSC three months before the retirement of the incumbent. In this case, the Bengal government barely has weeks. Once the names are sent to the UPSC, the commission prepares a panel based on merit and seniority on the condition that they have two years of service left. The state governments have to pick the candidates from this panel. Sources said the Centre had asked the state government to submit a list of  officers holding DGP rank and also those who were next in line. “Accordingly, the state government had submitted the names of 21 officers from  batches of 1986 to 1991,” said a source. Mamata’s chief objection to Malviya, currently director general (organisation), is his family background that makes him close to the BJP. A descendant of the late Hindutva ideologue Madan Mohan Malviya, the senior-most IPS officer in Bengal was tipped to be the DGP if the BJP had come to power in the Assembly elections held between March and April. During his stint as additional commissioner in the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security, between September 2005 and May 2010, the CBI had found Malviya had accumulated wealth disproportionate to his source of income and had allegedly sought favours from officials of private firms, that included international travel and five-star accommodation. In July 2010, the Ministry of Home Affairs had ordered repatriation of Malviya to the home cadre. Sources said a senior IPS officer, known for his proximity to the chief minister,  had  pushed the case of Malviya to hold the top post. “Having an officer close to the BJP may help the state government in establishing an indirect channel on contentious issues,” said a senior official in the state home department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah behind attacks on Abhishek, TMC activists in Tripura, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged that Union Home Minister Amit Shah was responsible for the recent attacks on her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and other party workers, and asserted that she won't be cowed down by such acts. Her allegation comes days after Abhishek Banerjee and TMC student activists were attacked in separate incidents in BJP-ruled Tripura, where the party hopes to expand its base ahead of the 2023 assembly elections. "The BJP is running an anarchic government in Tripura, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and wherever they are in power. We condemn the attacks on Abhishek and our party activists in Tripura," she said after meeting injured TMC workers at state-run SSKM hospital here. "Such attacks would not have been possible without the Union home minister's active support. He is behind these attacks which were carried out in front of Tripura Police as it remained mute spectators. The Tripura chief minister doesn't have the audacity to order such attacks," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||Post poll effect: Unlike last year, BJP does nothing to mark  Rabindranath Tagore’s death anniversary ||The Bengal BJP had made a big display of marking Rabindranath Tagore’s death anniversary last year as Assembly polls loomed. A year later, it’s been normal service — that is, “nothing at all”, in a state BJP secretary’s words — on Baishey Srabon, which fell on August 7 or 8 according to different almanacs. Party insiders attributed the change in attitude to the crushing electoral defeat, with several of them warning that such sulky behaviour can be politically counterproductive. “Last year, we suddenly started falling over ourselves to try and prove the BJP’s connect with Bengal, and created a lot of noise around events such as Baishey Srabon,” a state BJP insider said, asking not to be named. “But giving up like this so soon after the electoral drubbing can only help Trinamul claim vindication of its charge that we were insincere in our professed love for Bengali culture.” On Baishey Srabon last year (August 7, 2020), a BJP bullish about its chances in the Assembly elections had dived in enthusiastically to claim the legacy of Tagore as a way of establishing its pro-Bengal credentials. State unit leaders had garlanded an image of the poet in front of the party headquarters, 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, as part of an elaborate political programme. BJP national president J.P. Nadda, who addressed his Bengal colleagues virtually from Delhi during the political event, too mentioned Tagore in his speech. The programme, party sources had said, was an attempt to counter Mamata Banerjee’s unwavering narrative about the BJP being a party of the bohiragawto (outsider), beholden to the RSS vision of “Hindi, Hindu, Hindustan” and uncomprehending of Bengal’s complex ethos. “If you remember, our women’s wing had organised a cultural programme virtually to observe Baishey Srabon last year. We had never done such things before. Last year was different, and it should have continued,” the state BJP secretary who spoke to this newspaper said. “But this year, there has practically been no programme — nothing at all. The national leadership’s failure to understand Bengal and its people led to the crushing defeat. Abandoning the display of respect and love for Bengal now is not the way forward.” On Sunday, even state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh’s social media handles — known to scrupulously acknowledge key occasions — were silent on Tagore. Party MLA and leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari’s social media handles, however, did carry tributes to the poet. A BJP source cited the pandemic restrictions to explain the absence of Tagore events, but quickly conceded that similar curbs had been in place last year too. Sayantan Basu, state BJP general secretary, said the Bengal unit was busy with a slew of events to be held between August 9 and 16 and had therefore planned nothing for Baishey Srabon. “It isn’t possible to organise a large-scale programme every year with the Covid-19 restrictions in place,” Basu said. In the run-up to the Assembly elections, Nadda, home minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had gone out of their way to claim familiarity with Bengal’s culture and history. Their efforts were often error-prone, and the poll results suggest the vast majority rejected their pitch. Many state unit leaders believe that the right strategy now would be to keep focusing on Bengal even more — at least to be able to hold on to the party’s 18 Lok Sabha seats in the state when a general election is held three years from now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||Now, a herbal spin to cocktails: Mixologist says cheers to hilly plants ||Master mixologist Yangdup Lama, who recently launched six cocktails with the iconic Makaibari tea, has come up with a few more Darjeeling hill-inspired concoctions. This time, however, local herbs and plants are  Lama’s muse. So, there is timbur (Sichuan pepper), lali gurans (rhododendron), dalle  khorsani (round chillies) and tite pati (mugwort) in the mix of his brew. “I have come up with these cocktails for Taj Chia Kutir Resort and Spa at Makaibari. The idea is to make use of locally available plants to enable visitors get not just the unique feel of our place, but also its tastes,” Lama said. The Taj Chia Kutir Resort and Spa, which started operations in December last year, is located amid tea bushes, a short distance from Kurseong. The locale of the resort with lush green forest and cascading water of the Rakti Khola, almost like a giant waterfall, on the hill otherside is a sight for sore eyes. Drink connoisseurs among the tourists visiting the hills can stop by at the resort, which is off Pakhabari Road, about 30km from Siliguri, and enjoy Kharsang ko Sero Phero (Kurseong’s surroundings). But Kharsang ko Sero Phero is also a drink. It’s actually is a cocktail of timbur-infused gin made by Lama. There are also Rato Piro Rakshi, a mix of the famous dalle and vodka, and Lali Gurans Hi Ball, a concoction of any light spirit and rhododendron nectar, among others. “I am really excited about these cocktails, and hope people will love them. I do make use of flavours from the hills in my bars in Delhi, but I am doing this for the first time here,” said the Gayabari-born and Delhi-based Lama, who was recently featured among the 100 best bartenders of 2021 in the Drinks International magazine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||NH12 roadblock turns violent in Malda, civic volunteer and police officer attacked||A roadblock on NH12 by Sujapur residents on the outskirts of Malda town on Sunday afternoon to protest a woman’s death turned violent as some protesters attacked the police who reached there to clear the highway. A civic volunteer and a police officer were injured in the attack. Additional police forces had to rush to the spot to bring the situation under control. Police have arrested five persons so far. Sources said trouble started when Arefa Bibi, 30, a homemaker in Chhoto Mahadipur area who delivered a baby at a private nursing home in Sujapur on August 2, complained of chest pain at home on Sunday morning. Her family took her to the same nursing home but authorities refused to treat her, her relative said. She was taken to another private clinic in Malda town where she died. Her kin alleged that nursing home authorities in Sujapur had discharged her after her delivery without properly treating her. Her angry relatives went to NH12 with her body and blocked the highway. Soon, their neighbours joined them and the crowd swelled. Traffic halted on the highway. A police team from Kaliachak asked protesters to lift the roadblock but demonstrators, shouting slogans against the private nursing home, paid no heed. The police then tried to shove them off the highway which led to a jostle. Some protesters turned violent and attacked the police team with bricks and stones and chased them with sticks. Subinspector Sirajuddin Sarkar and a civic volunteer were injured. Police retaliated with batons. The crowd dispersed, but after brickbatting the police. Additional police forces cleared the highway and traffic resumed after almost two hours. “Five persons have been arrested so far. We are in search of others. The situation is under control,” said Madan Mohan Roy, inspectorincharge of Kaliachak police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||5 arrested in tea wages loot case near Siliguri, 5 on the run||Police have solved the July 22 case where a gang had robbed Rs 26 lakh of tea garden money at gunpoint. So far, the police have arrested five accused and are on a lookout for five more. Ten persons had waylaid the staff of Thanjhora tea garden near Siliguri, who were on way to the garden with the cash on July 22. “We cracked the case within 48 hours but it took time to arrest people from different places,” said Dr Santosh Nimbalkar, the SP of Darjeeling. The police chief said the robbery plan started with Anil Tudu, a former tea garden driver, who noticed the tea garden firm got wages from a Siliguri bank either on Wednesdays or Thursdays. Tudu got in touch with history-sheeter Sadhan Das from Bagdogra. Das got in touch with gang from Chopra in Uttar Dinajpur for a “Rs 1 crore loot”. The gang assembled eight members. The gang made two bids to rob the tea garden officials but failed. “On July 22, garden officials stopped to buy bananas for a puja and this small window allowed robbers to assemble,” a source said. “Three bikes and a SUV (Bolero) followed the garden vehicle which had four employees. The staff car was waylaid. The robbers smashed the window with the butt of a gun and decamped with the cash-filled trunk on a bike.” The cash looted was to be disbursed as wages to tea workers. To avoid suspicion, the SUV went to Chopra via Bihar and the bikes took other village routes. Darjeeling police arrested Das, Tudu and three gangsters from Chopra, Md Rahamat, Md Rafigue and Monjur Alam. Except for Rahamat who is 22 years old, the rest are in the 30-40 age bracket. The accused were booked under 395 IPC (dacoity) and Arms Act. An improvised gun, five phones and a part of the loot money have been recovered. Darjeeling police have opened a dedicated WhatsApp group with the 110 tea gardens of the district so that police can be immediately contacted in case of any problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||NFR to resume toy train service in hills before Durga Puja||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has decided to resume the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) toy train service in the hills ahead of Durga Puja if Covid-19 cases continue to remain under control in Bengal. “If there is no steep surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, we will resume the toy train service before Durga Puja,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relation officer of the NFR, on Saturday. A DHR source said only the joy ride service will resume at first. “We will keep a tab on the (Covid-19) situation and if it is favourable, regular services will resume in due course,” said an official. The 80km-long journey between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling station is one of the major attractions for tourists. The toy train had been largely off tracks since March last year as the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. In December 2020, the NFR had resumed the joy rides but only for a couple of months as a fresh lockdown was imposed in March this year. In recent days, the number of daily Covid cases in Darjeeling has been between 50 and 80. It is a must for tourists to be fully vaccinated or carry their negative RTPCR or rapid antigen test report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 675 new infections, 763 recoveries and 12 deaths ||Bengal on Sunday recorded 49 straight days of a fall in the total number of active cases with 675 new infections, 763 recoveries and 12 deaths. In all, Bengal’s active cases fell by 100 to 10,485. Bengal now has 2.63 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. Bengal’s recovery rate is 98.13 per cent, its highest ever this pandemic and still ahead of the nation's 97.37. Its mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Calcutta logged 68 new infections and one death. With North 24-Parganas reporting 77 new cases, Sunday was the third consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Seventeen Bengal districts reported two-digit figures and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Purulia and West Burdwan single-digit figures. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday, while Calcutta apart, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, East Midnapore and Hooghly reported one each. Its daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.45 per cent on Sunday. Bengal now has nearly 15.34 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.05 lakh recoveries and 18,229 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
09-08-2021||North East||Assam-Mizoram border issue settled for now: Himanta||Underlining that peace and tranquility have been restored at the border with Mizoram, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma today said there cannot be an overnight resolution of the decades-old border dispute between the states as it is a very complex issue. Noting that the border disputes go back to the British era, Sarma told PTI in an interview that Assam has been holding talks with other states too and faulted the previous Congress governments for not clearly demarcating boundaries while carving out new states. Six Assam police personnel were killed in a violent clash between the police forces of Assam and Mizoram last month over the border dispute between the two states following a fresh escalation of tension. Sarma, who is on a four-day visit to the national capital, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi today. "Mizoram has been demanding the inner line forest based on the notification issued by British in 1870. Assam's position is that there is a constitutional boundary and Mizoram is asking about the historical boundary. Assam is protecting its constitutional boundary," the BJP leader asserted. However, he added that as of now the issue between the two states has been resolved. "We have discussed and settled the issue for the time being. I am in touch with the Mizoram chief minister and speak to him at least twice a day," he said. Sarma said there were problems related to "our borders for the last several decades" and last September, "mistrust and differences" between the two states increased, resulting in this violent incident, but now the situation is peaceful. "The governments of Assam and Mizoram have issued a joint statement urging for peace and tranquility. As of now, things are normal, traffic is moving to Mizoram as usual. I can say as of now the situation is normal, peaceful and there is no tension," Sarma said. Sarma blamed the Congress for border disputes between the states in the Northeast as the party, which ruled the country for decades, didn't demarcate the boundaries. "...when Congress created a state (in north-east) it didn't demarcate the boundary and annexed in the law itself which created the state. "The Congress never wanted a united North-East, that's why it left us to fight for our borders. But it could have been done better at the time of the creation of states. So over the period of time mistrust increased but now we are trying to resolve it," the Assam Chief Minister said. Northeastern states are different from each other but they have commonalities as well, so for resolving the disputes, "we need to look at our commonalities",  Sarma said. "We, the North-eastern states, are talking to each other anda long-term solution can be achieved by discussing the issue. Sometime over the table, we would be able to resolve it," Sarma said. Talking about Assam's border disputes, he said the government has been holding discussions with Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh as well. "With the state of Meghalaya, we are progressing well. We have started a discussion with Arunachal Pradesh. At least now states are talking about borders. Discussing among themselves or at least with one or two states, we might have a solution," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
09-08-2021||North East||Trinamul will uproot BJP from Tripura in next year’s Assembly polls: Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamul will uproot the BJP from Tripura in next year’s Assembly polls as the Biplab Deb government’s days are numbered, thundered Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday evening. Abhishek said this before boarding a chartered flight from Agartala in which he returned to Calcutta with 14 Trinamul leaders who were arrested in the morning and later released on bail in the neighbouring state. “Trinamul knows how to defeat the BJP.… The law-and-order situation in Tripura has broken down. The police here arrested those who were beaten up. The Biplab Deb government’s days are numbered. Trinamul will uproot the BJP from Tripura,” Abhishek told reporters at the end of an action-packed day in Tripura, the latest battleground between Trinamul and the BJP. Abhishek, who became the Trinamul all India general general secretary in June with the task to expand the party’s presence beyond Bengal, reached Agartala on Sunday morning and went to Khowai police station, where the 14 arrested Trinamul leaders had been taken. Although he planned to stay for another day, he flew to Calcutta with the party leaders as some needed medical attention, said a party source. Those arrested included those injured in the Saturday afternoon attack by suspected BJP supporters on a Trinamul delegation at Dolubari in Tripura’s Dhalai district. Khowai is some 60km from Dolubari and 55km from Agartala. Ashish Lal Singh, a senior Tripura Trinamul leader told this paper that police detained Trinamul leaders around 10pm on Saturday and arrested them around 5am on Sunday. “We were not offered food and were harassed. We got bail from a special court in Khowai around 6pm. Our leaders from Bengal, Debangshu Bhattacharya, Sudip Raha and Jaya Dutta, were among those arrested. We were stopped by the police in Khowai, apprehending more attacks on us on our way back to Agartala through NH9,” Singh said. Trinamul leaders said the police told them to stay put in Khowai for safety. “The same police later arrested them on charges of flouting night curfew norms.… You can well imagine the state of affairs in Tripura,” said Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. Throughout the day, Trinamul leaders alleged the breakdown of law and order in Tripura as visuals of the attack on party leaders were uploaded on social media. Abhishek stayed put at Khowai police station till his colleagues got bail. Some purported videos from inside the police station showed scenes of heated exchange between Abhishek and some police officers. “You have an Ashoka Stambha (the national emblem) on your uniform, not a lotus (the BJP symbol),” he was heard telling a policeman. Trinamul leaders said they would raise the issue in Parliament on Monday. Before leaving for Calcutta, Abhishek said he would keep coming back to Tripura to rid the state of the BJP’s misrule. “Let me see who can stop us,” he said. Trinamul got unexpected support from the Tripura CPM, which condemned Saturday’s attack on the visiting delegation of Mamata’s party. The Bengal BJP mocked Abhishek’s claims and said Trinamul didn’t have any presence in Tripura. “This kind of drama will not yield anything for them,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. BJP’s Tripura spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said the police did their duty. “Our government and police have been exercising a lot of retrains. Did you see how Trinamul’s Calcutta’s leaders misbehaved with the police officer inside the Khowai police station. It is a criminal offence. We have been tolerant so far.” He alleged that suspected Trinamul members had indulged in vandalism in Ambassa, about 15km from Dolubari, on Saturday. He went on to add that Trinamul was not a factor politically but they were really amused by the conduct of their Calcutta leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
09-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: pro-poor mantras of governments nothing but 'jumla'||Sir — The prime minister, Narendra Modi, recently blamed the Congress for using ‘garib diplomacy’ without doing anything substantial for the poor and the marginalized. While there may be some truth to his accusations, the fact is that no government at the Centre, whether the Bharatiya Janata Party or the Congress, has done anything remarkable over the years for the uplift of the have-nots as various economic indices will reveal. While the Congress regime was marked by rampant corruption, the Modi government with its whimsical policies like demonetization, unplanned lockdowns, corporatization and so on has shown that the pro-poor mantras chanted by different political parties are nothing but jumla to appease the electorate and win elections. Sadiq H. Laskar,Guwahati Sir — Delhi University has encouragingly decided to make planting trees part of the academic curriculum. But tree-plantation drives often ignore the fact that the restoration of grasslands, deserts, savannas, or rainforests means planting the right species in the right places. Large-scale record-breaking tree-planting makes news, not carefully planned, ecologically sound forests. Such mindless exercises cause more harm by disturbing ecological balance. Jharna Sanyal, Howrah Sir — Gender is a social and cultural construct that is used by industry to further its own agenda (“Toy stories”, Aug 7). This is reflected in the choice of colours when it comes to toys, video games and cartoons for boys and girls. These gendered identity markers are prefixed to guide individuals into the roles they are expected to play for the rest of their lives. However, these distinctions, apart from creating psychological barriers and causing emotional and intellectual disadvantages, also lead to discrimination. In the digital age, this gender segregation can also be observed in the choice of online games that are played by not only children but also adults. While digital versions of games like Ludo are tagged with labels like girls or women, violent action games like PubG and Call of Duty are largely considered to be meant for boys. This segregation is absolutely unnecessary. Both sets of games can be played by people, irrespective of gender, based on their skill sets. But this does not mean that one set of games should be seen as more complex than the other. Tejesh Vyas, Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
09-08-2021||Opinion||Snooping: Power thrives on mistrust||Even though instances of snooping erupt into the public consciousness occasionally, they are pervasive in the modern world. States that do not spy on other States are deemed quixotic. Snooping on citizens, if done by the State, follows the same logic. The Pegasus snoopgate, thus, has nuances that merit attention, which can help contrast snooping with dialogue. Snooping is the other half of dialogue, laden with secretive insidiousness. To snoop is to know the other. But snooping is not the only mode for this. Dialogue and debates were its predecessors. Their essence was mutuality. Both were means to know the truth. This is why grounding a student in rhetoric was considered basic to education in ancient Greece and, later, Europe. The education of a gentleman was incomplete without a schooling in rhetoric — the art of persuasion based on reason and mutual respect. Knowing the other is key to persuading him or her. Respect for mutuality underlies dialogue and debate. Reciprocity or mutuality underlies contracts of all kinds. The moment one of the parties in the contract begins to act unilaterally, the contract becomes infructuous. The State, being the product of a ‘social contract’ by the citizens, is bound by the accountability that stems from mutuality. Mutuality is the discipline of treating others as one would like to be treated. Power, which operates unilaterally, unsettles this balance. Power is nothing, if it cannot be exercised arbitrarily and unilaterally. The State has the right to use force; citizens do not. The State must be heard; but does not have the duty to listen. Power in the abstract is incorruptible. It succumbs to corruption when, in being concretized, it is infected with unilateralism. Power corrupts, and absolute power absolutely, only when it is exercised in this way. Unilateralism characterizes all unethical instincts and practices. Corruption is a unilateral action. The goal of snooping is to know the other. But it is not to know the other as a fellow human being, but as a lurking enemy. Here, the object of knowledge is pre-judged. Snooping formats ‘otherness’ in prejudice. The worrisome thing is not that snooping happens; but that a scheme of things, a political culture, exists in which snooping becomes necessary. Snooping is a symptom, not the disease. The disease is the erosion of the trust and reciprocity between the ruler and the ruled. It is simplistic to see the targets of snooping as a handful of individuals. They are snooped on because of the chunk of national reality they represent. They are dangerous, in so far as they represent and articulate the ruptured other half of reality, the invocation of which is presumed destabilizing. They are the ‘against-the-motion’ ruckus of the debate, so to speak. In a wholesome climate of opinion, the against-the-motion voice has its place, as hearing the other side is vital to seeing the given issue in truth, clearly and comprehensively. Snooping seeks to know the given reality unilaterally. It aims at a surreptitious half-dialogue with the other as a target, unknown to them and in hostility. It encapsulates the oxymoron of sniffing the truth, without any regard for truth as such. The State being an embodiment of power, the temptation to deal with citizens unilaterally is second nature to it. Hence the need to put in place effective checks and balances. Democracy is the best mode of governance, only in so far as it abides by the reciprocity between the ruler and the ruled. Accountability is a function of reciprocity. Dictatorship excludes it, because in it power is unbridled by reciprocity. Democracy is imperilled when the mutuality between the State and citizens is compromised. Consider an analogous situation to see this for what it is: the dynamics of people’s representation in a democracy. In a healthy democracy, there is meaningful reciprocity between the people and the representatives they elect. But this is not the case at present. Reciprocity exists now only between voters and candidates. It evaporates once candidates become elected representatives. This can be remedied, to an extent, by granting citizens the right to recall their representatives, if and when they betray the trust reposed in them. The unilateralism that snooping symbolizes has widely metastasized into our public life. It is inadequate, therefore, to see snooping only as an intrusion into personal privacy. What is the idea of ‘privacy’ implied in this view? Can privacy be a barriered space in which individuals act unilaterally; especially, if the consequences thereof spill into the public domain? The seminal issue in snooping is not that privacy is breached — admittedly this happens — but that unilateralism has become the character of life today. Unilateralism is an anti-life pattern. Life is a ceaseless back-and-forth flow. If a way of life is erected on unilateralism, there will be either the systole or the diastole of life; not the circulation of blood that sustains life. Unilateralism is the death-principle. Death is a one-way street. The dead go only one way: to the grave. Aside from differences in degree and nuances, all unilateral actions are death-dealing. In snooping, death kisses life; falsehood peeks through the keyhole of mistrust into the zone of unguarded vulnerability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
09-08-2021||Opinion||Shadows lengthen||How safe are Europe’s democracies from the majoritarianism that nudged Myanmar into violent ethnic cleansing and China into the systematic dissolution of the Muslim Uighur? Europe is an interesting case in the contemporary history of majoritarianism. Europe is generally seen as the home of resilient democracies and Enlightenment values, so it’s useful to examine how resistant its nations are to the anti-minority politics in the ascendant in so many parts of Asia. In recent times in Myanmar and China, State discrimination and civil society bigotry have combined to create arguably fascist forms of oppression. Two member states of the European Union, Poland and Hungary, have become notorious for State-sponsored bigotry. The EU has considered sanctioning these states for their anti-Semitism, their encouragement of homophobia and their trumpeted hostility to immigration in general and Muslims in particular. Their majoritarianism is similar to Myanmar’s: the religious identity of the majority has been weaponized to distinguish ‘real’ citizens from false ones. In Myanmar, Buddhism and its sangha were mobilized in the service of majoritarian identity; in Poland, we have Catholicism and the Church. Important though they are to the politics of Europe, Hungary and Poland won’t determine its political direction. They are doubly marginal: they are part of the EU’s post-communist ‘eastern’ rim and they are latecomers; they joined the EU’s core countries twelve years after the Maastricht Treaty in 2004. The EU was the brainchild of France and Germany, the two countries central to the project of European unification, and it is the fate of France that will shape the nature of the European project. On the face of it, France is historically vaccinated against the virus of majoritarianism. The Revolution’s root-and-branch hostility towards the Catholic Church and the determined religion-blindness of laïcité, France’s take on secularism, ought to guard against State and civil society backsliding into bigotry. This assumption makes the mistake of assuming that religious majoritarianism is about religion when it is a project of ethnic consolidation against a nominated minority. The revolution in France led to the emancipation of the Jews from formal discrimination. But amongst the majority, including France’s intellectuals, emancipation was seen as a prelude to complete, unconditional assimilation. Casual anti-Semitism was common in Enlightenment France. Diderot was anti-Semitic, as was Voltaire. To note this is not to ask that we cancel our intellectual forbears for failing to be perfectly consistent or progressive. It is to observe that the intellectual pioneers of liberty, equality and fraternity were willing to caveat their principles, both explicitly and in practice, and these caveats had historical consequences. Post-revolutionary France, having deleted the Church from the public realm, imagined that it had created secularism. In fact, all it had done was to elevate the average Frenchman complete with his cultural preferences and prejudices, and minus Christianity, into the archetype of the secular citizen. His habits, his fashions, his rules about facial hair or head coverings, his definitions of overt religiosity, would now define France’s good citoyen. Laïcité became an inquisitorial rule, a way of obsessively policing (and suppressing) public difference. Government officials specifying how much skin women have to show before they can swim on a public beach doesn’t strike the French as grotesque. This is the Gaullist version of ‘we shall fight on the beaches’. In 1905, when laïcité was formally enshrined in law, the burkini wouldn’t have been an offence against French secularism because every woman who visited a beach at the turn of the century was similarly covered up. A century ago, the French woman at the beach wore a wool dress up to her knees, with bloomers underneath and the skin below her knees was covered by stockings and bathing slippers. The French don’t see the absurdity of defining secularism in terms of rising hemlines and changing fashions. A thought experiment is a useful way of appreciating the monstrousness of laïcité: if France was a nudist colony, circumcision would be disallowed as a public avowal of religious identity. Laïcité makes the historical experience and practice of a relatively homogenous Christian population in the 19th and early 20th centuries a template for regulating the behaviour of a much more diverse modern society. The French simply assume that laïcité is culturally, historically and religiously neutral, untouched by France’s imperial history, uncoloured by its experience of Christianity or its encounter with racism and anti-Semitism. Laïcité is dangerous because it makes a virtue of intolerance. Nineteenth-century French intellectuals who should have known better saw no contradiction between republican virtue and anti-Semitism: having parked their Christianity in its proper place, they were keen to purge Jews of their Jewishness so they could vanish into the Republic. But we know that assimilation didn’t help. There are poignant stories about patriotic French Jews so ideologically assimilated that they couldn’t bring themselves to reproach the republic for interning them in Vichy France. Germany’s Jews, let’s not forget, were the most thoroughly assimilated minority in Europe. This April, a thousand French soldiers, including twenty generals, some retired, others on the reserve list, signed an open letter in a right-wing magazine, warning Macron that deadly dangers threatened France. They warned that a civil war was brewing and denounced “Islamism and the hordes of the banlieu”, the mainly Muslim migrant suburbs that surround Paris. The defence minister denounced the letter and threatened sanctions, but no concrete action was taken against the signatories. Marine Le Pen, leader of the Front National and Macron’s most formidable rival for the presidency, endorsed the letter. There are around five million Muslims in France. If Marine Le Pen were to win the French presidency, the danger isn’t that France will change beyond recognition; the danger is that the Republic will accommodate the Front National’s neo-fascist majoritarianism without having to change. French liberals and socialists might object but it is the majoritarianism written into laïcité that allows Le Pen to segue from anti-Semitism to Islamophobia within the rhetoric of ‘secularism’. It’s the reason why Marianne, France’s goddess of Liberty, can look like Marine le Pen or sound like Brigitte Bardot. Europe’s anti-clerical Enlightenment thinkers admired Imperial China for a seemingly ‘secular’ State, anchored in Confucianism, a humanist ethical system, rather than in organized religion. In Xinjiang, China repaid the compliment by taking laïcité to its logical conclusion: shaving faces, razing mosques, nationalizing Islam and educating Muslims out of their beliefs. No one in France — or Europe —should say that they weren’t warned. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
09-08-2021||Opinion||The Age of Agony: Public health during a pandemic||“A thoroughly unpleasant period to exist,” Guy R. Williams wrote in the context of health and living in the 18th century in The Age of Agony, an age of puerile States and embryonic public healthcare services often ravaged by epidemics. Indian citizens got the taste of some of that agony as an epidemic ravaged the country’s ill-funded, shoddy public health services. The collective pain must rouse the State and the populace to plan apt responses to preserve health during the time of pestilence. The onus of preservation of health has shifted to individuals due to the preponderance of lifestyle diseases. But during health emergencies like the current pandemic, policy response must be guided by a benevolent Central authority. Confronting epidemics is a collaboration between the health authority’s efforts to detect and contain disease outbreaks and ensure crowd behaviour to mitigate community spread. While the former must be primed with adequate investments to imbibe the latest scientific developments, the latter needs to incorporate communities’ historical experiences and social attitudes. The Indian response to the coronavirus outbreak remained somewhat diffident when it came to applying the lessons learnt from either the history or the science of epidemics. Epidemics are ‘crowd diseases’; they mostly start with germs of animals infecting a human host and then spreading through crowds when an adequate number of new victims are found. Historically, all public health services started with community-mandated measures like isolation, quarantine and the removal of contaminated objects even before germs had been discovered. Acceptance of those measures by the crowds differed according to their perception of threat and the messages they received. Isolation and quarantine measures were rigidly applied and mostly accepted in European cities after the Black Death led to riots; however unruly protests also took place during the cholera epidemics of the 19th century. People also rioted against the strict measures adopted during the 1896 plague in the Bombay Presidency. Almost the entire population of Surat tried to flee following the detection of plague cases in 1994. The perception of people is, therefore, important, as are the messages that create these perceptions. In 1911, Samuel Hopkins Adams showed how catch words and their connotations in the public mind shaped health campaigns. A leprosy patient in a gathering is a far more potent deterrent than a patient with a respiratory disease that is contagious. Instead of using terms like ‘flattening the curve’ or ‘limiting viral load’, a simple phrase like ‘crowd disease’ (bhir ki bimari) might have communicated the threat of Covid-19 far more effectively to Indians. It may have even mitigated some of the government’s own follies like permitting religious functions. If Indian crowds have failed to adopt appropriate behaviour, some of the blame ought to go to a failed public health campaign that has not been able to create adequate awareness. Even adhering to the simple mandate of mask-wearing seems to be exacting for many. There have been other follies. Worrying signals emanating from science were disregarded. Detection and containment mechanisms at the district level were not put in place on time. The prime minister’s Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana has promised to fill some of these gaps over the next few years but not spending the requisite sum to set up oxygen plants in every district mirrors dangerously lopsided public health priorities. Moreover, if speculations of Covid-19 being the result of a leak in a laboratory are, indeed, true, it would mean that the road to bio-terrorism is wide open. Ad hocism in public health can no longer be tolerated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
09-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Much needed||Dowry deaths have persisted in India in spite of laws. Recent revelations of the growth of this crime in Kerala have disturbed the state government and spurred it into thinking of different solutions — out of the box, as it were. It appears that high literacy, as in Kerala, cannot eradicate this evil when values tilt towards materialism and consumerism. These are the causes that the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s chief whip in Kerala, K.K. Shailaja, mentioned when she suggested that mandatory premarital counselling be introduced to improve understanding between couples and reduce violence against women. Marriage is not a matter of sex and money but a lifelong friendship that must be nurtured. The simplicity of Ms Shailaja’s statement underscored its importance. Society has indeed reduced marriage to a matter of money and sex. This is the approach that young people imbibe from their elders; in an aspirational society thriving on foreign remittance it can have a devastating effect on the value system. The focus is on dowry. Shahida Kamal, a member of the state women’s commission, suggested that marriage certificates be given after a premarital counselling certificate has been produced. She also suggested that billboards proclaiming that dowry was illegal be put up at public marriage venues, inducing shame. Kerala’s governor said that university students should promise in writing that they would not engage in dowry transactions. But it is the idea of premarital counselling that has most potential, especially because it is not a ‘legal’ solution. Yet, can the State fill society’s lacunae? Violence against women has many causes: dowry is just one of them. Ms Kamal’s emphasis on sex education glances at a part of this truth. But this violence is also a manifestation of society’s misogyny. Therefore, Ms Shailaja’s other suggestions — that panchayats form committees to prevent dowry violence, for example, or that society ensure the punishment of perpetrators — are frankly utopic. Dowry is seldom decided by the groom alone; similarly, those who thrive on a system built on the deprivation of women’s rights, dignity and freedom will not prevent violence against them. Ms Shailaja’s recommendation for premarital counselling, however, could be developed and emulated elsewhere. It could lead to a more educated — not just literate — society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
09-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Uncertain yield||The Reserve Bank of India has, quite expectedly, kept policy rates unchanged despite creeping inflation to retain its accommodative stance to support macroeconomic growth. The repo rate remains unchanged at 4 per cent as do the reverse repo rate at 3.35 per cent and the bank rate at 4.25 per cent. It has also kept unchanged its forecast for GDP growth for FY22 at 9.5 per cent. The consumer price index inflation rate has been revised from the earlier forecast of 5.1 per cent to 5.7 per cent. Although the GDP forecast remains at 9.5 per cent, the quarterly figures have been changed with the bulk of the growth coming in the first quarter of FY22 — expected to be 21.4 per cent — with the third and fourth quarter projections as low as 6.3 and 6.1 per cent, respectively. The reason for this imbalance in quarterly growth rates is not clear. Perhaps the RBI has observed that there is a surge in pent-up consumer demand after the ebbing of the second wave of Covid-19 infections. For the remaining quarters, the outlook is more complicated with uncertainties regarding the third wave, global commodity prices and financial market volatility. Given the complex, unpredictable future, the projection for growth is likely to be revised going forward. An experiment that the RBI began this year was in terms of a new scheme, G-SAP, by which the central bank would undertake planned purchases of government bonds to influence the yield curve. It would ensure that the yields on government paper would not experience spikes. Hence the government could meet its borrowing requirements at a stable, low cost. To this effect, the RBI has announced two more tranches of auctions, each worth Rs 25,000 crore, in August 2021 under G-SAP 2.0. However, this experiment, still in its early days, has not been able to anchor expectations regarding bond yields. The yield on 10-year government paper has been creeping up and is currently around 6.234 per cent. Business and consumer confidence remains virtually stagnant in the face of a challenging past and an uncertain future. Inflation could continue to creep up beyond the RBI’s tolerance limit. On top of this, if aggregate demand does not pick up, the ability to keep policy rates low will come under stress. The RBI has claimed that it has introduced more than 100 measures to combat the impact of Covid-19. Given the poor state of output, inflation and employment, the RBI’s efforts, although they are well-meaning, have remained largely ineffective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-54
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Meet Rashmi, the first student from Birhor community to pass class 12||Rashmi, a member of the Birhor tribe which is on the verge of extinction, has become the first student from the community in Jharkhand's Ramgarh district to pass the higher secondary examination, a senior district official said. Rashmi Birhor is the first-generation student of her family at Birhor Tola in west Bokaro, which falls under Ramgarh district, to attend school and clear the class 12 board examination in the second division, Deputy Commissioner Madhavi Mishra said. The district administration is serious about uplifting the condition of the members of the primitive tribe. We will encourage her to pursue higher studies. Tata Steel has contributed in her achieving the feat, Mishra said. She was a student of St Robert School in Hazaribagh. Birhor is one of the primitive tribes that trace their origin to Jharkhand. There are nearly 11,000 people from the tribe residing in the state currently. The girl had passed her class 10 board examination two years back under Project Aakansha', supported by Tata Steel Foundation. The project, initiated in 2012, aims to bring about positive change in the lives of the vulnerable Tribal communities in the country by supporting the education of the children from these communities, especially girl children, a statement issued by Tata Steel Foundation said. "My parents want me to study hard and get better results in the future as I have enormous support from the Tata Steel Foundation, the statement quoted her as saying. Rashmi said her parents want her to keep moving forward, and never feel herself to be in a disadvantageous position. She intends to pursue a diploma course after having consulted her teachers and mentors at Tata Steel Foundation. " Project Aakansha has impacted several lives ever since and has 220 Birhor children enrolled under this project who are supported academically and counselled to encash on the learning they receive through formal education," the statement said. Earlier this month, a 16-year-old girl of the same tribe in Hazaribagh district had passed the matriculation examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city celebrates International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples||The steel city celebrated the International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples on Monday with a bike rally, awareness programmes and donations for tribal upliftment. Adivasi Ekta Manch, a tribal frontal organisation took out a bike rally from Jamshedpur to Narga on NH-33, covering around 20 km. The members of the outfit first paid rich floral tributes at the statue of Tilka Majhi at the Dimna Chowk. Tilka Manjhi was a tribal freedom fighter. He was the first Adivasi leader from Santhal community who took up arms against the British in the year 1784. The bike rally was flagged off by JMM's Jugsalai legislator Mangal Kalindi. A separate function was organised on the premises of the district collectorate in Sakchi, where the deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar, on behalf of the East Singhbhum unit of agriculture and animal husbandry department disbursed loans amounting around Rs 2.50 crore to various tribal beneficiaries including farmers. Baharagora MLA Samir Mohanty who was also present on the occasion donated an ambulance and a vehicle for hearse service from MLA Local Area Development Fund. Tribal people at a function organised at Karandih near the Tatanagar railway station also vowed to protect their indigenous identity and culture on the occasion of International Indigenous Day. Addressing the function, a tribal leader Ramesh Biruli expressed concern over the dwindling population of indigenous people in the state. “The number of tribals are decreasing which is a matter of concern. Jharkhand has always been the homeland of tribals, but at present they have been reduced to minority due to outsiders’ population,” he explained. Several tribal outfits undertook plantation work at Sundernagar , Mango and Galudih in Ghatshila sub-division. Ghatshila legislator Ramdas Soren extended his wishes to members of the tribal community living within and outside the state. The International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples is observed on August 9 every year to raise awareness and protect the rights of the world's indigenous population. The event also recognizes the achievements and contributions that indigenous people make to improve world issues such as environmental protection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant dedicates day of the world's indigenous people to farmers ||On the occasion of International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples on Monday, chief minister Hemant Soren handed over kisan credit cards to a group of farmers and rolled out a Mukhyamantri  Pashudhan Yojana by dedicating the special day to farmers. Soon after, benefits of various agricultural schemes of the state government were distributed among 2 lakh farmers across Jharkhand. Hemant also provided a letter of appreciation to Hazaribagh Krishi Bazar Samiti for being featured among the nation's top 10 samitis (mandis) for successful utilization of e-NAM, a Government of India-supported online market platform for agricultural trading. He also provided 50 vans to vegetable growers of Vegfed. Addressing the state-level programme at Project Building, Hemant said that all farmers of Jharkhand would henceforth be recognised as Birsa Kisan. He also promised to provide eggs in meals of children in government schools six days a week to fight malnourishment. “This is the land of the great Bhagwan Birsa Munda. Farmers are our annadata. Hence, we have decided to name them Birsa Kisan from now on. It is to give them a distinct identity among farmers in the country.” He explained that in Jharkhand the International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples was dedicated to farmers as they are the backbone of the state and country. “Farmers are my government’s priority. Our aim is not just to assist in farming but set up a holistic ecosystem so that the tradition of farming is strengthened. Ironically, over the years, farmers have turned into labourers due to various challenges. My focus is to reverse that,” he said, adding that while the state was known for its mineral resources, his government’s priority was to look beyond it. “In the last 100 years, only minerals have been excavated by the rich from here to make others prosper. People here are still struggling for basic resources. Agriculture is one such thing which was once a tradition among every household in the village. It needs to be revived and strengthened in order to prosper,” he said. Agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddique said that in the last two months, the government had held special drives in all the districts to enroll farmers for kisan credit cards. “Of the 6,51,531 people enrolled, banks have approved cards for 1,23,405. The remaining will be approved gradually. About 38 lakh farmers don’t have KCC,” he said. About the pashudhan scheme, he said Rs 147.71 crore had been earmarked to provide welfare measures to 62,644 beneficiaries. Under the scheme, farmers will be provided all kinds of assistance for setting up diary, poultry or piggery. Among those present at the function were state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, agriculture department officials and farmers. Patralekh spoke on the achievements of his department, especially the loan waiver scheme for farmers which was being implemented for the first time in Jharkhand. “Currently, farming contributes to 12 per cent of state’s GDP. We want to increase its contribution to 20 per cent," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC retain goalkeeper T.P. Rehenesh till 2024||Jamshedpur FC has retained T.P. Rehenesh as the goalkeeper after he signed a three-year extension with the club. The shot-stopper will be seen wearing the Jamshedpur colours up to May 2024. The 28-year-old from Kozhikode was delighted to continue playing under the tutelage of Owen Coyle. "I had a fantastic season with Jamshedpur FC and I had amazing support from the goalkeeping coach Ezequiel as well as the entire squad. I haven't been able to meet the fans personally, but the love they show for me and the club drives me to perform better every match and win for them. I am glad to continue here and I hope I can help to bring glory and trophies to the club in my time here -- the fans deserve it," Rehenesh said. Rehenesh was one of the top performers of JFC in the 2020-21 ISL season having made 54 saves in 19 matches (save percentage of 74 per cent) and 9 clean sheets. His performances brought him great praise from the fans who deservedly selected him as the Fans 'Player of the Season.' Head coach Owen Coyle was delighted to retain Rehenesh for the coming season as he said:"Every top team needs a goalkeeper with great command and instinct. There's no doubt that Rehenesh is one of the best goalkeepers in the country at the moment. He was outstanding in between the sticks and I expect him to take the same form into next season as well as to help us to the playoffs." Rehenesh has made a total of 147 club appearances with a total of 44 clean sheets since making his debut with ONGC in the I League in 2012. He went on to represent Rangdajied, Shillong Lajong, East Bengal, Northeast United and Kerala Blasters before joining Jamshedpur FC in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Former employees of closed Sindri factory prep for legal battle||The widows of the closed Fertilizer Corporation of India employees, living in the quarters leased out to their husbands after the closure of the Sindri Factory, have been served eviction notices by the company. A meeting of  FCI VSS Employees Welfare Association of former employees of Sindri Fertilizer factory was held on Monday during which a three member committee including Uma Shankar Singh, R.C. Prasad and Surendra Shah were constituted to explore legal options to tackle the problem arising out of the eviction notice given by FCI to 217 widows of deceased former employees. The meeting held under the chairmanship of Sewa Singh, former Public Relation Officer of FCI Sindri unit further also decided to raise the issue with the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi by writing letters to them on Tuesday. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Sewa Singh who is also the president of FCI VSS employees association said, “The dual policy of FCI at its two different locations is beyond comprehension as over 40 widows of former employees of its Gorkharpur unit who are also living in FCI quarters allotted to their husband have not been served notice as that to 217 widows of FCI Sindri unit and rather their lease amount is also being realised by FCI regularly.” Around 2000 employees of FCI Sindri unit who lost their jobs on December 31, 2002 due to the closure of the factory have been provided short duration leases of quarters of the company in which they were living. The lease of 11 months which was renewed subsequently was granted following the district administration’s intervention in 2003 after protests carried out by them when all the former employees were served eviction notices after the closure of the factory. "The retirement benefits of each quarter allottees ranging from Rs 90, 000 to Rs 4.5lakh have been withheld by FCI in the name of security deposits for the lease for which no interest is provided to them and instead they are charged an annual amount in the name of getting electricity and water supply," said Singh and added that they are demanding for the long period of lease instead of 11 months. On July 12, 2018, the former employees of FCI under the banner of FCI VSS Employees Welfare Association also launched a gherao of the FCI office in Sindri over the same issue over the lease transfer of quarters to dependents of deceased employees during which some assurance was given to send a proposal to ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||58-year-old walks 50km to spread Covid awareness||Jayant Kumar Bhuyan, an international chess arbiter, walked 50km to spread awareness about Covid-19 and also thanked doctors and nurses for their relentless effort during the pandemic. Bhuyan, 58, a Jamshedpur resident, started his walk from near the JRD Tata Sports Complex at 7am on Monday and walked till Rargaon, a village along the NH 33. He visited 10 villages along the way to tell rurals about the importance of wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining social distance. He also distributed 100 masks among the villagers. He was seen-off by Jharkhand highest blood donor (158 times) Surendra Kumar Jha and FIDE (Federation International des Echecs) arbiter Chandan Kumar Prasad. Bhuyan reached his destination at about 3pm and returned to the steel city by bus. "It was a tiring journey to say the least. The heat was unbearable but I continued walking since I thought my effort stands nowhere in comparison to the tireless job done by our doctors and nurses who put their lives at risk while treating Covid patients," Bhuyan, chief coach at Tata Chess Centre said. According to him, it is one year since his mother passed away due to Covid after undergoing treatment at Tata Main Hospital for 20 days. "I have seen the doctors and nurses operating at the hospital. They tried their best to save my mother but their effort proved futile. Now the doctors are talking about the third wave and ready to take risks yet again," Bhuyan, who loves trekking, added. He thanked Tata Steel sports wing for giving him an opportunity to work at the Covid testing testing centre at JRD Tata Sports Complex. "I got motivated during my stint at the testing centre. I request the state government to please declare those who have died due to the virus as Covid warriors since doctors and society have learnt a lot because of their demise," Bhuyan signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Deceased civic workers' kin  protest job delay in Dhanbad||Dependents of 50 deceased employees of coal town civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) who are awaiting for jobs on compassionate grounds, staged a day-long dharna at its headquarters on Monday. The protesters, who have lost their family members during the service period, have planned a fast unto death programme scheduled to start from Tuesday. The dependents, including some of such candidates who have been assured employment in writing on June 23, 2017 by the then Managing Director of JMADA, Dharnidhar Mandal following an agreement held with him under the mediation of then Tundi MLA, Late Rajkishore Mahto charged the present administration of backtracking on its promise. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Md Ajharuddih Khan, 32, son of Md Mujibuddin, a disinfector of JMADA who died during his service period said, “We have duly submitted applications as per the laid provision of job on compassionate ground to JMADA administration much ahead of agreement held with JMADA MD in 2017 who in turn assured us to launch the employment process of dependents of deceased employees since January 2018, but it is yet to begin.” “After several subsequent meetings with JMADA administration we have been  told that as JMADA is passing through financial constraints there is no scope for new employment,” said Ajharuddin and added that the fact is contrary as the JMADA’s financial condition has improved recently due to a threefold increase in the water rentals as well as  due to regular payment of bazar fee by the companies like BCCL. Indresh Shukla, executive manager cum technical member of JMADA said, “All recruitments, including fresh recruitments and recruitments on compassionate ground are lying pending since 2009 in JMADA due to its extremely poor financial condition but as there is some improvement in financial condition since a few months we are now considering to prepare a fresh list by taking application from the dependents of all deceased employees as the number of such job seeking dependents may have increased after 2017 agreement.” “After preparing the list we will recruit some of the skilled dependents as we are facing shortage of plumbers, fitter, electricians and mechanics etc, ”said Shukla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Over 70,000 get vaccinated in Jharkhand   ||Jharkhand on Sunday vaccinated more than 70,000 residents against Covid-19 with over 900 session sites remaining operational across the 24 districts, while at least 1 lakh doses of Covishield were distributed among districts to continue the immunisation drive, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccines to as many as 53,531 residents, while the second jab was administered to 17,918 beneficiaries. More than 50,000 beneficiaries were between 18 and 44 years. Ranchi got the highest share of 7,000 doses from the 1 lakh Covishield vaccines distributed among districts, while Dhanbad and East Singhbhum received the second highest share of 6,250 doses each, a report from the NHM stated. At least 4,550 doses were sent to Bokaro, while Giridih received 6,000 doses and 4,800 doses were sent to Palamau. According to information available on the Co-Win portal, only 26 session sites opened their doors for beneficiaries in Ranchi on Sunday and administered jabs to around 3,000 residents. In East Singhbhum, 15 session sites were operational  and about 3,000 residents got jabbed. Jharkhand, as per figures with the state health department, has received over 1 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre. At least 82,58,307 residents have received the first dose of vaccine in the state, while the second jab has been administered to 19,60,756 beneficiaries, a report shared by the NHM on Sunday evening stated. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 211 on Sunday as the state reported 29 Covid recoveries against 11 cases, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. At least 13 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of infection on the day, while zero casualties occurred in the state. Jharkhand on Sunday tested swab samples of 45,604 residents and 0.04 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. So far, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and 98.46 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. At least 11 recoveries against two cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 52, while three recoveries against two cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum to 14. Deoghar reported the highest spike of four cases among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The state did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Sunday. As per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has so far reported 105 confirmed and 59 suspected cases of black fungus. The fungal infection has claimed 31 lives in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt should include Hindi in job tests: Raghubar Das||The Jharkhand government should immediately include Hindi in the paper for state staff selection commission examinations, failing which the BJP would consider seeking legal action. Former chief minister Raghubar Das told this in Ranchi on Sunday, adding the new recruitment policy of “the Hemant government is not only unconstitutional but also against the interest of the local people who will be actually deprived of employment by this policy”. “Most of the students study in Hindi medium but the government removed it from papers the candidates seeking group III and IV jobs will be required to clear for the purpose,” he said at a press meet at BJP state headquarters, adding such a recruitment policy would actually deprive many from bagging jobs. “We favour tribal and regional languages and even welcome inclusion of Bangla and Odiya but not removal of Hindi,” Das further said, referring to the policy that required candidates to clear any one of a dozen tribal and regional languages — Santhali, Mundari, Kurukh, Ho, Kharia, Nagpuri, Kurmali, Panchpargania and Khorta, besides Bengali, Odiya and Urdu. “I advise the state government to amend the policy failing which someone from BJP would surely seek legal action for getting it rectified,” Das further said. The outsiders can also become eligible for local jobs if they clear examinations of Classes X and XII in Jharkhand, he further said. “The recruitment policy my government had formulated in 2016 made only those eligible for such jobs who were born and also studied in this state,” he further said to emphasise their policy was better. When contacted, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya, however, trashed the claims made by former chief minister Das. “One can surely come here and clear exams for Classes X and XII but can’t learn a tribal and local language so easily,” he told The Telegraph, adding Hindi was not neglected at all. “Candidates can write the recruitment examinations in Hindi,” he clarified, adding Hindi was excluded in the language and literature paper only and that would rather facilitate entry of local candidates in state government jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
09-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt to conduct Covid test on passengers from other high-rate states||The Jharkhand government will conduct Covid-19 test on passengers reaching the state by train from other states that have high positivity rate. It also decided to quarantine all police and paramilitary personnel who would be coming from other states for joining duties in Jharkhand or will return after availing leave. Despite the Covid situation looking under control in Jharkhand, the government did not want to take risk and preferred these precautionary measures for checking the spread of the disease. Arun Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health), wrote letters to the state’s director-general of police (DGP) and also deputy commissioners of some districts, highlighting the necessity of such precautionary measures. In his letter addressed to the deputy commissioners of Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Deoghar, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum districts, Singh directed them to monitor arrival of trains from Kerala, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh and conduct Covid-19 tests on those disembarking at stations within those districts. Informing that it was necessary to do so for containing spread of infection, Singh also pointed out that “positivity rate in those states were much higher” and “Delta plus mutant strain was also found in some districts of those states”. Singh also requested the DGP to put all police and paramilitary personnel, arriving in the state and reporting for duty after availing leave, under quarantine for a week and also to hospitalise those who would be found Covid-19 positive. “Such measures are welcome,” commented Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of the Covid-19 task force at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, adding the number of positive cases, though not looking alarming at present, was increasing slowly. There were only 221 active Covid-19 patients in Jharkhand at 9pm on Saturday. Though 37 new positive cases were found that day, 14 of the total 24 districts of the state had no new infection while 42 patients recovered and no Covid-19 death was reported that day. With nine new infections, Ranchi district had the maximum new cases in the state on Saturday followed by Bokaro (7), Deoghar (5), Dhanbad (4), and West Singhbhum (3). While Ranchi district had maximum active case load of 61 on Saturday, Palamau and Dumka districts, with not a single active case, became Covid free that day. “The number of new cases that was just two in Ranchi on August 1 increased to nine in a week,” Dr Kumar said, adding strict monitoring of outsiders reaching the state and increased testing would help buy time for more immunisation and thereby contain spread of the disease. The state had, till Saturday, administered 1,00,99,082 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, giving at least one dose to around 30 per cent of state’s population and both the doses to about six per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
