10-08-2021||Calcutta||Work Cocoons with WiFi being set up across New Town||No quiet corner at home to work? A “cocoon” can be your answer. With work-from-home becoming the new normal because of the Covid pandemic, the New Town authorities have come up with the concept of work cocoons. The cocoons, which are small two-storey structures, have been set up in three places  — opposite Nazrul Tirtha, opposite Eco Park (near the Owl crossing) and near Sankalpa 4 housing complex. “The cocoons, called Happy Works Working Pods, have in-built high-speed WiFi networks and charging stations,” said an official of Hidco, which has built the structures. “Apart from desks and chairs, there are sofas in the pods.” The first such pod, the one opposite Nazrul Tirtha, will be inaugurated on August 13. Hidco officials came up with the idea to set up these neighbourhood work cocoons during the lockdown last year. “We decided to set up these cocoons at a meeting that focussed on making life easier during the pandemic. Many residents across the city live in apartments and they don’t have a dedicated study or work space,” a senior Hidco official said. “Many cannot afford large spacious apartments that have a dedicated study or office space. Such people struggle working from home because of space constraints.” Architect Abin Chaudhuri and his team have designed the cocoons. The air-conditioned pods house a small café and a branch of the New Town Library each. Newspapers, magazines and bestsellers will be kept at one corner of each pod. “Around 18 people can use a pod at one time. Adequate space has been kept following the social-distancing norm. One has to pay Rs 20 an hour to work from a pod,” the official said. “People will find it more relaxing to work from a co-working space like a working pod,” said Debashis Sen, the managing director of Hidco. More such work pods are in the pipeline in the township.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
10-08-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur plans to call research scholars back to campus in batches||IIT Kharagpur has worked out plans to call research scholars back to campus in batches, within the permissible limit of around 900 that has been fixed because of the pandemic, an institute official said. A letter, addressed to the students from the dean of students’ affairs, Dhrubajyoti Sen, had last week said the scholars who had arrived at the campus when the institute called them back early this year but had to return home following a spike in Covid cases would be asked to come back first, provided it is convenient for them. The scholars who were scheduled to return in April but were asked to defer their journeys because of the surge in cases would be called thereafter, the letter said. The institute, the letter said, expects to expedite the process of recall depending on the availability of quarantine facilities on the campus. The Telegraph had reported on July 21 that the IIT had set a cap on the presence of research scholars on the campus because of the pandemic. On July 22, the IIT Kharagpur teachers’ association in a letter to the institute’s director V.K. Tewari appealed that the scholars, many of whose research is on the verge of completion, could be called back at the earliest. The institute has over 3,500 research scholars. According to the plan, senior scholars who couldn’t return when given the chance earlier, because of some reason, but want to now will be given priority. The next batches will be decided based on the scholars’ seniority/semester of registration. An official of the institute said the plans were being drawn up based on the available medical facility on the campus. “We know that the teachers are eager to increase the cap…. Owing to limited isolation and treatment facilities, the institute had to earlier send some of the students to hospitals in Calcutta. But finding beds in Calcutta was difficult as the city was battling its own spike in cases. So, we are acting according to a rationale,” he said. The fact that unlike many other IITs, the one in Kharagpur is far away from a city has added to the woes. The official said the authorities had decided on the ceiling to avoid gatherings on the campus, which had to be shut down for a fortnight in September last year after a surge in cases. A teacher at the institute said some IITs, like the one in Chennai, have called back almost all research scholars by augmenting medical facilities on the campus. “Unfortunately IIT Kharagpur has not responded to the challenges as the other IITs have done. The research scholars are paying a price for this,” he said. From August, students who were unable to attend online classes because of resource constraints — 450 BTech and 50 MTech students — have started arriving on the campus in batches to stay in hostels and use the connectivity facility. “In such a scenario, maintaining the cap is a must to avoid assembly as much as possible,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
10-08-2021||Calcutta||CNG buses make debut in Calcutta, to ply from Tuesday||The state government on Monday started the trial run of two CNG-operated buses as part of the transport department’s initiative to replace a large number of diesel-powered buses with environment-friendly ones. Senior officials in the transport department said the city’s first CNG buses would start ferrying passengers between New Town and Howrah on Tuesday. Transport minister Firhad Hakim said the city would soon have a fleet of either battery-run or CNG-powered state buses. “Apart from reducing pollution levels, the operational costs of running buses will come down significantly (once battery- or CNG-powered vehicles are introduced),” Hakim said at the launch in Kasba on Monday. “If needed, we will go back to the company, with whom we have entered into an agreement, and ask them to make modifications to the two CNG buses,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of the West Bengal Transport Corporation. On June 21, the state government had signed an agreement with the Bengal Gas Company Limited (BGCL) for introducing CNG buses after setting up refill stations. The first station will be operational at the Kasba depot by December. Over the next five years, the BGCL will set up CNG facilities in various government bus depots and other similar facilities. Eight bus depots have been identified where CNG stations will be set up in the first phase. They are in Salt Lake, Thakurpukur, Barrackpore, Belghoria, Howrah, Santragachi, Karunamoyee and Kasba. The Bengal Gas Company Limited, a joint venture company of GAIL and Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Limited, will invest Rs 3.5 crore towards building CNG infrastructure at each bus depot. Officials of the transport department said introduction of CNG would result in considerable slashing of expenditure as the fuel cost would come down by 25 to 30 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Child rights commission along with Unicef conduct webinar on online safety for children||Children who have been introduced to the internet because of virtual classes are also exposed to online abuse and exploitation, child rights experts said at a webinar on online safety for children. Parents have no option but to give devices to their children. But at least once a day, they must run a check on the system to understand what the child is doing on the device, said a panelist. The webinar was organised by the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, in collaboration with Unicef, at a time when children are dependent on devices to be in touch with school and education. “There is no option for children but to use the internet. Guardians are having to give their children smartphones. Earlier, they would tell them not to overuse the phone, the laptop or the internet,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the state commission for protection of child rights. “Because of this they can be exposed to various unwanted situations like a hacker can fake their identity… but since schools have not reopened and maybe, in future, online class or hybrid class will become part of a child’s life, it is important to know about cyber crime.” Across homes, children are on using devices, attending classes or even extra curricular activities, since March 2020 because of the pandemic. Commander Ashok V.M. Kumar (retd), regional director, South Asia, International Justice Mission, said that parents should touch base with the child’s device. “You have given your child a laptop and once a day, you have to check the system... Don’t be so disconnected that you do not know what the child is doing,” he said. The-anti human trafficking expert said that one should regularly trace the home Wi-Fi. “We get the bill but hardly anyone asks for the data break-up to check the consumption pattern,” he told Metro later. He said that parents need to check in which periods of the day the consumption is high. That should throw up an alert because “crime apps consume a significant amount of data”. The consumption of data can be an alert and then the parent can ask for the details of the sites visited from the service provider, he said. His advice to children during was to reduce their speed on the internet, especially when they are new to this world, and reach out for help if they feel trapped in any way. The panelists said that while the internet is useful because children can study, it is also a double-edged sword. “Currently, excessive internet usage and access has gone up because of which the child is exposed to abuse and exploitation,” said Paramita Neogi, child protection specialist, Unicef, West Bengal. “Online violence is facilitating offline violence because it starts online and pushes the child to contact the perpetrator and then leads to violence offline,” she said. The session was moderated by Mahuya Santra, consulting editor of the state commission for protection of child rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||CMC vaccination centres resume Covishield doses after a gap of three days||The vaccination centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation resumed administering Covishield on Monday, after a gap of three days, with many queuing from early in the morning to ensure they did not miss out on the jab. Hundreds of people from districts, who joined the queue relatively late, had to return without getting the jab because each vaccination centre of the civic body received only around 150 doses for the day. The civic body had suspended administration of Covishield on Friday after running out of doses. “We resumed administering Covishield on Monday following the arrival of fresh stocks. Adequate stocks arrived today, so the drive will continue at least for the next few days,” said a CMC doctor. “Each primary health centre of the CMC will administer about 200 Covishield doses on Tuesday.” Sagarika Mondal, 29, and her mother Jogamaya, 49, turned up outside the primary health centre of Ward 73, in Kalighat, at 6.30am. The residents of Sonarpur, on the southern fringes of the city, had left home at 5.30am. Sagarika cycled and her mother took an autorickshaw to Mukundapur, from where they arrived at the health centre by bus. “We had to travel this far because there are hardly any doses at the centres near home. We handed our documents to the local panchayat and they promised to let us know when doses would be available. Someone told us to try our luck in Calcutta because the centres here are better stocked,” said Sagarika. The two left in the late afternoon after getting the shot. Those who joined the queue at several centres after 8am could not get the jab as the doses had been exhausted by the time their turn came. Outside many centres, the number of people in the queue was 1.5 times or even twice the number of doses the centres had received. A health department official said they received 7.5 lakh doses of Covishield since Saturday, out of which about 80,000 were given to the CMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Crematorium workers recall at felicitation the sweep of Covid tragedy||The impact of Covid has been so severe that even the stoical crematorium workers at times are moved to tears. Some of them have not been able to forget a few faces, like that of a 35-year-old man who went to a crematorium in Garia on two consecutive days — first to cremate his mother and then his father. Another crematorium worker said he would probably never forget the sight of a man weeping inconsolably while the bodies of his wife and 17-year-old son were being taken to the pyre. The doms — those who handle bodies at crematoriums are called so — have learnt to do their job without betraying emotion, yet some of them can hardly control tears watching the tragic fallout of Covid from close quarters. An NGO recently felicitated the doms who ensured a dignified cremation of Covid victims. Some of the dead had only doms to arrange cremation because family members were not allowed anywhere near. In the early days of Covid, the safety protocol and fear of infection had kept families and friends of the deceased away. Till Friday, Calcutta had recorded 4,977 deaths from Covid. “I cannot forget the face of the man who had lost his wife and son the same day. He kept crying aloud that he had nothing more to look forward to. Our job demands that we carry on stoically, but these are the moments when we, too, can’t hold back our tears,” he said. Rajesh Mullick, 42, a dom at the Garia crematorium, said their work did not allow them to pause and think. “There are moments when we get impacted by the tragedy that has struck a family but we do not think too much about it. We are in a hurry to cremate the next body,” said Mullick. Doms form a caste and they have been cremating the dead as a hereditary occupation for generations. But everyone employed as a dom in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s crematoriums are not from that caste. Like in other jobs, the CMC advertises vacancies in the rank of doms and invites applications. Anyone who matches the criteria is offered the job, said a CMC official. Over 8,000 people had applied for six posts of dom at the NRS Medical College and Hospital recently. Graduates, postgraduates and engineers applied for the job, for which the authorities want candidates who have passed Class VIII. The posts had been advertised in December and a written test of selected applicants was conducted recently. The CMC has about 100 doms working at its eight crematoriums. The bigger crematoriums like the ones in Kalighat and Nimtala employ about 30 doms each. The smaller ones, like the Garia facility, have eight each. The NGO, A Little Dream, also felicitated other crematorium workers like cleaners, pollution unit maintenance technicians, furnace maintenance staff, sub-registrars and security personnel. “We gifted 250 goodie bags to crematorium workers because we felt they were doing a great job by giving a dignified cremation to the dead,” said Reena Chowdhury, the founder of A Little Dream. The bags were distributed in Siriti, Garia and Nimtala burning ghats, all of which have cremated Covid victims. “Each bag contained 10 surgical masks, a 500ml hand sanitiser bottle, biscuits and cakes. We wanted to thank them for their service. It is a small recognition of their work,” said Chowdhury. Crematorium staff in Calcutta had initially faced stiff opposition from residents of the areas to cremating Covid victims. The residents feared that cremating Covid victims would help spread the virus in the neighbourhood. An employee at the Nimtala burning ghat said they had to wait for hours to cremate the first Covid body last year. “There were two problems. Initially the doms were afraid to cremate a Covid victim. By the time the doms had overcome their fear, opposition emerged from residents of the area. A large number of people had gathered outside the crematorium shouting that they would not allow any Covid victim to be cremated there,” he said. After similar protests outside many other crematoriums, the civic body reserved the Dhapa crematorium, located in a relatively less populated area, for Covid victims. Later, when the number of dead increased the cremation started taking place in more crematoriums.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Pavement-grabbing stalls grow uncontrollably in New Town||Road and pavement-grabbing shacks are allegedly growing uncontrolled in New Town — an otherwise planned township of parks, boulevards and residential highrises. Several service lanes as well as pavements of the township are being blocked by vendors and shops selling anything from vegetables to screen guards of cellphones across all three action areas. Metro criss-crossed the township and saw that in front of every major housing complex and office buildings, shacks blocked walkways and portions of the main roads. In Action Area I, a row of pavement-grabbing stalls with plastic sheets line the newly-restored walkway behind Nazrul Tirtha. The stretch behind Nazrul Tirtha that leads to the Rail Vihar Complex in AF Block has more than 150 stalls encroaching on pavements. The area behind the New Town bus stop, in front of Home Town Mall near the clock tower, both pavements outside the DLF II complex, around 2.3km from New Town police station, have also been taken over by stalls. In Action Area II, food stalls line the pavements opposite the Axis Mall. In Action Area III, service lanes in front of the Elita Garden Vista and Sukhobrishti Housing Complex are blocked by vendors as well as garages where vehicles are repaired. Leena Paul, a resident of an apartment of Elita Garden Vista Housing Complex, said it had become nearly impossible to take their car out as vans were parked right outside their gate. Abhijit Ghosh, a Sukhobrishti resident, said most of the food stalls on the service road in front of their complex had chairs and tables, making it impossible for vehicles to negotiate the stretch. “The area resembles a haat,” said Ghosh. A fruit and vegetable vendor said he had been doing business in front of the Sukhobrishti complex for more than eight years. “We catered to the first residents who had moved into this complex long before any market or mall opened in New Town,” Ramzan Mollah said. A New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) official said every eviction drive had faced “huge resistance” from street vendors. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said they had constructed hawkers’ markets in several areas that could altogether accommodate 800 vendors. “We have conducted a survey and will only allot stalls to hawkers who had settled years back...,” Sen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Students of Mahadevi Birla World Academy start mask business to raise funds for Covid relief||Students of commerce and business studies at a city school have started an initiative to source, design, make and sell masks and mask covers to raise funds for Covid relief. The girls of Mahadevi Birla World Academy are maintaining the accounts and records, learning to start a business and run it — a process that is teaching them real-time operations during the pandemic, the school said. It is an initiative of Biz Teens, a school club, which has students from Classes XI and XII. The project takes theory they are learning from books beyond the text and helps them learn and understand the subject better, said their teacher. The project involves 115 girls, of whom five are core members. The students have chosen masks and covers as business items after conducting a market survey. “Considering that we are in the middle of a pandemic, masks are mandatory and people require them. People are not ready to splurge and hence, we could not sell a luxury item but something that is reasonably priced and a must-buy,” said Tamanna Hirawat, a Class XII student and a core committee member who is playing the role of CEO. Apart from Tamanna, the core members are Vanshi Pulsaria (production), Ebadika Dutta (technology), Dhwani Agarwal (finance) and Yashvi Nahata (marketing) — all in Class XII. The girls have created a website for the sale. The masks are priced at Rs 25. They have got retail orders and an NGO has already placed an order for 500 masks. “This project is keeping them engaged while they are learning real-time operations of a working business model. They have started something they could do on their own to bring the subject to life. The bulk order has given them a huge impetus and they are motivated to overcome the hurdles coming their way,” said principal Anjana Saha. The amount raised will go towards relief work. “The students have learnt the theories of identification of product, distribution, pricing and promotion, all of which are part of their syllabus. It also teaches them to face the situation if they make wrong business decisions,” said Suparna Roy, the head of the department of commerce and the teacher mentoring them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Two men detained for fake Calcutta Municipal Corporation job promise||Two men were detained on Monday evening, including one from in front of the main gate of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, for duping people with promises of jobs in the civic body. The man who was picked up from outside the CMC gate had claimed to have contacts in the civic body and allegedly used to take Rs 10,000 from job aspirants, an officer of New Market police station said. The man had apparently introduced himself to the police as Amitabha Bose, an officer of New Market police station said. “We had information about this person. He was detained today from outside the main gate of the CMC building, where he said he was waiting for some candidates to interview them,” he said. Bose allegedly mentioned the name of a CMC-affiliated contractor and another man, who he claimed was an employee of the CMC, as being involved in the racket. Based on his statement, a man named Dibyendu Bardhan was detained, too, on Monday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Calcutta||Home-bound students get fitness tips||Delhi Public School (Joka) Students of Delhi Public School, Joka, came together to emphasise the importance of inculcating yoga into their daily lives by observing the International Yoga Day virtually. This year’s theme of the day was Yoga for Wellness. The school organised an inter-house yoga competition to engage the children in the celebration. Students demonstrated various yoga postures and made people aware of long-term benefits of each posture. Even parents became a part of this celebration and performed various asanas under the supervision of yoga teachers. “It was satisfying to see both students and parents taking part actively in understanding the relevance of yoga in healing our body and mind. Even in the session of online classes, every class has been assigned a yoga period where they practise yoga,” said principal Writuparna Chatterjee. Sushila Birla Girls’ School The primary section of Sushila Birla Girls’ School recently celebrated International Yoga Day, virtually. Children from Nursery to Class II attended a training session on yoga under the supervision of yoga teachers. Students learnt animal yoga, which included postures resembling cobra, butterfly, gorilla and others, through the play-way method. For the students of classes III to V, a 15-minute video guide on how to perform pranayama exercises —kapalbhati, bhastrika, anulom-vilom and bhramari to name a few — was played. A quiz and yoga competitions were also included in the day’s activity. “Students benefit from yoga as it not only acts as a stress buster, but also helps to build confidence. Yoga helps restore physical and mental well-being which goes a long way in achieving sound health,” said principal Koeli Dey. The BSS School Students of The BSS School came together virtually to celebrate the International Yoga Day. Around 300 students from classes VI to XII took part in the celebration and performed asanas. The programme commenced with representatives from the student council body speaking about the origin and benefits of yoga. Clips on the general well-being, nutrient deficiencies and their symptoms, along with the importance of Surya Namaskar, were displayed at the meet. “This is an important day to remind all that health of the mind and body is anyone’s greatest treasure. Yoga originated in India, and it is all the more imperative for all Indians to practise the basics of it to keep themselves fit and agile,” said principal Sunita Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-23
10-08-2021||Business|| Zomato reports a net loss of Rs 356 crore for the financial year 2021-22||Zomato announced its April-June quarter results for the financial year 2021-22, reporting a net loss of Rs 356 crore on a consolidated basis, compared to a loss of Rs 99.8 crore in the year-ago period, due to higher expenses as the company's dining-out business was impacted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This is the first quarterly earnings update of the country's leading food aggregator since its stellar stock market debut last month, which gave it a valuation of Rs 98,849 crore. The newly listed company's revenue from operations in the first quarter of the current fiscal stood at Rs 844 crore, compared to Rs 266 crore in the corresponding period last year, marking a three-fold increase year-on-year, according to a regulatory filing by the firm to the stock exchanges today. ''Revenue growth was largely on the back of growth in our core food delivery business which continued to grow despite the severe Covid wave starting April. On the other hand, Covid-19 significantly impacted the dining-out business in Q1 FY22 reversing most of the gains the industry made in Q4 FY21,'' said Zomato in its statement. The company's total expenses in the June quarter stood at Rs 1,259 crore, compared to Rs 383 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. During the quarter, Zomato recorded its highest-ever gross order value, the number of orders, transacting users, as well as active delivery partners in its history. The gross order value of the Indian food delivery business grew more than four-fold year-on-year to Rs 4,540 crore in the April-June quarter, while the sequential growth compared to the preceding January-March quarter of fiscal 2020-21 was 37 per cent. ''...our India food delivery business continues to remain contribution positive; although the contribution margin reduced slightly in Q1 FY22 as compared to the previous quarter on account of growth investments in addition to the costlier business environment (due to lockdowns) in which this growth was achieved,'' added Zomato. Ahead of the earnings, shares of Zomato declined 4.22 per cent to settle at Rs 124.95 apiece on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
10-08-2021||Business||Centre taking steps to eliminate use of crypto assets, Rajya Sabha informed||The government on Tuesday said it will take all measures to eliminate the use of crypto-assets in funding illegitimate activities or as part of the payment system. In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary also said the government will explore the use of blockchain technology proactively for ushering in digital economy. "The government does not consider crypto-currencies legal tender or coin and will take all measures to eliminate use of these crypto-assets in financing illegitimate activities or as part of the payment system," he said. A High-Level Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) constituted under the Chairmanship of Secretary (Economic Affairs) to study the issues related to virtual currencies and propose specific actions to be taken in this matter recommended in its report that all private cryptocurrencies, except any cryptocurrency issued by the State, be prohibited in India. The government would take a decision on the recommendations of the IMC and the legislative proposal, if any, would be introduced in Parliament following the due process, the minister said. In another reply, Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad said public sector banks (PSBs) have recovered Rs 4,52,480 crore during the last five financial years from defaulters in NPA and written-off accounts, and have made aggregate recovery of Rs 20,334 crore from wilful defaulters till March 31, 2021. He further said the RBI has apprised that data on wilful defaulters are available with it since 2019, and as per data reported by banks to CRILC, the increase in total number of unique wilful defaulters reported by nationalised banks was 248 during 2019-20, which has decreased to 156 during 2020-21. In another reply, Karad said the gross NPAs reported by public and private sector banks to CRILC (including exposures that are not categorised as corporate exposure on account of being between Rs 5 crore and Rs 7.5 crore) accounted for 66.8 per cent of the total gross NPAs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Sensex scales fresh peak, ends 152 points higher||Equity benchmark Sensex rose by 152 points to end at a record high on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC, Bharti Airtel and Infosys amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index ends 151.81 points or 0.28 per cent higher at its lifetime peak of 54,554.66, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 21.85 points or 0.13 per cent to 16,280.10. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, HDFC, Kotak Bank, M&M and HCL Tech. On the other hand, Tata Steel, NTPC, ITC and PowerGrid were among the laggards. "Domestic equities witnessed high volatility today and benchmark Nifty after recording fresh all-time high fell sharply mainly led by heavy selling pressure in metals, PSU banks and realty stocks," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, financials (ex- PSU banks) continued to support market and arrested sharp fall, he said, adding that IT stocks remained in focus today as high volatility in market provided an edge to safer bet like IT companies. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Equities in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.03 per cent to USD 69.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Centre taking steps to help small businesses facing impact of online retailers, says minister||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday flagged concerns about the influence of big online retailers that are adversely impacting small players and asserted that the government is taking steps to ensure that in the long run, consumers get good quality products at affordable prices. Against the backdrop of the Supreme Court rejecting pleas of Amazon and Flipkart against a Competition Commission of India (CCI) probe into alleged unfair trade practices, the minister told the Lok Sabha that the influence of big online retailers are increasing due to their money power and small retailers are getting shut. "Not just in India, concerns are being expressed by governments across the world," he added. Goyal is in charge of the ministries of commerce and industry as well as consumer affairs, food and public distribution and has been vocal in supporting domestic traders. He made the remarks while responding to supplementaries during the Question Hour on a question related to Amendment of Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules, 2020. In India, there are around six crore small retail businesses giving jobs to around 12-13 crore people, he noted. Goyal said big online retailers would have a major influence and eventually consumers might not have a choice but to buy things at a higher price. Asserting that the government is taking strict action with respect to the influence of big online retailers, he said CCI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are looking into the issue. The companies tried to stop a probe by CCI but "I am happy that yesterday, on the anniversary of Quit India Movement," all efforts of these companies failed and the Supreme Court decided that CCI will probe the matter, Goyal said. On Monday, the Supreme Court refused to entertain pleas of Amazon and Flipkart, saying that challenging the enquiry is like wanting a notice before the registration of an FIR under the criminal law and asked the e-commerce giants to submit themselves to the CCI probe. On January 13, 2020, CCI ordered a probe against Flipkart and Amazon for alleged malpractices, including deep discounting and tie-ups with preferred sellers on their platforms, following which both the companies had moved the high court seeking quashing of the probe order. The government is taking steps to ensure that in the long run, consumers get good and quality products at fair prices, Goyal said on Tuesday. The Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 were notified on July 23, 2020. In order to further strengthen the regulatory framework for prevention of unfair trade practices in e-commerce which harm the interest of consumers in the long run, the central government has sought views/ comments/ suggestions on the proposed amendments to the rules by placing it on the website of the Department of Consumer Affairs, the minister said in a written reply. The proposed amendments also include provisions related to banning of fraudulent flash sales where technology is used to enable only a specific seller or a group of sellers managed by the e-commerce company to sell goods or services on its platform," Goyal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 250 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank, despite a largely negative trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 257.31 points or 0.47 per cent higher at 54,660.16, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 64.05 points or 0.39 per cent to 16,322.30. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid, ITC, Bajaj Auto and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 125.13 points or 0.23 per cent higher at 54,402.85, while Nifty advanced 20.05 points or 0.12 per cent to 16,258.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 211.91 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. A likelihood of complete reopening of the economy supported by continued low positivity rates and faster vaccination process augurs well, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, the Reserve Bank of India's continued soft monetary policy stance to support ongoing economic recovery indicated a sustained low interest rate scenario in the country, which is important to foster growth, he noted. US equities ended mostly lower as spread of delta variant of coronavirus and downgrade of China growth by Goldman Sachs weighed on investor sentiments and triggered profit booking, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.46 per cent to USD 69.36 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Air Water Inc and Ellenbarrie Industrial Gases Ltd part ways||Industrial gas major Air Water Inc (AWI) of Japan and its Indian joint venture partner Ellenbarrie Industrial Gases Ltd (EIGL) have parted ways eight years after they joined hands to do business in India. Osaka-based AWI in 2013 had acquired a 51 per cent stake in Ellenbarrie, which has its headquarters in Calcutta. The city-based company on Monday said the promoters of EIGL has acquired the stake held by its Japanese counterpart for an undisclosed sum. Following the transaction, EIGL will be the sole industrial gases company wholly owned by Indians. EIGL came into focus during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which pushed up demand for medical oxygen in May. It is the fourth largest producer of gases in the country after Linde, Inox and Air Liquid. Varun Agarwal, director of EGIL, said the exit of AWI would not impact the growth plans of the company. “We are a debt-free company which is in the process of doubling capacity and turnover by the second half of 2022-23,” Agarwal said. The company has production facilities at Kalyani, Uluberia, Kharagpur and Panagarh in Bengal and Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad in south India. It has begun work on a major expansion at Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, at an investment of Rs 250 crore and capacity of 600 million tonnes per day. This plant, which will have a steel plant as the anchor customer, is expected to go onstream in the second half of 2022 and will cater to its growing clientele in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. While EGIL is going ahead with its plans, AWI is charting solo plans  in the country. When Linde and Praxair entered into a global merger, the companies had to sell some of their facilities to meet the conditions of the Competition Commission of India. It bought three plants from Linde, including one located at JSW Steel’s plant, as part of a deal in 2019. However, the transaction sowed seeds of disagreement with the Indian partner. After scores of cases at the company law tribunal, appellate authority and arbitration in Singapore, the two parties decided to part ways with the Japanese company also securing a no-objection from the Indian partner to do solo business in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Gold prices skid below Rs 46,000 per 10 gram||Gold prices skidded below Rs 46,000 per 10 gram in early hours of trade on the commodity exchanges on Monday amid global concerns over the US Federal Reserve paring back stimulus but recouped most of the losses later in the day. At the MCX, gold touched a low of Rs 45,956 per 10 gram shortly after markets opened but moved up to Rs 46,180 per 10 gram by 6 pm. Volatility persisted with prices on a downward trajectory afterwards. Globally gold rates slumped 4 per cent to $1,690/oz in early hours. In the Calcutta bullion market, 24 carat gold prices were at Rs 47,250 per 10 grams, down 2.32 per cent from Rs 48,350 per 10 gram last Friday. “Gold extended its fall, along with silver after a stronger than expected US jobs report on Friday. Market participants worry that the US economic recovery and rising inflation might spur the Fed to pull back on unprecedented economic support,” said Navneet Damani, vice-president, commodities research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Tata Group looking to foray into semiconductor manufacturing||Tata Group is looking to foray into semiconductor manufacturing, chairman N. Chandrasekaran said on Monday. Chandrasekaran estimated the market opportunity of high-tech manufacturing of electronics at $1 trillion and said Tata Group has already set up a business to seize the opportunity. His remarks come days after the $100-billion group announced entry into 5G equipment manufacturing and a string of acquisitions to create the Tata Digital business. Semiconductor manufacturing requires high investments and India does not have any such facility yet. Chandrasekaran explained that alterations to the global supply chains, which are heavily dependent on China, in the aftermath of the pandemic and geopolitical changes, will make businesses shift their reliance on other countries and called this a huge opportunity for India, which becomes the second base. “At the Tata group, we have already pivoted into a number of new businesses like electronics manufacturing, 5G network equipment as well as semiconductors, in all probability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Upgrad raises 3rd external funding of $25 million from IIFL group||Leading online education platform Upgrad has raised its third external funding of $25 million from the IIFL group, helping the re/up-skilling company join the unicorn club with a valuation of $1.2 billion. The Ronnie Screwvala firm got its maiden external funding in late April when the Singaporean investment giant Temasek Holdings invested $120 million, and in the same week the World Bank Group arm International Finance Corporation chipped in with $40 million, valuing it at $850 million. Seventeen start-ups have become unicorns till now in 2021, taking the coveted tally to close to 60. Upgrad, co-founded by ex-media baron Screwvala, Phalgun Kompalli, Mayank Kumar and Ravijot Chugh, by investing just over Rs 170 crore in 2015, said in a statement on Monday that with the $25 million investment from IIFL Group, it has so far raised $185 million in equity capital from external investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||Securities Appellate Tribunal fails to deliver verdict on  PNB Housing Finance-Carlyle deal||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has failed to come out with a decisive verdict on the validity of the PNB Housing Finance-Carlyle deal. “In view of the difference in opinion between the members of the bench, we direct the interim order dated June 21, 2021 to continue till further orders,” Justice Tarun Agarwala, who is the presiding officer, and Justice M.T. Joshi, judicial member of the SAT, said in an order on Monday. The interim order had stated that the outcome of the extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of PNB Housing Finance on the preferential allotment of shares and warrants will not be made public. The verdict puts a pause on the progress of the Rs 4,000-crore deal with Carlyle, General Atlantic and Salisbury Investments. Justice Joshi held that Sebi had issued the notification correctly and that the EGM vote cannot go ahead unless the valuation report is also obtained under the Articles of Association and placed before the general body of shareholders. “In the present case, in order to safeguard the interest of investors, the impugned order was passed by Sebi on the lines of the provisions made in Article 19(2) by the appellant company and its shareholders, at the time the company was to be listed on the stock exchanges. Therefore, in my view the same cannot be called illegal or unjustified,” he said. Justice Tarun Agarwala held that Sebi ought not to have stopped the voting at the EGM as the PNB board had approved the issuance of shares according to the ICDR and shareholders should have been allowed to vote. “The right of the shareholders to accept or reject an agenda is supreme and paramount which cannot be whittled by any executive action of the respondent,” said Agarwala. He said Sebi could have questioned the resolution after it was accepted by the majority of shareholders. Before the EGM on June 22, Sebi had directed the company to stop allotment unless valuation was carried out by an independent valuer. This prompted PNB Housing Finance to approach SAT for relief. Both sides are now likely to appeal to the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||India in talks with Cairn Energy and Vodafone Plc to settle retrospective tax dispute||India is in informal discussions with Cairn Energy and Vodafone Plc to settle the long pending retrospective tax dispute, a senior finance ministry official said on Monday. “There are some informal discussions going on,” revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “I would not like to discuss them in the public domain, but overall the answer to your question is, yes,” Bajaj said when asked if the companies were willing to drop cases in international tribunals. His comments came on a day a bill that aims to end all retrospective taxes imposed on the indirect transfer of Indian assets was returned by the Rajya Sabha amidst a walkout by the Congress, TMC and DMK. On telecom On the Vodafone Idea issue, Bajaj said the government would find a solution. His remarks are perhaps the first reaction by the government  after Kumar Mangalam Birla’s letter to the cabinet secretary became public. “It would make no sense for the government to come and say that we give this relief and companies say that it is not enough… I am sure the government will find a solution,” Bajaj said. Earlier in the day, DoT officials had indicated that the government was working on a comprehensive package for the sector and not a company specific one. Some of the measures being considered include reducing the revenue share licence fee to 6% of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) of the operators from the current 8%, settle the issue of future calculation of AGR by determining what segments of telecom revenues will constitute AGR, doing away with the bank guarantees which the operators have to furnish to the DoT for their AGR and deferred spectrum installments and extending the moratorium on deferred spectrum installments. They said the options being considered are fluid at this juncture. The government had, in November 2019, provided a two year moratorium on such payments – for FY21 and FY22 – which would be further extended. The two year extension had given a cash flow relief of around Rs 42,000 crore to the operators. The reduction in the licence fee by two percentage points would provide a relief of around Rs 3,000 crore annually to the operators, according to some estimates. The officials said the telecom package, once finalized, would be put out for inter-ministerial consultation and its revenue implications would be studied by the finance ministry, before it is cleared at the highest level. They said the options being considered are fluid at this juncture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
10-08-2021||Business||SC directs Amazon and Flipkart to voluntarily subject themselves to CCI probe ||The Supreme Court on Monday directed e-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart to voluntarily subject themselves to a probe by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) for alleged predatory business practice at the cost of offline dealers. “We expect big organisations such as Amazon, Flipkart to voluntarily go for enquiry and you don’t want even that? We will ensure you do that,” Chief Justice of India N.V.Ramana said. The bench comprising the Chief Justice and Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant dismissed the plea of the two companies against a June 23 Karnataka high court order asking them to face the probe. Amazon and Flipkart in separate statements said they were in compliance with all the rules and will extend full co-operation to the probe. Hours after the judgment, Amazon and N.R. Narayana Murthy’s Catamaran said they would not continue their joint venture — Prione Business Services — beyond May 2022. The JV has enabled over three lakh sellers and entrepreneurs to go online, and helped 4 million merchants with digital payment capabilities, the two companies said. “The two partners today announced they have mutually decided to not continue their joint venture beyond the end of its current term,” a joint statement said on Monday. The CCI in January had started a probe against the two e-commerce giants for alleged predatory sales and discount policies on a complaint filed by Delhi Vyapar Mahasangh. Senior advocates Gopal Subramanium and Abhishekh Manu Singhvi appearing for Amazon and Flipkart said there was neither any anti-competitive agreements nor any adverse effect of such competition warranting a CCI probe. The CCI represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and additional Solicitor General Madhavi defended the high court’s order upholding the CCI probe. The high court had earlier said Section 18 of the the Competition Act casts an obligation on the CCI to “eliminate” anti-competitive practices and promote competition, interests of the consumers and free trade. The apex court while refusing to interfere with the high court order gave the companies four weeks to file their response to the CCI inquiry and face the probe. When contacted, an Amazon spokesperson said: “Amazon has a high bar on compliance and we comply with all applicable laws. We will extend full cooperation to the CCI investigation.” A Flipkart spokesperson said while the company has not received the order yet, it respects the decision of the Supreme Court. “We are in compliance with the applicable Indian laws and will cooperate with the investigation,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
10-08-2021||Business||Gift or cash-back vouchers will be liable to 18 per cent GST||Gift vouchers or cash-back vouchers given to customers or suppliers are treated as goods and would be liable to 18 per cent GST, the Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR) has said. Bangalore-based Premier Sales Promotion Pvt Ltd approached the AAR’s Karnataka bench on the GST rate that would apply to the supply of gift vouchers, cash-back vouchers or the supply of e-vouchers with multiple options. The applicant is involved in the trading of vouchers in the course of its business. With respect to gift vouchers, the AAR noted that the applicant purchases the vouchers and sells them to its clients. The clients in turn distribute them to their clients/customers and the customers use them to to pay for goods or services. The gift vouchers would not obtain the character of money at the time of their supply to the applicant, the AAR ruled. For cash-back vouchers and multiple options e-vouchers, the AAR observed that the said vouchers cannot be covered under the definition of “money” at the time of supplying them but would take the colour of money only when used for payment of consideration for supply of goods or services procured by the end-user. Passing the ruling, the AAR said the supply of vouchers are taxable as goods and will attract 18 per cent GST. Rajat Mohan, senior partner with AMRG, said, “This ruling also rejected the special provisions in GST rules concerning the time of supply-related vouchers.  This ruling may lead to complications for corporates using special vouchers that could not be identifiable to a particular product at the time of its issuance,” he said. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, said: “Most industry players are not treating vouchers per se as goods and are paying GST on ultimate supply against which such vouchers are used. However, this ruling says vouchers are covered under goods. This ruling would create uncertainty in industry and lead to litigation.” Tax expert Bimal Jain said the Premier Sales ruling seems to be distorting the scheme of GST law and if applied in all cases of vouchers, it will result in double taxation — once at the time of supply of vouchers and again at the time of supply of the underlying “goods’ or “services.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
10-08-2021||India||Amarinder Singh meets Sonia Gandhi amid fresh attack by Sidhu||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday rushed to New Delhi and held a meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi with no end in sight in his row with Navjot Singh Sidhu. The chief minister complained Gandhi that Sidhu’s criticism of his government “does not augur well for smooth functioning”. Sonia directed that “both the state government and the Congress unit in Punjab must work together and not on cross purposes”, said Congress’s Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat after the meeting. The meeting precedes an anticipated cabinet reshuffle in Punjab and comes in the midst of strong indications that the feud between the Congress’s top two in the state is far from over. On Monday, Sidhu posted a series of tweets pointing out that he had held a press conference in 2018 asking the state government to immediately act upon the information shared by STF with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. “After 2.5 years of delay, how much more the People of Punjab should wait? What investigation had Punjab Police done? What action had Punjab government has taken? Must be brought into public domain. Since submission of reports, what further action did the state take in 2.5 years? Govt must make itself accountable to the Public with complete transparency !! Punishing culprits behind Drug trade is Congress’s priority under 18-Point Agenda... . If further delayed will bring resolution in Punjab Vidhan Sabha for making the Reports Public,” Sidhu tweeted. Weeks after Amarinder grudgingly accepted the cricketer-turned-politician’s appointment as leader of the party’s state unit, tweets by Sidhu threaten to undo the hard-won truce. Sidhu resumed his attack on his party’s government over inaction against Akali Dal leader Bikram Majithia and others, all of whom were allegedly involved in a 2018 drug trafficking case. “Punishing the culprits behind the drug trade is the Congress’s priority under the 18-Point Agenda. What is the action taken on Majithia? If further delayed, we will bring a resolution in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha for making the reports public,” he tweeted. Sidhu also lashed out at his party government’s apparent inability to tackle the drug problem; he did so without naming the chief minister. Rawat said Sonia took stock of the work done to fulfill promises of the Congress, perhaps a reference to Sidhu’s tweet. The chief minister apprised Sonia about his government’s efforts in resolving the power crisis and cracking down on the drug mafia. Singh also talked about giving more representation to Dalits in his cabinet, said the Congress leader. Constant barbs and critical comments by Sidhu aimed at Amarinder have been one of the major flashpoints in a political row that has threatened (and continues to threaten) to wreck the Congress’ attempt to win re-election in Punjab next year. After extended negotiations between Camp Sidhu, Camp Amarinder Singh and a three-man peace-making team nominated by Gandhi, a compromise was reached. This included increased representation to Dalits and promises from the chief minister to address rebel MLAs concerns; these ranged from the state’s power crisis to a 2015 case about the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. The chief minister also demanded a greater say in the party’s state affairs ahead of the election, and a public apology from Sidhu — which the former cricketer has yet to make. The feud dates back to the 2017 election, when the former cricketer hoped to be made deputy chief minister but was reportedly denied the post by Singh. Navjot Sidhu, the Congress’s star campaigner in that election, instead became a minister in the Amarinder Singh government but quit two years later after his ministry was downgraded. After prolonged silence and detachment from party affairs, he began re-targeting the Captain in recent months, becoming a hard-to-ignore problem in the run-up to the Punjab election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||CBSE releases date sheet for compartment examinations||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday, August 10 released the date sheet for class 10 and 12 compartment examinations 2021. Candidates can check the date sheet on the official site of CBSE at cbse.nic.in. CBSE Class 10 exams will start on August 25 and end on September 8, while class 12 examinations will start on August 25 and end on September 15. The following category of Class 10 and Class 12 regular candidates of session 2020-21 will be eligible to appear in the exam: Not satisfied with assessment: Candidates who have passed but not satisfied with their marks Compartment: Students placed in compartment category as they could not pass in one or two subjects Non-computable cases: Candidates whose results could not be prepared on the basis of tabulation policy in 2021 ie regular candidates of improvement category 6th Subject cases: Candidates who appeared in 6 subjects in 2021 and declared as pass but could not clear one subject from main 5 subjects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||PM Modi's picture, words in Covid vaccination certificate reinforce awareness message, says govt||The photo along with the words of the prime minister in vaccination certificates reinforce the message for creating awareness about following Covid-appropriate behaviour even after inoculation, the Rajya Sabha was told on Tuesday. The formats of Covid-19 vaccination certificates being issued from CoWIN are standardised and conform to the evolving WHO guidance on verifiable inoculation certificates, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in a written reply. She was responding to a question on whether it is necessary and compulsory to print photographs of the prime minister on the Covid vaccination certificate. "Given the context of the pandemic, its evolving nature and the fact that following of Covid-appropriate behaviours has emerged as one of the most critical measures for preventing the spread of disease. "The photograph along with the message of the prime minister in the vaccination certificates reinforces the message for creating awareness about the importance of following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour even after vaccination, in the larger public interest," Pawar said. It is the moral and ethical responsibility of the government to ensure that such critical messages are disseminated to people in the most effective manner, she said. "The format of vaccination certificate, compliant with WHO norms for vaccination certificates, including the message and presentation about the importance of following Covid-appropriate behaviour even after vaccination, has been decided keeping all these factors in consideration. "All states and Union Territories are using CoWIN application for Covid-19 vaccination and vaccination certificates are generated through CoWIN in a standard format," the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||LS passes key bill to restore states' power to make own OBC lists||Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed a constitutional amendment bill to restore the powers of the states to make their own OBC lists, with 385 members voting in its favour and no member opposing it. Some amendments moved by opposition members were rejected by the House. A constitutional amendment bill requires a special majority for passage in both Houses of Parliament. There should be a majority of the total membership of the House and a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of that House present and voting. The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021, was brought in by the Union Cabinet to undo a categorical Supreme Court ruling in May that only the Central government can prepare an OBC list. The court's stricture came during a hearing on the Maratha quota issue and cited a law passed in August 2018 to give constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes. "States have no power to add any caste to socially economically backward caste list due to the amendment made by Parliament," the Supreme Court had observed back then. Moving the bill today, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar described it as a historic legislation as 671 castes in the country would benefit from it. The Shiv Sena today brought in an amendment to the bill in the Lok Sabha but it was defeated, with 305 voting against and only 71 for it. The bill received support from the Opposition, despite the rivals targeting the Centre over a range of issues, including the farmers' protest and the alleged Pegasus spyware scandal. The protests over these other matters were suspended for the bill to be passed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||Looking into issue of Covid vaccine booster dose: Government||The national expert committee on Covid-19 vaccination has discussed the issue of giving booster vaccine dose and it is being looked into very deeply, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V.K. Paul said on Tuesday. He said it must be taken as a work in progress as science is still emerging in this area. At the same time, Paul also noted that the WHO has called for a moratorium on booster doses. Responding to a question on the need for giving booster Covid-19 vaccine dose, Paul said at a press briefing that the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) held a discussion on the booster dose issue at its last meeting. "I would say we are watching the science for the need for such imperative very carefully, global work as well as you may know that certain studies in the country are being instituted and we are looking at it very deeply. "As you know, WHO has called for a moratorium for booster doses so let us watch this and see how it can be taken forward," he said. He also stressed that people should get the second dose of the vaccine for complete protection. "Those with comorbidities or who are getting treatment for cancer, they should especially make sure that they are vaccinated," he said. Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, "Even if we take the vaccine, we need to keep taking necessary precautions. "||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||Centre: Only one state has reported oxygen death after government inquiry||Only one state has till now reported "suspected" death due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of Covid-19 after the Centre sought data from them on such fatalities following the raising of the issue in Parliament, a top official said on Tuesday. "When the question was raised in Parliament, states were specifically asked this question and as per reports received only one state mentioned suspected death and no state has so far said that there were deaths because of oxygen shortage," Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said while replying to a query at a press conference. According to sources, 13 states and UTs including Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have responded. They said only Punjab has reported four "suspected" deaths due to oxygen shortage. Last month, Opposition parties had hit out at the government for informing Parliament that no deaths due to oxygen shortage have been specifically reported by states and Union Territories during the second Covid-19 wave. The Centre recently had sought from states and Union Territories data on deaths in connection with oxygen shortage during the second of Covid-19 earlier this year and the information was to be collated and presented in Parliament before the Monsoon session ends on August 13, official sources had said. Agarwal said the whole country faced a one of its kind challenge related to oxygen, and while the availability was 2,000-3,000 metric tonnes, it rose to 9,000 metric tonnes. It was seen how the people, states and the Centre connected at all levels to increase the medical oxygen supply, he said. "We used industrial oxygen for medical oxygen usage, we provided oxygen concentrator, progressed PSA plants and also used Railways and Navy for oxygen transportation. We faced a very big challenge," he said. Responding to a question on whether a large number of Covid-19 patients died on roads and hospitals due to acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave, Minister of State for Health Bharati Praveen Pawar on July 20 in a written reply in Rajya Sabha had said that health is a state subject. "Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union Health Ministry to all states and UTs. Accordingly, all states and UTs report cases and deaths to the Union Health Ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen has been specifically reported by states and UTs," Pawar had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||India advises its citizens in Afghanistan to return as early as possible||India on Tuesday strongly advised all its citizens residing in Afghanistan to make immediate travel arrangements to return home before commercial air services are discontinued from the country in view of massive spike in violence. In a fresh advisory, the Indian embassy in Kabul also advised the Indian companies operating in Afghanistan to immediately withdraw their Indian employees out of project sites before air travel services from the country is discontinued. The embassy asked Indian nationals working for Afghan or foreign companies in Afghanistan to immediately request their employers to facilitate their travel from project sites to India in view of the ground situation. It said the security advisory issued on June 29 and July 24 remained valid. "Further, as violence in many parts of Afghanistan has escalated, commercial air travel services to many provinces and cities are getting discontinued," the embassy said. "All Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are strongly advised to keep themselves updated on the availability of commercial flights from various parts of Afghanistan and make immediate travel arrangements to return to India before commercial air services are discontinued to their place of stay/visit in Afghanistan," it added. According to government data, around 1,500 Indians are currently staying in Afghanistan. "Indian companies operating in Afghanistan are strongly advised to immediately withdraw their Indian employees out of project sites in Afghanistan before air travel services get discontinued," the embassy said. "Indian nationals working for Afghan or foreign companies in Afghanistan should immediately request their employer to facilitate their travel from project sites to India," it said. The embassy said the advisory is applicable for Indian journalists who are in Afghanistan to cover the latest development. "It is very essential that all Indian media persons arriving/staying in Afghanistan to establish contact with Public Affairs and Security Wing of the Embassy for a personalized briefing, including specific advice for the location they are traveling to," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||Modi's apps seeks opinion on elections from people of poll-bound states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's app has launched a survey in five poll-bound states seeking people's opinions on a number of issues that are likely to influence their choice of the party or candidates. The survey, open to people from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab, seeks opinion on the voter's most pressing consideration, rating of the state government on a number of metrics, view on any probable opposition unity in their constituency and take on the local MLA besides other matters. The prime minister had undertaken similar surveys on the NaMo app on demonetisation after his government invalidated Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 bills and prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, and is known for the importance he attaches to the use of digital mediums to elicit people's feedback. The options the survey offers to people to a question asking them about their most important considerations for voting in the assembly polls include the government's handling of COVID-19, price rise, corruption, employment, education and law and order situation. It also lists the options of "PM Modi's leadership in the country", "state level issues" and "local issues" to the question "which of these is a bigger factor for you while voting?" "The survey allows people to give their feedback directly to the prime minister on a large number of issues," an official source said. The survey asks voters to write about the state government scheme which has benefitted them the most and seeks their take on a number of statements, including if same party governments at the Centre and in state help in development. With the Covid-19 vaccination going on across the country, it seeks voters' view about its coverage in their state. It also asks people to name three most popular BJP leaders in their state. One question gives the options of a candidate's caste, religion and development record and asks people which of these is their most important consideration while voting. The states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab will be facing the assembly polls early next year. The BJP is in power in four of these five states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||Kerala reports over half of India's total Covid cases in past seven days||The central government on Tuesday said that 37 districts across nine states, including 11 districts in Kerala and seven in Tamil Nadu, are showing a rising trend in the average daily new Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks even as the corresponding nationwide figure continues to register a decline. At a press briefing on the pandemic, officials said the reproduction number or R number that indicates the speed at which Covid-19 is spreading is more than 1 in five states -- Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh -- which remains a cause for concern. Andhra Pradesh, Goa and Nagaland have their reproduction number at 1, Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said. For India, it is around 1, he said. The Reproduction number or Rt refers to how many people an infected person infects on average. In other words, it can tell how efficiently a virus is spreading, Agarwal explained. He said, "37 districts across nine states -- Kerala (11 districts), Tamil Nadu (7), Himachal Pradesh (6), Karnataka (5), Andhra Pradesh (2), Maharashtra (2), West Bengal (2), Meghalaya (1) and Mizoram (1) -- are still showing rising trend in daily new Covid-19 cases during the last two weeks." The increasing trend of reproduction number in some states is cause for concern, although there is stabilisation in Covid-19 cases in the country, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said, adding there are significant reasons to enforce pandemic control measures. "If we look at the overall picture, we are hovering with a reproduction number of around 1 and it is more than 1 in some states. An increasing trend is a cause for concern. So a profound word of caution: Himachal has R number of 1.3 and for Punjab it has been recorded at 1.3 and showing an increasing trend. "Though there is a stabilisation in the overall number of cases we still have significant reasons to be concerned, reasons to be vigilant and significant reasons for us to enforce pandemic control measures in every possible way," he said. Agarwal further said 44 districts across 11 states and union territories, including Kerala (10), Manipur (10), Mizoram (6) and Arunachal Pradesh (5), reported a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the week ending August 9. However,districts with more than 100 daily cases have declined from 279 in week ending on June 1 to 48 in week ending on August 8, 2021, Agarwal informed. Only one state has more than 1 lakh active cases, eight states have active cases between 10,000 and 1 lakh, and 27 states and UTs have less than 10,000 active cases currently. "I would like to emphasise once again that this is no time to lower the guard. Staying vigilant, following Covid-appropriate behaviour, compliance with masks, avoiding crowds and not creating crowds even in close rooms, avoiding unnecessary travels, all these precautions continue to be very, very important for us," Paul stated. Agarwal said Kerala reported 51.51 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases recorded in India in the past seven days. The southern state currently contributes 43.77 per cent of the total active cases in the country, followed by Maharashtra with 18.48 per cent cases. For Kerala, it is clear that containment measures must be paid more attention to. "We do not have to allow the spread and that is the policy of the government that we talk about containment not mitigation. We need to bring herd immunity with vaccines and not infection," Paul said. "One more message is that Delta variant is ruling the nation, in fact ruling the world. Everywhere you can see the spread of Delta and because of it surge across many countries have been reported," Paul stated. The government said Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been detected in 86 samples in India, including 34 in Maharashtra, as on August 9. On vaccination, Paul said the advantages of increasing coverage of vaccination is already being seen. "We must also see that how vaccines are helping in economic activities and bringing us towards normalcy. As the vaccination coverage is rising, we must also see how preferentially it helps the workforce and we encourage corporates in this direction. There is a clear need that our educational institutions run and taking that in mind we need to connect teachers with vaccination. Many teachers have been vaccinated and for the rest all efforts must be made," he said. On vaccine availability, Paul said all vaccines have different terms of importing under different circumstances. Sputnik is being imported from outside and it is also being made here, Moderna has a different grant. "J&J (vaccine) is being made in the country so all situations are different and there are issues that need to be sorted and when you want to access these vaccines there are certain conditions clauses, MoUs agreed upon this takes time," he said. He said that indemnity is not needed in the process followed for emergency use authorisation of the Johnson and Johnson (J&J) vaccine. Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Covavax and mRNA vaccines might appear in this sequence but it is a dynamic situation and there is continuous progress, he said. India logged 28,204 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 147 days, taking the total tally of cases to 3,19,98,158, while the active cases fell to 3,88,508, the lowest in 139 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,28,682 with 373 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Supreme Court fines BJP, Congress, others for not making crimes of candidates public||Maintaining that persons with criminal antecedents and involved in criminalisation of politics cannot be permitted to be lawmakers, the Supreme Court Tuesday held nine political parties including ruling BJP and Janata Dal (United) guilty of its contempt in 2020 Bihar assembly polls for disobeying an order requiring them to publish antecedents of candidates within 48 hours of selection or not less than two weeks before filing of nominations. While imposing varying fines on political parties, the top court lamented the apathy of the legislative wing of the government in not taking steps to decriminalise the political system. "The nation continues to wait and is losing patience. Cleansing the polluted stream of politics is obviously not one of the immediate pressing concerns of the legislative branch of government," a bench headed by Justice R F Nariman said. The bench, also comprising justice B R Gavai, imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh each on two political parties, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Nationalist Congress Party, saying that they have not at all complied with the directions issued by this court . It also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh each on Janata Dal (United), the Rashtriya Janata Dal, Lok Janshakti Party, Indian National Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party and the Communist Party of India and asked them to deposit the money within eight weeks with the poll panel. The Rashtriya Lok Samta Party was spared of fine. The poll panel had said that 469 candidates, having criminal antecedents, were fielded by 10 political parties in recently held Bihar Assembly polls. The bench held that the selection of candidates having criminal antecedents on the ground of mere winnability is the violation of the apex court's direction of February 13, 2020. "The Election Commission, to whom the fine will be deposited, is directed to carry out an extensive awareness campaign to make every voter aware about his right to know and the availability of information regarding criminal antecedents of all contesting candidates," the top court directed. This shall be done across various platforms, including social media, websites, TV ads, prime time debates, pamphlets, etc. A fund must be created for this purpose within a period of four weeks into which fines for contempt of Court may be directed to be paid," the verdict said. The verdict said that no one can deny that the menace of criminalisation in the Indian political system is growing day by day. "Also, no one can deny that for maintaining purity of political system, persons with criminal antecedents and who are involved in criminalisation of political system should not be permitted to be the lawmakers. The only question is, whether this Court can do so by issuing directions which do not have foundation in the statutory provisions," it said. It said though nine political parties have been found guilty of having committed contempt of the order of February 13, 2020, but a lenient view has been taken taking into consideration the fact that these were the first elections that were conducted after the issuance of the directions. "However, we warn them that they should be cautious in future and ensure that the directions issued by this Court as well as the ECI are followed in letter and spirit," Justice Nariman, writing the 71-page verdict for the bench, said. The bench modified one of the earlier directions on furnishing of details about the criminal antecedents of candidates. "We clarify that the direction in paragraph 4.4 of our Order dated 13.02.2020 be modified and it is clarified that the details which are required to be published, shall be published within 48 hours of the selection of the candidate and not prior to two weeks before the first date of filing of nominations," it said. Highlighting the separation of power, the verdict said that the top court has been appealing time and again to the lawmakers of the country to rise to the occasion and take steps for bringing out necessary amendments so that the involvement of persons with criminal antecedents in polity is prohibited. "All these appeals have fallen on the deaf ears. The political parties refuse to wake up from deep slumber. However, in view of the constitutional scheme of separation of powers, though we desire that something urgently requires to be done in the matter, our hands are tied and we cannot transgress into the area reserved for the legislative arm of the State," it said. The apex court accepted the submissions of senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the poll panel that the ECI cannot be said to have committed any contempt of the order as the circumstances pointed out that it did bring to the notice of the court the flouting of the directions. "We must, however, caution the ECI to do so as promptly as possible in future so that prompt action may be taken by this Court, it being understood that the ECI must by itself take prompt action in accordance with the directions contained in this Order," the top court said. The bench also issued more directions in continuation of earlier ones in order to make the right of information of a voter more effective and meaningful. "Political parties are to publish information regarding criminal antecedents of candidates on the homepage of their websites, thus making it easier for the voter to get to the information that has to be supplied. It will also become necessary now to have on the homepage a caption which states 'candidates with criminal antecedents," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||IAF focused on boosting capabilities after Balakot strikes, Galwan Valley clashes, says chief||India's air power capabilities in terms of hitting targets with precision, defending assets and use of new technologies have gone up significantly after the Balakot air strikes and rapid developments in eastern Ladakh following the Galwan Valley clashes, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Tuesday. In an address at a leading think-tank, the IAF Chief said India now has an "edge" in its ability on both the Western and Northern fronts to "react fast, respond fast and hit fast", noting that induction of Rafale jets has helped in bringing the "next level" of operational transformation. About the drone strike on the Jammu airbase, he said the IAF is taking a series of initiatives including procuring next-generation jammers to deal with such challenges and added that the attack would not have been possible if it was attempted two-three months later. Referring to the 11-day conflict between Israel and Hamas in May, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said that Israel's use of air power in carrying out operations with surgical precision to achieve its objectives in Gaza against the militant group while ensuring minimum collateral damage was a reflection of the ability of the air assets. Explaining the role of air power, the IAF Chief also talked about the general perception to look at only its offensive role and the general tendency to say "no-no" for its use in certain situations, saying the paradigms and scenarios have shifted and there is a need to keep this in mind. "The ability of air power which was largely seen as an offensive, as a no-no in some situations particularly in the subcontinent...the paradigms have shifted, the scenarios have shifted and we need to keep this in mind as we go ahead," he said at the United Service Institution of India (USI). At a seminar last month, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, while referring to the proposed integrated theatre commands, described the Air Force as a "support arm" but Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria disagreed with him, saying airpower has a huge role to play. About the IAF's operational readiness, he said the focus was to bring in the next level of operational transformation including in the cyber-security domain after the Galwan Valley clashes and his force has been largely successful in its endeavour. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the "edge" that the IAF has today came from a combination of its weapons, training status, platforms network environment and its ability to "react fast, respond fast and hit fast. "That is the edge we have today in both scenarios, be it on the western front or be it on the northern front," he said. He said the "transformation" was triggered by the developments like Balakot strikes and situation in eastern Ladakh and it now has now taken the IAF to the "next level. The IAF Chief said the induction of the Rafale aircraft has helped in lifting the overall offensive capability of the Air Force. "It is a level or a level-and-a-half above where we were. "He said the focus after the Galwan Valley clashes was to bolster the cyber security system as it was identified as an area of concern mainly because of some of the "actions", he said in an apparent reference to the ability of the adversary to the IAF's networks. He said the IAF's operational offensive capability has gone up in terms of having long-distance air-to-ground weapons, in carrying out precision strikes and possessing network-centric environment. Twenty Indian Army personnel laid down their lives in clashes with Chinese troops on June 15 last year that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. In February, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. The Chief of Air Staff also mentioned Balakot air strikes as an important event while talking about the transformation of the IAF in the last few years, and said it sent out a clear message about India's approach in dealing with security challenges. Indian fighter jets bombed Jaish-e-Mohammed's biggest training camp near Balakot deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019, 12 days after the terror outfit claimed responsibility for a suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Kashmir, killing 40 soldiers. Pakistan retaliated by attempting to target Indian military installations the next day. However, the IAF thwarted their plans. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria also spoke about the low cost activities of commercial drones and its use for supply of arms, drugs, money as well as use of the armed version of the unmanned aerial vehicles to launch an attack on the Jammu airbase. He referred to China's emergence at the world stage, its diplomacy, economic clout and military belligerence in Indo-Pacific.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Rohingya Muslims indulging in illegal activities, says Indian govt||The government has reports that Rohingya Muslim migrants are indulging in illegal activities, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said that all foreign nationals who enter into the country without valid travel documents are treated as illegal migrants. “There are reports about some Rohingya migrants indulging in illegal activities,” he said in a written reply. Rai said the central government has issued instructions to state governments and union territory administrations advising them to sensitise the law enforcement and intelligence agencies for taking appropriate steps for prompt identification of illegal migrants, their restriction to specified locations as per provisions of law. Instructions have also been issued to capture their biographic and biometric particulars, cancellation of fake Indian documents and for taking legal proceedings including initiation of deportation proceedings under provisions of law. Rai also said that consolidated instructions to tackle the issue of overstay and illegal migration of foreign nationals have been issued on March 30, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||India evacuating consulate staff from Afghanistan's Mazar-e-Sharif: Officials||India is evacuating its staff from its consulate in Afghanistan's Mazar-e-Sharif in view of the rapidly escalating violence by the Taliban around the capital city of Balkh province, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. The Indian-based staff of the consulate and a number of Indians residing in Mazar-e-Sharif are being evacuated due to the deteriorating security scenario in the city as well as areas around it, they said. It is learned that a special aircraft of the Indian Air Force will evacuate the staff as well as the Indian citizens from the fourth-largest city of Afghanistan. "A special flight is leaving from Mazar-e-Sharif to New Delhi. Any Indian nationals in and around Mazar-e-Sharif are requested to leave for India in the special flight scheduled to depart late today evening," the Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif tweeted. It asked Indian citizens who want to leave by the special flight to submit the details like their full name and passport number to the consulate immediately. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. It is learned that the consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif will continue to operate through the local staff members. Last month India pulled out around 50 diplomats and security personnel from its consulate in Kandahar following intense clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban fighters around the city. A special aircraft of the Indian Air Force was sent to bring back the Indian diplomats, officials and other staff members including a group of Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel. According to government data, around 1,500 Indians are currently staying in Afghanistan. Last week, the Ministry of External Affairs said in Lok Sabha that India remained vigilant and is taking all necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of Indians in the conflict-ridden country. Replying to a question, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan had also said the India-based personnel from the Indian consulate in Kandahar were temporarily withdrawn last month as part of the security measures. "The security situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated in the recent past. In view of this, the government remains vigilant and is taking all necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of Indian nationals and ongoing projects," he said. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the US began withdrawing its troops on May 1. Tuesday's development comes a day after Taliban militants captured a sixth provincial Afghan capital on Monday after they ousted Afghan security forces from border towns and trade routes as US-led foreign forces pull out. On Monday, they took Aybak, the capital of the northern province of Samangan. “Right now the Taliban are fighting with Afghan forces to capture the police headquarters and compound of the provincial governor,” said Ziauddin Zia, a lawmaker in Aybak. “Several parts of the capital have fallen to the Taliban.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Visiting Kashmir feels like coming home, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said he feels like "coming home" when he visits the Kashmir Valley as he pitched for restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's statehood before holding assembly elections. Addressing his party workers after inaugurating a new party headquarters here, a visibly emotional Gandhi said, "My family lives in Delhi. Before that my family lived in Allahabad. And before Allahabad, my family lived here." "I can tell you that I understand you, my family must have drank water from the river Jhelum. Kashmiriyat, the culture and thought process must be in me too. When I come here, I feel like I am coming home," he said, while referring to his family ties to Kashmir and added that he had come with a message of love and respect. Gandhi, a former Congress president, said that there was an urgent need for restoration of statehood before holding the assembly elections. "Statehood should be restored and then the democratic process should be started, that is election (to state assembly)," he said. Before the event, Gandhi offered prayers at the Mata Kheer Bhawani shrine, the revered shrine of Kashmiri Pandits, in Ganderbal in central Kashmir. Reacting to the suggestion of senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad that a bill for restoration of statehood to J-K be brought during the current session of Parliament, Gandhi said there were several issues that he wanted to raise in Parliament, but the opposition was not allowed to speak there. He said he was told by his colleagues that J-K was not a big state with many Lok Sabha seats, but stressed upon the importance of the place. "It is not a state with many Lok Sabh seats...It is not even a state now. But the strength of J-K is the way you live. India and its foundation has Kashmiriyat. This feeling is in me too. What you can get me to do with love and affection, you will never achieve it through force and hatred. That is Kashmiriyat. If you own J-K with love and respect, you will get done whatever you want to," he said. The former Congress president said when his party was in power, it tried to unite and join the country, but the BJP believes in divisive ideology. "When we were in power, we started lots of programmes like Panchayat elections, Udaan, etc. We also brought in industrialists to invest in J-K. We were trying to unite and join. They (BJP) have attacked it," he added. He said the new office building of the party's J-K unit is a new beginning and added that the workers were the party's army. "I tried to come here earlier also, before Covid outbreak, but I was not allowed beyond the airport," he said, referring to his visit immediately after the Centre's August 2019 decisions to abrogate Jammu and Kashmir's special status and bifurcate in into union territories. "I will visit Jammu and Ladakh as well," he added. Addressing the gathering earlier, Azad urged Gandhi to raise the issue of J-K in Parliament so that a bill that restores the statehood and protects land and job rights of locals is passed in Parliament within the remaining three days of the ongoing session. "I request Rahul ji to raise this issue, bring a bill in Parliament in the ongoing session that will restore the statehood and protect the land and job rights. There is not much to debate, it will take just five minutes," Azad said. Recalling the sequence of events after August 5, 2019, Azad said it was the biggest joke played on the people of J-K and democratic India. "It was the biggest joke in democratic India that was played on J-K. The statehood was snatched and two Union territories were created. It has never happened in India, perhaps nowhere in the world. Even in Parliament's history, it has never happened," he said. The former leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha said he and his colleagues tried to visit J-K in the aftermath of the Centre's August 5, 2019 decisions, but were stopped. I had to approach the Supreme Court which gave limited access. I could only visit Baramulla, Anantnag and Jammu," he added. Azad expressed hope that the assurances given by the prime minister at an all-party meeting in June this year will be fulfilled. "At the all-party meeting, the PM gave assurances. We hope that he will fulfil those assurances including the five points raised by the Congress. They should restore statehood and then hold elections," he said. Azad said that J-K cannot be a state like Delhi where every order has to be approved by the Lieutenant Governor. "J-K is a border state and the L-G cannot govern it. We don't want a Delhi like state where L-G has to approve every order," he said. On the protection of land rights, Azad said it was not Article 370 that gave this provision to J-K. "It was not a new law. It was passed by Maharaja Hari Singh in 1927. North East has special provisions on land rights while the Himachal Pradesh assembly has also passed a law. Why snatch it from JK?" he asked. The former J-K chief minister said industrial activity in the Jammu region had suffered as 65 per cent of the 13,000 industrial units had shut down in the past two-and-a-half years. "Most of these units were manufacturing products which had a market in Kashmir," he said, referring to the economic downturn in the UT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Opposition MPs raise Pegasus issue in debate on OBC bill||Opposition MPs raised the Pegasus snooping issue in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday during a debate on a Constitution amendment bill that seeks to restore the states' power to make their own OBC lists. Leader of the Congress in the House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury claimed that countries like Israel, Hungary and France have ordered investigation into the issue of suspected snooping and asked why the Narendra Modi government is "afraid" of a debate on the matter. Speaker Om Birla repeatedly told him to speak on the bill, following which Chowdhury returned to speak on the proposed legislation. Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay also raised the issue and proposed that the Lok Sabha hold a discussion on it on Wednesday. In his brief reference to the alleged snooping of a number of people, including politicians, judges, businessmen and journalists, Chowdhury noted investigation being ordered in some countries and targeted the government. "What happened here? We are afraid of discussing a small matter, the Pegasus snooping issue, in Parliament. We are running away. Why? This was our issue," he said, defending his party against the ruling BJP's charge that it is not letting the House function by repeatedly disrupting it. The onus of ensuring transaction in Parliament is on the government, he said. Pitching for a discussion on the Pegasus issue, Opposition parties have repeatedly disrupted the proceedings in Parliament, resulting in frequent adjournments in both houses since the Monsoon Session began on July 19. Moving the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 for consideration and passage, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar described it as a historic legislation as 671 castes in the country would benefit from it. He said the bill will restore the states' rights to prepare their own lists of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) so that various communities can be given social and economic justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||No decision on nationwide NRC yet, says government||The government has not taken any decision on preparing a National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) for the whole country, Union minister Nityanand Rai said in Parliament on Tuesday. He, however, said the government has decided to update the National Population Register (NPR) under the Citizenship Act, 1955, along with the first phase of Census 2021. "Till now, the government has not taken any decision to prepare the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) at national level," Rai said in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha. So far, the NRC has been updated only in Assam. When the final list of the NRC was published in 2019, a total of 19.06 lakh of the 3.3 crore applicants were excluded, triggering a huge political row. Replying to another question, the minister said any person who is not satisfied with the outcome of the decisions of the claims and objections during the process of preparing the NRC in Assam may prefer an appeal before the designated Foreigners Tribunals within 120 days from the date of such order. Since those excluded from the NRC in Assam are yet to exhaust all possible legal remedies available to them, the question of their nationality verification does not arise at this stage, he added. Referring to the NPR, Rai said the government has decided to update it along with the first phase of Census 2021. He said the demographic and other particulars of each family and individual are to be updated or collected during the exercise of updating the NPR. "No document is to be collected during this exercise. However, due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the update of NPR and other related field activities have been postponed," Rai said. The objective of the NPR is to create a comprehensive identity database of every usual resident in the country. The database would contain demographic as well as biometric particulars. The NPR is a register of the usual residents of the country. It is being prepared at the local (village and sub-town), sub-district, district, state and national levels under the provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1955 and the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Tarun Tejpal seeks 'in-camera' hearing on sexual assault case against him||Journalist Tarun Tejpal in a submission before the Bombay High Court on Tuesday sought an "in-camera" hearing of the Goa government's petition challenging his acquittal in a 2013 rape case and sought its dismissal while raising preliminary objections on its maintainability. However, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Goa government, opposed Tejpal's request for the 'in-camera' hearing, saying the "country has the right to know how the institution dealt with the girl (victim)". On May 21, a sessions court acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then-colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. Later, the Goa government filed an appeal against it in the HC. On Tuesday, Tejpal's lawyer Amit Desai requested the high court's bench at Goa comprising Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar to hold the hearing in-camera , as was done in the past during the trial of the case in the lower court. He said the hearing should be held "in-camera", considering the sensitivity of the matter and the allegations. The lawyer said he has filed a formal application before the bench to consider the request. Desai also questioned the maintainability of the petition filed by the state government, and sought to dismiss it, claiming it to be defective and not in compliance" with the procedure as mentioned under Criminal Procedure Code Section 378 (appeal in case of acquittal). However, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the court that he would have to go through the application seeking 'in-camera' hearing of the case. "Normally, I would not have objected, but the way this institution has failed, leaving an inevitable impression upon all victims of sexual onslaught, that it has a deterrent effect amongst those who are potential victims," he said. "The country has the right to know how this institution has dealt with the girl who came before the court with a complaint, specific allegation, proofs and corroborative evidence, he argued. Desai said it was not right for Mehta to comment on the case until the final conclusion in the matter. "We should not make comments on the institution of judiciary just because the Goa government did not appreciate the judgement," he added. The bench fixed August 31 for the next hearing. Both Mehta and Desai requested for the hearing through video-conferencing as they are not based in Goa. The judges said their application for virtual hearing should be made to the Bombay High Court's Chief Justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Delhi government hasn't received letter from Centre inquiring oxygen death, says Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday alleged that the city government has not received any letter from the Centre inquiring if any deaths in the national capital occurred due to oxygen shortage during the second Covid wave. The minister, however, said they have decided to share all the details with the central government. "You can put out that reply in front of the Supreme Court and the public," he said in an online briefing. Sisodia accused the Centre of not showing seriousness towards the oxygen crisis which happened during the second wave. "I read in newspaper reports that the Centre is saying that it has asked state governments to share the number of oxygen-related deaths," he said. Sisodia, however, said that they have not received any communication till date on the matter. "Delhi government has not received any letter on oxygen-related deaths. When you (Centre) have not written any letter, how can you say that states are not informing you? We had formed an inquiry committee but you did not allow it (probe) to happen through Delhi LG," he said. Delhi government believes that there was an oxygen crisis and without an inquiry it is difficult to say whether any deaths happened due to it or not, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Bharat Biotech's gets govt nod to produce Covaxin in their Ankleshwar plant ||Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said the government has given approval to Bharat Biotech's Ankleshwar-based manufacturing plant to produce COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin. "Govt of India approves vaccine manufacturing facility for production of @BharatBiotech's #Covaxin in Ankleshwar, Gujarat," Mandaviya tweeted. The approval would help increase availability of COVID-19 vaccines in the country, he added. "Following PM @NarendraModi ji's vision of #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, this will increase vaccine availability & accelerate the world's largest vaccine drive," the minister who heads both Chemicals and Fertilisers and Health ministries noted. In May this year, Bharat Biotech had announced that it plans to produce an additional 200 million doses of Covaxin at its subsidiary's Ankleshwar-based facility. The Hyderabad-based firm had noted that it would utilise the manufacturing plant of its wholly-owned unit - Chiron Behring, to add another 200 million doses of Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Lok Sabha debates amendment of OBC bill, first time since Monsoon session began||For the first time since the Monsoon session of Parliament began on July 19, the Lok Sabha witnessed debate in an orderly manner on Tuesday as it took up a constitutional amendment bill which seeks to restore the states' power to make their own OBC lists. Moving the bill for consideration and passage, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar described 'The Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021' as a historic legislation as 671 castes in the country would benefit from it. Kumar said the bill will restore the states' rights to prepare their own lists of OBCs so that various communities can be given social and economic justice. The minister said the bill should be considered as the 105th Constitution Amendment bill after being renumbered. The 102nd Constitution Amendment Act of 2018 inserted articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Classes, and 342A that deals with the powers of the president to notify a particular caste as an SEBC and the power of Parliament to change the list. Article 366 (26C) defines SEBCs. The Supreme Court has dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' power to notify SEBCs for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions. "If this Constitution bill is not brought, 671 OBCs would not have got reservation. All of them will be benefited now," he said. Initiating the debate, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury extended his party's wholehearted support to the bill but criticised the government for the 2018 amendment saying had the government inserted the suggestion proposed by the Opposition, today's situation would not have arisen. "You tweaked the Constitution by bringing the 102 Constitution Amendment Bill in 2018 which gave people opportunity to go to the court and finally the Supreme Court removed the states' power," he said. Chowdhury also slammed the government for allegedly running away from debate on the issue of "snooping" through the Pegasus spyware, saying the country after country like Hungary, the US and Israel have ordered probe into the controversial issue. The Constitutional amendment Bill requires a special majority for passage the two Houses of Parliament . There should be a majority of the total membership of the House and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of that House present and voting. Earlier, the proceedings of the House was disrupted by opposition following protests over Pegasus and other issues. When the House re-assembled at noon after one adjournment, the opposition again started protests. The sloganeering and protests continued when papers related to different ministries were laid on the table of the House. However, when Speaker Om Birla announced taking up this bill for consideration, the opposition members went to their seats and participated in the proceedings. Since the start of the Monsoon session, parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by Opposition parties and a logjam has persisted over their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row and farmers' protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir must be given full statehood before polls are conducted, says Azad||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Tuesday called for restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's statehood before Assembly elections are held and batted for land and job rights for its residents. Speaking to reporters outside the Kheer Bhawani temple complex in Tullamulla area of central Kashmir's Ganderbal district, Azad said Kashmiri Pandits who left the valley in early 1990s in the wake of eruption of militancy be brought back. "The elections...should be conducted soon. But before the elections, the statehood should be restored, which is very important. Kashmiri Pandits should be brought back. "Our land and job (rights), which were taken away after Article 370 was revoked, should be secured like they were before (August 5, 2019) through a new law when the statehood is restored, he said. On August 5, 2019, the Centre announced abrogation of special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution and its bifurcation into union territories. The former J-K chief minister visited the temple shortly after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's visit earlier in the morning. Gandhi had left for Hazratbal shrine when Azad reached Tullamulla. "I came from Delhi today, but the flight reached late and that is why we could not meet here. But since it was in my programme, I came here and will also go to Hazratbal, he said. Asked about the BJP's charge that the Congress party had lost its credibility, Azad said, "Everyone knows who has the credibility." After the Kheer Bhawani visit, Azad went to Hazratbal shrine here to pay obeisance. Later, he joined Gandhi at the inauguration of Congress Bhawan at M A Road here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Twitter 'prima facie' in compliance with new IT Rules, Centre tells Delhi HC||The Centre told the Delhi High Court on Tuesday that Twitter was prima facie in compliance with the new Information Technology Rules by appointing a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) and Nodal Contact Person on permanent basis. Justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a petition alleging non-compliance of IT Rules by the US-based microblogging site, sought an affidavit from the Centre to bring its stand on record within two weeks. "Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Contact Person (NCP) and Resident Grievance Officer have been appointed in compliance with the law. That's the email that I've received (from the instructing authority). It's better to have an affidavit," Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said. The court said that Twitter's affidavit on its compliance with IT Rules was finally on record . Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, iterated that the company has appointed permanent officials for the posts of CCO, RGO and NCP. Poovayya said the appointed persons will work on a full-time basis and are fully capable of performing the functions in terms of the law. "Court gave us a long rope. Finally we have rectified the situation. We have permanent people occupying the position," Poovayya submitted. On July 28, the court had expressed displeasure over Twitter appointing a contingent worker as CCO and said that the social media platform was in non-compliance with the new IT Rules. "I'm giving you a long rope but don't expect the court to do it on and on," the court had said. Centre had also claimed that Twitter was acting in abject non-compliance of the rules . The Centre said in its affidavit that Twitter failed to comply with India's new IT Rules, which could lead to its losing immunity conferred under the IT Act. The court had earlier granted time to Twitter to file an affidavit to show compliance with the IT Rules. Petitioner-lawyer Amit Acharya, represented by senior advocate G Tushar Rao, claimed that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance of IT Rules by Twitter when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyber space, including social media platforms, and were notified in February by the central government. The matter would be heard next on October 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi launches Ujjwala 2.0 to provide deposit-free LPG connections||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched Ujjwala 2.0 -- the second phase of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) -- by handing over LPG connections in Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh. After the formal launch, the prime minister distributed free gas connections to 10 women virtually. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Adityanath handed over the documents to the women on behalf of the PM. During Ujjwala 1.0 launched in 2016, a target was set to provide LPG connections to five crore women members of BPL households. Subsequently, the scheme was expanded in April 2018 to include women beneficiaries from seven more categories such as SC and ST communities and forest dwellers. Also, the target was revised to eight crore LPG connections. This was achieved in August 2019, seven months ahead of schedule, officials said. In the Union Budget for 2021-22, provision for an additional one crore LPG connection under the scheme was announced. These one crore additional connections under Ujjwala 2.0 aim to provide deposit-free LPG connections to those low-income families who could not be covered under the earlier phase of PMUY. Along with a deposit-free LPG connection, Ujjwala 2.0 will provide the first refill and hotplate free of cost to the beneficiaries. The enrolment procedure will require minimum paperwork and in Ujjwala 2.0, migrants will not be required to submit ration cards or address proof. A self-declaration for both 'family declaration' and as a 'proof of address' will suffice, they said. Ujjwala 2.0 will help achieve the prime minister's vision of universal access to LPG, it said. Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Hardeep Singh Puri was also present on the occasion. In his address, Union minister Puri said that the use of wood and coal for cooking has adverse effects on health of women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Public prosecutors cannot withdraw cases against lawmakers without HC consent, says SC||The Supreme Court Tuesday ordered that public prosecutors cannot withdraw criminal cases against lawmakers accused under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) without sanction from high courts. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana also said that it was mulling the setting up of a special bench at the apex court to monitor the cases against politicians. The bench, which also comprised Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, ordered that special courts judges, hearing cases against the MPs and MLAs, will not be transferred until further orders. It directed the Registrar Generals of all the high courts to provide information, in a particular format, about the cases decided by special courts against the lawmakers. It has also sought the details of pending cases and their stages before the trial courts. The Supreme Court also held that political parties must make criminal records of their poll candidates public within 48 hours of their selection. This comes months after a February ruling saying that candidates must upload these details either within 48 hours of their selection or at least two weeks before the first date of filing nomination papers, according to a report by ndtv.com. The order came after the top court perused the report of senior advocate Vijay Hansaria and lawyer Sneha Kalita who are assisting the bench. The bench was hearing a PIL of 2016 filed by lawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay on fast-tracking of criminal trials against MP and MLAs besides seeking life ban on convicted politicians from contesting polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Why is the PM silent on Pegasus row, asks Chidambaram||A day after the defence ministry stated that it did not have any transaction with the NSO Group, which is at the centre of the Pegasus row, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday said only Prime Minister Narendra Modi can answer on behalf of all ministries and departments over the issue and asked "why is he silent". NSO Group, an Israeli surveillance software company, has been under increasing attack following allegations that its Pegasus software was used for surveillance of phones of people in several countries, including India. Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt, while replying to a question in Rajya Sabha on Monday, said, "Ministry of Defence has not had any transaction with NSO Group Technologies." Reacting to the development, Chidambaram tweeted, "MoD has 'absolved' itself of any deal with the NSO Group, Israel. Assuming, MoD is correct, that takes out one Ministry/Department.What about the remaining half a dozen usual suspects?" "Only the PM can answer on behalf of ALL ministries/departments. Why is he silent?" the former home minister said. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Centre should probe if any foreign government snooped on Indians, says NCP||Maharashtra minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik on Tuesday said if the Union government did not use the Pegasus spyware, it should probe whether any other foreign government snooped on Indian politicians, judges, bureaucrats and journalists. Malik told reporters here that the Defence Ministry has said there was no transaction with the NSO Group, an Israeli surveillance software company, regarding the Pegasus spyware. "In that case, the Union government should immediately announce an inquiry whether any foreign country snooped on Opposition leaders in India, judges of the Supreme Court, businessmen, journalists and advocates, he said. If it is the case, then it is more serious, said Malik, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra. The Centre should openly state that no government department has used the service of the NSO Group-developed Pegasus spyware. Just one department denying use of the service does not necessarily mean it is the entire Union government's clarification, the NCP leader said. The Defence Ministry on Monday said it did not have any transaction with the NSO Group, which has been under increasing attack following allegations that its Pegasus phone spyware was used for surveillance on journalists, activists and political leaders in several countries including India. The NSO has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi asks for list of ministers absent during passing of statutory resolution in RS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked the parliamentary affairs minister to submit the details of members who were not present in Rajya Sabha on Monday when voting for a statutory resolution moved by several Opposition MPs was held, sources said. The statutory resolution demanded that the Tribunals Reforms Bill be sent to the select committee of the House, however, it got negated. Speaking at the BJP parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday, Modi asked Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi to submit the details of those who were not present in the house when the voting was held, sources said. The BJP parliamentary party led by Modi also gave a standing ovation to the Olympic medal winners, sources in the party said. Modi also suggested the party MPs to encourage more people in their constituencies to participate in sports and also promote Poshan Abhiyaan and Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||SC takes exception to parallel debates over Pegasus on social media, websites||Taking exception over parallel proceedings and debates on social media by some petitioners who have sought independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping issue, the Supreme Court on Tuesday said there must be some discipline and they must have some faith in the system . A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, which said it would take a call on August 16 on whether to issue notice to the Centre on pleas seeking probe into the Pegasus row, said it is not against debate but when the matter is pending in the apex court it should be deliberated upon here. The bench, also comprising justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, said it expects that petitioners who are interested in the matter would answer whatever queries the court would put to them by way of proper debate in the court and not outside. . "See, once you come to this court, we expect that debate is taking place here and we expect that they will answer the questions," the bench told the counsel appearing for the petitioners, adding, They must have some faith in the system. It observed that instead of having a parallel proceeding or parallel debate, whatever the petitioners want to say, they can file affidavit in the court and the bench would go through its each and every content. The CJI told senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing veteran journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar who have filed one of the petitions, that there must be some discipline. Sibal said, "Absolutely, I entirely agree with you. When the matter is in court, there should not be public statements of any nature. I entirely agree with you." At the outset, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the bench that he has received copies of the petitions, except the one possibly filed by former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha. "It is not a grievance, they can serve it. I may need some instructions," Mehta told the bench, adding,that he is in the process of going through the matter. "I need instructions from the government. Subject to your lordships convenience, if I can get time till Friday. I need two working days to get instructions." The CJI said the matter would be taken up for hearing on August 16 as he has some personal inconvenience on Friday. Senior advocate CU Singh, appearing for one of the petitioners, told the bench that notice be issued on the petitions. "Monday, I will take a call. Till Monday, wait," the bench said. Advocate Manish Tewari, appearing for Yashwant Sinha, said they have served the copy of their petition to the Centre. During the hearing, the bench referred to the adjudication process and said the courts put question to both the parties. "We asked some questions to all of you. We expect some materials, some information or something. You know the adjudication process how the courts will ask questions. Sometimes, it may be inconvenient for you, sometimes it may be encouraging to you. Whatever it is, both sides have to face this music," the bench said. Sibal said on the last date of hearing, he had appeared for Ram and there was reference about proceedings related to Pegasus in California court. He said Ram was trolled on the social media. "See this is the problem when one line is taken out of context," the bench observed, adding that it had put some questions and that was blown out of proportion. The top court said it is not correct and the debate should not cross the limit for anybody. "We are following a procedure and the system. They must have faith in the system," the bench said. Sibal said the issue involved in the matter is serious and the government or others should be given the opportunity to explain the position. The bench said it has always given opportunity to the petitioners as well as to the government. See, any of the petitioners or those interested in the matter who are saying something in newspapers or media or whatever it is, we expect that they will answer whatever queries, whatever questions, whatever things when we put it to you by way of proper debate in the court, not outside, it observed. Meanwhile, activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan, on behalf of Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) and National Campaign for Peoples' Right to Information, has written a letter to the CJI seeking live webcast of the hearing in the Pegasus matter. The apex court was hearing a batch of pleas, including the one filed by the Editors Guild of India, seeking independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. They are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. During the hearing in the matter on August 5, the top court had said that allegations of Pegasus related snooping are "serious in nature" if reports on them are correct. It had also asked the petitioners whether they had made any efforts to file criminal complaint on this. The apex court, which had asked the petitioners to serve the copies of the pleas to the Centre, had also questioned why the matter has suddenly cropped up now when it had come to light way back in 2019. Editors Guild of India has sought in its plea that a special investigation team be set up to conduct probe into reported surveillance of journalists and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||India records lowest daily Covid count in 147 days||India logged 28,204 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 147 days, taking the total tally of cases to 3,19,98,158, while the active cases fell to 3,88,508, the lowest in 139 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.45 per cent, which is the highest ever recovery rate achieved, the ministry said. The death toll has climbed to 4,28,682 with 373 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases comprise 1.21 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 13,680 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,11,313 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 48,32,78,545. The daily positivity rate has declined to 1.87 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 15 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.36 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,11,80,968, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 51.45 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Tuesday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of three crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 373 new fatalities include 105 from Kerala and 68 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,28,682 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,064 from Maharashtra, 36,817 from Karnataka, 34,340 from Tamil Nadu, 25,067 from Delhi, 22,774 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,240 from West Bengal and 17,852 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar: Police detains BJP spokesperson, 5 others||The Delhi Police has detained six people, including advocate and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, in connection with a video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar, officials said on Tuesday. According to a senior police officer, the six people were detained from different areas of the Delhi-National Capital Region. Their roles are being verified in connection with the incident and further action will be taken accordingly, he said. A video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar here was widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by Bharat Jodo Aandolan at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, had said the protest was held under the leadership of Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. The protest was held against colonial laws and demanding to abolish 222 British laws. We have seen the video, but have no idea who they are. The police should take strict action against the persons who raised the slogans, Srivastava had said. Upadhyay too denied any involvement in the anti-Muslim slogan shouting incident. "I have submitted a complaint to the Delhi Police to examine the video which went viral. If the video is authentic, then strict action should be taken against the persons who were involved in it," he had said. "I have no idea who they are. I have never seen them, never met them and neither called them there. Till the time I was there, they were not seen there. If the video is fake, then a propaganda is being circulated to defame Bharart Jodo Andolan," Upadhyay said. The video shows a group of people shouting inflammatory slogans and threatening Muslims during the protest at Jantar Mantar. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav had said on Monday, We have received a video and we are examining it. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the law and an investigation is in progress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||CPM admits to error in treating TMC and BJP equally in Bengal||The practice of treating the BJP and the Trinamul Congress as two sides of the same coin cost the CPM dear, the Left party’s central committee has concluded during a three-day brainstorming session to analyse its worst performance ever in the Bengal Assembly elections. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury told reporters after the meeting that although the party line from the beginning in Bengal and the rest of the nation had been that the principal political adversary was the BJP, in practice the BJP and Trinamul were treated equally in many places. “That we said was wrong. That was not the party’s understanding. These are the things that need to be corrected,” Yechury said. On the Bengal results, Yechury said: “The salutary factor has been the defeat of the BJP despite its high-profile campaign and determined bid to capture the state. The people of Bengal rose as one to defeat the communal forces and Hindutva as an ideology that was seen to be imposed on Bengal and its culture. This is a salutary factor.” But in that desire to defeat the BJP, it was Trinamul, not the combination of the Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front, that benefited. Yechury said: “This combination was not seen as a viable option to defeat the BJP. And, in that polarisation, we got squeezed out. As far as the party is concerned, for the CPIM, it’s been a very disastrous result. For the first time since 1946, no communist has been elected to the Assembly in Bengal.... “We have, therefore, in a very serious, self-critical introspection, examined the reasons why this has happened, identified the problems that exist and the organisational weaknesses that need to be corrected.” The lessons drawn by the CPM’s central committee will be taken up by the state committee, which is scheduled to meet on August 12 and 13. Yechury will attend the meeting. A central committee member told The Telegraph the CPM had also failed to see that Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had succeeded in addressing the anti-incumbency factor that had helped the BJP gain seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “She (Mamata) took corrective measures. The party failed to see that the welfare programmes she took up after 2019 benefited some people. Not only did we ignore it, we dismissed these measures as ‘dole politics’. In the CC, the opinion was that it was wrong to call it dole politics when the Left is in favour of welfare programmes,” the central committee member said. Asked if the CPM would continue its alliance with the ISF, Yechury said: “In all future elections, to maximise the pooling of all anti-BJP and anti-TMC votes, we will align with all secular forces. That’s the decision of the CC.” However, a central committee member said that internally, there was acknowledgement that while the ISF was a secular force, the party had failed to communicate its secular credentials, allowing its detractors to project it as a “Muslim party”. “The ground for the alliance should have been prepared better. The tie-up with the ISF was sprung upon the people at a rally, and the narrative spun by our rivals prevailed. We failed to communicate the fact that while the ISF president may be a Muslim, its general secretary is a Hindu and so were 40 per cent of its candidates.” As for the organisational problems, sources stressed that the CPM had lost the most to Trinamul’s violence against its opponents. “As many as 780 of our leaders have been killed, 1.3 lakh of our local leaders have been forced out of their areas of influence and another lakh have been implicated in false cases. The party has tried to help out many of them but not enough was done, leaving the cadres disillusioned. This hollowed us out,” a source said. Further, because of the violence, the party workers could not be among the people. “Communists live with the people -- like fish and water. The disconnect hurt us badly. It was a case of ‘out of sight, out of mind’. And we have seen the Left vote getting eroded in every election since 2008 as a result. We failed to check this erosion,” the CPM source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||BJP leader Ashwani Upadhyay leads anti-muslim protest in New Delhi||While most of India was savouring on Sunday the hangover of one of its finest sporting moments, a group drunk on hate, if not power, sought to mainstream an agenda that has been gathering momentum in recent years. “Jab mulle kaate jayenge, Ram-Ram chillayenge (When the Muslims are slaughtered, they will scream ‘Ram, Ram’).” “Band karo, band karo, mulle ka vyapar band karo (Shut down, shut down, shut down Muslims’ businesses).” “Hindustan mein rehna hoga, ‘Jai Shri Ram’ kehna hoga (If you want to live in India, you have to chant, ‘Jai Shri Ram’).” These slogans were ringing out not in the hinterland or a clandestine setting. Footage suggested the venue was Jantar Mantar in the heart of the national capital and literally within the earshot of the seat of power that governs the Union of India. The rally was organised by former Delhi BJP spokesperson Ashwani Upadhyay under the umbrella of the Bharat Jodo Movement, demanding the end of colonial-era laws by implementing a uniform civil code. Upadhyay on Monday sought to dissociate himself from the sloganeering. Anmol Pritam, a reporter with the YouTube channel National Dastak, was roughed up and told to chant “Jai Shri Ram”, which he refused to do under duress. “When I asked them about why issues like unemployment or food security do not elicit such public protests from them, one youth started yelling that I am from a jihadi channel that hates Modi and Yogi,” Pritam told The Telegraph on Monday. “It was scary as I was suddenly gheraoed by about 150 people. One large man put his arm around me and said, ‘Tere muh mein dahi jam gayi hai ki ‘Jai Shri Ram’ nahi bolega (Is your mouth stuffed with curd that you won’t say, ‘Jai Shri Ram’)?’” Pritam is seen in a video clip he has tweeted, saying: “I will say, ‘Jai Shri Ram’ when I like. I won’t be forced to say it. If so many of you gherao me, I won’t say it.” Pritam said policemen remained mute spectators when he was assaulted. On Monday, Delhi police, now led by the controversial former CBI officer Rakesh Asthana, stirred from the perceived stupor. The police registered an FIR against “unknown” persons. The police said the event was held without permission — in what was supposed to be one of the most secure cities in the world. No one had been arrested till Monday evening. The Delhi police report to the Union home ministry, now headed by Amit Shah. Civil rights defender Harsh Mander tweeted: “Runaway hate speech spouting venom against Indian Muslim citizens by rallyists and that too in the vicinity of Parliament. The police does nothing to detain or punish them. This is the character of the ruling establishment.” A similar outburst a year ago had culminated in the Delhi riots in which 53 people were killed. The Delhi minority panel had said in its report on the riots that the police “were complicit and abetted the attacks” and tended to arrest the victims rather than the people they accused. Last week, Hindutva groups and other organisations had held a mahapanchayat in Dwarka, a residential neighbourhood on the western fringes of Delhi, to protest against the construction of a Haj House. Purported videos from the event showed the protesters making communally charged comments and calling for violence if the building came up. Monday’s FIR, registered under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC, did not name any specific person even through the faces of those shouting the slogans were visible in the purported video from the rally. Delhi police deputy commissioner (New Delhi district) Deepak Yadav said: “A case has been registered under relevant sections of law and the investigation is under way.” Asked why no one had been arrested till Monday evening, Yadav said: “We are looking at the videos and identifying them. It is a process.” Upadhyay, the former Delhi BJP spokesperson who organised the Jantar Mantar programme from 11am on Sunday, filed a complaint with the police. In a letter to the Delhi police commissioner, Upadhyay said: “A video is going viral on social media in which a man is giving a frenzied speech. Some people are sharing this video on Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp by taking my name to defame me, although I neither know the people seen in the video nor have I met any of them, nor were they invited.… I request you to direct to check the veracity of this video as well as the time and place of its making. If this video is true, then take strict action against those involved in it and if it is untrue, then take strict action against those who shared it on social media. “I request you to take necessary action to prevent this video from being shared till the completion of investigation. Kindly pass directions to file a criminal defamation case against those who have associated my name with this video.” He added that the “small” programme was organised “to commemorate the anniversary of this historic day” (the launch of the Quit India movement on August 8 in 1942) and to demand that “a new law be made by abolishing all English laws”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Covid: SC seeks disclosure of clinical trial data on vaccines||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to the Centre and others on a petition that seeks disclosure of the clinical trial data on Covid-19 vaccines, cleared under “emergency use authorisation”, and informed consent from citizens for inoculation. However, the apex court declined to stay the vaccination process to avoid any panic or misgivings among the public. The petition from Dr Jacob Puliyel, former member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), claims that some people were coerced to take the jab. It argues that the government cannot resort to arm-twisting without a public disclosure of the clinical data relating to the adverse reactions caused by the two vaccines used in India, Covishield and Covaxin. “Our apprehension is any detailed enquiry into this will cast doubts in the minds of people,” the bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose observed. “This country is fighting a vaccine shortage. Now we are on a different tangent. Let vaccination go on — we don’t want to stop this.... India already has a serious problem of vaccine hesitancy.” However, the court issued notices on the petition saying it would accept the argument that “personal autonomy” should have precedence over “public health”. Besides the Union government, the apex court has sought responses from the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, besides the vaccine makers Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, within four weeks. Puliyel, a Delhi-based paediatrician, has questioned the vaccines being granted emergency use authorisation — an interim approval for a drug or vaccine during a public health emergency, such as the Covid pandemic, pending final approval that can only come after the trials and data analyses are complete. Puliyel has sought a court directive to the authorities to publish the segregated data of the clinical trials for the vaccines that are being administered to Indians. “This (failure to disclose trial data) is a clear violation of the basic norms of scientific disclosure and the guidelines with respect to disclosure of clinical trial data, as laid down by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and followed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” the petition, filed through advocate Cheryl D’Souza, says. “The disclosure of such information is essential to ascertain whether a certain section of the population is more susceptible to adverse effects, to determine what are the adverse effects in various age groups and on differing populations, etc.” According to the petition, the Indian authorities should monitor the vaccine recipients and record all adverse events, and that such a measure in some other countries has helped identify the occurrence of blood clots and strokes in some vaccine recipients. Many countries stopped administering the vaccine till they evaluated such occurrences, and Denmark banned the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine (branded Covishield in India), the petition says. “Once we entertain this petition it should not send out a signal that we do not trust the efficacy of these vaccines,” the bench told advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the petitioner. Bhushan said the petitioner was not against vaccination but only wanted the government to make the clinical data public. He alleged that coercion was being used on people unwilling to take the jab. He referred to Gauhati and Meghalaya High Courts cautioning against the adoption of coercive measures after reports said people were being threatened with the sack or closure of their businesses if they didn’t get vaccinated. “Do you want vaccines to stop?... About 50 crore people have taken vaccines. Won’t this petition put a doubt in the mind of people who have taken vaccines already?” Justice Rao asked. Bhushan argued that according to WHO guidelines and the Helsinki Declaration, trial data of vaccines should be made public so that prospective recipients of the jab can take an informed decision. The court said that even the WHO had spoken of “vaccine hesitancy”, and entertaining the petition would only sow more doubts in the public’s mind. Bhushan argued that failure to make the data public would only increase vaccine hesitancy. Quoting the ICMR, he said two-thirds of Indians had already developed immunity from the pandemic, suggesting the urgency to take the jab had reduced. Bhushan said various studies had indicated that the vaccines may have led to the appearance of newer Covid variants and that they were hardly effective on the “Delta variant”. The bench said it had to hear the Centre out before passing any orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||A forgotten anniversary and festering wounds ||Few in the Valley even care to recall it now, but today is the anniversary of the first schism between Kashmir and New Delhi after Independence. Today is the day back in 1953 that Sheikh Abdullah was summarily dismissed from office and bundled into jail on suspicion of hatching what came to be called the “Kashmir conspiracy”. Since then, the relationship has never stepped off the tumultuous, and very often sinister, roller-coaster of removals and revivals, of promises made and sundered, alliances stitched and ripped apart. You have to do no more than run your eye down the tally and terms of chief ministers to understand New Delhi’s capricious hand on the turnstile to power in Kashmir. If the momentous ouster of Sheikh Abdullah by Jawaharlal Nehru more than six decades ago is no moment of significance any more, the reason is probably this: there is no power to be had in Kashmir any more, and there is no turnstile. New Delhi installed a door instead on August 5, 2019, and put a padlock on it. No state, no Assembly, no spur to revive local ambitions of reclaiming rulership. New Delhi rules, and the odds are it has no intention of handing the reins back to any effectual degree. A senior local leader, intimate with the drastically altered rules of the Kashmiri chessboard, put it bluntly to me: “What is happening here is a sustained project of disempowerment; the rest is all window-dressing and photo-ops.” He was referring pointedly to the meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi had convened with leaders of Jammu and Kashmir last month. “What continues to puzzle me is why the meeting was called at all. Did New Delhi have a plan to discuss? Clearly it did not. New Delhi does have a plan, but it is not on the discussion table, it is proceeding with it unilaterally. That plan is to erode Kashmiri aspiration to a degree that they either collaborate or fall by the wayside.” Democracy is lying comatose in Kashmir; the infirmary is a babble of contrary rowing on who will revive it, if at all, and how. The Abdullahs of the National Conference (NC) want statehood restored before they would consider an election. Mehbooba Mufti of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) is demanding the annulment of the annulments of August 5, 2019. It is an improbable ambition, but it probably sets her apart as espousing a more radical populism. Sajad Lone of the People’s Conference and Altaf Bukhari of the fledgling Apni Party are in no mean scurry, pretenders to a throne that has not been sighted in public since the sweeping abrogations of two summers ago. Their singular claim on the table, encouraged in fair measure by New Delhi, is that they would rid Kashmir of the monopoly of the Abdullahs and the Muftis, of what Narendra Modi disparaged as the reign of “baap-bete ki sarkar and baap-beti ki sarkar”. But is there a sarkar at all to be formed in Kashmir? “Does anyone really think we can go back to things as they were? That there will be a locally elected government and a chief minister who can hold their own?” asks a former MLA. “People are welcome to construct their delusions and live in them. After what happened two years ago, there is no going back to any semblance of Kashmiri politicians being allowed to run Kashmiri affairs. They have not understood the meaning of what happened in August 2019. New Delhi has always wanted to be the real sarkar in Jammu and Kashmir; now it has shed the pretence; it is the sarkar.” The prophecy of what was to come probably lay wrapped in what happened to Sheikh Abdullah this day in 1953; it’s only being read out now. PS: If it helps to grasp the prospects and consequences of elections in Kashmir as it is today, last winter’s much-bandied polls to the district development councils may hold a lesson, or a warning. Most of those elected in the Valley cannot return among those that elected them for fear they might come to grievous harm. They live herded in quarters behind high-security walls and spools of barbed-wire fencing across the districts of the Valley. Such is the fate of the elected in these parts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Farmers participate in the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar||Farmers and their supporters participate in the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar on Monday against the Centre’s three farm laws. The anti-farm law protesters decided to pass a “no confidence motion” against the Centre and close the protest at Jantar Mantar, which was timed to coincide with the monsoon session of Parliament. An office-bearer of a participant peasants’ union said they would not seek permission from Delhi police to extend any further. Around 200 farmers have been participating in the daily protest since Parliament opened. The Kisan Sansad called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, at Jantar Mantar near Parliament decided to call for the resignation of the Narendra Modi government for not repealing the contentious farm laws. The sit-in at Delhi’s borders against the three laws, which will complete nine months soon, will continue, an office-bearer of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, a part of the Morcha, said. “The farmer unions through their ‘Kisan Sansad’ will pass a ‘no confidence motion’ for the government, demanding resignation of the BJP-led dispensation,” BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said. Delhi police had granted permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar from July 22 till August 9 with a maximum of 200 protesters at the site. “We are not going to seek any further permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar because the government is just not concerned. We will pass the ‘no confidence motion’ against it and return to the (Delhi) borders where protest will continue until our demands are met,” Malik added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Defence ministry denies any transaction with the NSO Group||The defence ministry on Monday said it did not have any transaction with the NSO Group, the developer of military-grade spy software Pegasus that is in the eye of a huge political firestorm following the snooping controversy allegedly involving the programme. The brief written statement on the NSO Group came from Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt in response to a question in Rajya Sabha by CPI(M) member V Sivadasan. "Ministry of Defence has not had any transaction with NSO Group Technologies," the minister said. Sivadasan, as part of a number of questions on expenditure by the defence ministry, also asked whether the government had carried out any transaction with the NSO Group Technologies. NSO Group, an Israeli surveillance software company, has been under increasing attack following allegations that its Pegasus phone spyware was used for surveillance on journalists, activists and political leaders in several countries including India. NSO has denied any wrongdoing. The opposition parties have been targeting the central government over the snooping row and disrupting proceedings in Parliament since it met on July 19 for the Monsoon session. The opposition parties have been demanding a discussion on the Pegasus issue in parliament, claiming it has national security implications. IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw had dismissed media reports on the use of Pegasus software to snoop on Indians, saying the allegations levelled just ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament were aimed at maligning Indian democracy. In a suo motu statement in Lok Sabha, Vaishnaw had said that with several checks and balances being in place, "any sort of illegal surveillance" by unauthorised persons is not possible in India. The controversy erupted after an investigation by a global media consortium based on leaked targeting data claimed evidence that the military-grade malware from the NSO Group was being used to spy on politicians, journalists, human rights activists and others. In his reply, Bhatt also said that an allocation of Rs 4,04,364 crore was made to the defence ministry in the budget estimate (BE) stage in 2018-19 and the expenditure made during that fiscal by the ministry was Rs 4,03,459 crore. The minister said that an outlay of Rs 4,31,010 crore was made at the BE stage in 2019-20 while expenditure against the allocation was Rs 4,51,902 crore. In 2020-21, the defence ministry incurred an expenditure of Rs 4,85,726 crore as against an allocation of Rs 4,71,378 crore at the BE stage, he said. The percentage of allocation to the defence ministry out of the total budget of the central government for 2018-19 was 16.56 percent while it was 15.47 percent in 2019-20 and 15.49 percent in 2020-21, according to the minister. Bhatt said an amount of Rs 45,705 crore was spent in 2018-19 on procurement from foreign sources while the figure for 2019-20 was 47,961.47 crore. The ministry spent Rs 53,118 crore in procurement from foreign countries in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Bihar: Primary school principal suspended after media report||A primary school principal in Bihar was suspended on Sunday for “tarnishing” the state government’s image by hawking jute bags in the marketplace — which hundreds of other schoolteachers too did following an official order but without their activity drawing attention. Muhammad Tamizuddin had been visiting the local Kadwa Bazar in Katihar district every day carrying a stack of jute bags on his head and wearing a placard that spelt out he was a schoolteacher forced to sell gunny sacks on the government’s orders, The Telegraph had reported on Monday. On July 22, the state education department had ordered Bihar’s 80,000 primary and middle schools to sell — at Rs 10 apiece — the sacks in which midday meal grains had been sent to them. It said the sacks should be sold in three days, the money deposited with the treasury and a report submitted. Tamizuddin — and teacher associations — have said that no one wants to buy the sacks because they have been damaged by floods and rats or worn out by students sitting on them in classrooms bereft of benches. “Muhammad Tamizuddin did not follow the department’s directives on time, and when asked for a report, carried a bundle of empty bags on his head, shouted the slogan, ‘Bora le lo, bora le lo (Buy sacks)’, demonstrated at a public place and made viral its video on social media,” says the suspension order, issued on Sunday evening — suggesting the government treated the matter as urgent. “This behaviour by Muhammad Tamizuddin is against Section 17 of the Bihar Panchayat Primary School Service Rules 2020 pertaining to the conduct of primary schoolteachers. It is not only indicative of revenue loss to the government and financial irregularity, but has tarnished the image of the district administration and the government.” Tamizuddin denied any role in the making or circulation of the video showing him hawking sacks. He expressed surprise at the timing of the suspension, saying the officer in charge of the midday meal scheme in Kadwa block had written to him on Friday, giving him time till Monday to explain his actions. “I’m yet to get the suspension letter though I saw it when somebody in a chat group posted it on a social networking site,” he told this newspaper. “I have done no wrong and will fight for justice.” Associations of the state’s primary school teachers have threatened an agitation if Tamizuddin’s suspension is not revoked, the order to sell the sacks not cancelled, and the officials behind the order not punished. The panchayat secretary of the area where Tamizuddin’s school is located had issued the suspension order at the behest of the district education officer, who had received a letter from education department special secretary and midday meal director Satish Chandra Jha. Asked about the suspension order being issued on a Sunday, Jha said: “The matter came to our knowledge on Sunday. There’s no rule that we can’t work on a Sunday; we get the salary for Sundays too.” He added enigmatically: “Besides, a suspension is not a punishment under the service conduct rules.” Asked how the teachers were supposed to sell the sacks if not in the marketplace, he said they should have “called vendors to the schools”. Manoj Kumar, acting president of the state primary teachers’ association, said: “That the state government suspended Tamizuddin on a Sunday without giving him a chance to defend himself shows its vindictiveness towards teachers.” Another primary teachers’ association — the Parivartankari Prarambhik Shikshak Sangh — wrote to chief minister Nitish Kumar, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, senior government officials and the state human rights commission on the matter. “Teachers across the state are trying to sell sacks in the light of the government directive but are not getting buyers,” its president Vanshidhar Brajvasi wrote. He added that if the government didn’t want teachers to hawk the sacks in the marketplace, it “should arrange for an alternative way”. The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal accused the state government of “torturing teachers on various pretexts”. The July 22 order was issued after the office of the comptroller and auditor general raised a spectre of revenue loss in its reports relating to financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16. Around 1.27 crore jute bags had reached the schools under the midday meal scheme in those two years, the July 22 letter said, implying the government was expecting to earn Rs 12.7 crore from their sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar awaits Modi's call on caste census talks||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was yet to give him time for a discussion on the caste census. Nitish had written a letter to Modi on August 4 seeking a meeting on the issue. “Our letter reached the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on August 4. A delegation of the political parties in the state wants to accompany me to meet the Prime Minister. But no reply has come till now. We want a caste census. “It is one of our long-pending demands and it is for the benefit of the country,” Nitish said. He said a delegation of MPs of his Janata Dal United had also sought a meeting with the Prime Minister, but they were instead asked to meet Union home minister Amit Shah. “The delegation met the Union home minister and also submitted a memorandum on the demand for caste census,” Nitish said. Speaking on the sidelines of his Janata Darbar, the chief minister asserted that a caste census will make clear everything, including the position of a particular caste across the country, and will help in formulating development schemes. “It is for the Centre to take a decision on the caste census. It is not a political but a social issue,” Nitish said. However, Nitish remained non-committal when asked whether the state government will conduct a caste census on its own if the Centre does not do so. The state legislature had passed unanimous resolutions demanding caste census in 2019 and 2020 and forwarded them to the Centre. The last caste census was conducted in 1931 during the British rule. It had put the backward caste population of the country at around 52 per cent. The data later became the backbone of the quota policies brought by the central and state governments. A socio-economic caste survey was conducted in 2011 by the UPA–II government at the Centre, but the data on castes was not published after allegations of various discrepancies. The BJP-led central government had said in the Lok Sabha last month that there were no plans for caste-wise enumeration of the population, other than the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Nitish also dismissed questions about a rift in the JDU, especially between the present national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh and his predecessor, Union steel minister R.C.P. Singh. Asked about the issue, Nitish said: “All are together and united.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Odisha government to set up 89 multi-purpose indoor stadiums||The Odisha cabinet chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday decided that the state  government would set up 89 multi-purpose indoor stadiums in all urban areas with the objective of producing more Olympians in the coming days. The plan is to promote a range of sports and games, including badminton, table tennis and weight lifting. Indoor stadiums will also have facilities to train students in yoga and other physical exercises. Professional coaching at the grassroot level will be given. As per the decision of the state government, the indoor stadiums will come up under Sports Infrastructure Development Projects with an investment of Rs 693.35 crore within a period of 18 months. The multi-purpose stadiums will also be used as cyclone centres during the time of natural calamities such as cyclones. During pandemics such as Covid-19 pandemic the stadiums will be used as temporary hospitals. In the urban areas, 100 beds will be arranged in the stadium-turned-hospitals and  Notified Area Council (NAC) the stadium will  have facilities for 50 bedded hospitals. The stadiums will be named after former chief minister Biju Patnaik (father of Naveen Patnaik). “Creation of good infrastructure can be utilised for multi purposes like  training,, meetings and examination centres,” officials said. The cabinet also appreciated the Indian hockey teams  for their spectacular performance at the Tokyo Olympics and lauded the efforts of the medal winners. It is pertinent to mention that Odisha is the official sponsor of the men’s and women’s hockey teams of the country. When Sahara India had backed out of sponsorship in 2018 the future of Indian hockey was in jeopardy. At that time the cash strapped Odisha signed an MoU to revive the hockey with a deal worth more than Rs 100 crore. Hockey was revived due to this and men’s team was able to clinch a bronze medal after a long 41 years wait at Tokyo. Similarly, the women’s team made a spectacular show in the Tokyo Olympics though it was defeated by Britain in the decider for the bronze medal. “Once all the indoor facilities are available in blocks, semi-urban and urban areas, there will be a sea change in the approach towards sports. More and more youths will take up sports and the state will be able to produce Olympians,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
10-08-2021||India||Centre introduces three bills in Lok Sabha despite Opposition protest||Several Opposition leaders on Monday protested the government’s rush to introduce and pass bills without discussion during the last week of the monsoon session of Parliament, but the Centre justified the push and accused the Opposition of obstruction. The Lok Sabha had to be adjourned thrice following uproar by the Opposition demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row and other issues, but the government managed to complete the day’s business by introducing three bills and passing three others with voice vote in a matter of minutes. The Congress protested most vociferously but others too joined when The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Amendment Bill was taken up for passage, coinciding with the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples. “International tribals day is being celebrated today and we wanted to speak a lot, but due to the arrogance of this government no discussion is taking place,” leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Chowdhury, said when the ST bill was being taken up. Adhir sought to emphasise that the Congress supported the bill, but was forced to protest in the House because the government was not accepting the Opposition’s demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row first. “On behalf of the Trinamul Congress, we also support the bill... but the bill should be withheld for a detailed discussion later. We are not being allowed to discuss many issues like Pegasus,” TMC’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Sudip Bandopadhyay, said. Shiv Sena’s Vinayak Raut said: “We should have had a detailed discussion... but unfortunately this important bill is being passed without any discussion.” “It’s quite unfortunate the manner in which the bill is being passed,” Revolutionary Socialist Party MP N.K. Premchandran said. “Passing 3 bills in 10 minutes is against the rules.” DMK’s T.R. Baalu, NCP’s Supriya Sule and BSP’s Ritesh Mishra also slammed the manner in which the bills were being passed. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi stood up to counter the Opposition allegations and said the government was ready for discussion. “The government is ready for a long discussion. I appeal to the Opposition members to retreat from the well of the House and go back to their seats and allow a discussion,” Joshi, who had termed Pegasus a “non-issue”, said. Finally, the bill to modify the list of Scheduled Tribes by adding new communities from Arunachal Pradesh was passed with a voice vote without discussion. The constitutional amendment bill to give rights to states to have their own OBC list was introduced on Monday and will be taken up for passage on Tuesday. The Opposition has decided to support the bill, claiming it was because of protests by them and the OBC groups that the government had to come up with the amendment. The Opposition could use the discussion over the bill to raise the Pegasus issue on which the government is reluctant to have a discussion in Parliament. A discussion on Covid management was also listed on Monday, but couldn’t be taken up as the House was adjourned for the day at 2pm. The monsoon session is scheduled to conclude on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
10-08-2021||India||Civil society, Opposition leaders condemn anti-Muslim slogans||Many civil society members have condemned the sloganeering for the killing of Muslims that was heard in Delhi on Sunday. Many also came out in support of a YouTube channel reporter who had published videos of the Jantar Mantar crowd trying unsuccessfully to compel him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” after he questioned the sloganeers. On Sunday, a gathering at Jantar Mantar ostensibly protesting against colonial laws shouted slogans calling for violence against Muslims. Annie Raja, general secretary of the CPI-backed National Federation of Indian Women; activists Shabnam Hashmi, Mohini Giri, Nivedita Jha and Leena Dabiru; former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed and journalist Sukhprit Kahlon have lodged a complaint with Parliament Street police station listing the incendiary slogans heard in videos of the gathering. “It is extremely distressing that despite heavy police presence, no steps were taken by the police to immediately stop such sloganeering, nor were any coercive steps taken after the slogans were made. It is clear the programme was organised to spread hate against Muslims and incite violence against them,” the complaint said. An FIR has been registered under Indian Penal Code sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 188 (disobeying public servant’s order). The complainants have demanded that the men seen in the video and the organisers be also booked under Section 295A (outraging religious sentiments). The National Commission for Minorities has sought information on the action taken, permissions for such events, and steps to prevent them in future. It has summoned the deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) on Tuesday. Besides condemning the police, several people tweeted with the hashtag #ISupportAnmol in solidarity with YouTube channel National Dastak’s reporter Anmol Pritam, who was surrounded by the crowd after Sunday’s Jantar Mantar event. Pritam told The Telegraph he had questioned members of the crowd about their motives. “I tried to strike up a conversation with them as the slogans they were raising clearly had nothing to do with colonial laws but were targeted at a particular community,” he said. “When I asked them why issues like unemployment or food security do not elicit such public protests from them, they were triggered. One youth started yelling that I was from a jihadi channel that hates (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi and (Uttar Pradesh chief minister) Yogi (Adityanath).” Pritam added: “It was scary as I was suddenly gheraoed by about 150 people. One large man put his arm around me and said, ‘Tere muh mein dahi jam gayi hai ki ‘Jai Shri Ram’ nahi bolega (Has curd set in your mouth that you won’t say ‘Jai Shri Ram’)?” Pritam is seen a video he has tweeted saying: “I will say ‘Jai Shri Ram’ when I like. I won’t be forced to say it. If so many of you gherao me, I won’t say it.” He told this newspaper: “At that moment, I felt like just saying it and escaping. But I also felt that physical injuries will heal but the wound to my principles and soul won’t; so somehow I just stood my ground. Soon, they pushed me out. Luckily I don’t have any injuries that require medical treatment.” Lyricist Hussain Haidry tweeted on Sunday: “Arvind Kejriwal must speak and take action against the brazen displays of hate speech against Muslims in Delhi today.” Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary tweeted: “Under the leadership of Aam Aadmi Party’s founder member and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay, there is a conspiracy by the rioters to throw the capital Delhi into riots again. Why is Delhi chief minister who ordered FIR in Markaz’s case @ArvindKejriwal silent?” Chaudhary was referring to how pilgrims from a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in March last year were booked for allegedly spreading Covid. They were later acquitted. However, Kejriwal, who is usually vocal against the police, was silent on Monday — as he has been on communal issues since last year’s riots in Delhi that claimed 53 lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
10-08-2021||India||Cong to hold year-long celebrations for India’s 75th Independence year||The Congress has decided to hold yearlong celebrations to commemorate India’s 75th year of Independence, stressing the need to protect the country from “despotic and autocratic individuals and organisations” that are undermining the constitutional scheme. “Despotic and autocratic individuals and organisations, majority of whom then had sided with the British and opposed the freedom movement, continue to challenge the very foundation of our polity and democracy,” a statement from Congress general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal said on Monday. “Undermining individual freedoms, perpetuating social injustice, subverting institutional autonomy, creating caste and religious divides and compromising the very fundamentals of our Constitution and nationhood are their overt and covert agenda. Today, the onus lies upon each one of us to preserve and protect this freedom.” With India completing 75 years of Independence on August 15 next year, the Congress has decided to form committees in every state to conduct celebratory events. The plan for the celebrations was discussed at a meeting on Sunday. Next Saturday, August 14, the party will honour freedom fighters and their families, and all the district Congress committees will organise a “freedom march”. All the state units have been asked to prepare a two-minute video for a social media campaign highlighting the milestones of the freedom movement relating to their state. The Narendra Modi government too plans yearlong celebrations, titled “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”. While Prime Minister Modi heads the national committee that is planning the celebrations, home minister Amit Shah heads the implementation committee. A few Congress members too are part of these committees but it has proved almost impossible to draw up a collective plan because of conflicting perceptions about the freedom movement as well as nationalism. The Congress, which regularly castigates the RSS for not taking part in the independence movement, believes the values that evolved through the freedom struggle and were manifested in the Constitution are being violated wantonly by the Modi government. The Congress has used the anniversary of the Quit India call — sounded on August 9, 1942 — to target the Modi government, asking “hate, intolerance and injustice” to quit India. One of the many messages posted by the party on Twitter said: “The hate that is plaguing our nation is causing irrevocable change to the fabric of our society. It is the duty of every citizen to fight this hate with love.” While milestones of the freedom movement have never been part of the BJP’s consciousness and its official Twitter handle made no mention of August Kranti Day, Modi did say the “Quit India” call sounded by Mahatma Gandhi had energised the youth. He also paid homage to the freedom fighters. Culture minister G. Kishan Reddy had on Sunday inaugurated an exhibition on the Quit India Movement, where he said: “This is a moment to not only recognise the contribution of a generation in freeing our nation from colonial powers but also to recognise those who played a pivotal role in preserving our civilisation heritage for more than 750 years. There are many unsung heroes who need to be recognised for the selfless services they rendered to Bharat Mata.” Such stark differences in outlook have militated against a meeting ground even on the question of how India won Independence, primarily because the RSS-BJP would not like to give credit to the Congress. While Venugopal’s statement makes it clear that the Congress’s yearlong campaign will centre on the sombre idea of diminishing democracy, Modi struck a breezy note. He asked people to use the occasion to ponder over what kind of India they want by 2047, when the country will mark a century of Independence. Another layer of this difference in perspective was manifested on Monday when Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot asked Modi to reconsider the plan to redevelop the Sabarmati Ashram. “The Gujarat government’s decision to construct a museum by demolishing the ashram is shocking and uncalled for,” Gehlot said. “People come to visit this holy site to see how Gandhi lived a simple life and yet orchestrated an enormous freedom movement by taking along every section of society, particularly at a time when society was extremely divided.” Gehlot added: “Destroying the sanity and dignity of the ashram is a disrespect to the Father of the Nation. It seems the decision is driven by a political motive to change everything that is related to Gandhi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Speaker can file affidavit in PIL seeking Mukul Roy's removal as PAC head: High court||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed that West Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Bandopadhyay may file an affidavit in a PIL seeking the removal of MLA Mukul Roy from the post of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice R Bharadwaj adjourned hearing in the matter to August 12. The bench said that the speaker and other respondents, in the meantime, may file an affidavit if they wish to do so. BJP legislator Ambika Roy has moved the PIL before the high court seeking removal of Roy from the post of PAC chairman of the Assembly, making the speaker one of the respondents in the petition. The state government has opposed the prayer claiming that the appointment was “in the domain and discretion” of the Speaker of the House. The petitioner claimed that the post of PAC chairman traditionally goes to an opposition member, and since Mukul Roy joined the ruling Trinamul Congress after being elected on a saffron party ticket, he should be removed from the post. Claiming that a court cannot interfere in the decisions of a speaker concerning the business of an Assembly, as per Article 212 of the Constitution, Advocate General Kishore Dutta had on July 30 contended before the court that the PIL was not maintainable and should be dismissed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court asks Bengal Speaker to file affidavit in Mukul Roy case||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed that Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Bandopadhyay may file an affidavit in a PIL seeking the removal of MLA Mukul Roy from the post of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice R Bharadwaj adjourned hearing in the matter to August 12. The bench said that the Speaker and other respondents, in the meantime, may file an affidavit if they wish to do so. BJP legislator Ambika Roy has moved the PIL before the high court seeking removal of Roy from the post of PAC chairman of the Assembly, making the speaker one of the respondents in the petition. The state government has opposed the prayer claiming that the appointment was "in the domain and discretion" of the speaker of the House. The petitioner claimed that the post of PAC chairman traditionally goes to an opposition member, and since Mukul Roy joined the ruling Trinamool Congress after being elected on a saffron party ticket, he should be removed from the post. Claiming that a court cannot interfere in the decisions of a speaker concerning the business of an Assembly, as per Article 212 of the Constitution, Advocate General Kishore Dutta had on July 30 contended before the court that the PIL was not maintainable and should be dismissed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Police commissioner Soumen Mitra tops Mamata's I-Day medals list||The top name in the list of recipients of the Chief Minister’s Police Medal for outstanding service for the year 2021 is that of an IPS officer whom the Mamata Banerjee government had dumped five years ago -- Soumen Mitra, who is now  Commissioner of Police, Calcutta. The IPS officers selected for this year’s medal apart from Mitra are Peeyush Pandey, Additional Director-General of Police (correctional services) and D.P. Singh, Inspector General of Police (North Bengal). In the commendable services category, seven other IPS officers have been selected. The awards would be handed out on Independence Day. In the run up to the 2021 Assembly polls, the Election Commission had removed then city police chief Anuj Sharma and resurrected Mitra as the Election Commission higher-ups remembered his “impartial role” in the Assembly elections five years ago.  At that time, Mitra had replaced another Mamata acolyte, Rajeev Kumar. In between poll seasons of 2016 and 2021, Mitra, once a clear favourite of former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee,  seemed to have learnt the key lesson in survival under the current dispensation. For five years, Mitra was stationed at Barrackpore as ADG (Training). During this time Mitra co-authored a book, "Under the Banyan Tree: The Forgotten Story of Barrackpore Park." A student of history and an avid sportsperson, Mitra’s MPhil dissertation traced the history of football in colonial- era Calcutta and is also available in the form of a book. “He would have been sent on compulsory waiting (in 2016) had it not been for the former chief secretary Moloy Dey. He considered Mitra an able and upright officer and put in a strong word for him,” said a source. On April 13, 2016, the Election Commission brought Mitra to Lalbazar to head the city police force. Mitra brought the rule of the law back in motion and ensured the Trinamul poll bullies were kept at bay and irrespective of the outcome, Calcuttans could turn out to vote. That single-minded approach to his work, refusal to toe the ruling party’s line almost cost Mitra his career. Mitra’s predecessor at the Lalbazar was Rajeev Kumar, a year his junior in the cadre. Those in the know of the things within Calcutta Police headquarters said Mitra and Kumar were rivals in their younger days in the Calcutta Police and later CID. “Kumar often overstepped his jurisdiction and dealt with cases that Mitra and his team were handling. There was friction and unease. But the CPM government liked both the officers and managed the situation well,” said a source. While in Opposition, Mamata was suspicious of Kumar, whom she suspected of using technical surveillance on her and her party leaders. As chief minister, however, Mamata soon realised the advantage of having an officer of Kumar’s talent in her administration. She ignored seniority norms to get Kumar the top post in Lalbazar. During the 2016 Assembly polls, all the major Opposition parties complained against Kumar. With the model code of conduct in place, EC stepped in, and Kumar had to make an exit, though only for a short period. Just before the 2021 Assembly polls were announced, the Mamata Banerjee government sprung a surprise when it announced Mitra would replace Anuj Sharma as the Calcutta Police chief. Sources at the state administrative headquarters in Howrah said the seemingly impossible would not have happened without the intervention of another senior officer, former state police chief Surajit Kar Purakayastha with whom Mitra shares a close relationship. “Mitra too has possibly realised that opposing the government would only derail his career. It would be sad for an officer of his calibre to be sent to some outpost,” said a senior official in the home department. This time Mitra did not take any chances, stayed mindful of not ruffling Trinamul feathers. By the time the BJP realised the neutrality of the city police force was doubtful it already was too late.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Get all your WBJEE counselling queries answered at a free webinar on August 12||Engineering aspirants gearing up for the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination (WBJEE) 2021 online counselling sessions from August 13 to September 11 can have all their questions concerned at a free webinar to be held at 4pm on August 12.  The hour-long virtual session titled WBJEE 2021: Next Steps, part of the ABP Education Admission Fair 2021 powered by Anandabazar Patrika Online and The Telegraph Online, will be attended by Malayendu Saha, the chairperson of WBJEE Board, and Dibyendu Kar, the registrar of the WBJEE Board.  Saha and Kar will resolve students’ doubts related to admission in BTech courses at the 534-state aided and private engineering colleges and universities of West Bengal.  E-counselling for WBJEE will be held in three rounds this year —allotment, upgradation and mop-up.  Students who have cleared WBJEE 2021 can register for counselling and fee payment between August 13 and August 16.  The WBJEE Board has brought in several changes this year to quicken the admission process. Candidates will not have to go to reporting centres for physical verification of documents after locking their choice of institute. Also, unlike last year, the WBJEE Board is refraining from setting up virtual reporting centres. Instead, the institutes will themselves work as reporting centres, enabling the institutes to start classes early.  Candidates who have secured a rank in WBJEE 2021 can register for e-counselling at the board’s official website, www.wbjeeb.nic.in, after paying a fee of Rs 300. Registration is mandatory for counselling and admission, and is allowed only at the beginning of the first round.  The first round of seat allotment will be held on August 19. Students who are allotted seats in the first list have to pay the fees, get their documents verified and complete the admission procedure between August 20 and August 24. The second allotment list will be released on August 27.  The third or the mop-up round of e-counselling will begin on September 6. The seat allotment results of the mop-up round will be declared on September 11. Students who are allotted seats in the mop-up list have to complete the process between September 11 and September 15.  A total of 65,170 students had appeared for WBJEE on July 17 this year, of which 64,850 have been ranked. This year, the pass percentage stood at 99.5. The exam was held offline and the results were declared on August 6.  To know more, register at bit.ly/WBJEE2021 and join the free webinar by ABP Education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata hits out at Centre over flood situation in Ghatal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hit out at the Centre on Tuesday over flood in the Paschim Medinipur district, stating that the situation was a result of the Centre dilly-dallying the Ghatal Master Plan project. After touring the flood-hit areas of Ghatal, Banerjee said she would send a team to New Delhi to pursue the Centre in approving the project. "This is a man-made flood. The Centre is not paying heed to our requests for the Ghatal Master Plan. Repeated requests are falling into deaf ears," she said. "I have conducted a survey of the area. I will prepare a report on this," she added. As per the Ghatal Master Plan, several projects would be undertaken to desilt the rivers in the area, repair the canals and build a dam on the Shilabati river, among others. Banerjee conducted an aerial survey of the areas while returning from Jhargram. Her helicopter landed Moyrapukur from where she went to meet people affected by the flood. The administrative meeting, which was scheduled to be held at an auditorium in the area, was cancelled because it was inundated in floodwater, officials said. At least seven districts in West Bengal were flooded and at least 23 persons killed amid incessant rains last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Ganga floods 15 villages in two Malda blocks||At least 15 villages of Malda district’s Ratua and Manikchak blocks have been flooded by the Ganga in its left bank since Sunday night, administrative officials said here on Monday. “The extreme danger level of Ganga is 25.30m and on Monday afternoon, it was flowing at 25.17m. That is why a number of villages in the low-lying areas  are flooded. We are keeping close watch and collecting data on a regular basis. The river has swelled because of rainfall in its catchment areas upstream,” said an official of the state irrigation department. “In Rajkishoretola (of Ratua block), people are using country boats on roads to shift to safety,” said a source. The Fulhar and Mahananda rivers are also flowing close to danger level, sources said. “We have asked all the BDOs to be alert. Relief materials have been sent to flooded blocks,” said Kallol Roy, the SDO of Chanchal subdivision. Along with inundation, erosion caused by Ganga has turned acute in parts of Baishnabnagar in the district. Over the past few days, close to 100 houses and hutments have been eroded away by the river, along with huge chunks of land. The onus to prevent erosion from the stretch is on the Farakka Barrage Project Authority. On Monday, a delegation of youth Trinamul leaders and workers, along with Chandana Sarkar, the Trinamul MLA of Baishnabnagar, went to Farakka and demonstrated in front of its office. They also submitted a memorandum to officials, seeking immediate anti-erosion measures. “Authorities cannot evade their responsibility. Hundreds of people have become homeless in Baishnabnagar because of acute erosion and the authorities have hardly done anything to help people save their land and houses. We want to make it clear that if proper steps (to check erosion) are not taken within the next seven days, we will launch a prolonged movement,” said Prasenjit Das, district youth Trinamul president of Malda. Officials at the FBPA could not be contacted. However, sources said the authority had taken up anti-erosion work in some stretches of Baishnabnagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||34-year-old woman gangraped by Trinamul Congress men: BJP MLA||BJP MLA Agnimitra Paul on Monday alleged that the 34-year-old wife of a party worker had been gang-raped by Trinamul Congress goons late on Saturday night. “This woman had suffered a heart attack a few days ago and lost her ability to speak. She was alone at her home on Saturday night when Trinamul goons attacked and raped her,” said Paul, who is also the chief of the Mahila Morcha’s Bengal unit. Trinamul leader Arup Roy said: “The BJP is trying to do politics over this incident. The police are investigating. It is a condemnable incident. Law will take its own course. If the culprits belong to our party, we shall take action against them as well.” The BJP MLA alleged that police had refused to lodge an FIR on the basis of the woman’s written complaint. “Police called her husband to the police station and tried to force him not to lodge the complaint,” Paul added. However, the police registered an FIR on Sunday evening. Six local Trinamul leaders and workers, along with a few others, have been named in the FIR. The woman has been admitted to a local government hospital. Two of the accused — Seikh Syed and Joynal Mallik — were arrested. Two other accused men — Kutubuddin Mallik and Debasish Rana — have been detained. The BJP alleged that Kutubuddin and Debasish had initially been shown to be arrested, but they were not produced in court on Monday. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari visited the victim at the hospital on Monday evening. BJP’s IT cell chief and co-minder for Bengal Amit Malviya took to Twitter to protest against the alleged gang-rape and hinted that the party would take up the issue before a larger audience. Malviya tweeted: “TMC is using rape as a political tool to silence opponents.” BJP’s torch rally The youth wing of the BJP organised a state-wide torch rally on the occasion of the 79th anniversary of the Quit India Movement on Monday to protest against alleged atrocities on party workers after Assembly election results had been out. Police, however, prevented the BJP from organising rallies at several places in the state citing Covid-19 protocol. At least 17 BJP workers were arrested in Calcutta. The party’s state vice-president Raju Banerjee and others were arrested in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Centre’s proposed ‘tripartite meeting’ on PPS in hills triggers new contest between TMC and BJP ||The Centre’s proposed “tripartite meeting” on the permanent political solution (PPS) in the hills — reportedly to be conveyed in September first week — has triggered a new contest between Trinamul and the BJP with the arch-rivals challenging each other to prove their sincerity towards the most emotive issue in the hills. BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista after meeting Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on August 6 had claimed the Centre has decided to hold an “official -level” tripartite meeting on a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling region in September  first weekand would invite the Bengal government to talks. N.B. Khawash, coordinator of Darjeeling for Trinamul on Monday threw the sincerity gauntlet at the saffron party saying the BJP should directly place a bill in Parliament on its proposed “permanent political solution.” “The BJP has brute majority in Parliament, what is stopping them from directly placing a bill on the permanent political solution? What is the use of calling a tripartite meeting which will only lengthen the process?” Khawash asked. This was Trinamul’s first official reaction to the proposed tripartite meeting. The BJP in its 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto had said it was committed to finding a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling region and grant tribal status to 11 hill communities. “Neeraj Zimba (GNLF leader who won the Darjeeling Assembly seat on a BJP ticket) had once said that they had burnt the midnight oil to include PPS in the election manifesto. However, till now they are not clear what the PPS means,” said Khawash. Bista’s claim for tripartite meeting was made with pressure mounting on the BJP not just from rivals but also from allies like the GNLF to fulfil its Lok Sabha poll promise. S.P. Sharma, general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang camp), also started an indefinite hunger strike seeking clarification on the PPS. He ended his hunger strike after Bista’s claim.. Kalyan Dewan, president, BJP (hills), however, said if Trinamul fails to attend the tripartite meeting it would indicate that the Bengal’s ruling party was insincere about solving the hill issue. “The GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration) is not functioning properly since 2017 and if the state is sincere in removing this stalemate, they should cooperate with the Centre to fulfil the expectations of people in the region,” said Dewan. The BJP leader said apart from the Anit Thapa headed Gorkha Janmukti Morcha no political party in the hills was in favour of the GTA. The state government has been running the hill body through nominated persons since 2017 when the hills erupted with the Gorkhaland demand. Asked about Trinamul’s statement on what was stopping the BJP government in the Centre from directly placing a bill on the permanent political solution, Dewan said the fact the Centre was conveying a meeting showed its sincerity. “The meeting has been called in all seriousness,” said Dewan. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her recent Bengal Assembly election campaign had said that the state government would work out a permanent political solution for the hills. Despite the BJP MP’s statement, leaders in Darjeeling are awaiting the contents of the letter Shah is supposed to send around August 12. Last year, the Centre had called a tripartite meeting to discuss “Gorkhaland”. Roshan Giri of the Bimal Gurung faction, which was with the BJP then, had claimed the agenda of the meeting was changed from “issues related to Gorkhaland” to those pertaining to the “Gorkhaland Territorial Administration” following pressure from Bengal’s BJP state unit. The meeting was scheduled on August 7, 2020, but with BJP allies like the GNLF and the Bimal Gurung faction protesting the change in agenda, it was cancelled. On October 7, 2020, the Gurung faction attended a meeting called by the home ministry, but representatives of GTA and the state government skipped that “tripartite meeting.” Later that month, Gurung dumped the BJP and joined hands with Trinamul, accusing the BJP of being insincere towards the hill people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee raises voice to secure land rights of tribal people across the country ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday raised her voice to secure land rights of tribal people across the country and ensure that their plots were not made transferable. “The land belonging to tribal people should not be transferable. The land of the tribal people will be only of them. Our government has made such laws. We want the law to be made countrywide as no one can grab tribal land,” Mamata said from the dais of World Tribal Day celebration in Jhargram on Monday. This was her first visit to the adivasi-dominated district after she rode to power for the third successive term. Mamata’s demand is significant as the tribal people across the country fear that their right to land is facing a major threat. Tribal leaders said in several BJP-ruled states land rights of tribal people had come under threat as the government had tried to tweak law that gave protection to their land rights. “During the time of the BJP-led government in Jharkhand, it had tried to amend the century-old Chottanagpur Tenancy Act (CNT) and Santhal Parganas Tenancy (SPT) Act. The tribal people of the Jungle Mahal had blessed Mamata Banerjee for her role to save land of adivasis. It is not only Jharkhand, land rights of tribal people are under threat in several states,” said Opel Mandi, the state convener of tribal outfit Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal. “We welcome our chief minister’s demand as it is a nationwide issue for us,” he added. Sources said in 2016, the BJP-run Jharkhand government had tried to change the CNT-SPT Act that gave protection from trading land belonging to tribal people. The then BJP government in Jharkhand had tried to amend the law to facilitate private players to set up business on tribal land. Sources said Mamata also cleared her government’s stand on the issue of tribal land while moving ahead with the world’s second largest Deocha Pachami coal mine in Birbhum. Trinamul insiders said Mamata chose Jhargram to make the statement as her campaign on the vulnerability of tribal land under the BJP helped her reap political dividend in the Assembly polls. A large number of tribal votes moved the Trinamul after the BJP had managed to perform well in the region in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In her speech Mamata did not forget to express her gratitude to the tribal people for helping her come back to power for the third time. “You blessed us enough. You make us victorious in every seat of Jhargram to bring the government of Maa-Mati-Manush for the third time. I express my gratitude towards you for your effort,” she said. “If you face any problem, let me know immediately and I will solve it. But I will request you not to misunderstand us anytime,” added Mamata after felicitating around two dozen scholars, students and women from the tribal community. Mamata also emphasised how her government launched several projects for development of the tribal people, including the opening of around 1,000 schools in several tribal dialects like Santhali, Nepali and Rajbanshi. She also said her government would form 10 lakh self-help groups to empower the rural women and requested all to attend the government's Duare Sarkar programme that will continue for a month from August 16. Sources said Mamata would not continue visiting other south and north Bengal districts in the next two months. “We are really happy that the chief minister visited Jhargram. She focused on how her government is keen to focus on social, economic and educational development for the people of tribal communities,” said Lalit Hansda, a English teacher of a high school in Jhargram who attended the programme on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee writes to farmers on low dole from Centre||Mamata Banerjee has written to farmers across Bengal, informing them that while the centre has not been giving financial assistance to them under what was assured under the PM-Kisan scheme, the state government will continue to deliver on its promise of direct benefit transfer to them. “The state government had done its bit on time to enroll the farmers of the state under the PM-Kisan scheme. You were supposed to get Rs 18,000 but getting much less... You should not worry, we will fight to ensure that you get your dues,” reads the letter dated August 7. Sources at the state secretariat said the letter was being sent to all 62 lakh beneficiaries of Krishak Bandhu scheme though the agriculture development officers posted in all 341 blocks in Bengal. The letter written in Bengali, sources said, is politically significant as it gives a clear hint that the chief minister is keen to catch the BJP on the wrong foot ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, particularly after the Centre did not clear two years’ arrears of Bengal’s farmers worth Rs 12,000. “Prime Minister had promised during his election campaigns that Bengal’s farmers would get Rs 18,000, including two years’ dues when the state government did not implement the scheme here. But after the elections, only 7 lakh-odd farmers received Rs 2,000 each as this year’s first instalment under the scheme. The chief minister wants to remind the farmers that the BJP did not keep its promise,” said a source. Mamata also mentioned in her letter that the state’s own Krishak Bandhu scheme —which ensures annual financial assistance of Rs 10,000 for an acre — offers much better facilities compared to the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme. “We offer better facilities under the Krishak Bandhu scheme. The share croppers and bargadars have been included in the scheme. Those who have land-related issues can also avail the facility by submitting a self-declaration only,” the chief minister wrote. Sources aware of the development said that the chief minister chose to write the letter to the farmers primarily for two reasons. “In August, more than 24 lakh farmers from the state would get financial assistance of Rs 2,000 under the PM-Kisan scheme. The chief minister wanted to remind them that the state’s scheme was much better compared to the central one,” said a source. Moreover, Mamata has wanted to highlight that because of various eligibility criteria, share croppers, bargadars and those who have income tax payers or pensioners are being deprived of the Central scheme. While the state’s scheme gives the benefit to more than 62 lakh farmers, the state could upload names of about 44 lakh farmers for the central scheme. “Because of eligibility criteria, the state government could not enroll about 18 lakh farmers under the central scheme. Furthermore, names of about 9.5 lakh farmers were rejected under the central scheme. The chief minister wanted to lay stress that the central scheme did not offer the facility to all the farmers,” said an official. According to Trinamul insiders, Mamata is preparing to keep her support base in the agriculture belt intact ahead of Lok Sabha polls. Trinamul had received a jolt in districts like East Burdwan, Hooghly and Nadia during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “But the scene was changed in the last Assembly polls as Trinamul had wrested majority of the seats in these agriculture belt riding on its series of schemes for the farmers. The chief minister is eyeing to keep her support base intact in these districts,” said a Trinamul MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||State govt takes up Siliguri mega drinking water supply project||The state government has taken up the Siliguri mega drinking water supply project and seeks to implement it jointly with the Centre, Gautam Deb, who chairs the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), said on Monday. “The state government is keen to start work on the new drinking water project for Siliguri and has decided to approach the Centre for funds under Jal Jeevan Mission,” said Deb. Twenty years back, a drinking water project was taken up in Siliguri. But with rising population and rapid urbanisation, the existing project proved inadequate. “That is why a second project, with an estimated cost of Rs 470 crore, was planned after Trinamul came to power. It was decided water will be directly drawn from the Teesta river and a new filtration plant, with a network of distribution pipes and reservoirs, would be set up in the city,” said a source in the civic body. Told that Jal Jeevan Mission is meant for rural drinking water supply, Deb said they had information that the Centre was preparing fresh modalities of the scheme. “It is true that right now the scheme is applicable only for rural areas but the central government is readying new modalities so that the scheme can be extended to urban areas. Modalities are expected to be ready in a couple of months and hence the state government wants to take up this project jointly with the Centre,” said Deb. He said that considering Siliguri's importance, the Centre would not be able to deny its responsibility, particularly as the project is related to a basic service like drinking water. Deb recently spoke with officials of the state municipal affairs and urban development department regarding an interim arrangement of drinking water supply in Siliguri. During the past few years, water supply in Siliguri has been hit many times, particularly in view of low water levels in the Teesta canal at Fulbari from where water is drawn to the filtration plant. “Until the new project is completed, we have to bank on the existing facility. To ensure no disruption in water supply, a proposal has been mooted to draw water from an alternative location. For this purpose, we need around Rs 6.90 crore. The proposal has been submitted to the state government and is awaiting an approval of the state cabinet,” the chairperson said. In another development, the state transport department has granted permission to the civic body to one of its plots at Tinbatti More located in the southern end of the city. The plot would be used as a bus stand for local buses which run within Siliguri subdivision. As of now, the stand runs near Siliguri Town station. “The decision can largely ease traffic congestion in principal thoroughfares of the city,” said a source at SMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 557 new infections and 11 deaths||Bengal on Monday recorded 50 consecutive days of a fall in total active Covid-19 cases as the state reported 557 new infections, 719 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total of active cases fell by 173 to 10,312. Bengal currently has 2.64 per cent of the national total of active patients and is seventh on the list of states with most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.14 per cent, which is the highest ever, and is still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.4. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.85 per cent on Monday. With Calcutta logging 37 infections and North 24-Parganas 75, Monday was the fourth consecutive day of not a single Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases. Nineteen Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections detected. North Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Seventeen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Monday. Jalpaiguri, East Midnapore and Hooghly logged one death each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.34 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.06 lakh recoveries and 18,240 deaths. The Rotary Club of Howrah, in association with the Howrah Municipal Corporation and the Bengal government, organised a free Covid-19 vaccination camp on Monday. Around 276 people were given Covaxin doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Over 4,000 bottles of cough syrup worth over Rs 8 lakh seized, five smugglers arrested||Five suspected smugglers were held with over 4,000 bottles of cough syrup from Madhughat, a locality off NH12, in Malda on Sunday night. Police sources said the cough syrups were smuggled from Uttar Pradesh to Malda and the consignment was to be to delivered in Bangladesh. “The quintet were found loading cartons of the bottles  from one pick-up truck to another similar vehicle. One of the trucks bore registration plates of Uttar Pradesh. All the five have been arrested and 4,200 bottles of the syrup have been seized along with the vehicles,” said a police officer. The estimated price of the seized consignment is around Rs 8.5 lakh. The arrested quintet are Sezbar Sheikh, Hashmat Sheikh and Sheikbar Sheikh, all residents of Malda district, and Pappu Paswan and Mukesh Kumar Dubey, hail from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. “We need to find out whether they are associated with any smuggling racket,” the officer added. In another incident, the BSF nabbed two persons with two kilos of cannabis worth around Rs 45,000 from Pannapur, near the Bangladesh border, under Habibpur police station of the Malda district on Sunday night. Two cell phones, four Indian SIM cards and a memory card, were also seized from  Hira Mohan Biswas and Bishal Mondal, both residents of Dalla in Habibpur. Later, both were handed over to the Habibpur police station. A case has been registered and police have initiated a probe, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek’s life was in danger, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb would not have allowed alleged persecution of Trinamul Congress supporters in his state without Union home minister Amit Shah’s active support. The Bengal chief minister on Monday visited SSKM hospital in Calcutta where Trinamul’s student leaders injured in Tripura were undergoing treatment. They were brought to Calcutta on Sunday by Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee. “It (the alleged persecution of Trinamul in Tripura) took place under instructions from the Union home minister (Shah). This I do believe. Otherwise, the Tripura chief minister wouldn’t have had this much courage,” Mamata said after spending around 15 minutes with the injured leaders at the hospital. The injured student leaders included Debangshu Bhattacharya, Sudip Raha and Jaya Dutta. On Monday, the Trinamul chief alleged that the Diamond Harbour MP’s life was in danger, apparently accusing the BJP — without taking names — of conspiring to kill him. “The way his (Abhishek’s) car was attacked. His head could have been injured. Later, their administration gave a bullet-proof car. Or else, the glass would have easily been shattered. With it, his head could have been smashed. Everything happened in front of the (Tripura) police,” the Trinamul chief said, referring to an alleged attack on her nephew’s convoy, during a visit to Tripura earlier this month. On Monday, Trinamul, which protested in Parliament over the alleged incidents, demanded Deb’s resignation as chief minister of Tripura over such issues. “A danobik party is running Tripura… the BJP. The BJP, in any state… in Assam, you saw, our people were not allowed to enter. Sent back from the airport, when I had sent them during the NRC exercise. When the Hathras incident took place in Uttar Pradesh, I had sent a team of MPs. Outside the airport… they weren’t even allowed to enter,” said Mamata. “Beaten up, hit with stones, shot at… these are students. Cars damaged, heads injured… Jaya’s face and ear were badly injured. Sudip has a head injury. The most surprising part of this, they did this right in front of the (Tripura) police,” she added. The Bengal chief minister alleged that neither was any treatment allowed for their injuries nor were they given even a glass of water at the police station, for 36 hours since the purported attack on them on Saturday. “In the future, we will win Tripura, that I firmly believe… that the people (there) will give a fitting response to this torture,” she said. Asked if she was planning to visit Tripura soon, Mamata said: “I will say later.” “It is happening already… the party has been going,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Two persons arrested for stealing mini truck from Murshidabad ||Two persons were arrested from North Dinajpur on Monday for allegedly stealing a mini truck from Murshidabad district on Sunday afternoon. Sources said the driver and cleaner of the mini truck, heading to Siliguri, were having lunch at Ahiran in Suti when the theft took place. The vehicle is owned by Abhijit Biswas of Dhantala in Nadia district. On Monday evening, the police arrested Abu Bakkar of Jalpaiguri and Shyamal Das of Nadia from Itahar in North Dinajpur and the vehicle was also recovered. The cops said a probe was on find out whether the arrested duo were associated with any racket that deals with stolen vehicles. After hearing the details from them, Abhijit Sarkar, the officer-in-charge of the outpost, acted promptly. He informed senior officers of Murshidabad district police and also went out to locate the vehicle. Meanwhile, police officers passed information about the vehicle to all police stations, especially located along NH 12. The information was also passed to the toll plazas located along the route that heads for north Bengal. Those who had stolen the mini truck managed to evade the police of Murshidabad and Malda districts. However, as they reachedLater on Sunday night, a police team from Murshidabad reached Itahar. They took away the duo – identified as Abu Bakkar of Jalpaiguri and Shyamal Das of Nadia – and the vehicle to Murshidabad. “The officer in charge of the Ahiran police outpost has done well. The prompt sharing of information helped us to locate the truck within a few hours after it was stolen,” said Y. Raghuvanshi, the superintendent of police of Jangipur police district in Murshidabad. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
10-08-2021||North East||Bomb blast in Shillong, Chief Minister condemns attack||Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma on Tuesday condemned the improvised bomb attack by an outlawed organisation behind a busy market area in the state capital here injuring two persons including a woman. The 1kg remotely timed improvised explosive device (IED), triggered by the outlawed Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC), went off at around 1:30 pm behind a busy market area in Laitumkhrah injuring a shopkeeper and a passer-by. The Police have registered a case and investigation is currently on to nab those involved in carrying out the blast. "Strongly condemn the IED blast reported in Laitumkhrah earlier this afternoon that has injured two citizens. Home Minister, @LahkmenR & officials of @MeghalayaPolice have apprised me on the matter and further investigation is being carried out," Sangma posted on his social media handles including Twitter. Local MLA Ampareen Lyngdoh also condemned the incident. "I condemn this terrible act of violence which has injured two civilians in the heart of Shillong. The use of violence can never be justified and @MeghalayaPolice must investigate the incident & arrest those who are responsible for this," she said. Once a dreaded armed group in Meghalaya and active in the Khasi-Jaintia Hills region, the organisation which is reputed to have a base camp in Bangladesh, was banned as an 'unlawful organisation' by the Ministry of Home Affairs in 2019 on grounds that "the outfit is yet to abjure violence". The HNLC, a breakaway faction of the earlier Hynniewtrep Achik Liberation Council (1993) primarily operates in the Khasi-Jaintia Hills region, and has carried out a number of attacks in the past. It claims it wishes to free people from alleged domination by outsiders . Last month the rebel outfit carried out an attack at a police reserve barracks in East Jaintia Hills district headquarters injuring a policeman and damaging buildings. Three persons were later arrested. A year ago, the outfit had carried out a blast at a cement plant in the same district while in 2015, the rebel outfit had carried out an IED attack in the Jhalupara area of the city. No one was injured. Although tripartite peace negotiation is ongoing with the rebel outfit, the Meghalaya government has maintained that the outfit has to abstain from violence if it wants to negotiate peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
10-08-2021||North East||Akhil rules out merger, agrees to work with Mamata Banerjee||Assam MLA and Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi on Monday ruled out the merger of his party with the Trinamul Congress but said he was ready to work with Mamata Banerjee to strengthen federalism and oust the ruling BJP in the 2024 general election. Akhil said the decision not to merge with Trinamul was taken at the Raijor Dal’s executive meeting held here on Sunday because it was a “difficult proposition” as his party represented the hopes and aspirations of the people of Assam. “We discussed threadbare Trinamul’s proposal that I lead its Assam unit and merge our party Raijor Dal. We have decided to submit a proposal to the Trinamul that we will not merge but want to remain as a regional force. We want to join hands with other such forces, including Trinamul, to strengthen federalism because the BJP is trying to destroy our federal structure,” Akhil said. Gogoi, the lone Raijor Dal MLA, said he has met Trinamul chief and Bengal chief minister Mamata thrice in Calcutta, the last time on Saturday in presence of political strategist Prashant Kishor. Raijor Dal general secretary Hussain Mahammad Shahjahan was also present during the three meetings. Reaching out to Akhil is part of Trinamul’s efforts to extend its footprints beyond Bengal where it won a third consecutive term in May. The party has already intensified its activities in BJP-ruled Tripura in its bid to form the next government there in 2023. Assam, which also has a BJP-led coalition government, is another state where Trinamul fancies its chances because of a significant Bengali-speaking population and Mamata’s rising political stock after Trinamul’s resounding win in the Bengal Assembly polls despite heavy odds. The Telegraph had earlier reported that the “fiercely independent and fearless” Akhil will not agree to the merger offer but will work with regional forces. Praising Mamata, Akhil said she has been a strong supporter of federalism. “She always speaks for strong federalism... I admire her for that and am ready to work under her leadership to strengthen federalism in India,” he said. He also said that Raijor Dal would support Mamata if she is projected as the prime ministerial candidate by the regional parties in 2024. He said Raijor Dal would also “want to be part” of a government formed by regional parties so that it could “raise and resolve” the burning issues of Assam and the Northeast that include restoration of the special category status, constitutional safeguard for Assam and the National Register of Citizens. Akhil also said that he was ready to ally with the Congress-led grand alliance  in Assam for the bypolls provided it severed its ties with the AIUDF led by Badruddin Ajmal. “If we have to oust the BJP, the Congress-led mahajot has to end its ties with the AIUDF. As long as communal AIUDF is active, BJP will remain in power. Both the BJP and AIUDF are communal,” Akhil. The BJP-led mitrajot won a second straight term in May despite the mahajot putting up a spirited challenge. Akhil, who spent more than a year in jail because of his alleged role in the anti-CAA protest in Assam in 2019, has become one of the active Opposition faces against the ruling BJP in the Assam Assembly. Two PCC working presidents Rana Goswami and Jakir Hussain Sikdar had met Akhil on Sunday with a proposal to work together till the 2026 Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
10-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Neeraj Chopra's gold at Tokyo Olympics||Golden moment Sir — Neeraj Chopra, the 23-year-old athlete from Panipat, scripted history at the men’s javelin throw at Tokyo by clinching India’s first medal in Olympic athletics and the country’s second individual gold medal (‘‘Neeraj nails it! Long wait ends’’, Aug 8). It is a matter of great pride for our nation and a big morale booster for sportspersons in India. This win at the Tokyo Olympics ended India’s 121-year wait for a gold medal in athletics. The previous best had been achieved in British India by Norman Pritchard — it is also considered India’s maiden participation at the Games — who won two silver medals in men’s 200 metres and men’s 200 metres hurdles at Paris in 1900. I belong to the 1960s when sportspersons from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Karnataka could not secure an Olympic medal even though they were endowed with tremendous resilience and talent as they lacked the necessary resources. They did not have proper coaching, access to a suitable diet plan or enough sponsorships. Although athletes like Milkha Singh, Gurbachan Singh Randhawa, Mahendra Singh Gill, Manjit Walia, P.T. Usha and many others won medals at the Asian Games and the Commonwealth Games, a medal at the Olympics remained elusive. Milkha Singh finished fourth in the 400 metres finals at the 1960 Rome Olympics, Gurbachan Singh Randhawa finished fifth in the 110 metres hurdles at Tokyo in 1964 and P.T. Usha lost the bronze medal at the Los Angeles Olympics by 1/100th of a second. Even today, our focus continues to be on cricket; all other athletes languish for want of resources. It is hoped that after this win at the Olympics, the sports ministry will rise from its slumber. The government as well as the corporate sector has a responsibility to support young, promising sportspersons so that they can perform to the best of their abilities at international events. The government must come up with a comprehensive policy to encourage sportspersons and provide them with the best of resources. India has the potential to win many more medals at the Olympics and other such events. Ramesh G. Jethwani,Bangalore Sir — There are few things more coveted in sports than an Olympic medal and most athletes hope to win the accolade for their nation. Neeraj Chopra performed remarkably well at the Tokyo Olympics, winning a maiden gold in athletics for India. As soon as he threw the javelin at a distance of 87.58 metres in his second attempt — six attempts are permissible — he seemed to know that he had secured a medal. The Olympic champion dedicated his win to one of India’s foremost track-and-field athletes, Milkha Singh, reminding us that this win at Tokyo comes after many a heartbreak. Several Indian athletes have tried to win an Olympic medal in athletics but failed. There were flashes of brilliance in hockey, badminton, boxing, wrestling and weight-lifting at Tokyo too. But India’s overall performance was not quite up to the mark. The total medal tally of seven fell far short of what we are capable of as a nation. No other country has as much untapped human resource. Promotion of sports needs sustained effort, including the identification and nurturing of talent. It is unfortunate that the government has recently slashed the sports budget. The situation must be remedied at the earliest. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Winning at any sporting event is a great motivation for an athlete but winning an individual Olympic gold is a career highlight like no other. Neeraj Chopra’s win at the Tokyo Olympics early in his career is an indication of his potential and all the accolades that are yet to come. Another South Asian finalist at the men’s javelin throw was Arshad Nadeem from Pakistan who placed fifth. They must both be congratulated for their hard work and dedication. C.K. Subramaniam,Navi Mumbai Sir — As the Olympics comes to an end, it is time for the sports ministry to introspect on the gaps in the country’s sporting infrastructure. Had the government provided adequate resources to all athletes, India could have won more than seven medals at the Olympics. As it stands, Indian athletes have won despite the odds posed by the government, not because of help from it. Ketan Sharma,Bhopal  Be wise Sir — Experts insist that bees are integral to the survival of mankind as they are essential for pollination and thus food production. But bees are dying at an alarming rate owing to a variety of factors —  last year there was a 40 per cent decrease in bee populations. In a timely endeavour, Beewise, a start-up company in Israel, has created a robotic beehive that houses more colonies than an average one and constantly monitors the hive’s needs so that beekeepers can intervene when needed. But can this wise innovation bring wisdom to humans who continue to wreak havoc on the fragile ecological balance? Aparna Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
10-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Horsepower||None can accuse the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh of possessing a sterile imagination. Yogi Adityanath has described, with a touch of creativity, the social media as an ‘unbridled horse’, one that needs to be reined in by the foot soldiers that keep the Bharatiya Janata Party’s formidable IT cell ticking. The need to bridle this metaphorical stallion arises because local events in Uttar Pradesh — a state beleaguered by a brutal pandemic, inept governance, political intimidation and communal and caste conflagrations — the chief minister believes, trigger ‘social media trials’ far and wide. Mr Adityanath’s sudden concern with social media trials — a euphemism for criticism, presumably — is touching. This is because over the years, the BJP, more than any other party in India, has perfected the art of weaponizing social media to conduct trials that target opponents — be they ideological or political. For instance, the party sought to neutralize the massive public outrage against the discriminatory Citizenship (Amendment) Act by unleashing a counter-narrative on social media platforms. Worryingly, the shadow is known to fall, with a frightening regularity, between the BJP’s claims on social media and the reality on the ground. The head of the BJP’s IT cell has been accused, on numerous occasions, of disseminating false narratives through social media networks. Is there then a case for making a special bridle for the BJP’s IT cell ‘horse’? Mr Adityanath has, tellingly, made the point about the need for regulating social media units. There is concern though that in the name of regulating the media, the BJP-led national government wants to stifle the myriad platforms. Several petitions have been filed against the Centre’s Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. These litigations could be a test of the constitutional basis of these regulations. What should not go unnoticed is Mr Adityanath’s anxiety about the murmurs on social media. Could it be that the growing hum of public disaffection on these popular networks is beginning to reach a crescendo? That cannot be reassuring before the assembly elections. His directive to the IT cell ‘to train the horse’, as it were, would not come as a source of relief either. It is possible that as UP inches closer to the polls, Mr Adityanath’s party would unsheathe its trusted weapon — the social media — to sway public opinion while bearing down upon independent sources of news to control the narrative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
10-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Half lessons||Caste is, apparently, best left silent. So, little research has been conducted on school textbooks for signs of caste bias whereas identifying gender bias or the tendency to project history through a sectarian lens has been more popular. The first study of caste bias in Indian textbooks focused on 10 books of literature and social sciences from classes IV to VIII in Odia schools. Dalits are barely visible in these texts, being mentioned only in three of the 10 books, and in 5 per cent of the total pages presenting social lives. This is not unexpected in a country where violence from dominant groups towards less powerful castes is shamefully common. The Odia textbooks symbolize an institutionalized distortion of the facts of Indian social existence. The research found that invisibility, one of the seven forms of curricular bias against which American textbooks were tested, was most used in the Odia texts. The percentage of Dalit presence makes this obvious, as does the fact that there is no Dalit character in the literature texts of Classes IV, V, VI and VIII. This has nothing to do with reality. But a hierarchical approach in social interactions is thus inculcated, while a pretence of equality is maintained through an account of government programmes for Dalits in the Class IV text, with no explanation of their necessity. Class IV children may learn them by rote without understanding their significance. It is urgent that textbooks in regional languages in all states be tested for caste bias. As education expands its base, the presence of Dalit children in the class would give to such textbooks a sharp significance. They would learn nothing about their lives and history except a few stereotypes, and would yet experience the quiet force with which the establishment seems to be perpetuating the caste system. School texts in Gujarat call this system benign, and in Rajasthan they claim that it is a good system based on professional differences. These also suggest that India’s education experts are fully conscious of the man-made inequality of the system and of its regressive import, but keep it alive because of the vested interests of dominant caste groups. Equal education and caste bias cannot go together. Just as education without awareness of caste injustice is no education at all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
10-08-2021||Opinion||Burning land, broken people||It was the last month of 2016. In Kabul, the weather was cold in the evening. I was having tea with some colleagues — most of them were from Europe — near Wazir Akbar Khan Chaurahi. I was conversing with an experienced colleague who had worked in Afghanistan for 11 years and had come to Kabul on a short auditing assignment. “How can peace be restored in Afghanistan?” I asked him. “The more you learn about Afghanistan, the less you will understand,” he answered. Afghanistan is in the news, once again. American forces will leave the country by the end of August. Defence experts are analyzing the impact of this move, but a rundown of the history of Afghanistan would give us some rare insights. Soviet troops entered Afghanistan in December 1979. They arrived in support of the government led by the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan. Opposition leaders and commanders formed an umbrella entity, the mujahideen, and fought against the Soviet army. The mujahideen received financial and arms support from the countries opposed to the USSR’s intervention. Soviet troops left Afghanistan in 1989. The mujahideen celebrated independence, while the refugees dreamt of returning home. Alas, peace wasn’t restored. Mujahideen factions began fighting amongst themselves over power-sharing mechanisms. Afghanistan fell into chaos, once again, between 1990-1995 as different mujahideen leaders fought to seize power in Kabul. Some warlords appointed themselves ‘governors’, captured parts of Afghanistan, and fought for supremacy. Then, Pashtun students from madrasas (Talibs) on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border came forward to seize power and enforce sharia law in the country. Most of them were from the Deobandi school. The Taliban made Kandahar their most important centre and within a year, they had overthrown the mujahideen leader, Burhanuddin Rabbani, and captured Kabul. By 1998, the Taliban dominated almost 90 per cent of the country. Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and the United Arab Emirates recognized the Taliban government. Girls older than 10 years were banned from going to school and their access to cinema, television, and music restricted by the Taliban. American forces attacked the Taliban in 2001 and ousted them from Kabul. But the Taliban continued to dominate remote rural areas like Kunduz and Lagman. The US, the Afghan army and the police fought the Taliban for 20 years. Now that the US military has decided to leave the country, it is important to reflect on what has been achieved for the people of Afghanistan. The violence has not stopped. The memories of attacks on Kabul University, the American University, students of the Hazara community, Sikhs and Hindus, women and journalists have not faded away. Even in 2020, more than 6,000 civilians lost their lives in the violence even though the US army had not left. The Taliban would also have to think about what they have gained from this relentless violence. Their commanders have also lost their children and relatives in the bloodshed. Many Taliban leaders have spent their formative years in refugee camps. Young educated Afghans are migrating to other countries. Globally, the highest number of refugees are from Syria and Afghanistan. The mujahideen mobilized people in the name of religion and introduced new textbooks in the refugee camps. These textbooks aimed at raising fighters for the future. Gradually, values such as coexistence, peace, pluralism, gender equality and minority rights disappeared from the discourse. The textbooks prepared by the mujahideen were introduced in all schools once the Soviet troops left the country. The Taliban continued with these textbooks but enforced stricter codes of religious discipline and dressing. While teaching Mahatma Gandhi’s concept of non-violence to my Afghan students, I noticed that the majority of them remained silent. After many entreaties, a student replied that in Afghanistan they were not exposed to Gandhi’s way of thinking. The only way was to seek badla. Only Afghans can ensure lasting peace in their country. Change can be ensured by challenging the mindset of the young people. Modern school education — English and French schools — started only at the beginning of the 20th century while exclusive girls’ schools and nursing training for women began in the 1920s, Kabul University was established in the 1930s. This was followed by the founding of a series of institutions, including polytechnics, teacher-training colleges, medical colleges and so on. Given the existing complexities, generating trust among ethnic and political groups would be a herculean task for any other country. Perhaps the way forward in Afghanistan is through dialogue and lasting investments in education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
10-08-2021||Opinion||States of siege||Walking on the roads the other day, I found myself thinking how nothing much seems to have changed from before the pandemic. Now that things have opened up again, Calcutta traffic has reverted to being Calcutta traffic, the honking is still Calcutta honking, the little ponds and puddles on the streets are our usual monsoon visitors, the deposits of wet garbage and leaf mulch still the unmistakable work of the unchanging Art Director in the sky. And, yet, something was different. When I was sitting on the verandah of the club where I’d been invited for lunch, I managed to identify at least one of the things that had changed. Whether on the street or in this privileged enclave, almost everybody was wearing a mask or had one close at hand. There were different styles, of course, with some people making the merest gesture towards masking, with an item hanging off their necks like an extra beard; many others had the protection covering only their mouths, their noses happily pumping aerosols into the air; others sported what one can only can call ‘facial negligees’, as in the flimsiest, most see-through of ‘surgical’ material shimmering across their critical orifices. And yet, compared to the hot season and the monsoon of last year, you actually noticed when someone walked past without a mask. Furthermore, many of the people going maskless had a self-conscious look about them, as if they knew they were doing something wrong, their excuses and defiance ready in their eyes as they waited to be challenged. Maybe just one more deadly wave, maybe something akin to the Uttar Pradesh Pandemocalypse clawing across our society, and even these few non-maskers would shrink in number. It’s amazing what human beings can get used to. Two days ago, I found myself in a phone conversation with someone who is about fifteen years younger. We were talking about the current travel restrictions and the subject of airport security checks came up. I asked my friend if she remembered the time we could freely carry liquids on a flight. We calculated that this had stopped after the liquid bomb attempts soon after 9/11, so about twenty years ago. “Do you remember a time when one could board a flight without any security checks?” “No, I might have been born already but I haven’t ever taken a flight without a security check.” I tried to remember and I came up, first, with a time when you could still smoke on flights and, then, way before that, when you could just walk on to a plane carrying whatever in your hand luggage. I put airport security checks starting in India just after the bombing of the Kanishka jumbo in 1985, although I could be wrong about that. Remembering the whole Khalistan mess took me back to the Delhi of the 1980s and the 1990s. Arriving from Calcutta, Delhi felt like it was a war-zone in a different country. The taxi from the airport would be stopped several times by police and paramilitary manning the yellow road-barriers. Some of the uniforms carried serious weaponry and looked twitchy enough to start using them at the drop of a hat. There was no curfew as such, but going from place to place at night involved many such stops, with high-powered torches being shoved into your face as a matter of course. Even after the Khalistan upheavals subsided, this state of siege in Delhi continued well into the 1990s. Visiting Chandigarh was even more startling, with pillboxes, barbed wire and sand-bagged machine gun nests next to important government buildings. It was grim, it was scary, but after the first few visits you started accepting this as the natural order of things. From the late 1990s, gradually at first, then rapidly, the siege lifted from the minds of the officials and was gone. However, by this time, the seeds of two new competing assaults had already been sown. First, the explosion of construction and automobiles in New Delhi combined rapidly with the pre-winter scrub-burning in nearby Punjab to create a cyclical environmental siege over most north Indian urban agglomerations. Second, the destruction of the Babri Masjid and the growth of Hindutva forces in the north and the west of the country which have eventually brought us to a point where the main threat to the integrity of the Republic now comes from inside the corridors of power in the capital. As a country and a society, we were already struggling to counter these by the time SARS-CoV-2 unloaded its millions of Trojan horses inside India. Despite the threat of hijackings and liquid-bombs having reduced somewhat, we now accept the checks and restrictions while flying as standard, and also that they are unlikely to disappear in the near future. Similarly, even as the threat from the virus diminishes, we will become used to masking, hand-washing and physical-distancing protocols; some of these will become habits, things that we do without a second thought. But perhaps one of the most important lessons we have learnt from fighting the battles against Covid-19 is about the inter-connectedness of things. Here, for instance, is one string: had China been a democracy with proper official checks and balances and a free press perhaps, the initial spread of the virus in Wuhan (whether from a lab leakage or ‘natural’ mutation) might have been better contained and countered. Here is another one: had the last three successive Indian governments (Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Manmohan Singh, Narendra Modi) concentrated on expanding much-needed public health infrastructure instead of staying addicted to health-destroying notions of ‘growth’, we would have countered the pandemic far better. Here is a third: had this current government focused its attention, just over the last twenty months, on the biggest crisis to hit Independent India instead of trying to stamp down on farmers, activists, dissenters and Opposition political parties, we would have lost far fewer than the lakhs who have died, we would have a far lower number of survivors so badly damaged by the virus, and not so many millions ruined financially. Finally, here is a fourth: not following proper masking and physical-distancing protocols, avoiding the drastic changes in our consumption and transport habits urgently required by an environment in meltdown, and not working fiercely to vote out this incompetent, ignorant and despotic Central government are all lethally dangerous to our individual and national health and well-being.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand State Digest: Senior SP’s surprise inspection of Jamshedpur civil court||East Singhbhum’s senior SP, M Tamil Vanan conducted a surprise inspection of Jamshedpur civil court to check the existing security arrangement within and outside of the court premises. The surprise inspection was carried out as a sequel to maintaining security especially of the judges and other judicial magistrates in the light of the suspected murder of Uttam Anand, the second additional district judge of Dhanbad in July. During the hour-long stay within the civil court premises located at Bhuinyadih in Sitaramdera, Vanan looked into the deployment of policemen and the number of CCTV cameras installed inside the court premises. Deputy superintendent of police (Composite Control Room) Animesh Gupta accompanied the senior SP to reshuffle the deployment of police in accordance with the observation made during the inspection. “The surprise inspection at the civil court was in the backdrop of the recent tragic incident that took place with the ADJ-II, Dhanbad, Uttam Anand, resulting in his death. After the incident, we had a meeting with the director general of police, Jharkhand over the security aspect of the court premises. Today's inspection was in sequel to maintaining the security of judicial officials here in the light of the Dhanbad incident,” said Vanan while talking to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out that since the past one-and-half years, virtual courts are being held for online hearing, but soon the court will be functioning in its normal way. He added, “80 policemen were deployed when the court was running normally one-and-half years ago. We will ensure security arrangement once the court starts functioning normally. This is why we reviewed the security arrangements and made the necessary changes.” He has recommended the installation of more surveillance cameras within the civil court premises. Ramgarh: The Sikh Regimental Centre organized a Military Band Display at the historic Ashoka Stambh located at the Centre’s precursor to Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav to commemorate 75 glorious years of India’s Independence. During the event the band played a theme to salute the spirit of the freedom struggle, the fine music left the audience enthralled. The event was organized to pay tribute to the martyrs who selflessly laid down their lives for the freedom of our country. The iconic Ashoka Stambh situated within the Sikh Regimental Centre, Ramgarh Cantt was erected in remembrance of 53rd executive meeting of Indian National Congress at Ramgarh on 14 March1940. Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad, the then President of INC presided over the meeting, while Mahatma Gandhi, Jawahar Lal Nehru and Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel were some of the dignitaries who attended the same. Manoj Sinha Garhwa: Unidentified motorcycle-borne armed men robbed a customer service point (CSP) operator of Rs 3.50 lakh, on Garhwa-Dandai road near Tasrar village which falls under Dandai police station of the district on Monday evening. The operator, Chandan Kumar of Jarihi village was on returning back to his hamlet on his bike after drawing the cash from Panjab National Bank, when he was looted. According to the police the victim had set out for his village on a bike, when two criminals following him on another bike intercepted him near his village and looted him. The assailants overpowered him. They snatched the bag containing cash at gunpoint from the operator. Before other commuters could react the criminals fled. Following which the victim lodged a complaint with Dandai police station. The officer-in-charge Sunil Kumar Patel along with his team rushed to the spot and started investigating the case. Garhwa Superintendent of police Anjani Kumar Jha confirmed the news and said, “Police are working on technical evidence and other options. We will soon crack the case and arrest the accused.” N N Dubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Panchayat panels get fresh lease life owing to delay in polls ||The tenure of three-tier panchayat bodies in Jharkhand has been extended till fresh elections are held, the state panchayati raj department announced on Tuesday, notifying what will be the second such extension. Tuesday's extension has been affected through an ordinance as the Jharkhand Panchayat Raj Act 2001 does not have any provision for granting a second extension. The Hemant Soren government had extended the tenures of panchayat bodies for six months the first time in January since fresh elections could not be conducted because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The first extension was till mid-July. Rural development minister Alamgir Alam said that with the second wave of Covid-19 on the wane, the state government had prepared the ground work to hold rural polls by the end of the year. “The state election commission has started its homework for the polls, and if all goes well with no resurgence of Covid-19, we should be able to hold panchayat polls by this year-end,” he said. Panchayat elections were held in 2015 and fresh polls were due on December 7, 2020. As per the latest notification, the fresh extension is till elections are held. The notification reads, “The extension of tenures of the working committee of panchayat bodies would be effective till the elections for local bodies take place.” The notification added that deputy commissioners will be empowered to reconstitute working committees in three-tier panchayat bodies. Mukiyas, deputy mukhiyas and ward members of gram panchayats of both general and the reserved areas, pramukhs, deputy pramukhs and members of panchayat samitis and the chairman, deputy chairman and members of zila parishads have all been retained in the new working committees. “The working committees of gram panchayats, panchayat samitis and zila parishads enjoy all the powers and functions under the Jharkhand Panchayat Raj Act. Block development officers and deputy development commissioners will continue to discharge their responsibilities as per the existing provisions of extension,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Eight karatekas to represent Jharkhand in national championship ||Eight karatekas will be representing Jharkhand at the National E-Kata Karate Championship which will be conducted on a virtual platform from August 25 to 27. The three-day event is being organised by the Karate Association of India (KAI) to mark Sir Dorabji Tata’s birth anniversary and National Sports Day. The championship will be hosted by Jharkhand State Karate Do Association (JSKA) and will be supported by Tata Steel sports wing, Jamshedpur. The state karate outfit selected the Jharkhand squad after a day-long trial organised at JRD Tata Sports Complex on August 8. Forty-eight karatekas from different districts of the state participated in the trial which had five qualified judges to select the representatives. The selected karatekas include Ishan Singh, Pranab Paul, Adarsh Kumar Singh, Niraj Kumar, Bandana Singh (all from East Singhbhum), Vaishnavi, Poonam Munda (both from Ranchi) and Somari Hembrom (West Singhbhum The nationals will be conducted in the under-13 to above 18 age group. Four of the selected karatekas are from Tata Steel Karate Training Centre. According to JSKA general secretary Shihan L. Nageshwar Rao, 240 karatekas (120 boys and as many girls) from 30 states will participate in the national meet. The event will be hosted in compliance with the guidelines and rules and regulations of World Karate Federation (WKF) and Asian Karate Do Federation (AKF) under qualified judges of world and Asia bodies. Rao, coach at Tata Steel karate cradle said Jharkhand karatekas are expected to win medals at the national meet. “Our players are in form and are expected to do well. We are very optimistic about it,” he added. The cradle at JRD Tata Sports Complex have performed well at state and national championships. Rao, on his part, has produced several talented karatekas. “There is no dearth of talented karatekas in Jharkhand. They can come up with good performance through proper guidance,” Rao said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi records rare case of black fungus in lungs of 82-year-old||A case of mucormycosis in the lungs, possibly Jharkhand’s first, has come to light at Ranchi's Medanta Hospitalafter bronchoscopy and biopsy of a Covid survivor’s lung tissues confirmed that the patient was suffering from black fungus, which affected his lungs instead of eyes, nose or brain, doctors from the hospital said on Tuesday. “This Covid survivor complained of difficulty in breathing. We first conducted a CT Scan to see if there was a problem in his lungs. Later, during bronchoscopy, a fungal ball was found in his lungs. Biopsy of his lung tissues confirmed that the patient’s lungs were affected by black fungus,” said senior pulmonologist at Medanta, Dr Tejveer Singh, adding that it was a rare case as mucormycosis usually affects the eyes or nose of a patient. As per government guidelines, the patient, Mohammad Ibrahim (82) has been shifted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) where he is undergoing treatment at the New Trauma Centre. Dr Pradeep Bhattacharya, who is in-charge, said Ibrahim was stable and responding to medication. “He is still suffering from shortness of breath, but his condition is stable,” the doctor said. A doctor assisting Bharracharya at the RIMS trauma centre said that even though cases of mucormycosis in lungs were rare, some patients have been diagnosed with black fungus infection in lungs in different parts of India. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Following an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline, the state government has also included Posaconazole injections in the list of medicines that can be administered to Mucormycosis patients. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis were reported in India earlier this year and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike. However, in almost all these cases, the fungus affected either eyes, nose or brain of the patient. As per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Jharkhand has so far reported 106 confirmed cases and 60 suspected cases of black fungus. The fungal infection has claimed as many as 31 lives in the state so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad holds special vaccination drive for the vulnerable||Over 200 construction site labourers including the likes of masons, carpenters, electricians, rickshaw pullers, housemaids, servants, some beggars and other street dwellers have been vaccinated at IIT (ISM) shopping complex today during a special vaccination drive organized by district administration for vulnerable. The drive organized was part of the special vaccination drive series flagged off by the district administration. It was held as per the instruction of the government which asked the district administration to carry out  vaccination drives for different vulnerable sections of the society for Covid by organizing special camps. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Dr Vikash Rana, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer (DRCHO), Dhanbad who is also the nodal officer for Covid vaccination in the district said, “we began the vaccination drive at around 10 am as per the schedule and carried out the vaccination as per the onsite registration process” “Majority of beneficiaries who were vaccinated today belonged to Lahbani, Korangabasti, Mandal Basti and Maira Basti situated in the vicinity of IIT (ISM) campus including some staff of IIT (ISM) belonging to these villages” said Rana. “Earlier we have carried out awareness camps in the villages to sensitise the masses about the vaccination drive with the help of some local social organizations besides the centre for societal mission of IIT (ISM) which is engaged in social work in these villages,” said Rana. He added that since many of the beneficiaries do not possess smartphones on the spot certificate distribution of these beneficiaries was organised for future reference while availing the second dose. The message concerning their vaccination has also been sent on their registered mobile phones. “We will be organizing a special camp again for these beneficiaries after 84 days. All of them have been administered with Covishield jab today,” said Rana. He added that ISM Authorities including, professor Dhiraj Kumar, Dean (Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship) of the institute and others were also present during the vaccination camp. “The awareness level among the beneficiaries was quite encouraging as the response in camp was better than our expectation” said Rana. Notably the special series of vaccination drives was flagged off in the district on June 9 at Pehla Kadam school during which 60 physically and mentally challenged people were vaccinated. This was followed by the vaccination of 60 delinquents at a child reformatory centre on June 16. Then 80 petrol pump staff were vaccinated on July 4 across various petrol pumps of the district. Over 150 auto rickshaw drivers and LPG delivery men were vaccinated on July 9 while on July 15 a special camp was organised for the inmates of Barmasia Rehabilitation and Training Centre for Leprosy cured persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant stays at home on birthday; Modi, Stalin extend wishes||Hemant Soren turned 46 on Tuesday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several senior politicians extending greetings to the Jharkhand chief minister on Twitter. Hemant spent the day at home, choosing only to meet people who had come to seek his help on their personal issues.  An official in the chief minister's office said, "CM preferred to stay at home today. He met some people who came from different districts to submit grievances before him to seek his intervention." The Prime minister was among the first leaders to wish Hemant in the morning. “Best wishes to Jharkhand CM Shri @HemantSorenJMM Ji on his birthday. Praying for his long life and good health,” he tweeted. Hemant's Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K. Stalin tweeted: “Wishing my brother and Jharkhand Chief Minister @HemantSorenJMM who has been emerging as one of the powerful voices of federalism & secularism and a true torchbearer of tribal people's rights, on his birthday.” Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais too prayed for CM’s good health. Many from the Opposition BJP in the state also wished the chief minister. The only sour point was a massive jobs protest at Morabadi ground, a kilometre away from the official residence of the chief minister. Over 500 job aspirants across the state observed "Berozgar Diwas", demanding that the chief minister gift the unemployed by fulfilling his promise of offering five lakh jobs. They also ran a twitter campaign # Jharkhand_Berojgar_Diwas which for a while was the top political twitter trend with 266k likes and retweets. Ranchi police were on their toes throughout the day with a large posse of policemen deployed in the area since morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain alert sounded for north Bengal, Jharkhand till Sunday||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned of heavy rain in isolated pockets of Jharkhand during the next five days while neighbouring Bengal was expected to experience heavy to very heavy showers till Sunday. IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta and Ranchi Met Centre issued special bulletins saying the downpour would be due to shifting of the monsoon trough towards the foothills of the Himalayas. " The intensity of rain would be more in north Bengal districts and places in northern Jharkhand and Bihar which are closer to Himalayas. Whenever the monsoon trough shifts towards the foothills of Himalayas, it results in heavy rain in north Bengal and isolated areas in Bihar and Jharkhand with the intensity of rain reducing in Central India," G. K. Das, director of Alipore Met Centre in Calcutta, explained over telephone. The rain is expected to be of maximum intensity between Friday, Aug 13 and Sunday, August 15. Based on the IMD forecast of enhanced rainfall, Bengal government's disaster management department has asked several districts, including Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Coochbehar, Alipurduar, Kalimpong, Malda, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad and Birbhum, to remain alert as heavy rain might result in abrupt rise in water levels of rivers, leading to floods and landslides. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre also issued an alert of heavy rain in isolated pockets of north- eastern Jharkhand (Jamtara, Pakur, Dumka, Giridih and Sahebganj) during the next four days. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said they were expecting heavy showers at a few isolated places in north-western Jharkhand, comprising Daltonganj, Latehar and Garhwa, due to the formation of a cyclonic circulation over eastern Uttar Pradesh extending up to 4.5 km above mean sea level. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Tuesday passing through Amritsar, Kurukshetra, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur and Jalpaiguri in north Bengal. High Discomfort Index Several cities in Jharkhand experienced high discomfort index which is determined on the basis of temperature, humidity, wind pattern and other factors. The weather remained humid with the sun playing hide and seek. The average discomfort index was as high as 64 degrees, nine degrees above normal, on Tuesday. In Jamshedpur, the discomfort index was 67 degrees, 12 degrees above normal, and in capital Ranchi, it was 64 degrees, nine degrees above normal. Daltonganj recorded a discomfort index of 62 degrees, seven notches above normal. In several other districts like Dumka, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Pakur, Godda, Latehar, Chatra and Simdega, the index breached 60 degrees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||XAT 2022: Registration begins, online test on January 2||Registration for Xavier Aptitude Test (XAT- 2022), the entrance exam that one needs to crack to seek admission in premier B-school XLRI began on Tuesday. “XAT will be held online on January 2 (Sunday), 2022,” announced the B-school today. The last date to apply or get registered is November 30, 2021. The duration of the online test will be three hours. The B-school has been conducting XAT exam for more than 70 years at all India level to select the most appropriate students for management studies. XAT 2022 will accept applications for XLRI-Jamshedpur as well as XLRI’s new campus at Delhi-NCR. A candidate can choose two preferred cities to take the test. The XAT score is used by more than 160 institutes for admission process. Notably, XAT, despite being one of the oldest competitive examinations in the country, has always kept pace with cutting-edge testing methodology. XAT’s multi-dimensional testing framework strives to assess the aptitude of candidates for business management education meaningfully. “XAT has a multi-pronged examination structure and in-built fairness to evaluate candidates aspiring to be future business leaders,” said an XLRI official XAT-2022 would be conducted across various Indian cities. Among them are Agra, Ahmedabad, Aurangabad City (Maharashtra), Allahabad, Ambala, Amravati, Amritsar, Bengaluru, Berhampur, Bhatinda, Bhilai Nagar, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Bokaro Steel City, Chandigarh/Mohali, Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuttack, Dehradun, Delhi-NCR, Dhanbad, Dibrugarh, Durgapur, Asansol, Ernakulam, Gandhinagar, Goa, Gorakhpur, Guwahati, Gwalior, Hooghly, Hubli, Hyderabad, Indore, Jabalpur, Jaipur, Jammu, Jamshedpur, Kannur, Kanpur, Kolkata, Kota, Kottayam, Kurnool, Kurukshetra, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Madurai, Mangalore, Mumbai, Mysore, Nagpur, Nashik, Patna, Pune, Raipur, Rajahmundry, Ranchi, Roorkee, Rourkela, Sambalpur, Siliguri, Surat, Thiruvananthapuram Tiruchirappalli, Tirupathi, Tiruvallur, Udaipur, Udupi Vadodara, Varanasi, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam and Warangal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt announces creating unique database of farmers||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday announced a unique identity scheme for the farmers of the state on World Indigenous Peoples Day to help the government create a database of all peasants. “This scheme would give financial strength and help farmers linked to the government welfare schemes. It is a government effort to provide timely training, guidance and financial assistance to all farmers (those possessing land or not). On this auspicious day we have decided to honour our farmers and from today all of them would be known as Birsa Kisan,” said Soren. The chief minister also announced plans to form a federation for marketing and processing of forest products to boost cottage industries of lac and silk production. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said that the Birsa Kisan scheme would help over 45 lakh farmers in the state link with government schemes through a database. “All the farmers would be given a unique ID card linked with their Aadhaar card through a bar code and the government would have information about each and every farmer, including the welfare schemes to which they are linked, their land details (for farmers having land). It will also help farmers without land with training and benefit of poultry schemes. We hope to provide the unique ID cards to at least two lakh farmers before the rabi season (November),” said Patralekh. The database would avoid duplication in welfare schemes and also help in providing benefits of the Kisan Credit Card and loan waiver schemes, officials said. “As of now only few progressive farmers get benefits of government schemes on various heads due to duplication and a major portion remain deprived. But we do not have any data on it. “However, with the database, the government will be able to reach out to all farmers,” said agriculture director Nisha Oraon. Soren distributed assets worth Rs 734 crore among two lakh farmers in 24 districts on Monday. “I would like to appeal to the farmers to reap the benefits of all the government schemes. The government would also audit all schemes to see if their benefits are reaching the beneficiaries,” said Soren while interacting with farmers of Dumka and Bokaro districts on a virtual platform. Agriculture department data shows that the state government has waived off loans worth Rs 2,000 crore of nearly nine lakh farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Close to 85,000 get vaccinated in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated almost 85,000 residents against Covid-19 as close to 1000 session sites, including at least 960 government-run centres, remained operational across districts, figures released by the state health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 64,529 residents, while the second jab was administered to 19,966 beneficiaries. At least 60,000 vaccine beneficiaries inoculated on the day fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. According to figures available on the Co-Win portal, at least 37 session sites opened their doors for vaccine beneficiaries in Ranchi on Monday and inoculated close to 7,000 residents, while 43 session sites remained operational in East Singhbhum and vaccinated more than 8,000 residents. In Dhanbad, 16 vaccination centres inoculated close to 2,000 residents. Till Monday evening, the state had administered the first dose of vaccine to 83,20,232 and the second dose to as many as 19,80,050 beneficiaries. Another case of Covid-induced mucormycosis surfaced in Ranchi on Monday, taking the total count of confirmed cases of black fungus to 106 in Jharkhand and 42 in Ranchi alone, figures compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted. Besides the 106 confirmed cases, the state has also reported 60 suspected cases of black fungus so far and 31 people have died of the fungal infection. The recovery rate of mucormycosis patients has improved in Jharkhand lately with at least 115 of the 166 patients, including suspected patients, recovering from the fungal infection. However, doctors have warned that any complacency may lead to a rise in cases if the Covid-19 trajectory in the state sees an upward trend. The active caseload of Covid-19 continued to drop in Jharkhand as 23 patients recovered from the infection while 14 people were found infected on Monday, a bulletin from NHM stated. At least 17 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of infection on Monday, while Ranchi reported the highest spike of five cases against six recoveries. At least 51 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Monday. East Singhbhum reported zero Covid cases on the day and two recoveries brought the active caseload there down to 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Police recovers 5 IEDS from Chaibasa forest||Security personnel have recovered five IEDs planted by outlawed CPI (Maoists) to target the forces on anti-naxal operation, from a jungle in extremist-hit West Singhbhum district, a police statement said. Acting on a tip-off, the district armed police and CRPF 60 battalion personnel launched a massive search operation and recovered the explosives, each weighing two kg, planted in the forest near Surbura Jharjhara New Market on Monday, the release said. The explosives have been defused by the bomb disposal squad of CRPF on the spot, it said, claiming the explosives were planted to target security personnel on anti-naxal operations. Police said an FIR has been registered in this regard. Meanwhile, police arrested another extremist from a banned extremist organization from Bandgaon police station area of the district and seized arms and ammunition from his possession. Based on information, a police team conducted a raid in Katua jungle and arrested Lodro Hassa, an active PLFI member, and seized a country-made firearm, two live cartridges, PLFI posters and mobile phones, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Trade unions, tribal, farmer outfits protest against Centre in Jharkhand||Trade unions joined hands with tribal and farmer outfits in Jharkhand to protest in almost all the 24 districts of the state against the central government. The Kisan Mazdoor Samanway Samity (Farmer Worker Coordination Committee), which was formed earlier this month specifically for this movement, has decided to submit its demands through district administration officials to President Ram Nath Kovind. “This is a part of the nationwide protest called by central trade unions against the policies of the central government and for observing August 9 as ‘Save India Day’ which is also the day which witnessed the start of the Quit India Movement by Mahatma Gandhi,” said Praful Linda, a member of the Samanway Samity and a Left leader. “Since Jharkhand is a tribal state and the day is also observed as the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples, tribal outfits also joined our agitation against the anti-tribal policies of the Union government. We will be submitting a joint memorandum addressed to the President through administrative officials on Tuesday as Monday is a state holiday in Jharkhand,” Linda said. Farmers, tribal outfit leaders and trade union members took out rallies holding placards against the policies of the Narendra Modi government. “Farmers across the country are agitating against the anti-farmer laws and demanding their immediate repeal since last year. But so far the Union government has not bothered to spare a thought about the plight of farmers. “Surprisingly, our Prime Minister has not even spoken to the agitating farmers,” said Sufal Mahato, state convener of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvyay Samity, an outfit formed last year to coordinate the farmers’ agitation in Jharkhand against the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hockey pill for Simdega children ||The residents of Jharkhand’s Bandisember village of Simdega district were not aware that August 9 was being observed as the International Day for the World’s Indigenous Peoples for the past many years. “I never heard of the day till I was told about it today,” said Ramnath Gond of the village that is also referred to as Nawa Toli, adding there were 58 families with about 450 members residing there. “Not only us, none of the village was aware of this day,” Lakhan Besra, another villager, said about the day that is as also known as the World Tribal Day and celebrated with much fanfare across the globe. All those residing here are tribal people, making it one of those 2,451 villages of the state that were identified as fully inhabited by the tribals during the 2011 census. “We face many problems,” Gond said, adding the village lacked approach roads, drinking water facilities. Though their village have a primary school, children interested in pursuing education have to go to another village about 5km away for attending high school. There is a primary health centre about 10 m away but the villagers have to travel to Simdega, the district headquarters about 30km away, for getting better treatment. “We came to know about the importance of this day from the office bearers of Hockey Simdega who came to meet us today,” Lakhan replied when asked. “We came here about a fortnight ago when Komli Besra, a girl of the village who was a promising hockey player, died of snake bite,” informed Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi, adding they thought of visiting the village again as they found them facing many problems. The body of the girl had to be carried through a waterlogged nala on a cot for about 2km before sending it for post-mortem that day, he informed to illustrate their plight. Besides lack of basic amenities, they also found most of the children were malnourished. The 2011 census had found that 85 per cent of the tribal women were anaemic and 64.3 per cent of their children were underweight. “We tried to do what we can do best,” informed Hockey Simdega treasurer Kamleshwar Manjhi who accompanied Konbegi, adding they spoke to the children in presence of their guardians and motivated them to play hockey for which they also presented them some balls they had taken for them. “Playing hockey will help them get exposure to the outer world and will also create an awareness among them,” Konbegi tried to justify their efforts, adding the children could also draw attention of the authorities by playing the game well which, in turn, will help improve the condition of their village. “We will level an open space near the village and will certainly motivate our children to play hockey there regularly,” Lakhan promised. He said they would organise a match on the tribal day next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
10-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Former MLA driver murdered over land dispute||Hazaribagh: Former MLA Loknath Mahto's driver Rahul Saw was gunned down in Rajabagi area close to Barkagaon-Tandwa road under Barkagaon police station on Sunday night. Police officials said Rahul was having dispute with few local residents of Sikri village over a piece of land. His family suspected that he was murdered for the land dispute. Rahul was working for the MLA at his petrol pump in Barkagaon as tanker driver. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Members of different local trade unions affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) on Monday staged dharna at district headquarters and also took out a protest march in association with All India Trade Union Congress on the occasion of August Kranti Divas or Quit India Movement Anniversary day. The protesters shouted slogans against the alleged anti-labour policy of the central government which has amended the 40 labour codes. The agitators also voiced their ire against the farm bills and claimed that these amendments of labour laws and farm bills have been brought to favour the corporate houses. Vinod Mishra, a senior leader of CPI said, "All the policies and actions of the present central government are aimed at favouring the  corporate houses." (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Unidentified bike borne crìminals carried out fatal attack against Chandan Kumar son of Katras based renowned doctor Uma Shankar Singh on Sunday night at around 10.30 pm while he was heading towards his house at Nichitpur  in his car along with his five-year-old daughter. Chandan who somehow saved his life by reaching at Rajganj police station said, "Three bike borne criminals and attacked him with iron rods as soon as he reached at Nichitpur more and later they were joined by two local youth in attack." "The attackers were taking the name of JMM leader Karu Yadav," he said. Notably, an incident of clash between a relative of Karu Yadav and some staff of Katas based hospital of doctor Uma Shankar Singh took place on July 22 over the negligence in treatment charge. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: The decomposed body of a male which police had recovered from a nalla near Gokul Nagar under MGM thana area along NH-33 on Sunday evening was identified on Monday as that of Zayad Kureshi. A resident of Varisht Colony at Azadnagar in Mango, Zayad, 18, was missing since August 1 morning after he had come out of his house along with a friend Mohammed Samir. Zayad would work as a delivery boy in e-commerce company Myntra. OC, MGM thana, Mithilesh Kumar said that though they have started investigation into the case, but they have registered a case of murder on the FIR lodged by the deceased's brother. The MGM thana OC said on August 1 morning, Zayad and Samir had snatched a mobile phone from someone near Dimna lake under adjoining Bodam thana area and being chased by some people the duo had sped away towards Azadnagar. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
