11-08-2021||Calcutta||Photographer donates proceeds to two NGOs||A professional whose pursuit of photography led to a book in April has donated the proceeds from its sales to two organisations — one that provides relief to the people of the Sunderbans and the other that works to rehabilitate trafficked girls. India in Celebration, a collection of over 200 photographs, was captured by Sajal Ghosh during his travels across the country to “present India as a colourful, respectful and tolerant country”. So far, the contribution from the book’s sales has been Rs 50,000. Ghosh feels if people who can help others step forward to support those without means, the world will be a better place. “I have always said that I belong to a privileged class, having received the best of education, travelled extensively and worked in a well established company. People in my position must come forward to make a difference to a few more lives,” said Ghosh. Each photograph in the book is accompanied by text written by Jael Silliman. It has a foreword by MP and author Shashi Tharoor. The book captures India in its diversity, Ghosh said. “I could have given a cheque but that the book is able to generate good things for other people is giving me a sense of satisfaction,” he said. One of the organisations that has benefited is Heal, which works for conservation of the Sunderbans and for the people living there. “The people in the Sunderbans are fighting poverty as well as adversities of nature. Before they can come out of one calamity, another strikes,” said Ghosh. “Apart from livelihood that gets impacted because of salinity in water (after a cyclone), sourcing drinking water is a concern for the people living there.” The other organisation is the Rescue and Relief Foundation, which works for trafficked girls, orphans and the elderly. “The girls who are trafficked are mostly from economically marginalised families. Their families do not have the means to bring them up. It is important to empower these girls so they are not misled with false promises of a better life,” said Ghosh. The Rescue and Relief Foundation networks with other NGOs and provides financial and logistical support to run and sustain projects. “We also support a home where trafficked girls are brought after they are rescued, where they are counselled as well,” said secretary Sidhant Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Power supply snapped for hours at Lake Gardens after electricity pole damaged by uprooted tree||Scores of homes in Lake Gardens suffered lengthy power outages since Monday night after an electricity pole was damaged by an uprooted tree. The power supply was stopped in two phases — on Monday night, when a team from the civic body chopped the fallen tree and cleared the debris, and again on Tuesday morning, when a CESC team fixed the damaged pole. People working from home and children having to attend online classes had a harrowing time because of the outages. Several residents said calling up the CESC helplines elicited a stock response that “overhead lines being repaired”. There was no prior intimation from the power utility, they said. A CESC official denied the allegations. “We always send messages to consumers before snapping the supply,” he said. The Krishnachura tree, which stood near the intersection of Prince Anwar Shah Road and Gobindapur Road, came crashing around 7.20pm on Monday, a CMC official said. “It was a very old tree. There was no rain at that time. There were hardly any winds. It is not clear how the tree fell. But the tree damaged an adjacent electricity pole,” said Ratan Dey, a member of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators in charge of roads. A team of tree-cutters reached the spot soon to clear the area. “Following a request from the civic body, we stopped supply in the area from 7.30pm. It was restored around 10pm. The power supply was stopped on Tuesday morning again because the damaged pole needed repair,” said the CESC official. Many houses had their power supply snapped before 10am on Tuesday. At some, the supply was restored after five hours. A resident said the power went off around 10am on Tuesday. It came back at 3.20pm. “My son could finish his online class because we had a dongle. But my work got stuck for the better part of the day,” she said. Many residents said calling up the CESC helpline was not useful. “I first called the helpline around 10.30am. I was told that power would come back within two hours. The next two times I called, around 12.30pm and 1.30pm, I was told that overhead lines were being repaired. Nobody could tell when the supply would be restored,” said the resident. The supply to her home was restored after 3pm. “I did not receive any message or mail from CESC. But the person answering the call said there had been many complaints from the Anwar Shah Road area,” she said. The CESC official said sending messages to consumers was the usual procedure before snapping supply. “I cannot comment on individual cases. But sometimes, consumers do not get messages for other reasons. For example, some consumers don’t use the number registered with us at the time of inception of the connection,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Ten IPS officers nominated for chief minister’s medal||Ten IPS officers including Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra, additional director general of police (correctional services) Peeyush Pandey and inspector general of police (north Bengal) Devendra Prakash Singh have been nominated for the chief minister’s medal for “outstanding service” and “commendable service” this year. The medals will be conferred on the officers on August 15, a government notification issued on Tuesday said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University pays teachers Rs 50,000 advance for ‘procuring hardware as teaching aid’||Jadavpur University is paying teachers Rs 50,000 as advance for “procuring hardware/peripherals as teaching aid in this pandemic era”. A notice issued on July 30 says the university has considered the proposal to provide support towards teaching aid, “especially in the pandemic area where online teaching is compulsory”. The advance will be recovered in 20 installments (Rs 2,500) from the salary from October 2021 to May 2023. An official of JU said it had become clear following chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement that the campuses could be reopened only in November, subject to improvement in the Covid situation. Mamata had said on Thursday that the government would try to reopen schools and colleges “on alternate days” after the Puja vacation, following a meeting with the state’s global advisory board on Covid-1“Since online classes are here to stay, we have decided to provide assistance to the teachers so that classes are held without any disruption,” said a JU official. The notice says: “The finance committee has considered the proposal…. where online teaching is compulsory. The teachers are required to apply.... within 27th August”. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das told Metro: “Conducting classes over digital platforms has become an unfortunate reality until the pandemic ends. We have provided students encountering digital divide with smartphones and bearing the cost of datapacks. Now we are extending assistance to the teachers so that classes can be held seamlessly.” A corpus of Rs 23 lakh was raised over the past one-and-a-half years, which was spent on buying students smartphones and data packs. Partha Pratim Roy, the general secretary of the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (Juta), said the need to procure hardware like desktops, laptops and peripherals such as routers and scanners was on the rise as online classes and examinations would continue for quite some time. “Teachers have to conduct classes, attend departmental meetings, download answer scripts and upload those, post-scanning, through a device. A teacher might want to buy an additional laptop or desktop so that the task can be split between two devices,” he added. “Sometimes, while attending a faculty council meeting that goes on for hours, no other activities can be carried out as the device remains occupied.... If we have an additional device, downloading and uploading scripts can be done separately,” said a teacher. An official said the teachers wanted the university to buy the devices, which would be returned once the need for conducting online classes and exams was over. The notice, signed by finance officer Gourkrishna Pattanayak, says: “Considering present financial position the university is not in a position for providing such support, where the requirement of funds will be more than three crores and where such support will not be covered by government funds.” An official said the earnings of the university had taken a hit, as students could not be charged any application fee following a government order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
11-08-2021||Calcutta||65-year-old biker killed on Vidyasagar Setu||A 65-year-old man riding a motorbike through the city-bound flank of Vidyasagar Setu died after a private bus hit the two-wheeler from behind on Tuesday morning. Pillion rider Tapan Bose, 63, got injured. Soumen Hutait, a resident of Jagachha in Howrah, was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Bose is being treated at the hospital. Both were wearing helmets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math will be open to devotees from August 18||Belur Math will be open to devotees and others from August 18, senior monks of the order said on Tuesday. The global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission has been shut since April 22 following a renewed surge in Covid cases. The authorities made an exception on July 24, on the occasion of Guru Purnima. “Visitors and devotees turning up at the Math will have to produce a certificate showing they have received two doses of a Covid vaccine. They will also have to show an identity proof,” said Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of the Math and Mission. “Otherwise, a Covid negative result of an RT-PCR test will have to be produced along with an identity proof.” The test has to be conducted within 72 hours before the visit to the Math. The proof of identity can be the Aadhaar card, PAN card or the voter card, Math officials said. The Math will remain open from 8am to 11am and again from 4pm to 5.45pm. Visitors will be allowed to offer pranam at Sri Ramakrishna, Sri Sarada Devi, Swami Vivekananda and Swami Brahmananda temples. The Pally Mangal stall and the book store will be open, too. “Since large-scale congregation at places of worship is not allowed, no devotee or visitor will be allowed to participate in the evening prayer at the Sri Ramakrishna temple,” Swami Suvirananda said. No visitor will be allowed to meet Swami Smaranananda, the president of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, and other senior monks. Belur Math is home to around 300 monks and 250 employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur to conduct Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering 2022 in February||IIT Kharagpur will conduct the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) 2022 in February. Unlike other years, the computer-based exam will not be conducted at any international centre because of the Covid pandemic, said an official of the institute. The exam is conducted for admission to master’s programmes at the IITs and select universities, including Jadavpur University. The aptitude test will be conducted in 29 subjects and will be held on February 5, 6, 12 and 13. Aspirants can apply online through the website https://gate.iitkgp.ac.in from August 30 to September 24. All papers will be of three hours and will consist of 65 questions. The results will be published on March 17. Since GATE is an online computer-based test (CBT), the computer screen will automatically close at the end of the stipulated time. The names of the cities where the examinations will be conducted have been uploaded on the website of IIT Kharagpur. “Amid the pandemic it will not be feasible to hold the test at any international centre. Getting personnel to oversee whether the Covid norms are being adhered to at the international centres could pose a challenge,” said an official of the institute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||City schools report no change in ISC marks after recalculation||Several city schools reported no change in ISC marks in the subjects that students had sent for recalculation. The students had applied for “dispute resolution” because they were dissatisfied with the marks awarded to them in the board results. The council had cancelled the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams this year because of the surge in Covid cases. A number of schools received an intimation from the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Tuesday. The ISC students in La Martiniere for Girls, Loreto House, Our Lady Queen of the Missions School, Salt Lake, Sri Sri Academy, Calcutta Girls’ High School, Delhi Public School New Town, St James’ School, The Heritage School, MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School, National English School, Baguiati, Julien Day School, Ganganagar and Don Bosco School Park Circus had no change in marks. The number of students who had applied for recalculation accross these schools varied from one to 45. Many of them are high scorers, several heads of schools said. Some of the students had been waiting for the recalculated marks to apply to colleges with revised marksheets to improve their chances of admission. “There are some students who had been waiting for the updated marks to apply to colleges. But since there are no changes they will start applying with the marks they have, even if it is lower than what they expected,” said Aruna Gomes, principal, Loreto House. Teachers said that students also applied for dispute resolution because they expect an increase in marks from what they score in the pre-boards. “Students perform better in the boards from what they did in the pre-boards, but this time that difference in marks was not there and hence they applied,” said Purnima Chatterjee, vice principal, MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School. Schools started informing the students via emails on Tuesday that there had been no change in marks. “Usually, when there is a recheck, there is an answer script to refer to. Students expect better scores because they know that they have written an exam and they expect an enhanced score on the basis of what they had written, which is not the case this year. It was on the basis of how they had performed in the last two years,” said Suvina Shunglu, principal, Sri Sri Academy. The dispute mechanism is “only for the correction of calculation errors”, the council had said. If a student had objections regarding the “computation of marks”, he or she had to send a written application to the school. The council had asked schools to review all such applications and forward them to the CISCE with their comments and supporting documents only if they were satisfied with the contentions. Other years, there is a recheck of answer scripts to check if any answer has not been marked or if there is a calculation error. In some schools, the ICSE marks of some students have increased. Other schools are waiting to hear from the council. Digitally signed copies of the statement of marks, pass certificates and migration certificates are available for the ISC 2021 candidates through the DigiLocker facility established by the Department of Electronics and Information Technology, government of India, the council said in a circular on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out inside locked apartment in South City Residency||A fire broke out inside a locked apartment on the sixth-floor of one of the towers of the South City Residency on Tuesday evening. Police said no one was trapped or injured. Two fire tenders doused the flames. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans leave masks at home on daily visits to shops and market||Many Calcuttans are leaving their masks at home or keeping them inside their bags on their daily visits to shops and markets. At most markets, including New Market and the ones in Gariahat, Baguiati and Salt Lake, The Telegraph saw on Tuesday that neither shoppers nor shopkeepers were wearing any type of face cover. Many had them on their chin or hanging from their neck or ear. At New Market, most shopkeepers inside the complex as well as hawkers outside were without masks. Lake Gardens resident Sanjana Choudhury, who went to New Market on Tuesday afternoon, said she beat a hasty retreat after seeing hundreds without masks. “I wanted to visit a tailoring shop off Lindsay Street but did not venture anywhere near as most people out there were not wearing masks. My driver had barely managed to park the car when I called him back and headed home,” Choudhury recounted. Mohammed Sarfaraz, 29, a hawker who sells watches and shades in front of the Grand hotel, said he was not wearing any face cover as it was too hot and humid. “It is impossible to cover your face at all times in this weather,” he said. At the Baguiati market, fish seller Rabin Mondal said Covid was no more and there was no need to wear masks. “Dada corona paliyeche, aar nei ekhon. Mask pore kichu hobe na (The coronavirus has fled. It is useless to wear masks now.)” On Tuesday, officials from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's health department and officers from the Bidhannagar commissionerate visited several markets in Baguiati and made announcements for people to wear masks. “Most of the markets in Baguiati, Kestopur and other areas off VIP Road are drawing huge crowds. Most are not wearing masks or maintaining any social distancing norms. We carried out a drive today and asked people to wear masks. We will keep doing this for a couple of days before fining traders and shoppers found violating Covid protocols,” said Paranay Kumar Ray, a member of the Bidhannagar civic body's board of administrators in charge of the health department. “The number of cases may have gone down and many have got vaccines. However, we have to keep in mind that the pandemic is far from over. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing is of utmost importance. We have to look around and learn from experiences of countries such as the UK and Thailand,” said Kusum Adhikari, an official of the civic health department. A Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said they were doing whatever they could to educate people about the need to adhere to the Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Calcutta||Nine arrested for operating two fake call centres in Salt Lake||Nine persons were arrested on Monday night for allegedly operating two fake call centres in Salt Lake’s Sector V. An officer of Bidhannagar commissionerate said they had received specific information that a couple of call centres were operating from Sector V that allegedly were duping foreigners by telling them that they were calling from major software providers to help them resolve any issue related to their computer or that they had won an online lottery. Cops first raided a call centre on the second floor of the Matrix Tower in Sector V’s DN block behind Rang De Basanti Dhaba near College More crossing. “We caught five men, including the director, from the office. They were making calls to people in the US, Canada, Australia among others,” said another police official. The police identified the director as Saif Ali, 26, a resident of Kashi Basti Lane in Narkeldanga who had opened the call centre — MS Napsara Infotech — a few years back. The cops then started questioning the arrested men and based on the information another team from Cyber Crime police station in Salt Lake and Sector V police station raided another call centre on the seventh floor of the same building. “We arrested four persons from that office,” said the officer. There too the cops arrested the assistant director of this call centre — Tej Infotech Private Limited — identified as Mohammed Tabrez, 22, a resident of Maheshtala. A senior police official said they had launched a drive against illegal call centres. “We are making regular arrests. This is part of our drive.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-22
11-08-2021||Business||Undid a mistake by rolling back retrospective tax, says Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that the country's economic growth is picking up pace again and the domestic industry needs to enhance its risk-taking appetite, while also noting that the government under him has undone a 'mistake of the past' by rolling back the retrospective tax rule. He also said that taking reforms is a matter of conviction for the government, which is ready to take all risks in the national interest. "We have taken bold decisions. Reforms continued even during the pandemic. The government is doing reforms not out of compulsion but out of conviction," he said while addressing the  Confederation of Indian Industry's annual meeting. "We undid a mistake of the past by removing the retrospective tax. It will increase trust between the government and the industry," he said during the virtual meeting. "The feedback and appreciation from industry in this regard has been great to see," the prime minister added. "Today there is a government in the country which is ready to take the biggest risk in the interest of the nation...GST was stuck for so many years only because the previous governments could not muster up the courage to take political risks...We are not only implementing GST but today we are also witnessing record GST collection," he added. Earlier this week, the Centre passed the retro tax rollback bill in the Parliament that allows the government to withdraw all the tax demands made on asset transfers prior to May 28, 2012, and refund the money collected on this count without any interest, provided the parties concerned take back all their tax cases against the government. Assuring all support to the industry, Modi said that India is receiving record foreign direct investment (FDI) because of reforms done in the last few years. The Prime Minister said that the major responsibility for the success of the self-reliant India campaign lies with the Indian industry. Modi asked the industry to take full advantage of the atmosphere of trust for India's development and capabilities. Highlighting the changes in the approach of the current government and changes in the ways of working of the current setup, he stressed that the new India of today is ready to march with the new world. "India, which was apprehensive of foreign investment at one point of time, is welcoming investments of all types today. Similarly, tax policies used to induce despondency among the investors, the same India can boast of the world's most competitive corporate tax and faceless tax system," he said. He mentioned that the maze of labour laws has been rationalised into four labour codes; and agriculture, which was treated as a mere means of livelihood, is being connected with the markets through reforms. As a result, he said, India is getting record FDI and FPI and forex reserves are also at an all time high level. "There was a time when foreign was synonymous with better. Industry big-wigs understand the consequences of such a psychology. Situation was so bad that even indigenous brands developed with great hard work were advertised with foreign names," he said adding today the trust of the countrymen is with the products made in India and they want to adopt made in India goods. He added that investor response has been tremendous for startups and this signals that India has extraordinary opportunities for growth. India now has 60 unicorns, 21 of them reaching that status in the last few months, he noted. The Prime Minister also emphasized that the government is able to undertake difficult reforms "because for this government, reforms are a matter of conviction not compulsion". Referring to the initiatives taken during the monsoon session like The Factoring Regulation amendment Bill, the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Amendment Bill, he said such measures will give a boost to the government's efforts. Rectifying the mistakes of the past, the government did away with the Retrospective Taxation and the initiative will strengthen the trust between the government and the industry, he said. "Today there is a government in the country which is ready to take the biggest risk in the interest of the nation...GST was stuck for so many years only because the previous governments could not muster up the courage to take political risks...We are not only implementing GST but today we are also witnessing record GST collection," he added. He added that now Indians want made in India goods irrespective of the origin of the company that is producing the goods. On growth of startups in the country, he said India now has 60 unicorns, 21 of them reaching that status in the last few months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
11-08-2021||Business||Sensex ends on flat note amid profit booking at higher levels||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended on a flat note on Wednesday amid profit booking at higher levels. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 28.73 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 54,525.93, while the broader NSE Nifty inched up 2.15 points or 0.01 per cent to 16,282.25. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping around 4 per cent, followed by NTPC, PowerGrid, Reliance Industries and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Auto, Sun Pharma and ICICI Bank were among the laggards. "Following continued selling in broader markets and weak Asian and US peers, Indian indices shed its early gains. However, late recovery helped the market to close the day on a flat note," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Measures taken by BSE to curb excessive price movement in smaller stocks triggered selling pressure in small and mid-cap stocks, while clarity from BSE on limiting its restrictions to penny stocks gave some relief, he noted. "Mainstream sectors succumbed to profit-booking while metal, energy and infra sectors traded against the trend," Nair added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Equities in Europe were in the green in afternoon trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.16 per cent to USD 70.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
11-08-2021||Business||Gadkari pitches for a policy to use RBI's foreign exchange reserves for infrastructure development||Union Road Transport and Highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday pitched for formulating a policy for using the Reserve Bank of India's rising foreign exchange reserves for funding road projects, saying the country needs low cost finance for such infrastructure projects. Addressing a virtual event organised by industry body CII, Gadkari further said that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) should also have a financial arm like the Power Ministry's Power Finance Corporation (PFC). "We have a surplus of dollar reserves in the country. I have decided to talk with the RBI Governor, about how we can formulate a policy by which we can use this foreign exchange reserves for development of infrastructure in the country," he said. The country's foreign exchange reserves surged by USD 9.427 billion to a record high of USD 620.576 billion in the week ended July 30, according to the latest RBI data. Recently, a Parliamentary panel has also suggested that India's foreign exchange reserves have risen substantially in the recent past, and the RBI, with due consideration to the sufficiency of the foreign reserves, may consider the possibility of utilisation of surplus funds to finance long-term road infrastructure projects. "RBI may also look into the feasibility of utilization of the surplus reserves for the creation of a sovereign wealth fund to finance long-term infrastructural assets," it had said. Gadkari pointed out that he is talking to the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the New Development Bank NDB) for infrastructure funding in India, but he is not satisfied by their response. "So, we need some financial institutions, those who can reduce interest cost for infrastructure," he said, adding that the Indian Railways has got Indian Railway Finance Corporation (IRFC), the Power Ministry has got Power Finance Corporation but NHAI does not have any financial arm. "We need one institution, where NHAI stakes are there and financial institution stakes are there. With a joint venture we can formulate the policy," Gadkari suggested. The minister also suggested that in place of a 2 per cent bank performance guarantee, the entire project can be insured and the road ministry's proposal is pending with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and the finance ministry. "So, somewhere there is a problem with financial institutions... Getting cooperation from banks for road projects is not so easily available, because of previous track record, banks are not in a position to support contractors," he noted. Gadkari said the road ministry is planning to raise Rs 1 lakh crore through monetisation of highways projects. "If there are some foreign investors, who are ready to invest in road construction, and ready to give me loans in dollars but hedging will be their responsibility, I am ready to make some new system... to use foreign investment for that (road infrastructure projects)," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
11-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Tata Steel and Axis Bank, amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 149.24 points or 0.27 per cent higher at 54,703.90, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 46.95 points or 0.29 per cent to 16,327.05. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by NTPC, SBI, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex closed 151.81 points or 0.28 per cent higher at its lifetime peak of 54,554.66, while Nifty advanced 21.85 points or 0.13 per cent to 16,280.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 178.51 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be modestly good as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Given the sharp improvement in key economic indicators like GST collection, auto sales volume despite supply disruption and other high frequency indicators like e-way bills in July indicate sustainable rebound in corporate earnings in subsequent quarters. This should aid the market to sustain premium valuations, he noted. US equities ended mostly higher on Tuesday after the Senate passed a USD 1 trillion infrastructure bill. However, he said the spread of the delta variant of coronavirus and its potential adverse impact on global economic recovery remained in focus. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.23 per cent to USD 70.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Eveready appoints Suvamoy Saha as joint managing director||Eveready Industries India Ltd (EIIL) has elevated Suvamoy Saha as the joint managing director of the company in an attempt to put the management in the hands of professionals and accommodate the views expressed by its largest shareholder, the Burman family of Dabur. Saha is at present a non-executive director on the board which he rejoined in May 2020. He had left Eveready a year before after a 36-year stint in the company. Saha was a wholetime director, a position he held from March 2005 till he left in July 2019. In a statement to the stock exchanges, EIIL said Saha would “enhance leadership in the company” in the post pandemic world as it looks for “new growth avenues for long term sustainability”. The induction follows public statements made by the Burmans, who hold a 19.84 per cent stake in Eveready, asking the company to be run by professionals. In an interview to The Telegraph on June 23, 2021, Mohit Burman, vice-chairman of Dabur, had said: “We only want the company be run professionally and this would benefit all shareholders large and small.” Amritanshu Khaitan, who is a promoter of the company, is now the managing director of Eveready, which never had a joint MD post in the past. The Khaitan family holds a 4.77 per cent stake in EIIL. “This is a step towards increasing professional bandwidth of the company which is now on a strong footing and looking forward to a rapid growth,” Khaitan said on Tuesday while commenting on the induction of Saha. The market leader of dry cell batteries also added heft to the fledgling lighting and appliance business by bringing in Mohit Sharma, an ex-Philips professional, as the vice-president of the division. Khaitan said the business should scale up to Rs 500-600 crore in two-three years. “Overall, EIIL should reach a turnover of Rs 2,000 crore by 2025,” he said. It had reported Rs 1,249 crore operating income last fiscal. EIL posted a 7 per cent rise in sales to Rs 282.14 crore and a 32 per cent rise in profit to Rs 31.19 crore, over the same period of the last year, as it continued to post stellar results. The company attributed the performance to robust pent up demand in June as the economy started to open up after restrictions imposed during the second wave in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Latest funding round values CoinDCX at $1.1 billion||Cryptocurrency exchange CoinDCX has entered the burgeoning club of Indian unicorn start-ups after its latest funding round valued the company at $1.1 billion (Rs 8,150 crore). It is the first Indian firm in this business to reach the unicorn status. The crypto exchange, founded in 2018, raised $90 million (Rs 670 crore) in a series C funding round led by former Facebook co-founder Eduardo Saverin’s B Capital Group along with some returning investors — Coinbase Ventures, Polychain Capital, Block.one, Jump Capital among others. The exchange, which has more than 3.5 million users, on Tuesday said the funds raised would be predominantly used to expand business, hire talent and raise awareness around cryptocurrencies. “The funds raised will be allocated to expand and make crypto a popular investment asset class in India and strengthen our workforce that will cater to our growth story,” said Sumit Gupta, co-founder and CEO, CoinDCX. “With the support of the largest institutional backers in both the traditional and digital asset spaces, we will double down our efforts to build the next generation of products, improve our existing product array and strengthen exchange infrastructure and product team,” Gupta said. He added that the exchange plans to enter into partnerships with fintech players and set up a research and development facility. The exchange also plans to introduce offerings for high net worth individuals and enterprises in the coming months through CoinDCX Prime as well as Cosmex, the global trading product of the exchange. The firm anticipates a potential to bring in 50 million Indians into crypto currencies. Unicorns upsurge In the eight months of 2021, already a total of 21 startups have entered the unicorn club (valuation of more than a billion USD) taking the total to 63 till Tuesday according to data compiled by Inc42. BharatPe, Mindtrickle, upGrad and CoinDCX have entered the unicorn club in August 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Equalisation levy irks automobile makers||Auto industry body SIAM on Tuesday said there is a need to clarify the scope of 2 per cent “equalisation levy” in the wake of amendments proposed under the Finance Bill 2021, which could impact foreign automobile manufacturers in India. The levy was originally introduced in 2016 with an eye on taxing transactions arising in a digital economy. In 2020, its scope was expanded to cover non-resident e-commerce operators. It was intended to be imposed on payments made to foreign beneficiaries for digital services provided, the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) said in a statement. According to industry players, the Finance Bill 2021 had proposed some modifications to the equalisation levy provisions, which could expand the scope of the levy manifold. This will potentially make it applicable not only to e-commerce retailers/marketplace operators, but also traditional brick-and-mortar businesses with a fair degree of digitisation. SIAM director-general Rajesh Menon said, “Digitalisation is used in the auto sector as a matter of administrative convenience and for increasing efficiencies — not for taking a final commercial decision on sale and purchase.” He further said actual commercial decisions are offline and done within the overall master agreement in the form of a licence agreement or a joint venture agreement. “Therefore, internal digital system for supply-chain management should not fall within the provisions of equalisation levy.” The new system is slated to come into effect from September 1 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Exporters worried over spike in freight and container charges||Exporters are worried that a spike in freight and container charges will hit shipments as it will make Indian goods costly and erode their competitive advantage. “The industry is worried that if this situation persists, there can be a 5 per cent to 8 per cent increase in the cost of goods from India. Demand for Indian products will slow down due to high cost,” Trade Promotion Council of India (TPCI) said in a statement. New records have been hit in container freight spot rates and a further rise is expected this month. The TPCI said cost per 20 foot container for shipments to US has jumped $6,000 from$1,800 prior to Covid. “Container trading data reveals that during the first three months of 2021, the average prices for 20 feet containers across Europe rose 57 per cent. A surge in demand along with unexpected high volumes and pandemic-related restrictions were the main difficulties that lead to this problem,” Sandip Patel of SLT Food Inc, a US based TPCI member, said. The problem started when economies started entering lockdown during the first half of 2020, while China was recovering from it, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Twitter gets clean chit on IT rules compliance||The Centre told the Delhi high court on Tuesday that Twitter was prima facie in compliance with the new Information Technology Rules by appointing a chief compliance officer (CCO), resident grievance officer (RGO) and nodal contact person on a permanent basis. Justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a petition alleging non-compliance of IT Rules by the US-based microblogging site, sought an affidavit from the Centre to bring its stand on record within two weeks. “Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Contact Person (NCP) and Resident Grievance Officer have been appointed in compliance with the law. That's the e-mail that I've received (from the instructing authority). It’s better to have an affidavit,” additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma said. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, reiterated that the company has appointed permanent officials for the posts of CCO, RGO and NCP. Poovayya said the appointed persons will work on a full-time basis and are fully capable of performing the functions in terms of the law. “Court gave us a long rope. Finally we have rectified the situation. We have permanent people occupying the position,” Poovayya submitted. On July 28, the court had expressed displeasure over Twitter appointing a contingent worker as CCO and said that the social media platform was in non-compliance with the new IT Rules. “I'm giving you a long rope but don't expect the court to do it on and on,” the court had said. The Centre had also claimed that Twitter was acting in “abject non-compliance of the rules”. The Centre said in its affidavit that Twitter failed to comply with India's new IT Rules, which could lead to its losing immunity conferred under the IT Act. The Delhi high court had earlier granted time to Twitter to file an affidavit before it to show compliance with the IT Rules. Petitioner-lawyer Amit Acharya, represented by senior advocate G Tushar Rao, claimed that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance of IT Rules by Twitter when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets. Content check The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyber space, including social media platforms, and were notified in February by the central government. The matter would be heard next on October 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Jindal Steel and Power consolidated net profit jumps over 10 times to Rs 2,516 crore||Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) on Tuesday said its consolidated net profit jumped over 10 times to Rs 2,516 crore during the June 2021 quarter. The company’s net profit after tax from continuing operation had stood at Rs 236 crore a year ago. Total income in April-June 2021 also rose to Rs 10,643.17 crore from Rs 6,519.27 crore in the year-ago period. Total expenses stood at Rs 7,233.55 crore, higher than Rs 6,147.90 crore a year ago. During the June 2021 quarter, it produced 2.01 million tonnes (mt) steel, higher than the 1.67mt in the April-June quarter of 2020. Sales stood at 1.61mt compared with 1.56mt a year ago. “Continued cash generation, declining finance cost, lower capex (capital expenditure) and debt associated with JPL (Jindal Power Ltd) moving out of JSPL’s consolidated books have all contributed to the continued deleveraging in 1QFY22,” it said. Coal India Q1 profit falls 31% Coal India’s first quarter profit declined sequentially even as the miner missed estimates with sales and other income falling. Net profit fell 31 per cent sequentially to Rs 3,169.8 crore in the quarter ended June, the world’s largest coal miner said in an exchange filing. Analysts had expected a profit of Rs 3,973-crore. The company had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 2,079.60 crore in the year-ago period. Consolidated revenue from operations were Rs 25,282.15 crore in reporting quarter. Zomato loss widens Online food delivery platform Zomato on Tuesday reported a widening of its net loss to Rs 360.7 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2021, mainly on account of rise in expenses. The company had suffered a net loss of Rs 99.8 crore for the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. Consolidated revenue from operations stood at Rs 844.4 crore against Rs 266 crore for the same period a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Hinduja Global Solutions sells healthcare services business||Hinduja Global Solutions – the business process management entity of the Hinduja group – has signed a definitive agreement with Baring Private Equity Asia to divest its healthcare services business. The transaction, which is based on an enterprise value of $1.2 billion, is expected to be completed in 90 days, subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals. The business caters to healthcare organisations, laboratories, durable medical equipment firms and pharmaceutical companies.  It offers services such as enrolment and billing, claims adjudication and data management. The vertical has over 20,000 employees across four geographies – India, Philippines, the US and Jamaica – and recorded a revenue of $400 million in  financial year 2021. Hinduja Global Solutions (HGS) will transfer all client contracts, employees and assets including infrastructure related to the healthcare business vertical. HGS in a statement on Tuesday said that it will focus on strengthening its other businesses which include consumer engagement solutions, HGS Digital, HRO/Payroll businesses that support global brands. Services to healthcare clients delivered by HGS Digital and HRO/Payroll businesses will continue to remain with HGS. “We have reached a stage where we could recommend to the promoter to divest stake in this business to unlock value for all HGS stakeholders. We will use the generated funds to strategically invest for the future growth of the organisation.,” said Partha DeSarkar, global CEO, HGS. HGS has reported  revenues of Rs 1550.5 crore in the first quarter of 2021-22, posting a year on year growth of 25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||Business||Reliance Industries Limited  invests in US battery firm Ambri Inc||Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries and US private equity firm Paulson & Co will be leading an investment round of $144 million (roughly Rs 850 crore) in Ambri Inc, a Bill Gates-backed venture that makes batteries for power grids. Reliance group’s recently incorporated green energy venture — Reliance New Energy Solar — is also in talks with Ambri to establish a  lithium-ion battery manufacturing facility in India. Reliance Solar will invest $50 million in the $144million financing round, which Ambri will use to build a manufacturing facility and commercialise its technology, the company said in a statement. The investment, which will give Reliance Solar 42.3 million shares of preferred stock in Ambri, adds another piece to billionaire Mukesh Ambani's energy transition jigsaw. In June, Ambani told shareholders at the Reliance AGM that the group would invest Rs 75,000 crore into clean energy, including four Giga factories. Ambri, which can supply energy storage systems from 10 megawatt-hours to more than 2-gigawatt hours, will make calcium and antimony electrode-based cells that can last over 20 years with minimal degradation and are considered more economical than lithium-ion batteries. The American firm is looking to commercialise its liquid metal grid battery technology by 2022. This technology holds promise to lower costs by about half compared with lithium-ion batteries and also has a breakthrough in safety with rugged operating condition performance. The Reliance unit and Ambri are in discussions for an exclusive collaboration to set up a large-scale battery manufacturing facility in India, which could add scale and further bring down costs for the firm''s green energy initiative, the statement said. In addition to Reliance Solar, Paulson and Gates, the Microsoft co-founder who is Ambri's largest shareholder, investors in the latest round include Fortistar, Goehring & Rozencwajg Associates and Japan Energy Fund. RIL’s entry into the renewable energy business in India will put it in competition with companies such as Adani Green Energy and Goldman Sachs-backed ReNew Power. EV duty plea Volkswagen AG, the world's second-largest carmaker, is calling for lower import duties on electric cars in India to help drive demand , echoing Tesla's recent pitch which has divided the country’s auto industry. Cutting duties on electric vehicles (EVs) even to 25 per cent from current levels as high as 100 per cent  would not pose a “big threat” to domestic players, but would help to drive investment, the German car maker's India head, Gurpratap Boparai,  told Reuters in an interview. “The market for EVs has to be big enough for investments to come in and for that we shouldn’t be placing barriers,”  Boparai said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
11-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha lost over 76 working hours in monsoon session||Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday evening, two days ahead of the scheduled end of the Monsoon session. The Rajya Sabha has lost a total of 76 hours and 26 minutes due to disruptions during the monsoon session. After the session ended the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said, the productivity has been decided as 28 per cent. The average productivity of the previous five sessions was 95 per cent. The Rajya Sabha passed 19 bills this time. The total sitting time available was 102 hours, out of which only 28 hours and 21 minutes were counted as "functional time", said the Rajya Sabha Secretariat in the statement. The department related to the Standing Committees of Rajya Sabha met 17 times, and the average attendance in each of these meetings was 54.45 per cent - the highest ever, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said. At least 406 Zero Hour and Special Mentions were lost due to disruptions. Earlier in the day, amid continued uproar by opposition members, Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for 30 minutes, till 7.04 pm, soon after the house passed a bill for privatisation of state-owned general insurance companies. It was the third adjournment of the day. Before this, the proceedings were adjourned in the morning session till 12 pm and again for 15 minutes till 6.26 pm. When the house reassembled at 6.26 pm, several slogan-shouting opposition members again trooped into the well of the house. The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 moved by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was passed by a voice vote amid the uproar. However, the opposition members kept raising slogans and papers were flung in the air. Union Minister and Leader of the House Piyush Goyal, while thanking the members who participated in the debate and helped in the passage of various bills, demanded strict action against the opposition MPs who created ruckus in the Upper House. He demanded that a high-level committee be formed to look into the behaviour of members who hurt the security staff and tarnished the reputation of the august house. Opposition members continued their protests over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and other issues that have marred the proceedings since the beginning of the session on July 19, and later walked out of the House. "I feel strict action should be taken against the condemnable acts of some erring members.. the dignity of this august house has been lowered as security staff was attacked. Such behaviour will not be tolerated and we condemn it," Goyal said. "We feel that a special committee should be constituted by the chairman to look into all aspects, go deeply into all incidents of violence and take stern steps to avoid such actions in future, so that this house and country is not disrespected in future," the leader of the house said. He said no simple punishment can suffice, as exemplary action should be taken against them to deter members from indulging in such violent acts in the future. Goyal also thanked the members for enabling the passage of 21 bills during this session. On Tuesday, some TMC, Congress, AAP and Left MPs climbed on the House Table which is placed right below the presiding officers' chair and shouted slogans, forcing multiple adjournments. A Congress MP also threw a file towards the Chair. Goyal said that after witnessing the scenes of violent actions by opposition members in this House on Tuesday, the country would give a reply to such parties in the coming times. "The 254th session of the Rajya Sabha which commences on July 19 has now come to a close," deputy chairman Harivansh announced. "The house is adjourned sine die," he said. Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 that restores the states' right to create their OBC list, General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, the National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021. All four bills were already approved by Lok Sabha. Earlier in the day, Lok Sabha was also adjourned sine die.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
11-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Cumulative vaccine doses administered in India cross 52 crore: Health ministry||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has surpassed the 52 crore-mark, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. India took 85 days to touch the figure of 10 crore. It then took 45 days to cross the 20 crore-mark, and 29 days more to reach 30 crore. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore and then 20 more days to cross 50 crore vaccinations on August 6. It surpassed the 51 crore-mark on August 9. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions. India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 eligible to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
11-08-2021||India||Maharashta allows fully vaccinated people to enter malls, restaurants from Sunday||Further relaxing the Covid-19 curbs, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to allow malls and restaurants to remain open till 10 pm with a 50 per cent capacity from August 15 onwards, provided the entire staff and the visitors are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Shops are also allowed to operate till 10 pm. Talking to reporters after the weekly cabinet meeting, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said spas and gymnasiums will also be allowed to function till 10 pm at a 50 per cent capacity on the condition that the entire staff at these establishments has taken both doses of the vaccine. Indoor games will be allowed but cinema halls and places of worship will continue to remain shut until further orders, the minister said. Weddings in open spaces will be allowed with 200 people, while events can take place in closed halls with 100 people or at a 50 per cent capacity of the venue or whichever is less, he said. "Shopping malls, hotels, gyms, spas and shops will be permitted to operate till 10 pm, on the condition that the entire staff at these establishments has taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine," Tope said, adding these places will function at 50 per cent capacity. The state task force on Covid-19 is not in favour of opening schools and colleges from August 17. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is scheduled to meet members of the task force tonight to take a final decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
11-08-2021||India||Parliament passes bills on homoeopathy, National Commission for Indian System of Medicine||Parliament passed the National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021, after the Rajya Sabha gave its approval on Wednesday. The two bills were passed in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. As the House re-assembled at 7.04 pm after a brief adjournment due to disruption by opposition parties, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge protested the presence of marshals in the House, saying women MPs were not "safe". Amid sloganeering and protest by opposition parties, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the NDA government had the mandate to pass legislations and it was doing so. He also condemned "manhandling" of house marshals by opposition members and criticised Tuesday's events when certain opposition party members climbed on the official table. Ayush Minister Sarbananda Sonowal had moved the two bills in the Rajya Sabha which were passed by voice votes after brief discussions. The National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021, proposes to amend the National Commission for Homoeopathy Act, 2020 to provide a medical education system that improves access to quality and affordable medical education. The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeks to repeal the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970 and help make available the Indian system of medicine professionals across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
11-08-2021||India||Congress to raise ‘paper leak’ issue in Assembly, says Hooda||Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday alleged that a series of paper leak cases in the state has forced the youth to take to the streets and his party will raise the issue in the upcoming session of the state Assembly. The Congress has demanded a High Court-monitored CBI probe into alleged leak of question papers for police constable recruitment in Haryana last week. After the exam was cancelled on Saturday, senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala had said this was one of several paper leak incidents during the past six years. "It is the 28th paper which has leaked," he had said. Agitated over the exam cancellation, a number of aspirants took out a protest march in Rewari and Karnal on Tuesday and demanded a high-level probe and action against those responsible for it. The voice of these youth will be vigorously raised in the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha, which begins here on August 20, Hooda said. Hooda, who is Leader of the Opposition in the state, said the Congress Legislature Party meeting will be held on August 19 before the start of the session. "We will discuss all issues on which people of the state want answers from the government. The Congress wants the session to be long but the government's intent does not seem to run a long session," he said. Former chief minister Hooda further said the Congress will also raise the issue of unemployment prominently in the Assembly. "Today, Haryana is facing an unprecedented crisis as unemployment in our state is four times the national average," he said. "Above all, instead of giving jobs to the youth, the government is engaged in scams and cancelling recruitments," he alleged. "We will also seek answers from the government on the terrible situation that the people of the state had to face during the second wave of the Covid pandemic," he said. He alleged the government not only turned its back on the sufferings of people but also ignored deaths due to lack of oxygen, medicine and treatment. "People and media of the state are witness that thousands of people lost their lives due to the negligence and malpractices of the government but it did not help the families suffering from corona, neither in time of need nor after deaths," he said. The Congress leader said farmers have been protesting the Centre's farm laws at Delhi borders for over eight months with their legitimate demands. "Instead of acting as an advocate of the farmers with the central government, the BJP-JJP government in Haryana is engaged in filing false cases against them under the sections of sedition," he said. Hooda said the youth of the country have performed brilliantly in the Olympics and raised the honour of the Tricolor all over the world. "All players who have brought glory to the country should be honoured with appropriate rewards and positions," he said. Javelin thrower gold medallist Neeraj Chopra should be given the rank of Honorary Colonel in the Army, he demanded. "Ravi Dahiya, Bajrang Punia, hockey players should be given DSP post and all participating players of the state should also be given the highest rank and honour according to their achievements," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
11-08-2021||India||Amarinder Singh meets Modi, asks to revoke farm laws||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to immediately initiate steps for the repeal of the controversial farm laws. He also sought amendment to the relevant law for including farmers in free legal aid category, the chief minister's office said. The Punjab CM, who called on the prime minister here late this evening, submitted two separate letters, called for the immediate review and revocation of the three farm laws that have triggered widespread resentment among farmers of Punjab and other states. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders since November 26 last year against the agriculture legislations and have demanded their immediate withdrawal. The chief minister said the farmers' agitation had the potential of posing security threats to Punjab and the country with Pakistan-backed anti-India forces looking to exploit the farmers' discontent with the government, an official statement said. He called for the prime minister's intervention for the expeditious redress of the concerns of farmers. He said the Government of India should explore an enduring solution to end the continued agitation as it was not only impacting economic activities in Punjab but also had the potential to affect the social fabric, especially when political parties and groups take strong positions. Amarinder Singh noted that he had earlier too sought the prime minister's appointment for a meeting with an all-party delegation from Punjab, his office said. He also called for the need to compensate farmers for the management of paddy straw at the rate of Rs 100 per quintal and also to address the fears of DAP shortage, which could aggravate the farmers' problems and the crisis triggered by the farm laws. In another letter, the chief minister stressed that due to the fragmentation of landholdings and persistent disputes with lessees and various market operators and agents, farmers are facing heightened litigation these days that has caused stress on their meagre financial resources. Stressing the need to reduce the farmers' financial burden as a result of such litigation, he noted that the Central Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 provides free legal aid to certain categories of persons, who are perceived to be the vulnerable sections of society. Pointing out that the country's farmers are also very vulnerable, he said they are, at times, compelled to commit suicide due to financial problems, even though they remain proud and prefer to till their land even at the cost of their lives. "It is, thus, the need of the hour to amend Section 12 of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, to include farmers and farm workers in the category of persons entitled to free legal services to pursue and defend themselves in the courts to secure their livelihood, Singh was quoted as saying in the statement. He felt this step would help reduce cases of farmer suicides and ensure better protection of their legal and financial rights. The chief minister urged the prime minister to advise the central ministries dealing with farmer welfare and laws to carry out necessary amendments to the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, in the larger interest of farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Don't raise hopes, when you can't fulfil aspirations: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court Wednesday expressed displeasure against the Centre for not filling up the vacancies in National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) despite making a commitment, saying you should not raise hopes, when you cannot fulfil the aspirations. The top court also directed the states and Union Territories to fill all the vacancies within eight weeks. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy also gave eight weeks to Centre to fill up the remaining three vacancies after noting that the government has filled only four vacancies. It also directed the Centre to do legislative impact study of Consumer Protection Act, 2019 in four weeks saying that the government is always rushing to make the laws but does not do its impact study on the people. The top court was hearing a suo motu case on inaction of the Governments in appointing President and Members/Staff of Districts and State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission and inadequate infrastructure across India. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, appearing for Centre, said that terms of appointment will be as per the recently passed law Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021. The bench said, “If you can appoint four out of six then why not three more as one more vacancy has arisen due to retirement of one of the members in NCDRC. When one has the will to do something, then there is no confusion as such.” Lekhi said that he will use his office to persuade the concerned authority to ensure speedy filling of vacancies. The bench said, “Earlier also you told us that all the vacancies at NCDRC will be filled up but you did not fill it up. Don't raise hopes when you cannot fulfil the aspirations. Consumers are getting no redressal of their grievances due to cases piling up owing to the vacancies at the forum.” We are informed that out of six vacancies stated to be still lying vacant at NCDRC, four vacancies have been filled. Now, three vacancies are three due to the retirement of one of the members. We see no reason why the central government should get more time than given to the states to fill the vacancies. The schedule given to states equally applies to the central government, the top court said. On legislative impact study, the bench told Lekhi, “You can say it is not done. I have full sympathy with you as we have experience that extracting information from the government is a very difficult task. Legislative impact study must be carried out to analyse the impact of law on litigation and people. This is the irony of all the legislation. You never do legislative impact study. It is mostly a post facto analysis.” At the outset, the top court had pulled up the state governments for not filling the status report and affidavits on time about the vacancies in consumer forums and warned that it will summon the chief secretaries of the respective states. It said as per the report of senior advocate Gopal Shankarnarayanan, who is assisting the court as amicus curiae, some of the states have not notified the rules under the Consumer Protection Act. States are still dilly-dallying to notify the Rules. If Rules are not notified in two weeks, then model Rules made by Centre will automatically apply for the respective States, the bench said. It said that in view of the large number of vacancies in consumer forums, it is directing all the states and UTs to advertise all the existing and potential vacancies, if not done, within two weeks. The top court also directed that states and UTs which have not set up selection committees to form such committees within four weeks. The top court had in January said that Consumer rights are "important rights" and non-manning of posts and inadequate infrastructure in district and state consumer commissions across the country would deprive the citizens of redressal of their grievances. The top court had appointed senior advocate Gopal Shankaranarayan and lawyer Aaditya Narain as amicus curiae to assist it in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||BJP member arrested for anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar gets bail||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, arrested in connection with the communal slogans allegedly raised during a protest at the Jantar Mantar here. Metropolitan Magistrate Udbhav Kumar Jain granted relief to Upadhyay, who is an advocate, on a bond of Rs 50,000. The accused was sent to the judicial custody yesterday by a court here, considering that his bail application was pending. A video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar here was widely circulated on social media, following which Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by Bharat Jodo Aandolan' at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, had said the protest was held under the leadership of Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. Upadhyay too denied any involvement in the anti-Muslim slogan shouting incident. The video shows a group of people shouting inflammatory slogans and threatening Muslims during the protest at Jantar Mantar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha passes Constitutional amendment bill on OBC list||A constitutional amendment bill to restore the powers of the states to make their own OBC lists was passed by Parliament on Wednesday. The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed by the Rajya Sabha as 187 members voted in its favour. The bill was passed by the Lok Sabha a day before. Some amendments moved by the Opposition were negated by the Upper House. The bill was passed after a division vote with 187 members voting in favour. No member voted against it. Earlier in the day, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar who moved the bill said the legislation will help restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs which was negated by the Supreme Court. The Rajya Sabha, which has been witnessing a logjam over issues such as Pegasus and farm laws, on Wednesday discussed the bill for about five hours as members from both treasury as well as opposition benches participated in it. As per Article 368 of the Constitution, a constitution amendment bill requires a special majority for passage in both Houses of Parliament. There should be a majority of the total membership of the House and a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of that House present and voting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Free vaccination likely to revive economy: Report||The free vaccination drive rolled out by the government is likely to create a positive impact on the job market and on the overall economy as most respondents believed that it will help them in providing a safe work ecosystem to their employees with steady work opportunities, according to a report. Over 87 per cent of respondents believe that the free vaccination drive can prevent a second reverse migration for these workers as they will also be eligible to get vaccines, according to a report by human resource solutions provider Genius Consultants. Moreover, the report stated that this will help them provide a safe work ecosystem where the inflow of work opportunities is steady. When respondents were asked their opinion on whether the vaccination campaign would improve the unemployment scenario or revive the markets, close to 85 per cent of individuals were hopeful that this would help in bringing promising results. The in-house survey is done online from July 1-31, among 550 business leaders of VP, President, CXO, CEO, CHRO levels and above across industries, including auto and auto ancillary, banking and finance, construction and engineering, education/teaching/training, FMCG, Hospitality, HR Solutions, IT, ITES and BPO, Logistics among others. The survey was conducted in 14 cities across India including Kolkata, Chennai, Mumbai, Bangalore, New Delhi, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Coimbatore, Chandigarh, Jamshedpur Guwahati, Bhubaneswar, and Pune. The report further noted that the pandemic has made individuals hesitant to commute to work with curbs on the movement on public transportation and the fear of catching the virus. Over 82 per cent of the respondents believed that vaccinating the population would significantly reduce this hesitance and would give individuals the confidence of commuting to work carefree, it added. The pandemic has been an extremely challenging time for us as a nation. The government is putting all hands on deck to curb the spread of the virus. Vaccination drives continue to remain the only viable solution to revive the disturbed economies and bring livelihoods back to normalcy," Genius Consultants CMD R P Yadav added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Wasting food equivalent to stealing from poor: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday slammed the government over media reports that India lost Rs 406 crore worth grains due to damage during storage in state-run granaries in the last three years, saying "wasting food is equivalent to stealing from the poor". In a post on Instagram, the former Congress chief shared a screen shot of a media report which stated that data cited in a parliamentary standing committee report has revealed that India lost Rs 406 crore worth of grains procured by the government due to damage during storage in state-run granaries in the past three years. "Wasting food is equivalent to stealing from the poor," Gandhi said in his post, using the hashtag 'GOIwastes'. In a report, the Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution stated that the government should ensure that food grains do not get damaged/spoiled by taking adequate scientific storage measures and fixing responsibilities on officials/officers for accrual of damaged food grains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Sushil Modi accuses Congress of not doing enough for SCs, STs and OBCs||The ruling BJP tried to corner the Congress in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday for allegedly not doing enough for the SCs, STs and OBCs despite ruling the country for decades, and claimed that it was only the governments of which the Jan Sangh or the Bharatiya Janata Party was a part that actually worked for the uplift of the deprived sections of the society. The Upper House of Parliament was debating the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to restore the states' power to prepare their own OBC lists. It has already been cleared by the Lok Sabha. As on the other days of the Monsoon Session of Parliament, the House proceedings were disrupted in the opening hour due to an Opposition uproar over various issues, including the Pegasus snooping row and farm laws. However, the logjam was ended and the House took up the key legislation. “No one else except (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi will work for the SCs, STs and OBCs,” senior BJP leader Sushil Modi said while participating in the discussion initiated by Congress member Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who blamed the government for the delay in bringing the key amendment bill in Parliament. Countering Singhvi, Sushil Modi stressed that the government was quick to bring the bill. To support his point, the BJP leader said the Centre filed a review petition in the Supreme Court on May 13, within eight days of the decision on the matter by the apex court. "How much faster can it be?" he quipped. The Supreme Court dismissed the review petition on July 1. The Centre, Sushil Modi said had made its intention clear in the Select Committee, the Lok Sabha, the Rajya Sabha, in the review petition and on other occasions as well that it does not want to deprive the states of the right to prepare their own OBC lists. “Can any central government deprive the state governments of their rights?” he said as he reeled out the steps taken by different BJP governments at the Centre. Sushil Modi said the Centre's intention regarding the states' powers on OBC lists was always clear, yet there was a ruling by the Supreme Court. The Constitution amendment bill has been brought to restore the states' powers to have their own lists of OBCs for providing reservation, the former deputy chief minister of Bihar said. Hitting out at the grand old party for "not doing enough" for the backward classes despite ruling the country for years, he sought to know why the Congress government did not set up a Backward Classes Commission under Article 340 of the Constitution and rejected the report of the Kaka Kalelkar Commission submitted in 1955. "If there were gaps in the Kaka Kalelkar report, why didn't you set up a new commission?" he asked. Sushil Modi said it was during Moraji Desai's government, when the Jan Sangh was a part of it, that the B P Mandal Commission was formed in 1979. But the commission submitted its report in 1980, when the Congress was in power. "You kept the Kaka Kalelkar report in the cold storage and did not even implement the Mandal Commission report for nine years," he said, adding that it was implemented during the V P Singh government of which the BJP was a part. "In this country, the backward classes have been given their rights by those governments of which the Jan Sangh or the BJP was a part," Sushil Modi said. He also criticised the Congress for not providing constitutional status to the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST) and the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC). The NCST was accorded the constitutional status by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government and in case of the NCBC, it was the Narendra Modi government that did the needful, he pointed out. The BJP leader credited the current government for ensuring reservation for the economically weaker sections among the upper castes. He also sought to corner the Congress for not installing a portrait of B R Ambedkar in the Central Hall of Parliament and not conferring Bharat Ratna on him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Why ‘quiet’ on caste census, Cong asks government||The Congress asked the government on Wednesday why was it ‘quiet’ and ‘running away’ from a caste-based census, which was mooted by a woman MP of the ruling BJP in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday and even by the chief ministers of Bihar and Odisha. A caste-based census is required to assess the exact ground situation because in at least 30 states and Union territories, the reservation for backward classes has crossed the upper limit, the opposition party said. Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha while initiating a debate in the Upper House on the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to restore the states' power to identify and specify the Socially and Economically Backward Classes (SEBCs), which was lost after the Supreme Court's judgment in the Maratha quota case. Asserting that there is a demand for a caste-based census from all quarters, Singhvi said the exercise is needed because the quota for backward classes has exceeded the determined limits in many state. In 30 states and Union territories, it is more than 50 per cent, he said, while referring to Nagaland and Chhattisgarh in particular. Similarly, while there is a 17-per cent quota for the backward classes in jobs, in reality, their percentage is higher, the Congress leader said. “This brings us to an important issue -- a caste census. Why are you running away from a caste census? Your chief minister in Bihar, another chief minister in Odisha and your woman MP said you are going to do this. Why is the government keeping quiet today?” he asked. Singhvi also asked why the government is not saying if it would bring a caste census or not. “The reason why the government is quiet is that the reservation might increase from 22 per cent to 35 per cent,” he said. Singhvi also said the Congress-led UPA government had brought a caste census in 2011 but it had gaps. "There were gaps, I accept that. But we tried," he said. Speaking about the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Congress leader said it is important because 671 castes would have lost reservation if the amendments were not made. He said the government had several opportunities to rectify the law brought in 2018, adding, “Due to arrogance and adamancy, you did not do it.” Singhvi said even a Parliamentary Select Committee had suggested the amendments to the government to bring more clarity but it was ignored and thereafter, the apex court interpreted it wrongly. “You committed a mistake, even the apex court committed a big mistake. The court ignored the intent of Parliament,” he said. The Congress leader said the government should incorporate one more line in the amendment bill that it will be effective from 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Oxygen deaths: Mandaviya counters Sisodia's claims on not receiving inquiry letter||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday questioned Delhi's government's claim of not having received any letter from the Centre inquiring about deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second Covid-19 wave and tweeted the communication sent by his ministry on July 26 in this regard. Sharing a snapshot of the mail sent to the Delhi government on Twitter and addressing Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Mandaviya said it is not too late and he can send the data by August 13 so that the health ministry can reply to Parliament on the issue. "Here is the copy of the mail sent by my ministry to the Delhi government on 26th July. It's not too late yet! By August 13 you can send the data so that we can answer the question in Parliament. After reviewing with your officers, please send the necessary data as soon as possible," Mandaviya tweeted. Sisodia had on Tuesday alleged that the city government had not received any letter from the Centre inquiring about deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second Covid-19 wave. The Delhi minister, however, said they have decided to share all the details with the central government. "I read in newspaper reports that the Centre is saying that it has asked state governments to share the number of oxygen-related deaths. "The Delhi government has not received any letter on oxygen-related deaths. When you (Centre) have not written any letter, how can you say that states are not informing you? We had formed an inquiry committee but you did not allow it (probe) to happen through the Delhi LG," he had said. The central government at a press briefing on Tuesday said only one state has till now reported "suspected" deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of Covid-19 after the Centre sought the data from them on such fatalities following the raising of the issue in Parliament. "When the question was raised in Parliament, states were specifically asked this question and as per reports received only one state mentioned suspected death and no state has so far said that there were deaths because of oxygen shortage," Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal had said while replying to a query. Last month, opposition parties had hit out at the government for informing the Parliament that no deaths due to oxygen shortage have been specifically reported by states and Union Territories during the second Covid-19 wave. The Centre recently had sought from states and Union Territories data on deaths in connection with oxygen shortage during the second of Covid-19 earlier this year and the information was to be collated and presented in Parliament before the Monsoon session ends, official sources had said. According to the sources, 13 states and UTs including Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have responded to the query by Tuesday. They said only Punjab has reported four "suspected" deaths due to oxygen shortage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Kashmir: 9 properties of Kashmiri Pandits restored to original owners, says govt||The government is taking steps to restore ancestral properties of Kashmiri Hindu migrants who had to run away from Kashmir in the wake of terrorist violence there and so far nine properties have been given back to the rightful and original owners, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said under the Jammu and Kashmir Migrant Immovable Property (Preservation, Protection and Restraint on Distress Sales) Act, 1997, District Magistrates (DMs) of concerned districts in Jammu and Kashmir are the legal custodians of the immovable properties of the migrants, who take suo motto action on eviction proceedings in cases of encroachment, while the migrants can also request DMs in such cases. Regarding restoration of properties to its rightful and original owner, nine properties have been restored, as per the information provided by the government of Jammu and Kashmir, he said in a written reply to a question. Rai said as per the information provided by the government of Jammu and Kashmir, after the abrogation of Article 370, a total of 520 migrants have returned to Kashmir for taking up the jobs under the Prime Minister's Development Package-2015. Replying to another question, the minister said after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, all provisions of the Constitution have been made applicable to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which necessitated changes in existing laws in J-K by Adaptation Orders so as to conform with the provisions of the Constitution. He said as per the adapted land laws of Jammu and Kashmir, the government may, by notification in the official gazette, allow transfer of land for public purposes such as education, healthcare and charitable purpose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||How To Build a Data Science Portfolio in 2022 - Prepare for Your Dream Job||In recent years, data science has been applicable in every industry. From preparing data that can be analysed, to aggregating data to receive insights that can help organizations perform better - a data scientist's work is varied and in demand. Therefore, candidates looking to work in the field can opt for a data analytics course with placement. Interested individuals or even working professionals who wish to change careers can learn data science from Imarticus Learning. The institute provides online courses in data science and analytics as well as machine learning and prepares students for the professional sphere. To land a job as a data scientist, every candidate needs a portfolio. A data science portfolio documents the candidate's skills and abilities. It can be accessed by employers to understand what experience the candidate has. Build the Best Data Science Portfolio Students pursuing a data science course or a PGA in data analytics will need to put together a portfolio before interviews. This can be done in just 5 steps. Step 1: Make a List of All Available Jobs Once a student has completed the data science program or DSP, they can begin to look for jobs. Imarticus Learning is an institute that offers placements. Students need to check what the jobs require and prepare the portfolio accordingly. Step 2: Select Project Ideas The best courses in data science will train students to come up with innovative projects. Projects should showcase the candidate's problem-solving skills and the ability to formulate insights that are actionable from a volume of data. Step 3: Find Datasets To solve issues and create actionable insights, datasets are necessary. While creating the portfolio, the candidate must look for messy datasets that need to be cleaned up, especially because this is one of the primary tasks of a data scientist and most companies will require such skills. There are many data repositories available online that provide datasets for free. Step 4: Showcase and Document Skills While completing the project, candidates should remember to thoroughly document all actions taken. It is necessary to choose a project that allows one to showcase every skill, especially those that potential employers require. The focus should be on problem-solving through various approaches, researching supplemental information, and using data analytics to create actionable insights. Step 5: Expand to Include More Projects Those who learn data science will be trained in advanced skills like machine learning and data visualization. To showcase such a range, a candidate should include more than one project in their portfolio. The ability to handle complex projects will impress employers. Things to Remember While Creating A Data Science Portfolio A data science portfolio needs to be effective and comprehensive. To create such a portfolio, students and potential candidates should keep in mind the following points. Completion of a data analytics course with placement from Imarticus Learning will open many doors. Students will be able to tackle industry-level projects and provide documentation on their portfolios. A well-planned portfolio will ensure a secure job as a data scientist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Hamara Hind Foundation organises All India Conference on Role of Khanqahs/Sufis in National Integration with Sufi Islamic Board||Hamara Hind Foundation along with the Sufi Islamic Board, both known for promoting nationalist sentiments among the Muslim community in India, organised an All-India Conference on "Role of Khanqahs/ Sufis in National Integration" on August 9, 2021 at the India Islamic Cultural Centre, Lodhi Road, New Delhi. H.E Arif Mohammad Khan, Hon'ble Governor of Kerala graced the occasion as Chief Guest. He spoke about the true meaning of Islam and duties of a Muslim. He added that Islam had always promoted peace. The true Muslim is the one who had love and compassion. Invaders and barbarians who committed atrocities should not be identified as “Kaum”.  He also warned the Muslims to be cautious of those elements who peddled a narrative of ‘Islam in Danger”.  He criticised and condemned in very strong words, those who killed innocents in the name of Jihad. He explained that those who recognise the true meaning of Allah will lead life of Tawhid and drew parallels with the concept of Aham Brahmasmi. Ambar Zaidi, activist and film producer, was another prominent speaker said that Sufi contribution to India was overlooked. She also spoke about the role of Muslim women during the freedom struggle and mentioned the example of Begum Hazrat Mahal, who fought the British rule valiantly during the first war of independence in 1857. She also said that there was a need to organise more sessions like the one organised by Hamara Hind to promote the nationalist and the liberal voices within the Indian Muslim community. Laila Mostafai  from Iran praised India was a multireligious, multicultural and multi-ethnic countries and extolled the values of Indian Sufi traditions. SM Khan, a senior Indian Information Service officer of Government of India, was also one of the dignitaries at the event. He said that Sufism had a great impact on India. The message of Islam and Sufism will only succeed if the other 80% makes a similar initiative.  He also said that Muslims were not represented adequately in participatory democracy and Sufism was capable of providing connectivity between religion and foster national integration. Other prominent speakers were Syed Khawaja Nazimuddin Chisti Hussain Kazmi and Riyasat Miya Sarkar who urged all the Sufi’s to understand the Islam is religion of Peace and promote only unity and nothing else. Visit - www.HamaraHindFoundation.com  #HamaraHind #Sufism||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha debates Constitution amendment bill on OBC quota ||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday took up a Constitution amendment bill to restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs for reservation in jobs and educational institutions, ending a three-week deadlock between the government and the opposition in the House over various issues. Opposition parties disrupted proceedings in the Upper House of Parliament to press their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy and the farmers' agitation ever since the Monsoon session started on July 19. Moving the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar said the bill will help restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs which was negated by the Supreme Court. He thanked the prime minister and various parties and their members for evolving a consensus to take up the important bill that seeks to create history by providing reservation to other backward classes in the country. The minister said this will help 671 communities, almost one-fifth of the total OBCs in the country, get reservation in jobs and educational institutions, he said. "I want to thank the parties and members of the House for building a consensus to discuss the bill that is in the interest and welfare of OBCs. With this consensus approach, we are moving towards creation of history in the future," Kumar said. He also thanked the prime minister for taking a number of measures for the welfare of other backward classes (OBCs) and for giving constitutional status to the central list of OBCs. The minister said the Constitution amendment bill is among the series of steps taken for the welfare of OBCs and for providing them reservation. "This amendment is necessary to restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs for providing reservation. This reservation was removed by the Supreme Court while ascertaining the reservation criteria and for clarifying it, this Constitution amendment bill has been brought now," he said. "If the OBC lists of states were removed, nearly 671 communities which were included in the state lists would not get the benefit of reservation in educational institutions and appointment of jobs. It would have affected one-fifth of the OBC communities," Kumar said. This will help restore the federal structure to help towards the welfare of other backward classes, he said, claiming that the government had earlier made it clear during the earlier Constitution amendment that it will not affect the reservation for OBCs in states. He said the earlier Constitution amendment bill accorded constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) and gave it powers to look into complaints against OBCs. The reservation of 20 per cent to OBCs in medial and dental colleges will help provide almost 4,000 additional seats in medial and dental colleges, the minister said. This has helped instill confidence in OBC students, he said. Earlier, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge urged deputy chairman Harivansh to increase the time for the debate on the bill from the prescribed three hours to more and leader of the House Piyush Goyal agreed to have the discussion for four hours. However, Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi urged the opposition members to allow the House to function beyond 6 PM for taking up all the agenda items listed for the day. The legislative business of the House includes a few more bills that have already been passed by the Lok Sabha. RJD's Manoj Jha and SAD member Naresh Gujral said members of smaller parties should get more time to speak on this all-important bill and urged the chair to consider giving them more time. The Lok Sabha had on Tuesday passed the bill ending the logjam by Opposition parties, who backed the legislation but demanded the removal of the 50 per cent cap on reservation and many of them also called for a caste-based census. The Supreme Court had dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' powers to notify socially and economically backward classes (SEBCs) for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Delhi Court discharges Kejriwal, Sisodia, others in Chief Secretary assault case||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged Kejriwal, his deputy Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs in the case related to the alleged assault on the then chief secretary Anshu Prakash in 2018. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta, however, ordered framing of charges against two AAP MLAs - Amantullah and Prakash Jarwal - in the case. Arvind Kejriwal and Manish Sisodia both echoed similar sentiments while reacting to the judgement, saying the truth has won. Sisodia also accused the BJP-led Central government of hatching a conspiracy against Kejriwal. Kejirwal took to twitter saying "Satyamev jayate " (truth has won) following the court decision. "It is a day of victory of justice and truth. The court said that all allegations were false and baseless. CM has been acquitted today in that false case. We had been saying from day one that allegations re false," Sisodia said at an online press conference. "It was a conspiracy hatched by PM Modi and Centre government led by BJP and the fake case was lodged on their instructions," he charged. "This is the first incident when an elected PM has tried to derail the government of an elected chief minister in this manner. Public has elected both governments, you should not be busy in conspiracies and spying on opposition governments. PM and BJP should apologise to the countrymen for this," he added. The criminal case relates to the alleged assault on Prakash during a meeting at Kejriwal's official residence on February 19, 2018 and besides the chief minister and his deputy, 11 AAP MLAs were also made accused in the case. Kejriwal, Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs were granted bail in October 2018. Khan and Jarwal were granted bail earlier by the high court. The alleged assault had triggered a bitter tussle between the Delhi government and its bureaucrats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Ten dead, over 30 feared buried under debris as major landslide hits Himachal Pradesh||Ten people were killed, 13 rescued and several others feared buried under debris after a landslide trapped a bus and other vehicles in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district on Wednesday, officials said. Ten bodies have been recovered so far, while 13 injured have been pulled out of the rubble, Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq said. He said the rescue operation is underway to locate several other persons trapped under the debris. Earlier, a police officer in Bhawanagar said around 25 to 30 were trapped under the rubble. One of the deceased has been identified as Rohit Kumar of Kayao village in Rampur area of Shimla district,state Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. The landslide and shooting of stones occurred at Chaura village on national highway number five in Nigulsari of Nichar tehsil in Kinnaur district at around noon, he said. The official said among the injured is Mahinder Pal, the driver of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, which was trapped under the debris. The identity of others is being ascertained, he added. The injured have been shifted to Bhawanagar community health centre (CHC), Mokhta said. He said the HRTC bus, which was on its way from Reckong Peo to Haridwar via Shimla, a car and a truck lie damaged near the vicinity of the landslide area. As per the information provided by a police officer in Bhawanagar, around 25 to 30 are still trapped under the debris. The rescue operation is on to locate the trapped persons, he added. The State Disaster Management Authority has requisitioned the NDRF from Nurpur for conducting the search and rescue operation, the police officer said. District administration officials, search and rescue team comprising members of local police, homeguards, NDRF, ITBP, Quick Response Team (Police) and Medical Team are at the incident site, he said. Ten ambulances, four earth removers, 52 personnel of the ITBP's 17th Battalion, 30 personnel of police and 27 NDRF personnel are carrying out the rescue operation, he added. Earlier, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur told the state assembly that there are reports that 50-60 people are feared trapped under the debris, but the exact number was not known. He said Union Home Minister Amit Shah has talked to him and the topmost priority as of now is to rescue those trapped under the debris and provide them the best possible treatment. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also spoke to Thakur over the incident. "PM @narendramodi spoke to Himachal Pradesh CM @jairamthakurbjp regarding the situation in the wake of the landslide in Kinnaur. PM assured all possible support in the ongoing rescue operations," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. Union Home Minister Shah also spoke to Thakur to take stock of the situation arising due to the landslide The home minister also directed the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) to provide all assistance to the Himachal Pradesh government in rescue and relief operations. Thakur also told the assembly that an Army official called him and extended help. A helicopter is also being arranged for the rescue operation, the chief minister said. He said the landslide occurred when there was no rainfall in the area at that time. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq told PTI that several vehicles, including the HRTC bus carrying over 40 passengers, were buried under the debris. Several people have been killed in landslides in the state this monsoon season. Earlier on July 25, nine people were killed and three others injured in multiple landslides near Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district. Similarly on July 27, at least eight people died, two were injured and two went missing in flash floods triggered by a cloudburst over the Tozing Nullah in Udaipur of Lahaul-Spiti district. Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur had informed the state assembly on August 4 that a total of 218 people have died and 12 were missing in Himachal Pradesh this monsoon season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Dalit girl rape: HC to hear plea on Sept 27 for FIR against Rahul Gandhi||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said it will hear on September 27 the plea seeking registration of FIR against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for allegedly revealing the identity of a 9-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi, by publishing a photograph with her parents on Twitter. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh refused to issue notice on the public interest litigation (PIL) by Makarand Suresh Mhadlekar at this stage and asked the parties to keep 1-2 pages of submissions ready on next date . Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, told the court that the tweet in question has been removed as it was found to be in violation of the platform's own policy. The account has been locked and the tweet is not available, Poovayya said. Counsel for Mhadlekar, advocate Gautam Jha, however, responded that he disputed Twitter's stand and urged the court to call for an affidavit. "If this is the attitude, we are not issuing notice," the court remarked as it proceeded to adjourn hearing. Senior advocate R S Cheema appeared for Rahul Gandhi. In his petition, Mhadlekar, a social activist, said that by posting the photograph with the parents of the child victim, Gandhi violated the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which prohibit the disclosure of identity of minor victims of sexual offences. It is alleged that Gandhi was attempting to take political mileage out of the unfortunate incident . The plea also seeks initiation of appropriate legal action against Gandhi by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The minor Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped, murdered and cremated by a crematorium's priest in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Lok Sabha speaker pained over House not running smoothly during Monsoon session||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Wednesday expressed pain that the House did not run smoothly during the Monsoon session. Addressing the media after the House was adjourned sine die (for an indefinite period), he said members holding placards, raising slogans in the Well of Lok Sabha was not in accordance with its traditions. 'Lok Sabha functioned only 21 hours during the entire Monsoon session and its productivity was at 22 per cent," Birla said. Lok Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, bringing an end to the stormy Monsoon session which was scheduled to conclude on August 13. Opposition protests over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and other issues had continuously marred the proceedings since the start of the session on July 19. The Question Hour witnessed disruptions on most of the days during this session, while the House managed to pass a raft of bills, including the Constitution amendment bill that will allow states to make their OBC lists. Birla also informed that the construction of new Parliament building is expected to be completed before August 15 next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Parliamentary panel not to push for lowering age limit of juveniles in serious cases||A key parliamentary panel has decided not to push for lowering the age limit to 16 years from 18 years for juveniles involved in serious POCSO cases after the government asserted that existing laws are adequate to deal with heinous crimes committed by those in this age group. The government's response comes based on an observation of the parliamentary standing committee on Home Affairs led by Rajya Sabha MP and Congress leader Anand Sharma which noted that there have been a large number of cases under the POCSO Act where the age of the juveniles has been below the threshold age for applicability of the law. "The Committee believes that minor sexual offenders may commit more serious and heinous crimes if left untreated/uncounselled. "Therefore, it is very important to relook at these provisions because more and more juveniles are getting involved in such crimes. The Committee, therefore, recommends that the MHA may take up with MoW&CD to review the current age limit of 18 years and see if it can be reduced to 16 years for the applicability of the POCSO Act, 2012," the panel noted. In response, the Women and Child Development Ministry informed that the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, (JJ Act), 2015 which is the primary legislation for children in need of care and protection (CNCP) and children in conflict with law. "Child accused of crime under POCSO Act is protected under the provisions of JJ Act, 2015 based on the principle of restorative justice. The JJ Act, 2015 empowers Juvenile Justice Board to decide upon matters of children in conflict with law. Further, offences committed by the children have been categorised as petty, serious and heinous offences," the WCD Ministry said in its response. "The JJ Act, 2015 also includes a procedure to decide upon cases where children above the age of 16 years have been alleged to commit a heinous offence," the WCD ministry added. The parliamentary panel said it does not wish to pursue the matter in view of the government's reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi questions PM's Ujjwala scheme||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday attacked the Modi government over the issue of high prices of cooking gas and said if the government is honest about its Ujjwala scheme it should give subsidy to the poor and reduce inflation. Her attack on the government came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched Ujjwala 2.0 -- the second phase of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) -- by virtually presenting free LPG connections to some beneficiaries in Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh, where assembly elections are scheduled early next year. "Ninety per cent of the cylinders given under Ujjwala are lying in disuse and women are forced to cook using firewood because the BJP government has doubled the rates of a cylinder in the last seven years and reduced subsidy to a negligible amount," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "If the government is honest about Ujjwala then it should give subsidy to the poor and reduce inflation," the Congress general secretary said and tagged a media report on the problems being faced by the poor due to rising prices of cooking gas. The Congress on Tuesday had said the Ujjwala scheme has proven to be a "hollow gimmick" of the government with an domestic cooking gas cylinder costing Rs 888, and demanded that its price be halved to the level it was in 2014 during the UPA rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||New system of mentioning cases put in place to ensure senior lawyers are not given priority: SC||The Supreme Court Wednesday said the new system of mentioning cases for urgent hearings before apex court officials instead of its benches directly has been put in place to ensure that senior lawyers are not given special priority over their junior colleagues. "We do not want to give any special priority to the senior lawyers and deprive the junior lawyers of their opportunities. So this system was made, where all can make the mention before the mentioning Registrar", a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said when lawyer Prashant Bhushan raised the issue. Bhushan, who was appearing on behalf of NGO Common Cause' in connection with a PIL related to a coal scam, said matters keep languishing for months despite being mentioned before the officers for urgent listing before benches. "Even after urgent memos are filed, matters are languishing", the lawyer said. "First you go to the mentioning Registrar, and if it is disallowed, your right to mention before the bench is automatic, the bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, said, adding that this practice ensures that no lawyer gets the special priority. CJI Ramana has discontinued the practice of allowing direct mentioning of cases for urgent listing before the benches and has instead asked the lawyers to mention their cases before the designated official. Bhushan said the rejection was not the issue, the point was even if the mentioning is allowed, the case does not get listed before the bench for hearing. The CJI asked Bhushan to bring a specific case to his notice for necessary action. You can automatically mention it if it is rejected. Present a specific case I will look into it, the CJI said. Lawyer M L Sharma also raised the same issue of non-listing of cases despite mentioning before the designated court official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu hits out at Opposition ruckus in Parliament, breaks down||Expressing deep anguish over some Opposition MPs climbing on the table in the House, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said he couldn't sleep because of the sacrilege in the "temple of democracy". Referring to Tuesday's events, Naidu said he struggled to find a provocation or reason for the low in the "august House". Parliament, the apex legislature of the country is regarded as the "temple of democracy", he said. The table area where the officers and reporters of the House, the secretary general and the presiding officer are seated is considered the holy sanctum sanctorum of the House, an emotional Naidu said as the Rajya Sabha assembled for the day. "I rise in deep anguish to place on record the way this august House is being subjected to sacrilege and that too propelled by a sense of competition among some sections of the House since the commencement of this monsoon session," the Rajya Sabha chairman said. There were ugly scenes in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday as Opposition MPs climbed on the officials' table, waved black cloth and threw files when the House began a discussion on the farmers' protest against new reform laws. Several MPs stood on the table where the parliamentary staff sits right below the chair, while others crowded around it shouting anti-government slogans. A few members squatted on the table for over one-and-half hours during which proceedings were adjourned multiple times. No sooner was a discussion on the farmers' issues called, MPs belonging to Opposition parties including the Congress and the TMC trooped into the Well shouting slogans seeking withdrawal of the controversial farm reform legislations. According to Naidu, a certain degree of sacredness is attached to the place. In temples, devotees are allowed only up to the sanctum sanctorum and not beyond, he said, adding that entering the area is itself an act of sacrilege. "I am distressed by the way this sacredness has been destroyed yesterday." While some members sat on the table, others climbed on it, perhaps to be more visible, he said. "I have no words to convey my anguish and to condemn such acts. As I spent a sleepless night last night, I struggled to find the provocation or reason for forcing this august House to hit such a low yesterday," he said. Naidu said a discussion on agricultural problems and solutions' was listed for discussion on Tuesday, further to a broad agreement in the House to discuss the plight of farmers. While the Chairman was making the remarks, several Opposition members entered the Well to raise slogans on different issues. However, Naidu continued making his observations amid the uproar. "Over the years, when Notices of Motions' of different kind are admitted by the Chair, the language to be used in the List of Business' is drafted in such a way that it is acceptable to all sections of the House without denting the thrust of the issue to be discussed. It happened yesterday too," he said. "I find it difficult to understand as to how the way the subject was listed in the List of Business for yesterday would have prevented any member to raise any issue concerning the farm sector, including the three farm Bills that some members were keen to raise in the House and even demanding their withdrawal," Naidu said. Tuesday, he added, was a golden opportunity for members to have gone on record with their positions on all issues relating to the plight of the famers. But it was not to be as the sole intention seemed to be to not allow the House to function. On Tuesday, when the Chair announced a discussion on farmers' issues, Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh cited a ruling by the Chair in 2015 and said his notice for calling attention motion was converted into a short duration discussion without taking the sense of the House. This, he said, was a unilateral decision. Naidu also expressed his concern at some MPs shooting the "sad moments of sacrilege" in the House and posting them on social media. While doing so, they only ended up showing to the people the extent to which the House could degenerate to due to the new found competitive and aggressive disruption by some sections, he said. "It was very sad indeed. I am deeply anguished and so must be the nation and well wishers of our parliamentary democracy," Naidu observed. As chairman of the House, he said he was "scared to visualise the implications and consequences of such competitive acts of sacrilege in our temple of democracy". Naidu asked the members to seriously reflect on what happened on Tuesday and explore remedies if any. Failure to do so would certainly render our parliamentary democracy irrelevant. "I would like to remind all of you that we begin to celebrate the 75th year of our independence in a few days from now. The choice before each one of you is very clear. It is either to be the best parliamentarian or the worst disruptor," he added. Naidu also said that "some people" had complained that Rajya Sabha TV did not broadcast what happened in the House on Tuesday. "I don't know why Rajya Sabha TV not showing. This also can be shown. I have no problem," he said. As Opposition members kept raising slogans, the proceedings were adjourned till 12 noon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||Canada extends ban on direct passenger flights from India till September 21||Canada has again extended its ban on arriving passenger flights directly from India till September 21 due to the risks posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the federal transport ministry has said. In April, Canada banned all direct flights to and from India when the second COVID-19 wave hit India. The date of reopening has been postponed many times. "Protecting the health and safety of Canadians continues to be our top priority. After reviewing public health data, we have decided to extend the direct flight ban between Canada and India until September 21, 2021," Omar Alghabra, Minister of Transport of Canada, tweeted on Tuesday. "The Government of Canada has suspended flights from India until September 21, 2021. During that period, passengers who travel to Canada from India via an indirect route will need to obtain a pre-departure negative COVID-19 molecular test result from a third country before continuing their journey to Canada," Transport Canada said in a statement on Monday. "Travellers who have previously tested positive for COVID-19 must provide proof of a positive COVID-19 molecular test conducted between 14 and 90 days before departure, instead of a negative COVID-19 molecular test. This proof must be obtained in a third country before the continuation of the journey to Canada. You might need to seek entry and stay in a third country for at least 14 days," it said. Also, the Canadian government continues to closely monitor the epidemiological situation and will be working closely with the Government of India and aviation operators to ensure appropriate procedures are put in place to enable a safe return of direct flights as soon as conditions permit, the release said. "Based on the latest public health advice from the Public Health Agency of Canada, Transport Canada is extending the Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) that restricts all direct commercial and private passenger flights to Canada from India until September 21, 2021, at 23:59 EDT. All direct commercial and private passenger flights to Canada from India are subject to the NOTAM. Cargo-only operations, medical transfers or military flights are not included," it said. The ban, however, does not apply to cargo operations, medical transfers, or military flights. They are allowed to go directly between the two countries. All direct commercial and private passenger flights are only suspended. India saw a single day rise of 38,353 coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,20,36,511, while the active cases have declined to 3,86,351, the lowest in 140 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,29,179 with 497 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders meet to evolve strategy on Pegasus, other issues||Opposition leaders from various parties, including the Congress, the DMK and the Trinamool Congress, met on Wednesday to evolve a joint strategy on the Pegasus snooping row and other issues. About 14 parties were represented at the meeting held in the chamber of leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Opposition sources said. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also attended the discussions. The parties whose leaders were present at the meeting also included the Samajwadi Party, the Shiv Sena, the National Conference, the NCP, CPM, RJD, CPI, IUML, RSP, VCK,and the LJD. Besides, Punjab MPs from the Congress and the Akali Dal staged a protest in Parliament complex in support of farmers seeking a repeal of the new agri laws. The Lok Sabha functioned normally for the first time on Tuesday when members of the Opposition participated in the discussion on the Constitution Amendment bill to allow states to have their own lists of OBCs. The Opposition has been demanding a discussion in Parliament on the Pegasus snooping issue and have been disrupting the proceedings of the House for the past three weeks in support of their demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||DCGI approves study on mixing of Covaxin and Covishield doses||India's drug regulator has given approval for a study to be conducted by the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, in south Indian state Tamil Nadu on mixing of COVID-19 vaccines Covaxin and Covishield, official sources said on Wednesday. An expert panel of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on July 29 had recommended granting permission for conducting the study. The trial will involve 300 healthy volunteers. "The aim of the study is to assess the feasibility on whether a person can be given two different vaccine shots -- one each of Covishield and Covaxin -- to complete the inoculation course," a source said. Separately, a recent study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) involving 98 people, 18 of whom had inadvertently received Covishield as the first dose and Covaxin as the second in Uttar Pradesh, showed that combining these two COVID-19 vaccines elicited better immunogenicity than two doses of the same vaccine. The study also found that immunisation with combination of Covishield and Covaxin was safe and the adverse effects were also found to be similar when compared to the same dose regimen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||India logs over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 497 casualties in a day||India logged 38,353 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,20,36,511, while the active cases have declined to 3,86,351, the lowest in 140 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,29,179 with 497 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases comprise 1.21 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands 97.45 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,157 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,77,962 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 48,50,56,507. The daily positivity rate was recorded 2.16 per cent.It has been less than three per cent for the last 16 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,12, 20,981 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 51.90 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 497 new fatalities include 152 from Kerala and 137 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,29,179 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,201 from Maharashtra, 36,848 from Karnataka, 34,367 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,775 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,252 from West Bengal and 18,004 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||Dalit man hangs himself to death in Punjab village||A 39-year-old belonging to the Dalit community allegedly hanged himself to death at a village in this district on Tuesday leaving behind a note in which he claimed that four people had forced him to take the extreme step, police said. The man, a labourer, had recently alleged that some men had kidnapped his wife. An FIR has been registered in connection with the death of the man, SHO of Lakhewali police station, Shimla Rani said. Asked about the man recently alleging that some men had kidnapped his wife, the police official said, "All of this is being investigated". His daughter had complained to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) about "police inaction" in the alleged kidnapping. Upon receiving the complaint, the NCSC issued a notice to the Deputy Commissioner and Senior Superintendent of Police, Muktsar, seeking an action-taken report within 15 days. Following the suicide by the Dalit man on Tuesday, the commission has asked the authorities to submit an action-taken report by August 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||UP's efforts to bury riot cases to come under higher legal scrutiny||The Uttar Pradesh government’s effort to get the Muzaffarnagar riot cases against two BJP ministers, a party legislator and a Hindutva leader withdrawn is expected to come under higher legal scrutiny following multiple directives issued by an exasperated Supreme Court on Tuesday. The apex court said no state or Union Territory could withdraw criminal cases against politicians without the prior consent of the high court concerned. Judges dealing with criminal cases against political leaders cannot be transferred out of their posts, the court added. A bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant asked the high courts to examine the withdrawal of cases against politicians since September 16, 2020. It also asked the registrars-general of all high courts to submit a chart of judges, cases pending and disposed-of cases pending against politicians in the special courts. The Yogi Adityanath government had petitioned a court in December 2020 seeking the withdrawal of cases against the politicians accused of involvement in or provoking the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 in which over 60 people were killed. The withdrawal petitions are still pending. On Tuesday, the Muzaffarnagar riot cases figured among those mentioned in the Supreme Court by senior advocate and amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria. He said the Uttar Pradesh government had sought to withdraw 76 cases against elected representatives, including the Muzaffarnagar riot cases against Sangeet Som, Kapil Dev, Suresh Rana and Sadhvi Prachi. Dev and Rana are ministers and Som a BJP MLA while Prachi is a Hindutva proponent. Since a judgment in 2017 on a PIL filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyaya, the top court has been monitoring the completion of criminal trials against lawmakers within a year by setting up special courts. On Tuesday, the CJI expressed strong displeasure at the conduct of the Union government in taking the steps needed to comply with the directives issued by the court since 2017 to expedite such trials. Justice Ramana said: “We don’t know what’s happening. All these status reports… we only read in the newspapers. Copies are not submitted to us. We get the copies the evening before. We don’t know anything.” The CJI told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta: “When this matter started, we were assured that the government was very serious about this issue and wanted to do something. But nothing has happened. No progress. When you’re reluctant to even file status reports, what can you expect us to say?” The court made the observation after being informed by amicus curiae Hansaria that the CBI had not yet filed a status report on the trials against lawmakers and former lawmakers in which the CBI is the prosecuting agency. The Enforcement Directorate had filed the status report in money-laundering offences. The CJI pointed out that the court had asked the Centre to place the status report as early as on September 10, 2020, and issued a reminder on October 6 when the Centre had sought further time to submit a status report on behalf of the CBI and the ED. “Then further time was granted. Today also the situation is the same. You have only given the name of the accused and the case but not details like which is the oldest case, numbers etc,” Justice Ramana told Mehta. Mehta said: “I agree we are lacking. We filed a report yesterday on behalf of the ED. I emphasised the need to the CBI director to immediately place before Your Lordships.” Justice Ramana told the government’s law officer: “This does not work. Some things have to be presumed. What else can we say to express our displeasure? We were told the Centre is concerned about pending cases against MPs and MLAs.” Hansaria intervened to say that some of the criminal cases against politicians were pending for seven years. Mehta pleaded: “I bow to Your Lordships’ directions for an expeditious hearing. We will comply if Your Lordships grant us the last opportunity.” Justice Ramana told Mehta: “We are giving you two weeks. This is the last opportunity. Otherwise, we will take it that the government is not serious on the issue and we will pass appropriate orders.” The matter will be heard again on August 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||SC deplores parallel narratives in media on Pegasus scandal||The Supreme Court on Tuesday deplored the practice of some petitioners in the Pegasus controversy conducting parallel narratives in the media and asked them to have faith in the judiciary which is seized of the matter. A bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant expressed disappointment while conceding the Centre’s plea for two more days to respond to the petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into the alleged illegal surveillance using the Israeli spyware. “Please have some faith in the system. Whatever you (the petitioners) want to say, please say the same in affidavits and we will go through the contents of that, we assure you. But you cannot have a parallel debate. Not that we are against such debates, but it is not proper to have parallel proceedings when we are seized of the matter and when we are looking into it,” Justice Ramana said. As soon as the case came up for hearing, Justice Ramana told a battery of senior lawyers: “Whatever and whoever be the people who are interested in the matter, if you want to say something in the social media, Twitter, Facebook, newspapers… it is for them. “But once you come to this court, we expect the debate will take place here and we expect that they will answer the questions; the queries that we put them through a proper debate within the court and not outside. They are all represented through counsel.” Senior advocate Kapil Sibal agreed that court decorum ought to be observed. He said even his submission in the court had been misquoted in the media. The CJI said some discipline ought to be maintained by the lawyers and petitioners when the matter was being heard by the court. “Sometimes we ask questions to all of you…. Sometimes it may be inconvenient, but both sides have to face this music. We expect answers. That does not mean the proceedings have taken place fully. If the petitioners want to say something, they can say it on affidavit,” the bench said. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta sought two days to respond to the petition and suggested that the matter be taken up for hearing on Friday. However, the CJI expressed inability to hear the matter on Friday as he would not be sitting in the court. Accordingly, the bench said it would list the matter for further hearing to August 16 (Monday). The NGO Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) on Tuesday urged the CJI to facilitate live-streaming of the Pegasus proceedings to enable the general public also to have direct access to the crucial hearing. In a letter addressed through advocate Prashant Bhushan and CJAR’s co-founder Anjali Bhardwaj, the organisation referred to Justice Ramana’s recent remarks at the inauguration of Gujarat High Court’s live-streaming of judicial proceedings that it was high time to demystify the justice delivery system through furthering access to open courts. The CJAR said in its letter to the CJI: “Given that this case deals with matters of tremendous public interest, and its outcome will have wide ramifications for our republic, we are writing to request you to ensure live-streaming of the hearings of the case. Investigations by the media reveal that phone numbers belonging to a judge of the Supreme Court, registrars of the apex court and the woman staffer (and her family members) who had accused a former CJI of sexual harassment were potentially hacked.” The letter added: “These revelations point to a grave threat to the independence of the judiciary…. We earnestly request you to initiate live-streaming of proceedings of the Supreme Court in matters of public importance, starting with the Pegasus case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||BJP leader and 5 others arrested by Delhi police for anti-muslim slogans ||Delhi police on Tuesday arrested BJP leader Ashwani Upadhyay and five others mostly associated with Hindutva outfits in connection with the hate-fuelled slogans raised at a rally organised by him not too far from Parliament. The arrest followed outrage over the sloganeering, calling for the killing of Muslims, in the heart of the national capital on Sunday. The police had faced questions for not arresting those behind the event, including Upadhyay who is now a member of the Delhi BJP executive and a former spokesperson for the party’s Delhi unit. “Six persons have been arrested in connection with the FIR related to provocative sloganeering at a programme and further investigation is in progress,” a Delhi police spokesperson said. Besides Upadhyay, the other arrested persons were Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma and Vinit Bajpai. “Upadhyay and Preet Singh, director of an outfit called the Save India Foundation, have been arrested as organisers of the event. The rest have been arrested for raising inflammatory slogans,” the police officer said. According to him, Deepak Singh is the president of an outfit named the Hindu Force and Vinod Sharma is a member of the Sudarshan Vahini. “Searches are underway to arrest Pinki Bhaiya (a member of the Hindu Raksha Dal) and an individual named Uttam Malik. They are also seen in videos shouting slogans,” the spokesperson added. The police are yet to divulge the background of Deepak Kumar and Vinit Bajpai. Sources said the six accused persons were detained late on Monday night and Upadhyay was brought to Connaught Place police station at 3am for questioning. They have been charged  under sections  that attract a maximum punishment of three years in jail. On Tuesday afternoon, supporters of Upadhyay gathered outside Connaught Place police station, shouted slogans protesting his arrest and tried in vain to barge in. When the police blocked their entry, the protesters sat on a dharna outside the police station, blocking an arterial road. The police appealed to them to lift the dharna but they did not budge and were later detained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha: Centre's 'mischievous' discussion on agriculture foiled||The Centre on Tuesday tried to spring on the Rajya Sabha what the Opposition described as a “mischievous” discussion on agriculture, prompting a foiling operation that saw an MP clambering atop a table and another throwing a file at the presiding officer’s vacant chair. The purported ambush and the retaliation came a day ahead of the scheduled tabling of a bill to privatise the General Insurance Corporation (GIC). The Opposition, which wants to send the bill to the select committee, feels that Tuesday’s provocation was intended at dividing them ahead of the insurance bill foray. The Opposition had smelt “mischief” on Monday night itself. Late on Monday night, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh had tweeted: “Tomorrow, in a too clever-by-half move, the Modi government has scheduled a discussion on ‘The agricultural problems and solutions’ and added my name to it. The discussion has NOTHING to do with my notice given on July 23rd on the ongoing farmers’ agitation.” On Tuesday, wary that the Centre would pass this off as a debate on the months-long farmers’ agitation, the Opposition resisted the move and a furore ensued for an hour and a half. AAP’s Sanjay Singh took the lead in climbing on the table when the proceedings were on, resulting in a hasty adjournment. Congressman Pratap Singh Bajwa threw the file at the chair, which was unoccupied as the presiding officer, Bhubaneshwar Kalita, had already left the House. The government described the incident as a new low in unparliamentary behaviour. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi later told reporters that the government had accepted the Opposition’s demand for a discussion on farmers’ issue. “But the Opposition was not interested in a discussion. That is why they crossed all limits of unparliamentary behaviour. They did not even spare the Chair and heaped insult on it.” Opposition MPs said the situation was a direct consequence of a mischievous strategy of the government to thrust a general debate on agriculture on the Rajya Sabha instead of the specific issue of farmers’ protests and the repeal of the three contentious farm laws. Efforts to broker peace by deputy chairman Harivansh yielded no results. The government is now planning to again take up the insurance bill on Wednesday and possibly move for disciplinary action against some Opposition MPs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||Covid: Central query about Kerala raises eyebrows||Post-vaccination Covid-19 infections in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district appear to be a mystery to some central public health officials, but not so for state health and other medical experts. Central health officials are trying to understand the circumstances under which over 20,000 vaccinated people in Pathanamthitta developed Covid-19, a senior health official said on Tuesday, triggering surprise among other medical experts. Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, said a central public health team had learnt from the Pathanamthitta district administration that 14,974 people were infected after the first dose and 5,042 after the second dose. “We’re getting these things reviewed by the state — how long after the second dose did the person turn positive, what was the severity of the disease, whether the person had mild or severe disease or required hospitalisation,” Singh said. “Not only from Pathanamthitta, but from other districts as well. We are waiting for this information.” But medical experts said the numbers of post-vaccination infections by themselves told nothing unless they were placed in context with other critical information such as the total number of vaccinated people in the district and the local infection transmission patterns. “I’m surprised that post-vaccination infection numbers are cited without any context,” a senior medical researcher in a New Delhi institution who requested not to be identified told The Telegraph. “It is kind of irresponsible.” Pathanamthitta has among the highest proportions of vaccinated population in the country, a physician and member of Kerala’s Covid-19 task force said. Around 70 per cent of the population has received one dose and 33 per cent of the population has got two doses. State health records in the public domain show that more than 366,000 people in Pathanamthitta have received two doses and over 807,000 have got two doses. “True breakthrough infections are those that occur two weeks or more after the second dose,” said T.S. Anish, a community medicine specialist at Trivandrum Medical College. “Only 258 of the 20,000 or so post-vaccination infections are after 14 days after the second dose,” Anish told this newspaper. The medical researcher in Delhi said 258 breakthrough infections among over 366,000 of those vaccinated was “actually a small number”. The number of breakthrough infections depends on both what proportion of the population is fully vaccinated and what percentage is still susceptible to the infection and the level of transmission at the site. “Imagine, in one district, no one has been vaccinated, there the number of breakthrough infections will be zero,” Anish said. “If the rate of breakthrough infections is 10 in 100, the number will increase to 1,000 in a place where 10,000 people are vaccinated.” Kerala’s low seroprevalence — the proportion of people protected by antibodies — of 44 per cent implies that 56 per cent had remained susceptible to the infection up to early July. “This means the state’s public health measures during the first and second waves were strong enough to protect the majority of its people,” a public health expert said. “It also means more people are likely to be available in the population pool to cause breakthrough infections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||In Kashmir, Rahul vows to fight Modi’s ideology of violence||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said while the attack on India and its institutions under the BJP-led government at the Centre was indirect in the rest of the country, Jammu and Kashmir was facing a direct assault. Rahul, who is on a two-day visit to the Valley, the second after the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019, said the events of the last two years have hurt ordinary Kashmiris but he wants a relation of love and respect with them. Towards that end, he said statehood should be immediately restored. Addressing a party event in Srinagar, Rahul said: “There is an assault on the whole country, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Bengal. The concept of India, its democratic framework, our Constitution is facing an assault. But the assault is direct on Jammu and Kashmir and indirect on the rest of India.” He vowed to fight and defeat what he called Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ideology of violence that seeks to break India. “I fight Narendra Modi and we will continue to fight. We will fight and defeat Narendra Modi’s divisive ideology, the ideology that divides India, the ideology of hate. This is because this (fighting hate) is not just the culture of Jammu and Kashmir but the culture of India.” Rahul said the situation in country is such that they are not even allowed to speak on important issues in Parliament. “There is not an assault on Jammu and Kashmir only but on the whole of India. Ghulam Nabi Azadji asked me to raise the issue (of Kashmir) in Parliament. But we are not allowed to speak in Parliament. I cannot speak about Pegasus, corruption, Rafale and unemployment in Parliament,” the Congress MP said. “They are attacking all institutions of India, judiciary, Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha. My friends from media cannot write the truth. They are being suppressed, face threats, they live in fear that if they write anything, their jobs will go. They cannot fulfil their responsibilities,” he said. The Congress leader had made an abortive bid to visit Kashmir days after abrogation of the special status in 2019 but he and several other MPs were sent back by the administration. The administration this time put no hurdles in Rahul’s visit, allowing his party supporters to converge in numbers and install hoardings at multiple places. The Congress leader demanded restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and the conduct of a “free and fair” Assembly elections. “Statehood should be restored and the democratic process — that is, election should be held,” he said. Rahul then turned emotional and said how his visit was a sort of homecoming. “My family lives in Delhi. Before Delhi we lived in Allahabad and before Allahabad, my family lived here (in Kashmir). I have not stayed here but I can say my family might have drank from the Jhelum. Your customs, your thoughts, what we call Kashmiriyat, a bit of it is in me also. I think I have come to my home,” he said. “This was not a big state. Today it is not a state but Jammu and Kashmir’s strength lies in brotherhood, treating others with respect and love. That is your strength and Kashmiryat is its foundation.” The Congress leader said Kashmiris could be won over with love and not hate. “I want a relationship of dignity and love with people of Jammu and Kashmir, who have faced pain and suffering,” he said. Rahul visited the Hazratbal Dargah in Srinagar and Mata Kheer Bhawani Temple in Ganderbal. He posted images of his visit on Instagram and said: “Prayed for peace and brotherhood at Hazratbal Dargah. The biggest strength of our country is our unity — there is no place for hate and fear here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Modi ignores plea for help from woman during online interaction||Prime Minister Narendra Modi stuck to the script and appeared to ignore a woman’s plea for release of payments held up due to the lockdown, during an online interaction on Tuesday where moments later he would wax eloquent on how “fortunate” he was to have “got the opportunity to serve our mothers and sisters”. Speaking during a videoconference with beneficiaries of the Ujjwala Yojana under which free gas connections are given, Modi had asked Kiran Devi from Gorakhpur about her occupation and the self-help group she was part of when she broached the pandemic-induced lockdown and its economic fallout on small traders like her. Modi: Have you told the other women in your self-help group about the (Ujjwala) scheme? Have they too benefited? Kiran: Yes, I have. All of them are involved in some trade or the other and do whatever they can. Yahi lockdown lag gaya, thoda paisa phans gaya. Iske liye aapse anurodh hai ki aap nazariya unke upar… (after the lockdown, some payments got stuck. I request you to look into…)” Modi (interjecting): “Unko bhi gas connection mil gaya (they too have got gas connection)?” Kiran (completing her sentence): “Jo hamne karz liya hai (the loans that we have taken).” Kiran: Yes, yes, they too have got gas connections…. Modi: Abhi jo main gareebon ke liye anaj muft mein bhejta hun, woh bhi kya milta hai unlogo ko (The free food grain that I send to the poor, do they get that too?)” Kiran: Yes, they receive it. They receive twice a month. Earlier during the conversation, Kiran, accompanied by her daughter Sadhana, had told the Prime Minister that she made bamboo articles and also did sewing. She said she was part of a self-help group too. Kiran agreed with Modi that a lot of time could be saved by cooking on gas ovens and added that she no longer needed to dry firewood when it rained. She informed the beaming Prime Minister that her daughter now refused to cook without a gas oven. Modi claimed that before 2014 (when he came to power), people had to keep making rounds of government offices, often over minor matters. The conversations with the rest of the beneficiaries did not deviate from the congratulatory tone that is the hallmark of such interactions of Modi. At the online event where Modi launched Ujjwala Yojana-2, the Prime Minister told a gathering at Mahoba in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh: “…We have to increase capacity-building manifold. Together, we have to fulfil the commitment to a competent and capable India. Our sisters are going to play a major role in it.” Modi said he had received the blessings of women before Raksha Bandhan on August 22. “I am feeling fortunate that I got the opportunity to serve our mothers and sisters before Raksha Bandhan. Your blessings would remain with us so that we continue serving Maa Bharati with new energy,” he said. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, joining in from Mahoba, clapped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Kerala rolls out bio-bubble model to revive its tourism sector||Kerala has rolled out a bio-bubble model to revive its tourism sector that opened on Monday for inoculated visitors. Bio-bubbles are sanitised environments manned by fully vaccinated people, including airport staff, which came into prominence through sporting events such as the Indian Premier League, Indian Super League and even the Tokyo Olympics. According to a statement from the department of tourism of the southern state, any tourist landing in any of the four international airports in Kerala would meet fully inoculated ground staff and driven to their destinations by fully vaccinated drivers. The staff at their accommodations would also be fully vaccinated. The only requirement for tourists who have already started arriving in the state are at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine or an RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours. State tourism minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said that the bio-bubble model would help in the early revival of the tourism sector. “Safety of guests is non-negotiable as far as Kerala Tourism is concerned. The bio-bubble initiative is meant to ensure that the tourists have a risk-free stay in our state. This is a critical factor for revival of tourism, which has been clobbered by the pandemic,” the press statement quoted Riyas as saying. “It was with this larger perspective that we successfully carried out the vaccination campaign covering the entire population in Vythiri (Wayanad). This initiative will tell the world that Kerala is a place where you can holiday safely,” he added. The state has so far vaccinated 43.37 per cent of its population with the first dose and 18.08 per cent with both doses. According to the statement, the initiative would enable the vacationers to move freely within safe zones, including public places such as beaches and backwaters, without any anxiety. Additional chief secretary of tourism Venu V. recalled how the state has bounced back from natural calamities in the past. “Kerala Tourism has outlived grim crises like devastating natural calamities like floods and epidemics that battered its infrastructure and economy. We have proved to be resilient by bouncing back from each crisis,” Venus was quoted as saying in the statement. Director of state tourism V.R. Krishna Teja expected “lockdown-weary” people to travel to safe destinations. “The lockdown-weary people from all corners of the world will be treading to safe and healthy places when tourism opens up globally and nationally. Going by our natural assets and advanced social milieu, Kerala has immense scope to tap the incoming rush to unpolluted and less crowded spaces,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Two YouTubers and 17 of their young followers in Kerala arrested||Two YouTubers and 17 of their young followers in Kerala were arrested on Monday for protesting against the motor vehicles department for seizing a vehicle owned by the vlogger siblings. The motor vehicles department in Kannur had seized the Force Traveller van of YouTubers Ebin Varghese and Libin Varghese from their home in Kiliyanthara in the district on Sunday. The brothers then posted a video on their YouTube channel and Instagram page about the action and informed their supporters that they would be going to the motor vehicles department office at a particular time on Monday. The YouTube roadie channel named E Bull Jet has 1.74 million subscribers. The department listed a series of violations, including modifying the vehicle without permission, installing an ambulance siren, making unauthorised fittings such as a set of powerful overhead lights and LED light strips, and painting over the windows to block the view into the van. The motor vehicles department’s action incensed the fans of the Varghese brothers. They vent their anger by flooding the department’s Facebook page with messages seeking “justice” for the vloggers. They also gathered outside the motor vehicles department in Kannur on Monday when the brothers went to meet officials. Things went out of control when the siblings began filming their argument while inside the motor vehicles department office and allegedly protested and destroyed office property when officials objected. Their supporters standing behind them also filmed the episode and shared videos on their social media handles. When they continued to film the action, police were called in and 19 youths were arrested. Many of the fans created a ruckus and tried to prevent the police from taking them away. The Varghese brothers were booked under IPC Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from carrying out his duty) and 34 (common intent) and sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act and the Kerala Epidemic Disease Coronavirus Disease Additional Regulations. A district court remanded them in 14 days’ judicial custody. A Kannur court granted the brothers bail on Tuesday on two sureties of Rs 25,000 each. The court ordered them to deposit another Rs 3,500 each to compensate for the damage to property and appear before the police every Wednesday. The 17 fans were booked for preventing police officers from carrying out their duty, calling for violence and violating Covid protocols. They were released on bail on Monday itself. Kannur police commissioner R. Ilango told a media conference on Tuesday that a special team would be formed to investigate the offences found in the videos on the YouTube channel since one of them showed the Force Traveller using a siren. “They had used a siren and even sported a ‘Press’ sticker…. We have asked YouTube to freeze the channel so that the videos can’t be deleted,” he said, adding that the states where the vehicle had travelled to and broken rules would also be told to take action. Kerala transport minister Anthony Raju said action had been taken against the Varghese brothers to rectify the illegal modifications on the van. “We cannot turn a blind eye to such gross violations. That’s why we have instructed officials to take strict action against anyone found violating the law.” Raju accused the siblings of “creating a drama to get more mileage” while they were at the police station and the motor vehicles department in Kannur. The Varghese brothers’ lawyer, Mohammed Fouz, told The Telegraph his clients were assaulted in custody. “They have told the court about the police beating them badly.” Popular YouTuber Sebin Cyriac, who shot to fame by accompanying Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to the sea on a fishing expedition in February, said the siblings could have behaved responsibly. “They could have behaved in a mature way by not creating a scene outside government offices,” Cyriac, who runs the Fishing Freaks channel, told this newspaper. “Some diehard fans often react illogically without realising the gravity of the situation. The call for violence was totally unnecessary and dangerous,” he added. With only YouTube guidelines to follow, Cyriac said vloggers must exercise caution and not fall on the wrong side of the law. “Once I had a video taken down because it had a toy pistol,” he said. Firoz Chuttipara, who runs the Village Food Channel, was of the view that vloggers should do nothing to harm anyone. “We need to remember that many of our viewers are kids who could get influenced by what we do,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Teenage girl strangles mother after a fight over studies in Navi Mumbai||A 15-year-old girl allegedly strangulated her mother to death with a karate belt after a fight over her studies in Navi Mumbai, police said on Tuesday.  The girl later tried to pass it off as a case of accidental death, they said.  The incident took place in Airoli area of Navi Mumbai township on July 30.  The girl and her 40-year-old mother used to have frequent quarrels as the woman wanted her daughter to pursue a medical course, but the latter refused to do so, an official at Rabale police station said.  The girl had last month also complained to police about her mother, following which the police counselled the family members.  On July 30, the girl informed the police that her mother fell and died, the official said.  The body was sent for postmortem and the report revealed that the woman was strangulated to death, he said.  During questioning, the girl told the police that she had strangled her mother with a karate belt after a tiff with her, the official said.  The teenager was detained on Monday and a case was registered under Indian Penal Code Section 302 (murder), he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Centre calls Caste Census of 2011 outdated and incorrect||The government on Tuesday told Parliament that the Socio-Economic Caste Census of 2011 had failed to collect data “correctly” and that it was now outdated, drawing the ire of OBC groups. In response to a question from Bahujan Samaj Party MP Haji Fazilur Rehman on whether the government had data about Other Backward Classes living below poverty line and what actions are being taken to uplift them, minister of state for social justice Pratima Bhoumik said: “No Sir. The Socio-Economic Caste Census 2011 conducted by the ministry of rural development and the ministry of housing and urban affairs could not correctly capture the caste status of households other than SCs/STs (Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes). Besides, the data is now outdated.” The OBC groups questioned the intention of the government and claimed the data was largely fine. They said the BJP-led NDA government had set up an expert panel in 2015 under then Niti Aayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya to classify caste names returned in the SECC since the data was largely fine. Justice Vangala Eswaraiah, former acting Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court and former chairperson of the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), said certain enumeration errors in the data should have been corrected. “Intentionally the government is not interested to release the caste data. They want to suppress the truth about injustice perpetuated by the dominant castes on OBCs,” Eswaraiah said. “There might have been discrepancies in data in a few cases because of the mention of certain gotra or sub-caste names by the households. Such errors could have been corrected and the data should have been released,” he said. Eswaraiah said: “Nearly 85 per cent of people who are mulnivasi of the country are poorly represented in public services and higher education.” He underlined the need for proportionate representation of every community in public services and education and that caste data is crucial for this. “When Rajnath Singh was the home minister, he had promised to include a column for collection of OBC caste data in the 2021 census. But the government backtracked later,” he said. G. Karunanidhy, national general secretary of the All India OBC Employees Federation, said the government had set up an expert panel for classification of the caste data in 2015. “If the data did not correctly capture the caste status of households other than SCs and STs, why did the government set up an expert panel for classification of the data? The government’s statement in Parliament is contrary to its earlier stand,” he said. The SECC 2011-12 collected data on caste of the households apart from assets like telephone, motorcycle, land, pucca house, landlessness and tax payment. The government in 2015 released the economic data and set up a committee to classify the caste names. The committee has never met, Eswaraiah said. “Thousands of crores of rupees have been spent for the SECC. Who is accountable for this? When the BJP was in the Opposition, (late) Gopinath Munde asked why the government was not conducting a caste census. Now the same party is forgetting its own stand because they do not want to annoy the upper castes,” Karunanidhy said. The Bihar Assembly had passed two resolutions in 2019 and 2020 demanding a caste census and sent it to the Centre. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, whose Janata Dal United is an ally of the BJP, had also written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week for a meeting to discuss the need for a caste census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||SC fines parties for not disclosing crimes of candidates to public||The Supreme Court on Tuesday fined eight political parties for contempt for failing to disclose the criminal antecedents of their candidates and directed that from now such details should be made public within 48 hours of selection of nominees. The court directed the Election Commission to create a mobile application so that voters of each constituency can access all details on the criminal antecedents of the candidates. The top court imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh each on the CPM and NCP; besides Rs 1 lakh each on the JDU, RJD, Lok Janshakti Party, Congress, BJP and CPI for failing to comply with a constitution bench judgment in 2019 in the Public Interest Foundation vs Union of India case that said such disclosure was mandatory. The CPM and NCP were fined a higher amount for defying most of the directions while the other parties were fined for not fully complying with the directives. The court was dealing with a contempt petition filed by advocate Brajesh Singh after the October-November 2020 Bihar Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Triple talaq petitioner calls Shah to ensure communal harmony||Zakia Soman, on whose petition the Supreme Court declared instant triple talaq illegal, has urged home minister Amit Shah to ensure justice and communal harmony after slogans calling for violence against Muslims were raised near Parliament. In a statement she issued on behalf of the Bharatiya Muslim Mahila Andolan that she co-founded and runs, Zakia said on Tuesday: “The culprits must be immediately arrested and tried under various sections of the IPC for genocide calls through hate speeches and threats to disrupt social peace and harmony. “The home minister should immediately make an announcement to reassure the minorities in Delhi, many of whom are still reeling under the effect of the riots in February 2020. The viral video has spread a sense of fear and insecurity among citizens. They should be assured of security and safety by the home minister.” BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay has since been arrested along with five others. Zakia’s statement also called for the arrest of those who delivered hate speeches preceding the communal riots in the capital last year that claimed 53 lives. In response to Delhi High Court’s direction to probe BJP activist Kapil Mishra for making a provocative speech just before the riots, police had said last year that “no actionable evidence has surfaced yet”. Mishra has encouraged people to tweet with the hashtag “IsupportAshwiniUpadhyay” on the ground that no slogan had been raised from his stage on Sunday. Mishra said in a video: “The conspiracy of communists, jehadis and Leftists should not be allowed. We oppose the arrest of Ashwini Upadhyay and support him. I feel the attempted murder of Swamiji at Yati Narsinghanand’s ashram should be the biggest issue today.” Early on Tuesday, a visiting devotee from Bihar named Swami Nareshanand was attacked by an unidentified assailant with a paper cutter at Ghaziabad’s Dasna Devi temple that is run by the preacher Narsinghanand. Nareshanand is stable and recovering in hospital. Narsinghanand had justified the slogans raised on Sunday. A Muslim boy was thrashed by staff of the Dasna Devi temple for drinking water from a tap outside in March. The police briefly detained several students and activists of the Congress, CPIML-Liberation’s All India Students Association, SFI and the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind who had come to protest at Jantar Mantar Road on Tuesday against the attempts to incite violence against Muslims. Some students also protested at Jamia Nagar police station. SFI state committee member Anil said: “It is blood curdling to see the mute complicity of Delhi police that acts with much vehemence against student protesters. The police force that brutally clamps down on students and the general public who take to the streets in defence of the Constitution has failed to curb the Sangh’s terrorist activities. This is a deliberate attempt by the BJP, the RSS and other Sangh outfits to advance their agendas for communal hatred and create divisions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Lok Sabha: Opposition stalls protest to participate and support OBC bill||The Opposition on Tuesday suspended its relentless protest in the Lok Sabha to press for a discussion on Pegasus snooping charges, to participate and support a constitutional amendment bill concerning the politically and electorally significant Other Backward Classes. The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021, aimed to restore the rights to states to maintain their own OBC lists for reservation in government jobs and educational institutions, was passed unanimously by the Lok Sabha, underscoring the political significance of the legislation. The result of the voting was 385 ayes and zero nos, meaning no member opposed or abstained. For the first time in the last week of the four-week monsoon session, the Lok Sabha saw a structured and long debate on a bill, with each side seeking to underline their commitment for the OBCs, who approximately constitute more than half of the country’s population. The Opposition protested during the Question Hour and forced one adjournment but returned to their seats when the bill was taken up post-noon. The shadow of Pegasus and the farm laws, however, couldn’t escape as some Opposition leaders while speaking over the OBC bill, sought to question the government’s bid to run away from a debate on the snooping charges. Participating in the debate, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Chowdhury, said they had decided to participate and support the bill as a “responsible party” since it was a constitutional amendment that requires support of two-thirds members of the House. Then he went on to flag Pegasus and justify the Opposition’s protest to demand a discussion on the snooping charges, inviting protest from the ruling benches. “We are being blamed for stalling the House,” he said. “Israel, Hungary, France and other countries are probing Pegasus snooping.… What are we doing here?” he asked. “But here, we are scared to even have a discussion in the House on Pegasus. Why so?” Adhir said leading to some uproar and Speaker Om Birla asking him to stick to speaking over the bill. After Adhir, Trinamul Congress’s Sudip Bandopadhyay too raised the issue and also sought to take digs at the central government over its claim of “cooperative federalism” in the OBC bill. “I cannot get any idea why the government is scared to discuss Pegasus,” Sudip said. He pointed out that the way the Opposition had agreed to discuss and pass the OBC bill, the government should be ready to discuss Pegasus. He proposed the debate should take place on Wednesday. Amid protests by ruling BJP members, Sudip said that 30 bills have been “bulldozed” and passed in both Houses at an average of 10 minutes per bill. After being urged by the Chair to speak on the OBC bill, Sudip said it says that the amendment is being done to “save the federal structure of the country” and then took swipe at the government. “The federal structure is totally under threat today.… Our (state’s) voice shouldn’t be gagged... parliamentary democratic process should be allowed to function properly. Government of India should function on its own and state governments should be allowed to function on their own,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Ganga spills over its ghats in Patna||The Ganga spilled over its ghats in Bihar capital on Tuesday and entered several localities close to its banks posing a threat to the city of 20 lakh people. It is flowing above the danger level across the state endangering the districts located along it. The river water level at Gandhi Ghat, located at the middle of its flow along Patna city, was 49.72m, which was 112cm above the danger level of 48.60m, and the river was showing a rising trend. The Gandhi ghat was submerged and water was spilling over on its approach road. Floodwaters from the Ganga have engulfed several localities and high-rises along its banks in Patna. Many villages on the outskirts in Danapur, Maner and Fathuha areas have also been flooded. People living in the affected localities and villages have started moving to higher and safer areas with their valuables and cattle. “The level of water in the Ganga increased further and floodwaters started entering my home around 3am. We had been watching the rising river for the last few days and were alert. We have shifted furniture, food grains and other things to the first floor and sent most of the family members to stay with other relatives in the town for the time being,” said Amitesh Singh, a resident of the Rajapur Pul area along the Ganga in Patna. Water resources department (WRD) engineer-in-chief (flood control and water drainage) Rajesh Kumar pointed out to The Telegraph that the level of the Ganga at Gandhi Ghat was still 80cm below the highest flood level of 50.52m recorded in 2016. “Water in the Ganga is coming from other states increasing its level. However, we are prepared to meet any eventuality. We have placed sandbags at the 102 gates of the Patna Town Protection Wall along the river and have wooden sheets ready to block them if water level rises further,” Kumar said. Other smaller rivers surrounding Patna are also in spate worsening the situation in the rural areas that have been flooded by them for more than a week now. The discharge of water from these rivers has been adversely affected due to the high level of water in the Ganga. Incidentally, the mighty river is flowing above the danger mark at almost all the places from Buxar where it enters the state to Katihar where it exits to enter Bengal. It is showing a rising trend due to continued heavy rains in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. The river was rising at around 1cm per hour in Buxar submerging villages, roads and agricultural fields in several blocks like Buxar Sadar, Chakki, Bramhapur and Chausa. People have started shifting to safer areas. Floodwater was flowing on the important Chausa–Mohania Road and had also surrounded the thermal power plant area in Chausa However, Buxar district magistrate Aman Samir told this newspaper that there was “not much problem due to the floods and not much population has been affected.” Floods from the Ganga have also affected Barhara, Ara, Shahpur and Bihiya blocks of Bhojpur district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
11-08-2021||India||Covid: Tourists back, Puri beach comes alive ||The sea beach at Puri, which is among the most attractive beaches in the country, has come alive with tourists back in the town following lifting of restrictions the administration had imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the past one week since the lifting of curbs thousands of people from across Odisha and neighbouring Bengal have arrived in the seaside town for holidaying. This is good news for the state tourism department which has reported a 99 per cent drop in the arrival of foreign tourists and 84 per cent drop in the arrival of domestic tourists to the state in 2020-21 due to the Covid crisis. Hoteliers in Puri are happy and hopeful of tourism reviving in the town. “The sea beach has become clean and looks attractive as it is reopening after more than three months. People have started booking rooms in hotels. We will have to wait for a few more days for business to pick up,” said Puri Hotel Owners’ Association president Rama Krushna Dasmohapatra. Dasmohapatra said: “It has been decided to re-open the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple for devotees from August 16. On the first five days, the people of Puri will have a darshan of the deities. From August 23 people from all parts of the country are allowed to enter the shrine. We are hopeful the number of hotel bookings will increase after August 23.” “There was no business for the last three months. Now the business is limping back to normal,” said Harishankar Swain, a conch seller on the Puri beach. Similar are the sentiments of Pramod Patra, whose camel gives tourists joy ride on the beach. “The business was badly hit for the last one year. We have not been able to feed our camels. We require Rs 500 for feeding a camel every day. With the business coming to a halt for the last three months completely, we have not been able to earn a single pie. We have struggled hard to feed the camels. I know some of these animals   including horses and camels have died of hunger with owners unable to feed them.” However, the town has witnessed a series of protests over the state administration’s move to declare a part of the beach as Blue Flag beach. Hundreds of people, depending on their livelihood on the sea beach, are  opposing the Puri administration’s move to convert the beach into a Blue Flag beach with restricted entry. President, Beach Protection Council of Odisha, Jagannath Bastia said, “As the public money is being used for the development of the beach, one cannot use it for commercial purposes. Nearly 90 per cent people earn their livelihood on the sea beach. As per the law, no vendors will be allowed to enter the blue flag beach.  This will hit the livelihood of local people.” Lawyer and convenor of Jagannath Sena (an outfit working for protection of Jagannath Culture and Puri) Priyadarshana Patnaik warned of a bigger agitation in the coming days on the issue. “A part of the beach has already been converted into Blue Flag beach. We will not oppose the development of a Blue Flag beach along the Puri-Konark marine drive, away from the main Puri beach where thousands of people come to have fun.” However, Puri district administration maintains that Blue Flag beach is a concept to attract tourists from across the country and abroad. “Blue Flag concept is a step towards making the beach clean and more attractive for the tourists from other parts of the country. We will not convert the entire sea beach into blue flag beach but only a part of it,” said a senior official of the Puri district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to attend international peace conference in Rome||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been invited to attend an international peace conference in Rome in October this year. Pope Francis, German chancellor Angela Merkel and the Grand Imam of Egypt's Al-Alzhar, Ahmad al-Tayyib, among others, are expected to attend the conference scheduled on October 6 and 7, 2021. The invitation for the meet, titled World Meeting for Peace “People as Brothers, Future earth” was sent to the chief minister by Macro Impagliazzo, the president of Community of Sant'Egidio, a Catholic association based in Rome. The invitation letter congratulated the Trinamul Congress chief for her “significant election” victory in the recently held assembly polls and “for the important work for social justice, for the development of your own country, and therefore, for peace, which you have been doing for over ten years now.” The TMC returned to power in the state of West Bengal for the third time in a row after a thumping victory in the March – April assembly polls this year by winning 213 out of the 292 assembly seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee, Bratya Basu, others booked in Tripura||A case has been registered in Tripura against TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, MP Dola Sen, Bengal education minister Bratya Basu and other senior leaders of the party for allegedly obstructing police officers from performing their duties. Kiran Kumar, the superintendent of police (SP) in Khowai district, said a suo moto complaint was filed on Tuesday against the TMC leaders, who had "misbehaved" with officers on duty on August 8. We booked them on August 10 under Section 186 (obstruction of public servants in the discharge of his public function) and 36 (common intention) of the IPC. The FIR pertains to entry into the Khowai police station... They will be summoned, the SP stated. Claiming that the ruling BJP in Tripura was "scared" of his camp's growing popularity, TMC's Bengal general secretary Kunal Ghosh, who figures in the list of leaders booked by the police, told reporters in Calcutta, "A case has been wrong fully registered against us. We went there to stand by our party workers." At least 14 leaders and workers of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) were arrested in Khowai district on Sunday, including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP men the day before, for flouting Covid-19 norms . Shortly after, Banerjee, who is also Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and the de facto number 2 in the party, flew to Agartala to meet the apprehended workers in Khowai police station, along with other leaders. Those arrested were later produced before a local court, which granted them bail. According to the police, the 14 TMC members were nabbed for venturing out after the imposition of night curfew at 7 pm, in violation of the Covid-19 restrictions. In a video that went viral on social media, the TMC national general secretary was seen raising his finger to enquire why his supporters were arrested after having faced assaults. He returned to Calcutta the same day after his party workers were released on bail. "Bail granted to all @AITCofficial workers who were arrested in Tripura. Satyameva Jayate! I'll be taking them to Kolkata as they have sustained severe injuries & were denied medical attention. @BjpBiplab you can keep trying but all your resources will fall short! MARK MY WORDS," Abhishek tweeted just before flying out of Agartala. Subal Bhowmik, a TMC leader from the northeastern state whose name figures in the FIR, claimed that his party's activists were being harassed and falsely accused of crimes they did not commit. "We didn't obstruct any police officer from performing their job. It was only after 48 hours, they decided to book us under section 186. These allegations are baseless and the police administration is being misused for political gains, Bhowmik added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Learn from Bengal how to dodge the anti-defection law||In the years between 2001 and 2005, Subrata Mukherjee held the mayor’s post in Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) as a Trinamul nominee. But, in the state Assembly he signed on the register for Congress legislators kept in the room reserved for the party. “He would walk into the room, sign the register and go elsewhere. In the Assembly he would sit with the Congress legislators, his name would be there in the list of speakers from the Congress. There was no way to disprove that he wasn’t a Congress MLA,” said a party leader of Bengal. Since its inception in 1998, Trinamul Congress, year after year, has poached MLAs from other parties and dodged the anti-defection bullet. This year, within two months of beginning its third term, Trinamul wrested Mukul Roy, an MLA of the only Opposition in the state Assembly, the BJP (the only non-Trinamul, non-BJP MLA in Bengal today is Naushad Siddiqui of the Indian Secular Front). Wait, isn’t there a law that is meant to prevent MLAs from jumping from party to party? Yes, the 10th Schedule of the Constitution, referred to as the Anti-Defection Law, was passed by Parliament in 1985 and reinforced in 2002. But in Bengal, it just doesn’t seem to work. Over the last few decades, neither the Congress nor the CPM could do anything with it to deter its MLAs from jumping ship. In the case of Roy, the BJP has complained to the Bengal Assembly Speaker against his defection. To complicate matters, the Trinamul has named Roy head of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), a position which by convention is held by an Opposition leader. Last month, Roy was with Mamata during her week-long tour of Delhi to meet national leaders. Speaker Biman Banerjee held a hearing on Roy’s defection on July 30. Roy did not attend. But BJP leader Suvendu Adhikary did. The Speaker is scheduled to hear the case again on August 17. And if he finds substance in the charges, Roy will most likely be served a notice. Adhikary, the BJP leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, shared an image and video of Roy at Mamata Banerjee’s residence from where she had delivered her virtual address to party workers for Trinamul’s annual Martyrs’ Day rally on July 21. “On which stage can you spot the PAC chairman?” asked Adhikary. Till it was held in public, the July 21 Martyrs’ Rally dais was the grand stage for political switchovers in Bengal as legislators and others, most of them from the Congress and a few from Left parties, would use the occasion to swear allegiance to the Trinamul flag. BJP determined But this time the BJP seems determined to press for Roy’s disqualification. Party MLA Ambika Roy has filed a PIL against Roy’s appointment as PAC chairman. "Whenever the Speaker will call us (on the defection issue) we will appear. All documents have been submitted. The anti-defection law is not effective here. After former CPM MLA Dipali Biswas joined Trinamul, 23 hearings took place but there was no decision. We will not wait indefinitely,” said Adhikary. Mukul Roy’s defection is one in a series of similar episodes in Bengal’s legislative politics since Trinamul Congress was formed. After the split in the Bengal Congress in 1997 and subsequent formation of a new party, around 16 MLAs had switched sides. Two years before that, the Congress had its best showing in Assembly elections, winning 82 seats, its highest tally since losing power in 1977. Veteran Congress leader Abdul Mannan, who was the party’s whip then, recalled he had moved the Speaker’s office seeking disqualification of four of the 16 MLAs—Sabuj Dutta, Tushar Bhattacharya, Sanjay Bakshi and Mihir Goswami. “But, nothing came of it. Some hearings took place. That’s all,” Mannan said. This was during a time when the CPM was in power and there was never any love lost between the two. A CPM leader who is aware of the goings-on in the Assembly in the last tumultuous years of the Left rule says it was almost impossible to prove they had joined the Trinamul. “Unlike now, the MLAs, even after defection, continued to sit with their former colleagues. Inside the Assembly they behaved as though they were with the Congress. In fact, they were quite eager to prove they were with the Congress,” the CPM leader said. During that time, the only Congress MLA who chose to resign after joining the Trinamul was Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who later got elected as MLA on a Trinamul ticket. What the law states The 10th Schedule of the Constitution states that a member of a House belonging to any political party shall be disqualified if he or she has a) voluntarily given up membership of such a political party, or b) votes or abstains from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by the political party to which he belongs. The onus to decide on defections lies with the Speaker, with no time limit on coming to a conclusion. In recent memory, only two MLAs have been disqualified for defection. In 2008, the late Speaker, Halim, had signed orders to disqualify the late Somen Mitra and Sudip Bandyopadhyay from being members of the legislative Assembly. The two did not deny they had joined the Trinamul. Then Congress legislature party leader Manas Bhunia, who himself defected eight years later and did not resign till the Trinamul nominated him to the Rajya Sabha, had actively pursued the case against Mitra and Bandyopadhyay. “Had Bhuniya not pursued the matter diligently that could not have happened,” said a Congress leader. When by-elections don’t help Another problem for the Congress was that pushing the anti-defection case against erstwhile MLAs would have meant by-elections. And that was unlikely to have brought any cheer to the grand old party in Bengal. A similar thought stopped the party from adopting a strong anti-defection stance from 2016 onwards. “Had the Speaker pursued the cases we would have fallen short of the mark of 30 to be counted as the main Opposition party. Risking that was not worth it,” said the Congress leader. In her first term, Mamata kept her hands off Congress legislators till she was in an alliance with the party. The first from the Congress to defect after Trinamul came to power was Krishnendu Narayan Chowdhury of Malda, who had been in and out of the party quite a few times, followed by Rejinagar’s Congress MLA Humayun Kabir. Both became ministers and fought by-elections. Chowdhury won, while Kabir lost. Then Shantipur MLA Ajoy De resigned from the Assembly and sought re-election on a Trinamul ticket in May 2014. In the decade-old Mamata-rule in Bengal, the late legislator De remains the only politician to have resigned after quitting his parent party. “He had made it clear he wouldn’t continue as a Congress MLA after switching to the Trinamul,” recalled a Trinamul leader. 14 more MLAs switched over By the time Mamata ended her first term, 14 more MLAs from the Congress and the Left had joined the Trinamul, but no defection charges were brought against them. Two months into her second term in 2016, Mamata welcomed CPM’s Dipali Biswas and Congress’ Tushar Bhattacharya into the Trinamul fold at the annual July 21 rally. For the next five years Biswas carried on business as a CPM legislator on paper, while sitting in the Treasury Benches. “Twenty-three hearings were held. She skipped dates. We kept on piling documents on the Speaker’s table. It was an exercise in futility,” said Sujan Chakraborty, CPM central committee member and leader of the Left Front in the last Assembly. The CPM leader wrote to the Speaker again after Biswas moved to the BJP in December 2020. By then, the Assembly term was coming to an end and a disqualification would not have done any damage either to her or to the parties she had joined. At one point, Mannan had even approached the Supreme Court to intervene and ensure the anti-defection law was not misused. “The court cannot intervene in this matter till the Speaker gives a ruling. There is no time bound factor for the Speaker to decide. The law definitely needs a relook, but the court can’t say so,” Mannan said. Roy’s defection, only the latest and definitely not the last, has gained significance since the Trinamul itself is pursuing a case against two of its alleged defectors, Lok Sabha MPs Sisir Adhikary and Sunil Mandal. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has issued notices to both. In the ongoing Parliament session, Mandal was seen protesting with Trinamul MPs, perhaps signalling a change of heart. But, it is unclear if the Trinamul will eventually "forgive and forget" and keep him in its fold. In case the Speaker's ruling goes in favour of Trinamul, the party would come under pressure to take action against Roy. In such a scenario, Roy, a reluctant legislator in the first place, may have to make room for someone else to contest from the Krishnagar North seat. His son, Subhrangshu, who left the BJP along with him, will be only too willing to fill in. But will Mamata agree?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Dhankhar talks to Union minister to increase efficacy of Bengal's cultural hubs||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday said he interacted with Union Minister of Culture G Kishan Reddy over enhancing the efficacy of the iconic Victoria Memorial and other cultural hubs in the metropolis. Dhankhar, who is in Delhi, tweeted that the Union minister has assured all steps to put the Victoria Memorial, Indian Museum, Asiatic Society and the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre (EZCC) at Salt Lake "on incremental trajectory and secure more footfalls." The governor embarked on a visit to the national capital on Tuesday evening, a Raj Bhavan official said. "Bengal is unparalleled repository of culture and heritage," he added. Dhankhar's visit comes close on the heels of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's four-day tour of Delhi during which she met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, apart from several opposition leaders. The governor's last visit to the national capital in the middle of June, amid allegations of post-poll violence in West Bengal, had drawn flak from the ruling Trinamool Congress, which has been at loggerheads with Dhankhar on several issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Trader rescued, kidnapper held in Malda||Police rescued a scrap dealer after he was abducted from Gazole in Malda district and arrested a person in this connection on Tuesday. The police sources said Sujit Haldar, a resident of Kunjaghat in Murshidabad, works as a scrap dealer in Gurgaon. “On Sunday, a group of miscreants, led by Mukaddar Ali, intercepted Halder at Gazole while he was waiting for a bus to reach Murshidabad and abducted him.” said a police source. “They forced Halder to board an auto and took him to Meherpur, a remote village in Jatradanga area under Maldaha police station, and kept him at Ali’s house there.” The cops said the abductors had demanded a ransom of Rs 1.5 lakh from Halder’s family. Hirak Biswas, the inspector-in-charge of Maldaha police station, said Halder’s family contacted them and also filed a complaint. “We started a search and managed to locate the village where Halder was kept. We raided the village and rescued Halder. The abductors including, Ali and his associates, managed to escape the spot during the raid but later, we could arrest Ali. Searches are on to nab his associates,” Biswas added. The police said they would find out whether Halder was abducted for ransom or there was any other reason behind it. “We will speak with the victim to gather information. He will be handed over to his family,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Workers’ cut money alert upsets Trinamul Congress in Purulia||An embarrassed Trinamul Congress leadership in Purulia has sought an explanation from party leaders in Raghunathpur after a few workers went around the industrial town on an e-rickshaw on Monday and asked people not to pay bribe or “cut money” to anyone to get benefits under various government schemes. The party workers also pleaded with the people to bring such incidents to the notice of the local authorities or Trinamul leaders so that the accused could be brought to book. “We have already sought a report from our leaders as to why such an announcement was made and who gave the permission as the programme had not been endorsed by the party. The incident has tarnished the image of the party. Once we get the inquiry report, we will take stern action against those involved in the incident,” said Nabendu Mahali, the district Trinamul spokesperson. Sources said local residents of Raghunathpur town were taken by surprise when an erickshaw decorated with Trinamul flags and equipped with a public address system went around alerting people regarding cut money. “Honourable chief minister Mamata Banerjee has never supported the practice of taking cut money….(we are campaigning) to stop the practice of cut money. If anyone asks for a share of the fund that an individual gets under the housingforall scheme, we request the person to inform the administrator of the civic body or SDO Raghunathpur or Trinamul leaders immediately. We assure you that stern action will be taken against the culprits,” a Trinamul worker who was part of the team that went around Raghunathpur on Monday said. Trinamul insiders said the issue of cutmoney had snowballed into a serious trouble for the party in the middle of 2019 when a large number of party leaders at the district level had to face people’s ire. The issue had prompted Mamata to warn her colleagues at the grassroots level against the practice. She had even asked Trinamul leaders who had taken cut money to refund it. Trinamul sources said an internal feud of the party was behind the incident that caused much embarrassment to senior Trinamul leadership. “I have heard about it but am not aware of the incident. You can speak to town president Bishnu Charan Mahata on the issue,” said Madan Barat, the chairperson of board of administrators of Raghunathpur municipality. Mahata did not take calls or reply to a text message from this correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Three of family mowed down in Murshidabad||Three persons from a family were killed on the spot in a road accident in Murshidabad on Tuesday morning. The accident occurred when a speeding truck collided head on with a motorcycle on NH12 near Chuapur village, on the outskirts Behrampore, around 6am. The incident occurred when stationery shop owner Indrajit Saha, 28, wife Sumita, 26, and fatherinlaw Gopal Datta, 49, were travelling on the twowheeler to Murshidabad Medical College for their first doses of Covid19 vaccine. The trio were reportedly not wearing helmets when the accident occurred. “The victims were on their way for a 10am appointment but wanted to be there early because they heard there was a token system to administer vaccines on a first come first served basis,” said a police officer. Eyewitness Mohammad Samsuddin, who was trailing the truck that was going in the opposite direction of the highway, said: “The accident occurred in front of my eyes. I was shocked at what happened and stopped at a distance. The truck had hastily tried to overtake another vehicle and collided headon with the motorcycle, running over everyone on the spot. It fled immediately.” The killer truck fled from the spot after the accident but was later found abandoned near a local riverbank. The police have started a case of unnatural death and sent the bodies for postmortem. The police said the driver could be booked under IPC 304 once apprehended. The victims were residents of Manindranagar village, 3km from Behrampore town. “The driver is currently absconding but will be booked under a nonbailable section once found,” said police superintendent K. Sabari Rajkumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt staff protest ‘assault’ in South Dinajpur village||Around 60 state government employees posted at panchayats of Balurghat block in South Dinajpur resorted to a pen-down strike and demonstrated at the Balurghat stadium on Tuesday to protest the alleged assault and detention of two colleagues at a village on Monday. In the afternoon, they went for a “dharna” in front of the chamber of the block development officer, Anuj Sikdar, who however promised appropriate action. On Monday, two employees, Saptarshi Roy and Babun Roy, posted at the Bolla village panchayat office of the block had gone to Sarangram, a village under the panchayat, to verify details of prospective beneficiaries of houses under a government-run scheme. Saptarshi on Tuesday said they had been verifying details on Monday when some villagers intercepted them. “The villagers said the list of beneficiaries we had was wrong. We were humiliated and assaulted. Things came to such a pass that a police team had to rescue us. Twenty-four have passed and no step has been taken against attackers.” Another employee pointed out that if these attackers were not arrested, there might be similar incidents in future. BDO Sikdar said the pradhan of the panchayat has been asked to find out what has happened and employees asked to submit applications with evidence for legal steps against the alleged attackers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation launches drive against use of plastic carry bags||Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Tuesday launched a massive drive against the use of plastic carry bags in the city. Led by Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators (BoA) at the civic body and Ranjan Sarkar, a member of the BoA, civic officials carried out the drive at Bidhan Market, the largest market. They alerted shopkeepers to dissuade them from using plastic carry bags and seized such bags from a number of shops and stalls. The civic team  visited stalls of fish, fruit and vegetables, grocery and stationery stores. Over 40kg of plastic carry bags were seized. In recent times, this is the first drive of this kind by the civic body in the city. A few years back, the National Green Tribunal had specifically ordered a complete ban on use of plastic carry bags across Darjeeling district. However, some in Siliguri started flouting the ban. “The NGT imposed a complete ban on the use of plastic carry bags in Siliguri. We are implementing the ban through this drive. It is necessary for environment reasons. During the drive, we clearly told the business community not to use plastic bags or else fines would be imposed,” said Deb. A shopkeeper found using plastic carry bags will be fined Rs 500 while other persons found with such bags will have to pay a penalty of Rs 50, SMC sources said. “It is a continuous process. We will use public address systems to inform shop-owners and people in general on the issue. If required, we will conduct raids in places from where such bags are sold in the local market. People should use alternative items like paper and jute bags,” Deb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||BJP panchayat member, husband abducted: Party||A panchayat member of the BJP and her husband have gone missing for the past five days  after she and some others had expressed no-confidence against the chief of a panchayat in South Dinajpur. The disappearance of Dipali Mardi, 42, and Lukash Mardi, 47, since August 5 made the saffron camp accuse Trinamul of abducting them. Trinamul leaders, however, have brushed aside the charges. Sources said Danga village panchayat of Balurghat block has 20 seats. In the 2018 panchayat polls, the BJP had won 11 seats, Trinamul six seats and the Left got the remaining three seats. The BJP had formed the board then. However, recently, the pradhan, Mallika Karmakar Sutradhar, who was an elected member of the BJP, defected to Trinamul. This made the other BJP members express no-confidence against her. They approached the administration and it was decided that the meeting where the motion would be tabled will be held on August 13. “Trinamul however, played politics and on August 5, they abducted Dipali Mardi, one of our members, and her husband Lukash Tudu. It was nothing but an attempt to stall the no-confidence motion. We also suspect that in this way, Trinamul is trying to get some more members from our side so that the pradhan (Karmakar Sutradhar), who did a turncoat, continues to remain in her post,” said Subhash Sarkar, a BJP leader and also a member of the panchayat. On Monday night, Dipali’s mother filed a missing diary with Balurghat police. Investigations have started to trace the couple, police said. District Trinamul leaders, however, have denied the charges. “We are not in so much of a crisis that we have to abduct a panchayat member of the BJP. There must be some other reason for such sudden disappearance of the couple. The BJP is simply trying to play politics,” said Gautam Das, the district Trinamul chief of South Dinajpur. Jalpaiguri: A Trinamul booth president was stabbed allegedly by the son of a BJP worker in Tarapara of Jalpaiguri’s Sadar block on Monday night. Police said Bappa Das, son of Naresh Das who is the booth president of the BJP in the same locality, stabbed Sujit Roy during a brawl. Roy is under treatment at the NBMCH. The police have arrested Bappa and Naresh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||KPP ire at state government approval for only one primary school for Kamtapuri ||Leaders and supporters of the Kamtapur Progressive Party (KPP) demonstrated at the district magistrate’s office here on Tuesday, alleging that the state government approved only one primary school where students would be taught in Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) language, instead of many as promised. “At the state budget (in February), it was announced that the state government will open 100 schools where the medium of instruction would be three regional languages, including Kamtapuri. Recently, we came to know the state education department approved opening of only such school in Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri. This is unacceptable as none other than chief minister Mamata Banerjee had made the announcement,” said Budharu Roy, the vice-president of the KPP central committee. On Tuesday, a delegation of KPP leaders gave memorandums to the district magistrate and the district inspector of schools, demanding more schools imparting education in Kamtapuri language in north Bengal. “The decision to open only one school will create strong repercussions among the Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi community). That is why we met the officials today (Tuesday) seeking state nod for more such schools. Else, we will be forced to launch a movement,” Roy added. District officials did not comment on the protest. Calls by this paper to state education minister Paresh Adhikary went unanswered. Trinamul leaders in Jalpaiguri reacted on the issue. “Those demanding more schools should understand the state budget said 100 schools in all will be set up in next five years. The chief minister always keeps her promise. We believe schools will come up in due course,” said a party leader of the district. Sources said for the proposed primary school, a plot has been identified at Rajarhat in Maynaguri on which the state PWD will construct the building. Till then, two classrooms of a Bengali-medium primary school nearby will be used to run this new school for which two teachers will be engaged. “The language academy has readied textbooks and syllabus and submitted them to the state,” said Bajle Rehman, chairman of the academy. The Mamata Banerjee government has addressed some of the demands of the Rajbanshis such as setting up a university in Cooch Behar after Panchanan Barma, the most revered statesman of the community, creating a development board for the community and forming two academies of Rajbanshi and Kamtapuri languages. Founded by Rajbanshi leader Atul Roy with the demand for separate Kamtapur state and recognition of Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) language, the KPP has onsiderable clout among Rajbanshis. In recent times, this is the second issue on which the KPP has tried to mount pressure on the state government. Earlier, they had sent letters to the chief minister and also to the Prime Minister over their old separate statehood demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 639 new infections, 724 recoveries and 12 deaths ||Bengal on Tuesday logged 639 new Covid-19 infections, 724 recoveries and 12 deaths as the state saw 51 straight days of a slide in its total number of active cases. Active cases in all fell by 97 to 10,215 on Tuesday. Calcutta logged 68 new infections and zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is currently 98.15 per cent, its highest during the pandemic, and fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.43 now. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. With North 24-Parganas logging 67 cases, Tuesday was the fifth consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Seventeen Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Purulia and West Burdwan reported single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.58 per cent on Tuesday. Calcutta apart, 14 other Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. Darjeeling, Malda, East Burdwan, Howrah, South 24-Parganas and Calcutta reported one each. Bengal now has nearly 15.35 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes over 15.06 lakh recoveries and 18,252 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Two girls drown in rising Ganga in Malda||Floods in Malda continued to worsen as all rivers swelled, the Ganga flowing almost near extreme danger level. Two girls, Khushi Mahato, 10, and Faguni Mahato, 13, of Bhutni, Manikchak, drowned in the Ganga on Tuesday afternoon. Laili Bibi, 35, of Babupara in Malda town, drowned in the Mahananda on Monday. So far, over 1,000 families have been hit by floods in Malda. Sources said 20 villages under Mahanandatola panchayat in Ratua-I block got inundated in the past 24 hours as the Fulhar river swelled. Irrigation officials said around 6pm on Tuesday, the Fulhar was flowing at 27.12m, merely 0.31m below danger level. At the same time, the Ganga was flowing at 25.26m, 0.57m above danger level and only 0.04m below extreme danger level. This has left residents of Bhutni, the largest islet of the district in Manikchak block and located on the Ganga, worried. “The irrigation department spent nearly Rs 1.20 crore to save villages of the islet by fortifying the embankment. But the water level is such that the embankment itself is under water at Koshi Ghat area,” said a resident. The Ganga, inundating localities on its left bank in Malda, started eroding chunks of land on its right bank in neighbouring Murshidabad. Since Monday evening, the river started gobbling up land in Shibpur village under Samserganj block of Murshidabad. “In past 24 hours, the Ganga has gulped five houses while 10 more houses are virtually hanging on the river. All the 15 families have been shifted to a local school,” said a source. Last year, around 235 families from Shibpur and three neighbouring villages became homeless from erosion. “It was only on Monday that the block administration handed over secured land tenures to 140 such families and today, there are more erosion victims. This erosion, we believe, could have been checked if some protection work was done this past year,” said a resident. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain in Murshidabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata visits inundated areas, lines up team for flood funds||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said senior Bengal ministers and Trinamul Congress MPs would seek an appointment with Union irrigation minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to demand funds for the implementation of the Ghatal master plan. The statement shows the Bengal chief minister holds the Narendra Modi government’s inaction on implementing the Ghatal Master Plan, drawn up eight years ago to control floods, responsible for the current inundation of large parts of West Midnapore and East Midnapore and Hooghly. On the Day Two of her first district tour since coming to power for the third time in a row, Mamata conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in West Midnapore and then landed at Ghatal. “You all know that Ghatal is located in a lowland area. We have repeatedly appealed (to the central government) to implement the Ghatal Master Plan. Despite it being a central government scheme, the government (in Delhi) is not sanctioning the sum…..I would like to tell Soumen Mahapatra (state irrigation minister), Manas Bhuniya (state water resources minister) and all others to take a time from central irrigation minister and go to Delhi to place the demand for the funds,” Mamata said after visiting relief camps in Ghatal. She distributed relief materials to flood-affected people. “I think our Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members should also be taken in the team to visit Delhi. Otherwise, Ghatal can’t be saved (if the master plan is not implemented).” The chief minister spent  around half an hour in near-knee deep water at Ghatal. The Telegraph had reported last week that refusal of the Centre to grant promised funds was one of the main reasons for flooding in East Midnapore and West Midnapore and Hooghly. “Today I was coming here from Jhargram and conducting an aerial survey. I had made a video of a 7km stretch of flood-affected areas in which I saw everything, including farmland and houses totally marooned. I will talk about the matter administratively and make a report on it soon. The situation of Ghatal is horrible,” said the chief minister after directing the local administration to open more camps at Ghatal for the flood-affected people. The Ghatal master plan is a cluster of projects that include the dredging and widening of riverbeds, strengthening of embankments, widening of confluences of at least 10 large rivers such as the Kansabati, Rupnarayan, Shilabati and at least 40 channels and sub-channels passing through East Midnapore and West Midnapore. In 2012, the state government sent Delhi a detailed project report of the plan estimated at around Rs 1,200 crore, which received administrative and financial approval by the Modi government in 2015. The Centre had approved to pitch in with 75 per cent of the project cost, but later reduced its share to 50 per cent. No money was sent. The state government dredged a large part of the Durbachati, Khiraibaksi and New Koshi rivers with its own funds. Sources said, after Mamata’s visit, the ministers had started an initiative to get an appointment with the central ministry of irrigation immediately. “We have already started communication with our leaders in Delhi to get the appointment. According to the direction of our chief minister, all ministers, MLAs and MPs would accompany the team to Delhi. We would provide all relevant documents from the first planning of the project along with the approvals of the central government to the present ministry. We would also attach the video that our chief minister shot from her chopper,” said Manas Ranjan Bhuniya, Trinamul’s Sabang MLA and current water resources investigation and development minister. “Chief minister had earlier written to the Centre at least 10 times but because of sheer negligence for Bengal, the Modi government did not sanction the fund,” added Bhuniya. Mamata said her government had already provided huge funds to finish earlier Keleghai-Kapaleshwari master plan and granted around Rs 2,800 crore to de-silt and execute several other projects in lower Damodar basin to save vast areas of Howrah and Hooghly from inundation. “We (the state government) had spent Rs 700 crore from our fund to complete the Keleghai-Kapaleshwari project. We have constructed several check dams by using Rs 500 crore. We have also provided Rs 2,800 crore in Damodar lower basin project which needs to be completed soon,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Tom Daley knits at Tokyo Olympics||Set an example Sir — The Olympic gold medalist, Tom Daley, has recently made the headlines for knitting a medal pouch and an Olympics-themed cardigan at the Tokyo stadium. Daley has set a rather positive example for men. Knitting is an art form usually associated with women. Coming from a gold medallist athlete, such a gesture could go a long way toward breaking the prejudices associated with the different genders. Priyasha Sen,Calcutta Tearful goodbye Sir — The unexpected departure of Lionel Messi from FC Barcelona, a club that has been home to him since his teenage years, has left the football fraternity nonplussed and the man himself scrambling for words. But his tears at his final press conference for the Catalan giants spoke louder than words. Watching Barcelona play will never be the same again; it will be equally strange seeing Messi in a jersey other than the signature red and blue stripes that have become synonymous with his name. Football fanatics like myself will surely be pining for one last glimpse of him putting the ball past the goalkeeper at Camp Nou. Uddipta Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — It is sad news for supporters of FC Barcelona across the world that the legendary footballer, Lionel Messi, is going to end his 20-year-long career with the club. He has played 788 matches for the Spanish club, and helped it clinch 35 trophies. Barcelona fans were hoping against hope that the Argentine star would stay on with the club. They must be really disappointed. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — The saying, ‘All good things must come to an end’, seems to have been meant for the day Lionel Messi bid goodbye to FC Barcelona. What Messi has done for the club, as much as the club has done for Messi’s career, will be remembered by all football lovers. Hopefully, as Barcelona and its star player part ways, both stakeholders do well. Abhijit Choudhury,Hooghly Act now Sir — In his article, “Remove the stain” (Aug 6), Prabhat Patnaik has established beyond a shadow of doubt that the citizens of free India face more torture through the invocation of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by the authorities by way of a long period of incarceration without trial than what the freedom fighters faced at the hands of the British. Freedom fighters were treated as political prisoners. They were provided with newspapers, books and other such items. Many of them composed excellent books sitting in jail — Jawaharlal Nehru’s Discovery of India is an example. In contrast, in independent India, people arrested under the UAPA receive the most insufferable treatment, many aspects of which came to light in connection with the unfortunate case of Father Stan Swamy. Most laws are enacted by the legislature. It must, therefore, also be accountable for the torture inflicted on citizens through draconian laws. But the judiciary must not look the other way either. After all, it occupies the top echelon in all legal matters. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
11-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Forced to see||Coercion is never pretty. Especially within the marriage bond, which is seen as sacred. Yet Indian legislators have steadfastly refused to make intimate sexual assault or marital rape a crime — except when the wife is below 15, which is illegal anyway. This refusal is an expression of deeply ingrained patriarchal values, dangerous in more ways than one. Coercive sex by the husband undercuts all norms and laws which give a wife rights, status and dignity; it attacks a woman’s physical and mental autonomy, destroys her right to privacy and her sense of self. India is one of the 36 countries in the world that does not recognize marital rape, for in spite of apparent changes in society and social perceptions, a wife in India is still thought of as the property of her husband, to be used as he wishes. Violence, injustice and regressive notions, however, can be outdone by a wise law court. The Kerala High Court has pronounced that even if marital rape does not exist in penal law, it can yet be a seen as a form of cruelty on the basis of which a divorce can be granted. Rejecting a husband’s appeal against divorce, the high court said in effect that the wife’s body could not be treated as something that was ‘owed her husband’; using it for sex against her will was marital rape. The statement exposes and then throws overboard the patriarchal notion of possession, the root cause behind the refusal to criminalize marital rape. The high court’s reported comments regarding the need to review the divorce law referred to the freedom of choice not to suffer, raising the possibility of including marital rape among forms of cruelty in future. Now, though, the perception of marital rape as a ground for divorce rests with the court’s discretion. But without criminalizing it like all kinds of rape, India cannot claim to be civilized in its understanding of marriage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
11-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Wrinkles remain||Foreign investors will be partly relieved that the Narendra Modi government has finally scrapped the retrospective amendment to the tax laws made in 2012. The amendment, introduced by the then finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, asserted the sovereign’s right to tax a transaction between two overseas entities if it meant an indirect transfer of a capital asset with an economic nexus to an entity based in the country. The amendment in the tax provision — Section 9(1)(i) of the Income Tax Act — was dated back to April 1962 and its scope widened to cover any share or interest in a company registered outside the country if it derived its value substantially from assets located in India. The sinister provision was designed to negate the impact of a Supreme Court decision which ruled that Vodafone International Holdings, a Dutch subsidiary of the telecom giant based in the United Kingdom, was not liable to pay any tax on the capital gains linked to a $11.1 billion transaction under which it acquired a 67 per cent stake in Hutchison Essar Ltd. Arun Jaitley had promised to scrap the tax proviso after the 17 cases that were enmeshed by the 2012 amendment reached a logical legal conclusion. The finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, tried to insist in all innocence that the decision to scrap the retrospective tax was taken only after the last of the cases was decided by the courts. There is some prevarication here. In December last year, the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague threw out the case against Cairn Plc —one of those sucked into the retro tax controversy — and ordered the Indian government to fork out $1.72 billion, including interest and costs. When the government demurred, Cairn launched a flurry of suits across the world, looking to seize assets of the Indian government and State-owned entities. The government finally lost its nerve when Cairn won an order from a French court permitting it to grab control of Indian assets in that country. But the government is still playing hardball over the payout to Cairn. It is prepared to pay only the principal amount of Rs 78 billion and not the tribunal’s award of roughly Rs 129 billion with the rider that Cairn withdraw all cases against the government. The talks are now underway and Cairn may eventually accept. But it does leave a bitter taste after a bruising battle. There is another problem: the retrospective element of the tax amendment has been scrapped but the principle of taxing indirect capital transfers has not. The government is free to slap a tax demand on Vodafone — such as transactions struck after May 28, 2012 — the day that the tax amendment was officially notified. Foreign investors will remain wary of this tax proviso.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
11-08-2021||Opinion||The future of history||Amidst the pandemic, many policies that should have generated heated debate and concerns have been pushed through with little to no murmur. Among issues that have been shadowed over are the scrapping of Article 370, the NRC-CAA, labour laws, farm laws and so on. One such concern is the proposed Learning Outcomes based Curriculum Framework for history teaching at the undergraduate level by the University Grants Commission. It is strange that the public discourse and concerns about education still remain confined to the ‘outcome’ generated upon taking evaluation as a criterion. Learning and knowing may no longer be ends in themselves but linking them linearly with their saleability in the knowledge economy or in order to get employment is too crude for an autonomous institution in pursuit of excellence. The UGC has come out with the LOCF for history, crafted by renowned historians and social scientists, who remain unnamed. The future of teaching-learning history in India is being crafted by people who cannot differentiate between the Indian nationalist, Bipin Chandra Pal (one in the troika of Lal-Bal-Pal), and the renowned historian, Bipan Chandra. This confusion coexists with language faux pas galore in the undergraduate history curriculum and syllabus proposed by the UGC. These cannot be ignored as mere typographical errors as the UGC has gone out of its mandate to guide and direct history teaching and learning across India. The same enthusiasm is missing and probably not desired or required for other disciplines. History — as a discipline and what is worth teaching as history — is a highly contested domain. History shapes our present; those who do not learn from it are doomed. The LOCF’s emphasis is on learning the ‘right’ history, for only this can introduce the learner to the ‘soul’ of the nation. The preamble to the LOCF opens with the prophecy that history is “a vital source to obtain knowledge about a nation’s soul”. Thus, to begin from the beginning, the learners are to be introduced to the ‘idea’ of ‘Bharat’ — the extent, geography and concept of which are outlined by the mythical Hindu ‘Bharatvarsha’. As its etymology reveals, it is the land of Bharat (one of the fabled ancestors of Rama) and the Vedic understanding of “Jambu dwipe Bharat khande”. The idea is not to teach a seamless history of the particular geography of Southeast Asia, but to introduce the basic tenets of ‘akhand Hindu rashtra’. The proposed curriculum never fails to reveal the hidden agenda of its makers. The German philosopher, Jörn Rüsen, outlines four categories of historical constructions — traditional history, exemplary history, critical history, and genetic history. The curriculum makers seem to believe in exemplary history, wherein the past is used to instruct contemporary actions and beliefs. The problem is that the present intent grows heavier and guides the construction of an imaginary past. Another factoid of Indo-Saraswati Civilization equates the Harappan Civilization to Rig Vedic Civilization and conforms to the narrative of Aryavart and India being the golden bird later smothered by Muslim invasion. The medieval section of Indian history is treated with contempt and derision being the era in which Muslim looters and invaders plundered India. History as a discipline is studied to comprehend continuity and change, but the curriculum either delusionally or intentionally wants its learners to study two papers — History of India (550 CE to 1200 CE) and History of India (1200 CE to 1700 CE) — simultaneously in the third semester. Similarly, in the fourth semester learners have to study two different time periods spanning three centuries — History of India (1707 CE to 1857 CE) and Indian National Movement (1857 CE to 1947 CE) — simultaneously. This flawed pedagogical structure not only confuses the learners but also reduces the rigour of the discipline. This reflects how the history curriculum has been compromised owing to a lack of historical understanding. Learning from history is an act of both investigation and imagination that seeks to explain how people have changed over time. Reading two different eras at the same time is not only pedagogically implausible but it also defeats transition, continuity and causality of the history learning objectives. Writing history is a historian’s craft and requires not only the skill to collate facts but also the ability to distinguish among fact, factoid, and fiction. Among memory, pastness, and what really happened in the past, only an objective analysis, irrespective of ideological leanings and fixated vantage points, can generate a critical history. Ideological moorings may lead to a wish to not underline or to overemphasize a historical event; but facts remain sacrosanct. For instance, the sepoy mutiny-first war of independence debate is pre-judged and hailed as a theoretical stance on the basis of a historical study undertaken by the original Hindutva ideologue. Events in modern Indian history and the making of contemporary India are tweaked and twisted with free will; the reform and revival movements are bracketed as ‘resistance’ by the Indian society to the onslaught of colonial powers. Major milestones in the making of India as a nation — be it the Queen’s Act, the Ilbert bill, the formation of INC, the Morley-Minto reforms, the Montagu-Chelmsford reforms, the Khilafat blossoming into Non-Cooperation or the three round table conferences — are brushed off as unimportant. Although students are encouraged to learn about the history and making of the Muslim League, they are deprived of learning about the origins of the Hindu Mahasabha and its growth into the RSS. Nehru, Gandhi, and Ambedkar are pushed to the margins and the Tripuri session of the INC is overemphasized to underline the Bose-Gandhi conflict. Wedges that hardly existed have been created between Nehru-Patel, Gandhi-Bose, and Gandhi-Ambedkar. They may have had different understandings of the ideas of freedom, liberty, and dignity but they also shared a common libertarian ethos and the values of secularism and equality. How history is created, works and contributes to our general understanding of knowledge and the making of the identity of the knower are what papers like Gender in Indian History, Religion and Religiosity, Inequality and Differences, Cultural Diversity in India, History of Science and Technology, and many others teach; these are not considered important enough to be included in the ‘model’ curriculum as they do not go well with the ‘perfect’ Hindu history and past. Similarly, the geographical stretch of Bharatvarsha is taken from Kandahar to Kamroop. The LOCF hardly takes any cognizance of people and their history beyond the Vindhyas. It is a cliché that we write our own history. History as a discipline is created and crafted according to its own paradigmatic constraints and the historian’s perception. But the present and future generations have the right to know and learn from history. The most prominent objective of learning history is to evolve a capability to distinguish among history, myth, and reality. Learning history may have outcomes that cannot be measured by the immediate fruition of learning and getting a job as a tourist or monument guide. The future of history appears bleak. The LOCF hardly reposes any faith in the teacher or learner or even in the objectives of learning history. The knowledge economy and political ideologies involved in making the LOCF have attempted to shove history as a discipline into myths, parables, and factoids to create a new discipline to pass for history in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
11-08-2021||Opinion||Forgetting freedom||All momentous events in history emerge in silence, and to silence they return. August 2021 compels one to think of many silences and many momentous events of a century ago — 1920-21 — which made India what it is. That juncture in Indian history was crowded with happenings, some with large contemporary significance, others that had lasting historical impact. The Mopla uprising in August 1920 cannot be forgotten even today. The country has still to fully adjust to the idea of being a diverse society. The creation of the Tata Steel Technology Institute at Jamshedpur in the same year marked the definitive beginning of India’s era of industrial urbanism. Steel has been the backbone of the culture of modernity. The ban on Kanajibhai Rathod’s film of 1921, Bhakta Vidur, produced for the Kohinoor Film Company, is as noteworthy a memory as is V. Shantaram being launched as lead actor playing Krishna in Baburao Painter’s film, Surekha Haran. The celluloid dreams relished by the collective called India have no match in representing the history of desire called the nation. The two silent movies began — in literal silence — the push and the pull of that desire, taking the country back to myth and forward to modernity at the same time. However, in the world of the 1920-21 period, terribly transformed by the long war of 1914-1918 outside India and a rapidly growing unrest within, a far more momentous event was the launch of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s Mooknayak, a publication brought out with the financial help of the progressive prince of Kolhapur, Shahu, as ‘alternative media’ since major dailies were not willing to publish articles by Dalits. Although it had a short run, it marked the beginning of the rights struggle of the marginalized. Three other silent beginnings deserve mention for the scale of their combined impact, all three invoking the ancient idea of the ashram as a space for transformation. The protagonists of these three initiatives, reminiscent of some Vedic rishis, came to be recognized by the world as Gurudev, Mahatma and Maharishi. The period of 1920-21 marks moments of great transformation for all three. Of the three — Rabindranath Tagore (1861-1941), M.K. Gandhi (1869-1947) and Aurobindo Ghosh (1872-1950) — the last was the youngest. Born on August 15, 75 years before 1947, he had played a leading role in the fight against British rule during the years after the Bengal Partition, had been charged with sedition and was jailed for a year before he turned his energy towards re-casting various schools of Indian philosophy as a vast challenge to the doctrinaire and orthodox view of god. After moving to Pondicherry, he wrote, with matchless energy, essays reinterpreting tradition, questioning every established authority on the subject and produced an amazing corpus of philosophical work. The essays were first published in his journal, Arya, and later brought together as books— The Life Divine, The Synthesis of Yoga, Essays on the Gita, The Secrets of the Veda, Hymns to the Mystic Fire, The Renaissance of India, The Human Cycle and Future Poetry. It was simply breathtaking, as philosophical work goes. In 1920, Sri Aurobindo chose to cease publication of Arya, and all but stopped writing in order to concentrate on his profoundly meditative epic, Savitri. He dedicated the next three decades of his life to bringing on the earth a higher consciousness through his yogic work for the transformation of the human race. Central to the task was a collective life, the ashram at Pondicherry. Rabindranath Tagore, the earliest born of the three, by 1921 already a Nobel Laureate, world famous and respected in and outside India as a seer, inaugurated in December 1921 the Visva-Bharati, a radical place of learning and creativity, aimed at nurturing visva-manava — humans respectful of universal humanity. Like Sri Aurobindo, Gurudev Tagore had taken a plunge into experimenting for the sake of the world, not just for one set of people, for one nation. The ashrams — at Pondicherry and at Santiniketan — were laboratories in which a new thought for the world was being worked out. Even more radical was the self-transformation that Gandhi sought. If one compares his photographs of June 1921 and those of September 1921, one notices that the images look completely different. In June, he was dressed in the traditional Kathiawari style; in September, he had taken to a simple loin-cloth and had no cap on his fully shaven head. By August 1920, the era of Lal-Bal-Pal — Lala Lajpat Rai, Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Bipin Chandra Pal — had come to an end with the death of Tilak. M.K. Gandhi rose in that vacuum like a tornado, touring all parts of India and bringing together factional groups of the Congress, inspiring the youth to form the Seva Dal, involving Muslims, Hindus and Christians in the national independence struggle. He established in October 1920 the Gujarat Vidyapeeth, a university for fearless community workers; and in December 1921, he took up the reins of the Congress at its Calcutta session. The rest is history. These were the early years of Gandhi’s ashram life in India. Initially he had set up one at Kochrab, which was later moved to the Sabarmati bank, a short distance from the city of Ahmedabad. Named the Satyagraha Ashram at first, Gandhi’s ashram by the riverside came to be known as the Sabarmati Ashram (picture). The élan vital, the life-energy of the Mahatma who marched to Dandi a decade later, shaking the foundations of the British empire, had been built up in the environ, principles and the simplicity of the ashram. The story of the three ashrams is a large part of our history, whether we choose to remember it or forget it. In 2021, the Sabarmati Ashram is facing a serious threat of being turned into a ‘world-class tourist attraction’. An amount of Rs 1,200 crore has been pledged by the government to accomplish this. The architect entrusted with the controversial Central Vista has been commissioned to modernize the ashram campus. Gandhi was and will remain ‘world class’ because of his utter simplicity. The same simplicity marked the ashram when he created it. The proposed VIP guest house and auditorium can, at best, make us forget Gandhi and his simplicity. In all appearance, the Sabarmati Ashram makeover plans are aimed at inducing amnesia, not remembrance of Gandhi’s ideas and courage. Nothing else can be expected of a regime that is overly busy telling us through its information factories to forget all about our freedom struggle, the freedom of mind that Tagore celebrated and the freedom of spirit of Sri Aurobindo’s vision. G.N. Devy is a literary critic and cultural activist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-53
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town vending zone construction commences||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has initiated the process for rehabilitating street vendors by constructing vending zones to help more than 10,000 such traders who face a perpetual threat of eviction in the name of anti- encroachment drives. The new vending zones that would be constructed at the three different places including the Zila Parishad ground of Dhanbad, Hirapur Hatia, and Katras Hatia would be equipped with all the basic facilities, including drinking water facilities, proper lighting arrangement, toilets and bathrooms, shades to protect against the rain water, have been planned several years ago under the National Urban Livelihood Mission of the central government. Chandra Shekhar, City Manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, said, “Though several sites had been earlier identified across the district for construction of vending zones but finally after the land clearance, we have zeroed in for the three sites for vending zones for which the tender was issued today.” “Though, the detailed project report of the vending zones of all the three sites is yet to be prepared but overall the facilities at the three proposed vending zones will be in line with National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) norms,” said Chandra Shekhar. “The overall aim of establishing the vending zones is to provide a permanent site for trading activities to street vendors and also shield them against any displacement from one place to other by any private party or even by the police of administration under the anti encroachment drives etc” said Shekhar. “As part of our initiative of state government initiative to provide better facilities to street vendors and shield them against any eviction we are also in process of survey to provide them QR Code based Smart Identity Cards and QR Code Certificate of Street vending as we have also provided data of around 5000 street vendor to Ritika Printech, a agency hired by the state government for issuing them Smart Identity cards and Smart Certificates,” said Chandra Shekhar. Welcoming the DMC initiative for constructing vending zones, Sneham Sinha, district coordinator of nation NGO for street vendors-National Association for Street Vendors of India (NASVI) , said, “The long pending issue of rehabilitating the street vendors is likely to be resolved with the construction of vending as we are awaiting for construction of vending zones since 2017 when a survey of street vendors was conducted and identity cards have also provided to altogether 3879 street vendors of the district.” “The construction of vending zones will also add a cleaner look to the city as the street vendors gathered here and there at every street corner of the district will be shifted to permanent locations where people can visit and carry out purchasing etc,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel City plans low-key Independence Day for second year||The 75th Independence Day celebration at the Gopal Maidan in Bistupur here on August 15, will be a low-key affair for the second consecutive year due to Covid-19 pandemic. The event will be streamed live on the Facebook page of East Singhbhum district administration. The function will start at 9.05 am with the hoisting of the national flag by state health minister Banna Gupta, who is also the legislator from Jamshedpur West assembly constituency. Apart from hoisting the national tricolour he will also inspect the parade where Indian Reserve Battalion(IRB), Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) , home guards and NCC cadets will participate. The function would also witness participation of East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, senior SP Tamil M Vanan  and other senior district administrative officials. The first rehearsals for the event took place at the Gopal Maidan on Wednesday. The final rehearsals will take place on Friday. A Covid testing camp was organised at the venue - Gopal Maidan. All the 142 cops who took part in the parade during the rehearsals along with other participants had to undergo Covid test. All of them were found negative and thus they were allowed to take part in the rehearsals which continued for over two hours. One of the highlights of the Independence Day celebration will be felicitation of coronavirus warriors. The administration banned participation of children and other people at the event. The function will be organised with limited participants. It is mandatory for all participants to wear facemasks and follow social distancing norms. The district administration is also taking necessary measures to maintain law and order. Patrolling will be enhanced on National Highway-33 and State highways from August 13, Friday along with positioning of cops at all sensitive and strategic places including border check posts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Football tournament for girls on the cards in steel city||There may be uncertainty over the popular Jamshedpur Sporting Association (JSA) football league for men but a fixture for girls is on the cards. Officials have planned a tournament for girls next month or October to mark the platinum jubilee year of JSA football league (for men). The platinum jubilee of the league was last year but the celebrations could not materialise in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The JSA league again looks like a non-starter due to the Covid-19 restrictions imposed by the state government and the JSA managers are keen to conduct a football fixture for girls at the landmark JRD Tata Sports Complex. "We are seriously planning to organise a tournament for girls. But the fixture would go ahead only after the government lifts the restrictions which bar conduct of body contact games. But we are hopeful the government would relax the restrictions. In that case, we would organise the tournament for girls next month or in October," said JSA secretary Avinash Kumar. He added that they don’t want the platinum jubilee celebrations to again become a blank affair this time. JSA officials said the JSA football league (for men) is a lengthy fixture, which stretches for over a month, and they can wrap up the girls’ event in two-three days. “We can conduct the girls' event on a knock-out basis with the participation of eight teams, '' an official said. Around 80 matches are played in the annual JSA league (for men), one of the oldest sporting fixtures in the country, and as many as 44 clubs and institutions are part of the event. Even if the state government relaxes the restrictions, conduct of the JSA league would not be possible since a lot of logistics shall have to be worked out. The logistics include decking up the grounds, drawing fixtures and conducting qualifiers. It is time consuming. The Covid-19 situation has improved in Jharkhand and things have opened up. This has made JSA officials optimistic about the conduct of the fixture for girls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to implement law on doctors' safety soon, promises state health minister||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday felicitated at least 45 ophthalmologists of the state for their relentless effort to help Covid patients and their families during the pandemic. Addressing the felicitation ceremony organised by the Jharkhand Ophthalmological Society in Ranchi, Gupta reiterated the state government's commitment to implement the Medical Protection Act (MPA) for safety of healthcare professionals and doctors in Jharkhand. “The issue of the Medical Protection Act has been raised in the State Assembly as well. We have been studying existing laws of four states to implement a similar law in our state. I have had a discussion with the Additional Chief Secretary (Health) on the issue. I assure the doctors of Jharkhand that we will soon bring the Medical Protection Act in our state,” said Gupta, adding that any attack on doctors would be seen as an attack on the prestige and pride of the state. Lauding the efforts of  "Covid warrior" doctors during the first and second wave of ter pandemic, Gupta said he had to wear a PPE kit during the course of his work for a few minutes and in that brief amount of time, he realised how challenging it was to wear such protective gears for several hours. “It is the good work of doctors and their coordination with the government that helped the state to beat Covid-19 during the second wave, for which Jharkhand has been hailed by one and all," said Gupta. Dr Bharti Kashyap, secretary, Jharkhand Ophthalmological Society, pleaded that fast track courts be set up to punish all those found guilty of assaulting doctors and caregivers to ensure speedy justice. "These brave ophthalmologists, abandoned their comfort zones, transcended professional boundaries and put their own lives at risk to ensure that people in distress got all the necessary help to fight the second wave of Covid-19. Even at the peak of the pandemic, there were many cases of violence against doctors and medical personnel. Even women health care professionals were not spared. We need fast track courts and Medical Protection Act in our state to ensure safety of our doctors,” said Dr. Kashyap. Those felicitated included Dr Nagendra Pandit, Dr Bharat Singh, Dr Priyanka Priydarshi, Dr Ashima N R Tigga, Dr Preetish Pronoy, Dr Sarwar Alam, Dr Smita Anand, Dr Tanisha Ojha, Dr. Pinki Pal, Dr. Neha Shilpy, Dr. Sarojini Murmu, Dr. Bibha Kumari, Dr. Kumari Reena Singh, Dr. Vivek Kumar, Dr Shilpa Sanjeeta Singh, Dr. Shakti Nath Singh and Dr. Pallavi Purnima Singh. The health minister also presented shawls and mementos to the kin of doctors who died on the line of duty during the pandemic. Families of Dr.Krishna Murari Sahu, Dr.Sujit Kumar Paul and Dr.Chandrika Kishore Thakur, all eminent doctors of the state, who had fallen victim to the Corona pandemic were felicitated. Gold medals were conferred upon Dr.Bibhuti Kashyap, for the Dr.V.S.Gupta Best Free Paper and Dr.Rahul Prasad for the Manjul Pant Best Video Session at the virtual conference of Jharkhand Ophthalmological Society organised in 2020. Dr.Lalit Jain was felicitated for his Extramural Oration at the annual conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Latehar family lives with snake for four years||A family in Latehar has adapted to live with an 8 feet long snake identified as common bronzeback with ruddy brown skin. The family of Govind Pathak, a  Latehar district tourism coordinator, knows well that there is a big snake around his house at Rajhar but he and four other members of the family just remain careful but never do any harm to it. It appears the snake too has developed an affinity for Pathak’s family. The common bronzeback is a tree snake. It is harmless but its length is frightening. It is an active snake but doesn't want to confront human beings unless otherwise it has no option to slither down. "This camouflaged tree top snake identified as a common bronzeback has been living in my orchard over the last four years. It has not harmed us so far. We have also not harmed it," said Govind Pathak to The Telegraph Online. Asked how he vouches that this snake is the same one which he and his family claim to be around their house over the last 4 years, Pathak said, “Its ruddy brown colour, speed and activity all are embedded in our memory to confirm it is a loner snake living in our backyard for years now.” He said his wife Pragya is however mortally afraid of this snake and she prays for the snake to migrate from their house. "We are grateful to this snake as it has wiped out the rat menace. Our house has no rats. Credit for it goes to this snake," added Pathak. However Pathak feels sad for the birds residing on the trees as this snake devours their chicks and eggs. "There is hardly a week when we do not hear the panic chirrupings of the birds. When we hear it we get confirmed this snake has finished the progeny of the birds," lamented Pathak. The snake preys on chicks and eggs of birds like Robin and Common Myna, abound in Pathak’s orchard where he also grows mangoes, pears, Indian blackberry or Java Plum commonly known as jamun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Fans cheer as Nikki, Salima return to a heroes' welcome in Ranchi ||Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete, the two poster girls of Jharkhand hockey received rousing welcome upon their return on Wednesday after representing the country in this year’s Tokyo Olympics as part of Indian women’s team, which scripted history by reaching this the semi-finals for the first time. Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete, two Jharkhand girls who were part of India's women's hockey team that won over the nation for a spirited performance in the Games, received a rousing welcome upon their return to Ranchi on Wednesday. Amid chants of "Chak de India", the two boarded two jeeps decked up with flowers, and were driven to Project Building for a meeting with the chief minister while young hocky players stood by the side of the road from Ranchi airport waving the Tricolour. Soon after, chief minister Hemant Soren handed each of them a cheque of Rs 50 lakh, a scooty, a laptop and a smartphone. The duo was also promised a 3000 sq feet "pucca house" of their choice. Later, talking briefly with Telegraph Online, Salima said that they  had not expected such a grand welcome. “I didn’t expect such a warm welcome in Ranchi today. I am happy for all that that state government and Hockey Jharkhand has done for us. I can only say that I will work doubly hard from now on so that in the next Olympics, we can win a medal,” she said. Nikki and Salima, accompanied by Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh, reached Ranchi airport from Delhi at 12.45pm. They were received by  state sports minister Hafizul Hassan Ansari and several officials. There was excitement all around the airport as hordes of fans, many of them sportspersons brimming with energy, had gathered there to receive the duo. They jostled for space to get a look at the two players amid chants of "Bharat Mata ki Jai," and "Chak de India". Outside the terminal, several budding players stood by the side of road near the airport holding Indian flags in their honour. In view of the ongoing Covid pandemic, security was tight at the reception area to ensure that the returning players and officials don’t get caught in the crowd. The state government had  arranged two open jeeps, decked up with garlands. Nikki and Salima boarded them with their families for a drive down to Project Building where a felicitation ceremony had been planned with none other than the  chief minister. While Nikki represented the country in the Olympics for the  second  consecutive time, this was Salima’s maiden stint on  the global stage. Both  defenders were an integral part of the national team throughout the Tokyo Games where the team ultimately lost out to Great Britain in keenly flight semi-final that went down to the  wire. “Even though our women's team missed out on winning a medal by a whisker,  no one can discredit them for the way they played throughout the tournament," said Hemant.  "Nikki and Salima, our daughters, deserve all the applause and recognition for their contribution. Whatever gifts we are giving them today is only a token of appreciation for their hard work and achievements accrued after battling numerous challenges.” Hemant promised them that his government  would ensure that the two get a pucca house  wherever they wish soon. “I had promised them to get their house refurbished into a pucca one, which we will  do. The state government will provide it either in their native village or somewhere else as per their wish. A concrete house of 3000 sq feet will be given to them and they are also free to choose the layout and architecture of their house,” he said. Reiterating his government’s commitment to the  promotion of sports, Hemant said as per the state sports policy, every deserving national and international  player will get  direct jobs,  besides a host of other facilities. In another significant announcement, he said that the government  will soon come up with a plan to provide assistance to players and coaches who meet with injuries or untoward incidents while playing. “We have taken an in-principle decision in this regard and a proper plan will be worked out soon. The government will bear the entire hospitalization cost of any player or coach  in case he/she meets with any injuries while playing,” he underlined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand has enough vaccine doses to last the week ||Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated over 75,000 residents, including around 55,000 below 45, against Covid-19, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine to 55,920 residents, while the second jab was administered to 20,861 beneficiaries. The state distributed 2,64,200 doses of Covishield vaccine among all 24 districts to continue the immunisation campaign against Covid-19 in the state. As per data shared by the health department, Ranchi got the highest share of 20,000 vaccine doses from the lot, while East Singhbhum and Dhanbad received 17,000 doses each. Bokaro and Palamau were given 13,500 doses each. With the fresh arrival of vaccines, the state now has about 5 lakh vaccine doses in stock, enough to carry out aggressive vaccination for the next five days at least, officials said. As per records shared by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday evening, the state has so far received 1,02,66,910 vaccine doses from the Centre. The state has administered 1,03,89,481 vaccine doses, including Sputnik V separately procured by private hospitals, to residents in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 jumped to 208 on the day as the state reported 34 cases against 28 recoveries, an NHM bulletin highlighted. Ranchi reported the highest spike of 17 cases against eight recoveries, which took the active caseload here to 60. As per NHM data, all other districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases. At least 14 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 51,844 and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected. Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis on Tuesday. The state has so far reported 106 confirmed and 60 suspected cases of Black fungus. At least 31 state residents have died of the fungal infection so far, as per Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
11-08-2021||Jharkhand||All-India campaign by civil society, labour and farmers’ organisations on Independence Day||Over 160 civil society, labour and farmers’ organisations will as part of a nationwide campaign on Independence Day take a pledge to fight draconian laws, uphold the right to question and show dissent and oppose State actions that “deprive us of the freedoms of speech and opinion”. The movement, named National Campaign to Defend Democracy and spearheaded by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a conglomeration of human rights organisations) and trade unions, will also seek justice for Father Stan Swamy. The pledge, framed as part of the national movement, says: “We pledge to campaign for repealing all draconian laws and assert the right to bail of every citizen. We believe that the right to question and the right to dissent are the foundation of our democratic, secular and socialist republic. We commit to campaign against all ideologies, laws and State actions that deprive us of the freedoms of speech and opinion, conscience, association, and to non-violent opposition”. In Jharkhand, participants will read out the pledge in almost all 260 blocks of the 24 districts on August 15. “Although all district units have been given the liberty to stage their own programmes, across Jharkhand there will be a common agenda of reading out the pledge circulated as part of the National Campaign to Defend Democracy. But before reading out the pledge, members will read out the Preamble to the Constitution. We have circulated the pledge to the district representatives,” said Siraj Dutta of the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha. PUCL national general secretary Kavita Srivastava said: “The countrywide movement between August 15 and August 28 will call for an intensive campaign and street action to defend the right to dissent, repeal the sedition law, the UAPA and other repressive laws, restore the right to bail and ensure justice for Fr Stan Swamy. The state units will be chalking out their own manner of protest but the pledge, which has been drafted on the basis of consensus among all organisation, will be read out on August 15 all over the country.” Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Fr Stan, who spent nine months in jail after being arrested in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case, died in custody while waiting for bail. While in jail, he had challenged the UAPA in court. Srivastava said the 165 groups that would be part of the National Campaign to Defend Democracy, including 50 national networks, would also organise programmes across the country on August 9 to demand justice for Fr Stan, seek compensation for all those booked under draconian laws and call for accountability of officials lodging such cases. The People’s Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR), an independent entity not affiliated to any political party or organisation and is committed to legally defend civil liberties and democratic rights, on Tuesday released in Delhi the soft copy of their report titled Framed to Die: The Case of Stan Swamy. “We released the report on August 6, which marked a month since Fr Stan Swamy passed away in judicial custody in a private hospital, a month in which no official inquiry, even the mandated magisterial inquest, had not been initiated. Framed to Die: The Case of Stan Swamy documents the manner in which he was framed, fettered and finally forced towards a fatal illness under due process of law called the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act,” said PUDR secretary Radhika Chitkara. The 50-page report also documents why Fr Stan was a dissenter and a true patriot and why the State feared him and criminalised his dissent under the UAPA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
